

	Mr. DiSalle, my friends of Cleveland, I like--it is the first time I have even been ahead of myself. I like everything I have seen about Toledo. I like the weather, among other things--and for that I suppose that I should pay my respects and extend my thanks to the Democratic County Central Committee. But maybe the thing I like most about Toledo is that this is the town where they say Mike instead of Ike. I am not so enthusiastic about the wind because my manuscript may blow away, but that would probably be a break for you. I don't know why I use them anyway except that I got terrified when I first got into public life and an older and more experienced--we say public servant--I was about to say politician--said that you can't be too careful what you say nowadays. What's more, with the sun in my eyes, I know I can't see this manuscript. He said you can't be too careful. He said, "One time I announced I was going to--I was obliged to cancel all of my appointments for the succeeding week because I had strained my back pulling up a window in the executive mansion," and he said, "When it came out in the newspapers it said, 'The Governor has been obliged to cancel all of his appointments because he strained his back lifting a widow in the Executive Mansion.'"

	I am very happy to be here in Toledo and to be introduced by Toledo's own candidate for the Senate, Mike DiSalle. Following the tradition, I am glad to endorse Mike DiSalle and to urge you to vote for him, but frankly I think as far as Toledo is concerned it is more important that Mike endorse me. In any event I hope you will vote for him and for me and for Tom Burke for Congress.

	One of the many things that I like about Mike DiSalle is his sense of humor. You remember a while back our Republican friends were trying to make a campaign issue out of humor. And, needless to say, they were against it. But, somehow, they dropped that as an issue, and pretty fast when it became evident that people could still laugh now and then in the United States--and that the people were for humor and against stuffed shirts.

	I think what they ought to worry about is their backbone instead of my funnybone. 

	Well, I've got one vote in Toledo, Mike. He's right over there. We Democrats believe in the people--the working people, the poor people, the men and women with white collar jobs, the businessman who wants a fair break, the old people who want a secure retirement, and the young people who want an opportunity to get ahead. And, unlike some of the Republican leaders, we are for the people every day in the week and not just at election time.

	I believe that the American people are wise, that they are intelligent, Therefore, I believe that we should talk sensibly, especially when the Presidency of the United States is involved at a time like this.

	Look, if you will, at one of the big issues before our country now--what to do about the high cost of living, which is bothering every housewife and every husband as well. It always reminds me of the young husband who was struggling so hard to make his family budget balance and he said plaintively, "Every time I get everything about in balance, or every time I think I can make both ends meet, my wife moves the ends."

	Recently in Baltimore, I stated exactly what I think must be done to halt inflation. I suggested a detailed program for stopping price rises--not just slowing them down, but stopping them. That can be done by a combination of strict government economy, of pay-as-you-go taxes, of credit restrictions, and price, wage, and rent controls. That is the program that will work, and if the voters elect a good Democratic Congress, it can be made to work.

	Now, as you may have noticed, my distinguished opponent, the General, has heard also about the high cost of living. He has been doing a lot of wailing about high prices, but so far he has offered nothing specific--no concrete program for doing anything about it. And why not? You and I know the answer. The General can't offer any plan because the Republicans in Congress have fought against doing anything about high prices for the last seven years. And your friend, Mike DiSalle, can tell you all about that. He took the thankless job of controlling prices down in Washington, and he saw what happened. In June of this very year--just four months ago--the majority of the Republicans in the House of Representatives tried, not once but three separate times, to kill price controls altogether. We have price control today only because the Democratic majority passed it over stubborn Republican opposition. But that doesn't seem to deter the Republican orators from going around weeping over the plight of the housewife. Sure the housewife is in trouble, and the Old Guard in Congress did more than anybody else to put her in trouble. The truth is that the Old Guard of the GOP--I call them the Gloomy Old Pessimists--have fought against everything, and for years these are the men who have controlled the party--the Republican party--for the last forty years, and control it today. And, if they are elected this fall they will dominate the new Congress and they will write the laws. Forty years ago, Woodrow Wilson said that they hadn't had a new idea in forty years, and that makes it eighty years now. They will fight against the replacement of the Taft-Hartley law with a new and a better law. They have always fought against housing programs designed to give more of our people a chance to live in decent homes. You have had some experience with that right here in Toledo, I understand. During election campaigns, of course, their candidates say that they are for Social Security. But look at the record--the record of opposition to the development of the whole program at every step of the way for unemployment compensation, for security of the old, for dependent children.

	When the Democratic party fought for good wages, good farm income, for good education, good health, for Social Security and civil rights, we had only one purpose in mind: we were trying to release the creative energies of our people--to free men and women from drudgery, from poverty, and from the handicaps of bad education and of poor health. We have come a long way in these past two decades, but the job is still far, far from done. We need to expand our Social Security, to encourage our old citizens to keep on working until they are ready to retire. We need to review our tax laws with an eye to fostering new business ventures and increasing the incentives for production and for investment. We need to solve our pressing national health problems in a sensible way without resorting to any form of so-called socialized medicine. We still have far to go in protecting our soil, our water resources--the nation's most valuable assets. The Democratic party will push ahead with this unfinished business just as fast as a sound national fiscal policy will permit.

	And these things, my friends, will be opposed in the future just as they have been in the past, because so many of the opposition leaders seem to have never learned that the constructive work of our government has helped to make the American people stronger and more independent than any people in the history of the world--and indeed that is the purpose of government.

	And it is fortunate that we are because God has chosen our country to lead this struggle against a great and powerful international conspiracy that is trying to take over the world. If the United States were weak and fearful and half-bankrupt as the Republicans tell us, we should be helpless before our enemies, but we are not helpless; we are strong, we are confident, and with wisdom, restraint, and persistence, we can guide this world to a safer, sounder and a better future for all of us.

	I can't tell you, my friends when we may reach that goal. I can only warn you that the struggle will be long and tough. The battle for peace is no game for whiners and for whimperers, for the fainthearted. Too many of these tired, weary, half-hearted gentlemen are spending their time complaining about the high cost of defense and the high taxes we must pay for our security. Well, high taxes and the appalling price of strength hurts Democrats just as much as it does Republicans. But I say to you that these people should be thinking--they should be thanking, thanking their lucky stars that twenty years of Democratic government has made our country prosperous and purposeful--prosperous enough to bear the heavy burden of defense and purposeful enough to understand what we are doing and why we have to do it or risk incalculable disaster.

	For we are confronted today by the crafty and ruthless men who control the seven hundred million subjects of this new imperialist tyranny. We could lose our struggle if we listened to the wise counsel of those who tell us that all is well, that there is no danger--the same blind counsel we heard before the last war. I wonder if you have forgotten how they voted to enfeeble, to disband our draft begotten army only four months before Pearl Harbor.

	I offer you no such soft counsel. If that is what you want, I tell you straight out not to vote for me. I believe that the world we are in is hard and tough and we must meet it on its own terms, and everlastingly thank God for all of our happy blessings. I believe we must continue to help our allies, to help them build their economic strength and their defenses. I believe the resources of the free world, moral as well as material, are vastly greater than those of the Soviet Union, and if we act with courage and with faith in the Almighty and in ourselves, we can avoid another ghastly war and win this long, anxious, frustrating struggle for peace on earth.

	These are the terms, as I see them, for the survival of what we call the American Dream in our stern times. These are the terms, and the only terms, on which I ask you to entrust to me the awful responsibility of the presidency, and if you should, in the wisdom of the people--for the only thing that is wiser than anyone is everyone--if you should entrust to me that most appalling responsibility within the gift of any people, I would ask--I would bespeak here now your understanding, your patience, your forbearance and most of all your prayers. And as long as I am asking for things, I might as well ask for something else, and that is for Mike DiSalle in the Senate, and it is for Tom Burke in the Congress and it is for an old and esteemed friend, the great governor of Ohio, Frank Lausche in the governor's chair.

	You have been very good to me; I am deeply touched and flattered by this enormous turnout in the middle of your busy day. You have paid me a great honor and now before I go, I should like the privilege of introducing to you my sister, Mrs. Ives, who keeps me out of trouble and lest you think that there are nothing but gentlemen on this Democratic campaign trail, I will introduce to you a great lady, Mrs. India Edwards, vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee. And I should also like the privilege--just so we can show off everything we've got--to introduce to you the national co-chairman of the Volunteers For Stevenson, the independent group--and she is a Republican--Mrs. Dick from Chicago.

	And now I will let you in on a final secret; that is, the campaign is going pretty well; in fact, it is going awfully well, but we think the Republicans still have a chance--we are willing to concede that they still have a chance for Maine and Vermont.

COST OF LIVINGINFLATIONWAGE AND PRICE POLICY     - - - - -
 - - - - - - y- o-	 , 	  	  e: