
	Senator Lehman, I am very grateful to you for that very flattering introduction. I can't say that you make my job sound any easier. As a matter of fact, the only job I am interested in at the moment is getting some dinner. We started our day today at 7:15 this morning speaking in Niagara Falls. I wasn't there on a honeymoon, but I was doing a little courting I am frank to say--and I have been doing a little wooing and courting, all day long of the voters of New York State--and are they friendly, by the way. In fact, I have been practically blushing all day, to tell the truth. It has been a most beautiful experience riding through New York State and upper New York State all day in this autumn, and I think if fate decrees it that I shall come back here sometime for a more leisurely journey over this same route, and I will come in the autumn if God permits.

	I am so grateful to you all for coming here at this inconvenient hour of the evening. I hope it is not just curiosity that brings you here to see a presidential candidate. I hope it is because you are planning to vote a week from Tuesday. It is most encouraging to me to see how many people are interested in the issues which face our country in this perilous year. It is encouraging also to see how many people evidently think that these issues ought to be entrusted to the hands of the Democratic party. There are important issues in the election, and I have tried to talk about them. I have tried to talk about them on my travels east and west and north and south, in these past two months. And, if I do say so myself, I have talked the same way east and west, and north and south. I don't think it would make much sense to tell the people of Amsterdam one thing and the people of Los Angeles another thing. And I hope I have succeeded in these weeks in making my position clear to all of you on the great issues of our time. For one thing is very clear to me--that there has never been a time when the American people needed to think, and think more clearly about our future than they do today.

	Here in upstate New York, you have long been represented by men who pride themselves on their ability to save money. Well, I have had some experience, in my years as governor of one of our great states, with that too. Last year, for example, I asked the legislature not to add to the budget that I presented to them without subtracting from it. And what did they do? They subtracted $300,000 and they added $50 million. And that, my friends, was a Republican legislature. And nobody can ever sell me the American folklore that all Democrats are extravagant and wasteful, and all Republicans thrifty and provident. It is so much nonsense, and I have my experience to show for it. But I had the greatest satisfaction in vetoing practically all of the appropriations because the Republican legislature didn't provide the money to pay for them and they were useless anyway. Indeed, I have vetoed more bills than any governor in the history of Illinois--and I kind of like it. At the same time I am happy to say that we have greatly improved the care of the mentally ill in our Illinois institutions. We have more than doubled--or almost doubled--state aid for our common school system, and we have inaugurated the greatest road reconstruction program in the history of our state since the hard roads were first built, and we have not increased general purpose taxes; and we have the second from the bottom--from the lowest state cost of government of any state in the Union on the basis of our income--of our population--I am proud of that, too.

	We have an old saying in our country about being penny-wise and pound-foolish. And I deeply believe that it would be the most dangerous kind of penny-wisdom and pound-foolishness for our country to try to save money by slashing our defense program and the programs by which we hope to help build up the strength of our friends and our allies about the world. For weakness, my friends, invites aggression, and there is nothing so expensive in all the world as war. It is just that kind of penny wisdom and pound foolishness that you ought to think about carefully when you go to the polls a week from Tuesday.

	I am sure that your Democratic candidate, Mr. Prince, would work to save money wherever we can--yes--but he would spend money wherever we have to in order to win our way to a peaceful world, which is certainly our most important business. I hope you will vote for him and I hope you will vote also for my distinguished friend, Mr. John Cashmore, our Democratic candidate for the United States Senate. With them, we can have a very strong team in Washington, and it is just possible that I may be living in Washington, although I am too modest to suggest what you should do about the presidency.

	But, I think, in all seriousness, that people are thinking and they are thinking hard about our problems in this year of grace. I had a letter from a lady the other day that amused me and at the same time impressed me--I didn't know who she was; she wrote--somewhere from the East--she commended me on some speech I had made. She said, "You know, Governor, I am easily moved--aroused by emotion until I think, which I occasionally do." I think people are thinking more and more, and I think it is a wholesome thing; certainly, I have detected it in my experiences as governor. More and more people, more and more organizations--particularly of our young people and most particularly of our women--are showing a very lively interest in our public affairs. Perhaps that has been true in the past; I don't think it has been anything like as true as it has presently.

	And, of course, it is natural. Government is now striking us in our most vital point, and that is the pocketbook. It is also striking us in our homes, in the cost of living, in our sons in Korea, and so forth. These are the matters of the utmost consequence that affect every one of us. As long as we do think, and think hard, about our problems, we have every reason for hope for our future, for we are rich, we are strong, and if we are wise as well, we can accomplish the great task for which we have set our hands and our hearts and our minds.

	I noticed a newspaper clipping that somebody handed me just before I reached Amsterdam--just a moment ago. It was a clipping that General Eisenhower's train had passed through here and did not stop in Amsterdam, and it said that it was because his schedule was arranged--according to the Republican Chairman of Montgomery--it was arranged by nonentities. Well, I am delighted to find out at last what kind of entities those fellows are in the Republican party. The only thing I knew about them was that they talked an awful lot. I think I have never heard--never have so many said so much so loudly and about so little.

	They sort of remind me of that wonderful story about the man who came to the judge and said he just had to have a divorce. The judge said, "Well, what is the trouble?" And he said, "My wife talks so much; I can't stand it." The judge said, "Does she? Well, what does she say?" And he said, "Well, Judge, she don't say."

	Well, I am very happy to have had this opportunity to be here. I am deeply grateful to every one of you for affording us this opportunity to talk to you and for the courtesy and the patience that you have shown us, and before we go along on our way--I don't know how many speeches I have made today; I think it is either twelve or 112; it's all the same. But I really have had a good time. You have been very kind to me in New York State--well, you ought to be kind to me--practically everybody from Illinois has moved out here, I think. I should like before we go along to introduce to you some charming ladies who are accompanying us on this journey--Mrs. Angela Parisi, who is Vice Chairman of the Democratic Central Committee of the state of New York. We also have the Vice Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards--I don't know why it is you always inspire so many "ahs" and "ohs." I am very fond of Mrs. India Edwards; I think she is a beautiful woman, but every time she comes out, I think it's Greta Garbo.

	And may I introduce also my sister, Mrs. Ives. And we have a Republican convert aboard who is Vice Chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson, Mrs. Dick of Chicago. You know, I just wonder if the Republicans know how much treachery there is in our midst.

	Before I go, I want to thank Mrs. Charles Webster Littlefield for presenting me with this wonderful copy of the invitation to the Inaugural Ball of President Grover Cleveland and Vice President Adlai Stevenson in 1893. I will value this always, and I hope by the time there comes another Inaugural Ball, I will feel well enough to dance.




ILLINOISVETO     " " " " "
 " " " " " " " "	  	  e: