

	As one who knows South Dakota in the depression and dust storm days of the 1930s, it is a special honor to speak before the Western States Conference.  Your championship of water and power development has moved this region, and indeed all of America, forward toward a kind of life which we once saw only dimly in our dreams.

	Eight years ago a young senator from Massachusetts addressed you at another time of great decision.

	Looking back over the 1950s when "no new starts" was public policy on resource development, when Mr. Khrushchev said he would bury us economically, John Kennedy said, "I hope that in the United States in the sixties no slogan is ever put forward which says no new starts, no movement forward, let us stand still."

	John Kennedy got America moving again.  We have kept on moving: 478 new starts in watershed projects; thirty-six new starts by the Bureau of Reclamation; new starts on 494 dams and other structures by the Corps of Engineers.  And we have moved forward on farm income, too--not nearly as far as we must go, but far enough to repair some of the Nixon-Benson damage of the 1950s.

	Net farm income reached a peak with Harry Truman, and then fell three billion dollars in the next eight years.  It is back up to three billion since 1960.  Nineteen sixty-eight finds rural America on the road to revitalization.

	Where do we go from here?

	Once again we are in a year of great decision, and we find Mr. Nixon in Iowa claiming to plow a straight furrow with a corn picker and promising to change the farm program.  But he doesn't say how he'll change it.  

	Would he change the wheat program?  Or would he eliminate the certificates?  Or would he repeal it altogether?  Would he change the feed grains program?  Would he repeal it?  What about Farmers Home Administration credit.  I think we ought to find out before November.  And what about REA?  He was against it all the way in Congress.

	Would we have more of the special interest decisions of the 1950s--the kind that required a private Western States Water and Power Consumers Conference to defend the public interest?

	Let him speak out.

	I've sent a lifetime of public service fighting for rural electrification, fighting for programs that will protect farm and rural people, fighting for the kind of rural America I would like my children and grandchildren to grow up in.

	Success is in sight.  And I am not, as Adlai Stevenson used to say, going to let another Republican administration "snatch defeat from the jaws of victory."

	Today I want to put before you a ten-point program of next steps and new starts in the revitalization of rural America, a program addressed to the farmers, the businessmen, and the families who live in rural America.  

	First, we must move forward quickly with some ongoing efforts.  This is not time to cut back on the great plains conservation program.  It is an investment in soil resources that will be repaid many fold.  Funds for it should be restored.  And let's speed up, not slow down, the Garrison Dam Project and the Oahe Reservoir.

	Today we have an enormous recreational and economic opportunity in the development of the upper Missouri.  Let's put that great resource to work quickly for the people of the Dakotas, Montana and all Americans.

	In 1965 we passed a Public Works and Economic Development Act over the opposition of 92 percent of the Republicans in the House.  That Act provides for creation of a Regional Development Commission in the Dakotas, Montana, Wyoming and Nebraska.  The authority is there.  Governors Guy and Morrison were for it, but some of their Republican colleagues were not.  I say it's time to set it up and get on with the work of regional development in this area.

	And while I am talking about ongoing efforts, let me pass on to you some good news from Norman Clapp, the administrator of REA.  I have received a most encouraging report on the progress of the loan application from Basin Electric Power Cooperative for funds to finance additional generating and transmission facilities.

	Negotiations with the Bureau of Reclamation have been completed, the major technical questions have been resolved, and the processing of the loan is moving ahead promptly.  The administrator of REA assures me that the additional facilities are needed, that the basin proposal is essentially sound, and that he will take action on the application at the earliest possible moment.

	Second, further modernization of rural America in the 1970s is going to depend even more on cheap and plentiful electricity than it has from the 1930s until now.  Jobs, industrial growth, our ability to stem migration to the cities will depend on it.

	That means area coverage without exception.  It means more and better facilities for power pooling and the full exploitation of atomic energy, in addition to more federal multipurpose development.

	It is now time to consider construction of more federal transmission lines to various regions and federal power projects together.  Customers of the private electrical systems, the municipals, the public power districts and the cooperatives will all benefit.

	Territorial integrity, of course, should be a hard-and-fast rule.

	As for nuclear power developed with public funds, its benefits must be available to all sectors of the power industry.  In atomic energy, as in all other public power generation, we must preserve the preference clause for municipalities and cooperatives.

	It is in the best interests of all consumers that every electric utility, large and small, public and private, participate directly on a fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis in the ownership, output and operation of nuclear power plants.

	Now, for some more good news: your good friend, and my good friend, Albert C. Hauffee of Leola, South Dakota, has agreed to serve as national chairman for Rural Electric Americans for Humphrey-Muskie.  Al Hauffee and his fellow workers are going to carry the Humphrey-Muskie message on REA to every corner of this nation.

	Third, it is time to bring agriculture into the mainstream of our American economy--not a generation from now, not a decade from now, but in the next four years.

	Agriculture is America's largest single industry.  It supports more families than any other.  It is basic to the viability of the small towns and cities that dot most of America.

	Our farmers are the keystone of America's economic strength, and food will be a source of enormous export earnings in the 1970s and 1980s.  But today agriculture is still the weakest point in our free enterprise system.

	What ails agriculture?  We know the problems include low farm prices and inadequate income, high interest rates and a farm credit shortage, ever-increasing production costs that take the profit out of farming.

	But we must recognize that we do not now have all the answers and that no Washington bureaucracy has all the answers either.

	So point four in my program for further revitalization of rural America is this:  people with a specific background in agriculture must be permanently located at critical points throughout the government.  In the Tariff Commission, which deals with quotas and imports and other farm trade problems; in the Council of Economic Advisers, which counsels the president on taxes, balance of payments, and other economic policy questions; in the Budget Bureau, where spending guidelines are established; on the Federal Reserve Board; in the Department of Transportation; and in the National Domestic Policy Council which I would establish in the White House to provide the same coordination and staffing for domestic programs which the National Security Council provides on foreign policy and national defense issues.

	If I am elected, farm people will be there, making sure that agriculture gets the attention it deserves--regularly.

	Five, I recommend a sizable increase in Farmers Home Administration lending to ease the farm credit situation.  I shall also continue to urge passage of legislation to enable young farmers to finance land purchases over periods of up to forty years.

	Six, we must reform the federal tax structure to remove artificial incentives for the movement of nonfarmers into agriculture.  These investors now enjoy an unfair tax write-off break which gives them an advantage over independent farmers.  Family farmers are efficient enough to compete with anybody, providing the rules are fair.  We have an obligation to see that they are.

	Seven, for the foreseeable future, American agriculture will need strong public programs to deal with the difficult problems of maintaining reasonable prices and a balance of supply and demand.  I want our basic farm programs improved and made permanent, and I want them adequately funded.

	Mr. Nixon says he is for a one-year extension.  Before November, you ought to find out what he has in mind after that.  No other important sector of our economy has to come back to Congress time after time to get basic legislation renewed.  It is time to end this requirement for farmers, too.

	Eight, we need strategic reserves of major farm commodities.  I favor a program that keeps these reserves at common-sense, clearly-defined levels, one which specifies how and when they can be released so they do not interfere with the market, and one which relies on private inventories for normal business operations.

	Nine. we also need stronger farm cooperatives.  Farmers continue to face serious price problems, both in buying production items and in marketing commodities.  We should expand credit for all farm cooperatives, including the rural electrics, and insist on a more extensive public effort to build and strengthen them.

	Ten, our farmers will not have true parity of income or full control over their own economic destinies, until they have the right to bargain.  They want bargaining power; they should have the opportunity to use it.    

	Farm programs provide a floor of support.  But they are not a total answer and never will be.  I believe, however, that organized farm bargaining does hold the answer to full parity of income for farmers, and I shall do everything in my power to see that they have the right to bargain effectively.

	My friends, consider the options carefully this year.

	The quality of life the vast majority of you and your children will enjoy--the comfort of your homes, the caliber of your schools and hospitals, the strength of your communities, will be determined by the choices we make this year.

	And the choices we make for rural America will affect all America.  They will decide whether our cities become more impacted, whether our slums grow worse or start to disappear; whether we put enough resources in the hands of our local police to enable them to do the job we want them to do, or whether we ask them to fight crime with empty slogans in an atmosphere of increasing hatred and tension.

	America today has the resources to guarantee our citizens, rural and urban, full economic and social opportunity.  We have the know-how.

	When peace comes in Vietnam--and it will come--when we find a way to slow down and then reverse the arms race--and if I am elected, we shall--our opportunities here at home will be even greater.

	Will we be in a position to take advantage of those opportunities?  Or will we be led by men who turn their backs on the future and neglect these critical areas of rural development, and human development generally, for which they have little understanding and less compassion?

	It is going to be a hard race.  But with your help, I mean to win.  
RECLAMATION PROJECTSREGIONALISM--WESTAGRICULTURE--GENERALELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESRURAL DEVELOPMENT     . . z. v. n.
 b. ]. X. M. A. ?. . .	 n 	 Z  I  5   e: