

	When the General and I visited New York--separately, I should add--late in August, the great political excitement in America was the revival of the Republican party. A distinguished soldier who had enjoyed the nation's respect for a decade had been nominated for the presidency; and the modern minded men of the Republican party--the ones who know it is the 20th Century--were in power. The Old Guard was in embittered retreat, licking the wounds of their defeat in Chicago. Senator Taft was silent in Canada. And the General was summoning the nation to fall in behind the shining banners of his great crusade.

	It was all very thrilling in August.

	Then, about a month later, the General and I again made a visit to New York. Several things had happened. The main thing probably was his breakfast meeting with the man he had defeated in Chicago--Senator Taft. I am sure you remember that meeting. If you don't, I think the General does. When it was over, the General had accepted a new statement of Republican principles as written by the senator--and the principles he now accepted were identically the principles he was supposed to have defeated in Chicago.

	As part of the agreement, he is said to have promised not to discriminate against the friends of Senator Taft. Some one told me the other day that this is the only kind of FEPC the General favors!

	When the General made his September speech in New York, it sounded so much like Senator Taft that one of the ablest of our senators--and the first Republican senator to call for the General's nomination--had to speak out his disgust. Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon said that it had become obvious that the Republican signals were again being called by the substitute quarterback from Ohio.

	That was September. The shadows were beginning to fall.

	Now it is October, and we are making our third visit. In the interval the General has covered a lot of ground. He began by saying that the time had come for a "casting out" of evil men--men the Republican candidate described as "quack doctors," "fear-mongers" and bare-faced looters." I mention these words because the day before yesterday the Republican candidate announced virtuously that he was, in his words, "leaving to others the job of mud-slinging and name-calling."

	But, as the month wore on, the crusader who had spoken of casting out evil men began to take unto himself men so objectionable that he cannot bring himself to mention their names. He endorsed the slanderers of General Marshall. He said kind words about the great Senator Vandenberg and then endorsed the most vindictive opponents of our bipartisan foreign policy. He endorsed the most diehard enemies of social progress. He embraced these men, one by one, and demanded that the American people send them to the Senate of the United States.

	The editors of the paper in the General's own university stated it well. The great crusade, they said, had become first the great compromise and finally the great disenchantment.

	We must realize, as the election draws near, that one consequence of the collapse of the General's crusade is that the Republican party has told us almost nothing of what it would actually do about any of the major problems before us.

	It has been possible for all the factions of the party to agree only on what they are against. It has been impossible for them to agree on anything they are for.

	When they are asked to set forth their own program, they engage in a new kind of psychological warfare--campaign by platitude.

	I would like to suggest to the Republicans that it is time for a change--from the General to the specific!

	Their denunciations are loud and shocking--so shocking that, if they prevail in our politics, the very integrity of our institutions will be menaced.

	But when they come to tell us of their own plans and programs, a dropping pin would drown out everything they have to say.

	The night before last, for example, the General discussed, here in Troy, the subject of inflation--the problem of rising prices and cost of living. He described the effect inflation has upon the family budget. If anything, he understated the seriousness of the problem. Then he went on to explain what he considered the reasons for inflation. And all he said of them was that, "inflation is a calculated policy of the White House." He offered not a single fact to support this absurd, ridiculous charge.

	When it came to his own program to meet the inflationary threat, all he could propose was, in his words: "Knocking down the administration idol of cheap money, getting unified action from our economic agencies, and slicing the fat out of the federal budget."

	If that honestly represents the General's understanding of what it takes to meet this problem of inflation, then I say to you that there is truly at stake in this election a real question of whether this country's economy is going to survive.

	What the Republican candidate is really proposing in these ponderous words is that the government do nothing about inflation--which is just exactly what the Republican party did about depression in 1929--and what the Old Guard would like to do today. The consequences would be exactly the same as they were 25 years ago. Some Republicans have been accusing Democrats of "running against Herbert Hoover." Well, we weren't in September, but it looks as though that's about what we have on our hands in October.

	Why doesn't the Republican candidate tell the American people the truth about this problem of inflation? Is it that he thinks Americans are too ignorant to understand why prices have gone up in this country? Or is it because the truth would cast an unfriendly light on the men who now surround the Republican candidate?

	We know the truth.

	We know that there has been inflation in the past two and a half years because we have had to turn much of our productive power into the making of guns and munitions of defense. That meant less production of the things ordinary people buy--and fewer goods mean higher prices.

	We know that the administration has been actively fighting this problem.

	We know most clearly of all that the only reason we have suffered as much as we have from inflation is that there has been diehard opposition bloc in Congress which has opposed every step we have taken to keep prices down. The man who stood here on Wednesday night and bemoaned inflation with you has asked that you return all the members of this diehard pro-inflation bloc to Congress. Expecting these men to stop inflation would be like calling on Al Capone to stop a crime wave!

	There is not time tonight to repeat the details of the program I have outlined in this campaign for meeting and beating this problem of rising prices. It is a program which calls for several firm steps by the government.

	Strict government economy is one of them--but that won't do this job on the national front any more than economies in your homes will do the whole job of balancing your family budgets. It takes a lot more doing than that. It takes, among other things, some changes in our tax policies, and our credit policies, and some tightening up of the loopholes in our temporary cost-of-living control laws.

	But my point is not tonight to develop again the details of the Democratic program. I've done that before and I hope you all--especially you women who have to meet this problem every day--are enough interested that you have considered that program carefully. I think this is one of the most important problems we face.

	My point tonight is rather that there is a Democratic program--and that it has been laid before you for your approval. And there is not a Republican program because, if it were disclosed, they would abandon all chance of winning the election.

	The Republican leadership doesn't seem to like the idea of disclosure very much--and that begins with the Republican candidate for vice president!

	And there isn't any clear, decisive statement at all of the Republican foreign policy. Why? Because oil and water don't mix and neither do isolationists and internationalists, and they are all in the front ranks of this queer crusade.

	And there isn't any clear statement of a Republican farm policy--because the candidate had stated one position--the Democratic position--before Senator Taft told him that the Old Guard Republicans had another policy.

	Go on down the list--you won't find any programs--because the General doesn't have any, and the Old Guard don't dare reveal theirs--for very practical reasons. They want to win.

	So we have, instead of a program for America, calumny and fear, platitudes and preachments, epithets and abuse. Why, they are even burning up the air waves saying I've been a wasteful, extravagant, incompetent governor of Illinois.

	But they are not saying that the cost of state government in Illinois is among the lowest in the nation, and so are the number of state employees in relation to our population.

	Thus has the great crusade become a political parade, careless of the truth, and careless of your future.

	And let us not deceive ourselves. When the General endorses the Old Guard, these endorsements are not love pats--they are mortgages, payable after November 4th. But they will not be paid--for America will not entrust its future to men who compromise principles for votes.

	But the Old Guard doesn't concern itself exclusively with keeping prices up and opposing social progress at home. It is also busy denouncing and attacking the affirmative foreign policies by which we are seeking to build strength in the free world and peace on earth.

	Practically every member of the Republican Old Guard--that corporal's guard which has grown into a General's guard--is a bitter and destructive critic of the United Nations. One senator whose re-election the General has demanded--has made the attack on the United Nations his personal crusade. Listen to what Senator Bricker said recently: "The UN seems destined for an early demise. Withdrawal is an available remedy and one which will be used ultimately."

	The men who will come to Washington on the General's coattails are the last people in the world from whom to expect full and devoted support of the United Nations, and none of the General's virtuous pronouncements can hide the fact.

	The General has forgotten, if he ever read, the noble words of the first republican, Abraham Lincoln. "Nor do I believe we can ever advance our principles by supporting men who oppose our principles."

	I speak particularly of this subject tonight because today is United Nations Day.

	It was a generation ago that a great democrat, Woodrow Wilson, first announced the great vision of a world united for peace. It was the me of divided minds, isolationists and reactionaries, who destroyed his vision. They did it in the name of "realism." Today we can see, as we see so often in history's better perspective, that the so-called visionary was in fact the practical man. The evidence lies in the ashes and rubble of the Second World War.

	The proof lies too in the new hope of organizing the peaceful purpose of the world which has risen out of that war--the United Nations.

	It was not until the Communist attack on South Korea that we realized the full dimensions of this house of hope--collective hope--we had fashioned. The swift response of the United Nations, led by our country, gave for the first time the free world's militant answer to aggression. That response could not have come--until it was too late--if the administration of this nation had been a house divided against itself.



COST OF LIVINGISOLATIONISMINFLATIONUNITED NATIONS     ]. ). #. . .
 
. .  . - - - - -	 1 	 #     e: