

	Thank you very much, Michelle, for that very kind introduction and for the endorsement of the Sierra Club.  To Jack Henney; to Phil Berry; and to my old friend Lionel Wilson, the mayor of Oakland; Mayor Newport of Berkeley; and to all of my friends here today.

	I was last in San Francisco when we completed the most successful Democratic Convention in American history and nominated the first woman vice president of the United States, Geraldine Ferraro.

	And I knew, when we left San Francisco, we'd picked the right city for that convention.  It's a city that speaks to our future.  And I'm back in San Francisco today.  I smell victory in the air.  We're going to win this election and go on and do what's needed for our future.

	What we see today is something that has never happened before in a ninety-two year history of the Sierra Club.  The Sierra Club, for the first time, although it includes Republicans and Democrats, decided to endorse the Democratic nominee for president.  Why did they decide to do that?

	Don't we all know in 1984 we face a president who--unlike all past presidents on the issue of the environment, protecting our air, our water, and our land--is neither moderate nor conservative, but radical, and is attacking the very thing that we're charged as trustees for those who follow.  You just gave me that young redwood tree.  And it's soon going to be planted, and it's going to be planted for our children and their children, and their children.

	It reminds us that each generation of Americans is here as a trustee to save this magnificent land for those who follow.  We have no right to poison, to eat up, to chew, to pollute this wonderful country of ours.  We are required to save it and purify it and protect it.  And that's why the Sierra Club has endorsed me along with the Friends of the Earth--for the first time in history.

	Never before in our history did the love of land label our politics, because we all breathe the same air; we drink the same water; and we live on the same earth.  For years, the environment has been bipartisan.  There are no Democrats, no Republicans-only Americans--when it comes to the protection of our earth and our land.

	And then came Mr. Reagan.  And he appointed the likes of James Watt, Ann Gorsuch, to guard the chicken coop.  And what did he do?  He turned the Superfund into a superfraud.  He put a "For Sale" sign on our public lands and a "For Rent" sign on our wonderful beaches.

	He refused to enforce and support the Clean Air and the Clean Water Act.  He refused to enforce the laws to clean up toxic waste dumps.  He slashed the EPA budget, although its caseload has doubled.  And then Mr. Reagan's pollsters told him that he was getting in trouble.  And so what he did is what he does best.  He decided to do damage control by photo opportunity and not deal with the policy but the politics of the problem.

	He went to Chesapeake Bay--he didn't clean it up, he had his picture taken.  He posed in front of a cave and he invoked the name of Teddy Roosevelt, who must be turning over in his grave.

	Mr. Reagan says, "When it comes to the environment, I have a perception problem," and he does.  He can't see us at all, and we can see right through him on the issue of the environment.

	Mr. Reagan, instead of these photo opportunities, why don't you take a trip with me and see what your policies have done to America?  Come with me over to Massachusetts, where the cancer rate is fifteen times the national average, and sit down as I did with grieving parents who have lost their children from leukemia because of the poison in the air, soil, and in the water system from that toxic waste dump.

	Meet me in Riverside at the "Rita Lavelle Memorial Toxic Waste Dump."  And talk to the teachers and the students who will tell you about the health abnormalities that are being caused by this poison seeping into the subsoil and nearing the aquifer, which half a million Americans depend for their water.

	Meet me in Maine and let's look at the lakes that are dying from acid rain.  And look at the trees that are being stunted from that poison coming down from the skies.

	Meet me in San Luis Obispo and look at the Diablo Canyon plant that sits astride an earthquake fault zone.

	Meet me in Richmond and look at that toxic waste dump with the children playing--exposing their lives to poison and to death.

	Meet me at the Big Sur and look at that beauty that you try to destroy with all your oil wells.  Come see America, Mr. President, and see what you've done to it and what you've refused to do to protect this country.

	The Sierra Club and the Friends of the Earth have endorsed this Democrat because they believe in the environment.  And they want a president who will protect it.

	I am committed to expanding the Superfund and cleaning up those toxic waste sites before any more of our children are poisoned.  I am committed to reducing acid rain by 50 percent before it kills more of our fish and stunts more of our forests.  I will end the lawlessness--and that's what it is--the lawlessness that is destroying our environment.

	I will take polluters to court and not to lunch.  I will end the auction of our public lands and I will protect our parks, our wildlife refuges, and our wilderness areas.  And I will fire the radicals who occupy far too many important positions in the environment and replace them with people who know what they're doing and who love this land and believe in our laws.

	It was John Eriks who once said, "We are all hitched to the universe."  But today we have a president whose platform says we must prevail in a nuclear war.  No one will prevail in that war.  And we need a president committing to preventing such a war, which will destroy us all.

	Our differences with the Soviets are deep--but we must meet them on the common ground of survival.  We must keep talking with them and find a way to stop this madness.

	President Kennedy told the truth when he said, "We must never negotiate out of fear, but we must never fear to negotiate."  And we need a president who knows the difference.

	Mr. Reagan has opposed every arms control agreement reached by every president of both political parties since the bomb went off.  He is the first president, since the bomb went off, not to reach any arms control agreements at all.  He is the first president since Herbert Hoover not to meet his Soviet counterpart.

	Instead, we have an arms race here on earth.  He has virtually abandoned any effort to prevent the proliferation of weapons around the globe and because of that, on November 6, all of us--the human race--face a fateful choice.

	If Mr. Reagan is re-elected, the arms race on earth will be extended into the heavens.  Think of killer satellites in space.  Think of a world in which we transfer the decision of war over to computers.

	The other day, Mr. Reagan said that we had a moral imperative to go ahead with Star Wars.  Mr. President, the moral imperative is to stop this madness before it destroys us all.  That's the moral imperative for this country.

	This election comes down to the question--which we will answer together--of what kind of people we are.  Are we the kind of people who would steal from our children the heritage of a blessed land that our parents left to us?

	Are we the kind of people that would turn our backs on families drinking contaminated water?

	Are we the kind of people who would sell our public lands to pay a modest portion of Reagan's debts?

	Are we the kind of people who don't care about the arms race in space?

	Are we the kind of people who don't care about the eternity of nuclear winter that begins on the "day after"?

	On November 6, you can say what kind of people we are.  It is up to you.  The power is in your hands.  We can win this election in California, in this nation.  This is for us, our nation, civilization.  Let's win this election and put a people's president in the White House.

NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)TOXIC WASTEENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION     (     
        	 W 	 #   e: