

	Thank you very much. Let's hear it for your outstanding congressman Dick Durbin. What a wonderful...[missing text].

	We got some business to do today, folks. We've got twelve or thirteen days to go before the election. This is the most important election in modern history, and for farmers and rural Americans, it may be the last significant election that they have to turn things around, to strengthen family farming, to strengthen rural America.

	I came here today to make my case to you and to plead for your help. This election is wide open. It's close. Farmers and rural Americans can make the difference. If you'll get going, we've got plenty of time to win this election to put a strong, pro-family president in that White House and turn this situation around so you can continue to live and prosper and hope for yourselves and your children in rural America.

	I'm here today to make that pledge and ask for your help. Let's win this election and run this crowd out of that White House and get someone in there who knows what he's doing.

	I've come here today to make agriculture and family farming and rural America a central issue in this campaign. I have a vision for the future of rural America and a background and a commitment to back it up.

	My opponent has no plans or proposals or visions of rural America at all. His program reminds me a little bit of Harry Truman, who one day spoke on a farm. They wanted to get a little platform for him and couldn't find anything, so they finally put a couple of two-by-fours over a manure spreader. Old Harry got up there and he said, "I've spoken all over the world, but," he said, "this is the first time I've spoken on the Republican platform."

	To help rural America or to help any American, you must begin with a strong president who knows what he's doing, is in touch, in charge, and in command of his own government. If you don't do that, nothing that we need doing in America will be done.

	Have you been watching the debates? Sunday night, you saw the problem. It's the key, underlying issue in this election. We saw a president who can't discuss a single major issue without making a major mistake. He can't do it.

	This won't work. He won't take responsibility. Harry Truman said in his little sign on his desk, "The buck stops here." Under Mr. Reagan, the sign should say, "The buck stops everywhere but here." That's not what we expect of our president.

	In our debate, Mr. Reagan blamed Lebanon on the company commander. He blamed his administration's murder manuals in Nicaragua on somebody else in the government. He didn't understand his own Star Wars proposals, said we'd give our best secrets to the Soviet Union, said we should have a Star Wars demonstration project. He didn't say what state it's over, but if I were you, Mr. Hartigan, I would plead that he exempt Illinois from that exercise.

	It's the same story when it comes to rural America. In the first debate, he said this: "Farmers are not the victims of anything this administration has done."

	[AUDIENCE: Bull!]

	Correct. I condemn those harsh words. They told me if I came here, I'd get a little help.

	For this president, leadership seems to be blaming everybody else but himself. The truth of it is, and you know it and I know it, that these four years have been the worst years in American agriculture.

	More good farmers--and I don't know whether some of our city folks know what I'm talking about. When I grew up, everybody knew who the good farmers were. They were the ones who worked hard. Their whole families worked hard. We knew who the farmers were who had got some help from their parents, and good farmers were people who had shown year in and year out that they were the best in the community.

	What's happening now is not just an occasional farmer who may have it coming and is losing his land, but good, solid farmers, many of whose families have been on the land for two and three and four generations, are losing their land along with their families and losing their hopes and their future.

	That is happening under this administration. Farm income is dropping. Farm costs are going up. Land values are dropping. Exports are disappearing, and all across rural America, as is always the case, when the farmer's in trouble, everybody down the road is in trouble, and pretty soon, the whole country is in trouble.

	And that's exactly what's happening in this area today.

	And the issue in 1984 is not about farmers who got lazy and forgot how to farm. It's about a president who forgot about farmers and needs to be kicked out of there and replaced by a president who'll stand up and work for farmers.

	Today I want to give you ten good reasons why rural Americans should vote for Mondale and vote for your future.

	First, reason number one: I understand family farmers and rural Americans, and Mr. Reagan doesn't and never will. I grew up on the farms of southern Minnesota. I'm the only pea lice inspector ever to be elected vice president of the United States. I served on the Senate Ago Committee, and I know these agricultural programs. The farm leaders of this country will tell you I was not just voting right; I was a leader for agriculture all my years in the Senate.

	I know that agriculture is America's biggest business. They think it's General Motors. They think it's General Electric. It isn't. It's farmers and rural America. They're the biggest purchaser, the biggest employer, the biggest business in America, and this administration, not understanding it, is letting it go downhill and weakening our own country.

	I know the difference, and I'm going to defend rural America.

	I know that our system of family farming is an economic miracle. Americans pay less of their income for food than any people on earth and it's the abundance produced by rural America and family farming that makes the difference.

	I know that rural Americans produce more than food. They also produce strong bodies and strong values for the rest of this country.

	And I know, finally, something they don't understand. To have family farming, you have to have profit for family farmers so that they can prosper and survive and proceed with sound economics.

	The president doesn't understand your concerns, and he doesn't understand the programs and never will. Argument Number One: If you want a president who knows you, vote for Walter Mondale.

	Reason number two: I will work to pull rural America together. Mr. Reagan has worked to tear rural America apart. It is the old principle of divide and conquer. In 1981, Reagan's budget director said this: "My strategy is to come in with a farm bill that's unacceptable so that whole thing begins to splinter."

	That's exactly what they did. They came in with a stinkeroo. They got every farm group desperately fighting with each other, different regions of the country fighting with each other, and after they weakened rural America, they went in for the killer blow. They passed the poorest farm bill in modern history, administered in the way that's brought about what we all know.

	There is strength in numbers. There is strength in unity. As president of the United States, I'm going to proceed under the principle that we're the United States of America, and we ought to have a united rural America.

	I'm going to bring all the farmers in rural America together, and we're going to shape a bill that builds rural America. As president of the United States, I'm going to bring that about. Because of the new strength, we'll get legislation in there that will really strengthen farm income and the administration of farm programs.

	Reason number three: I will get this massive national debt down. People say, "Don't talk about that, Mondale." Listen, this national debt--you farmers and you farm families--you're paying that right now.

	It doesn't come in a separate bill, but we were just talking here with Buzz Nelson. The hog market has gone to smithereens, hasn't it? And that kept you alive here for a while. What's happened? This huge national debt runs up the value of the American dollar, drives down the value of the Canadian dollar, and it's much cheaper to buy a Canadian hog than an American hog.

	Your farm exports are disappearing because what used to be competitive four years ago is too expensive. So everybody who's competing with us undercuts us because this national debt is like tying both hands behind your back.

	For thirteen solid years, farm exports rose every year. That meant improved farm income, reduced federal farm program costs, improved land values, and this we got free in the market.

	Have you become bad farmers in the last three years? Have you forgotten how to farm? Have you forgotten how to be competitive? Are you washing all kinds of money that you load onto the cost of commodities? What happened to make this great agricultural area, the most competitive on earth, now the economy that can't compete with anyone else?

	I'll tell you what happened. This huge national debt is destroying rural America and destroying your advantage that should be yours. I make this pledge: When I'm president, I'm going to bring that debt down, get those interest rates down, restore your competitive advantage, and put American farmers and rural America up front in the international economy of this country.

	Reason four: I know how to manage farm programs, and Mr. Reagan doesn't. He doesn't understand that if you use these programs to get supply into relationship with demand, farm income firms up, you have profit and stability.

	Under their administration, they let supply get totally out of control with demand and, as always, it broke the market, ran down prices and drove up farm program costs.

	They do not believe and do not understand how these programs work. The farmers are worse off, and I understand it.

	A few days ago, the director of the budget said, "Why have any farm support program at all?" That says it all. They don't understand it. They don't deserve your support.

	I will strengthen farm prices and price support levels. I will continue to strengthen target price programs, and I am here today to pledge that, as president, I will provide stability, predictability, decent prices and profits that are needed by the farmers of this country.

	That is my pledge, and I will deliver on it as president.

	Reason five: I will step up to the agricultural credit crisis, and they won't. I have a solid plan to help thousands of hard-working farmers being forced off the land by this credit crisis. It includes a six-month moratorium on FHA foreclosures, refinancing of both public and private loans, and reduced interest rates.

	Mr. Reagan has a plan, too, but look at it with careful eyes. His plan gives no breathing space for hard-pressed farmers. It weakens rural banks, and it deals with only about 6 percent of the private credit crisis in rural America.

	About 80 percent of the rural credit is private, not public. It's between the farmers and the local lender. His programs deal with only 6 percent of that. Most farmers who are in trouble will get no help at all with the Reagan proposal.

	One final point: You won't know at all whether this Reagan program will work until after the election. For four years, he didn't help you. Why do you think, if he gets by this election, he'll help you? The first time, it was his fault. The second time, it will be your fault. Don't give him a chance.

	Finally, I know what they don't know, and that is, the problem isn't credit, it's price. Unless farmers get a better income, all the credit in the world just makes things worse. There has to be a profit for family farmers in order to survive, and that has to be the main objective.

	Reason six: I'll get tough on trade, and Mr. Reagan won't. American farmers can out compete any farmers on earth, but you can't out compete a foreign government. All over the world today they are imposing import quotas, using unfair subsidies, using other trade divides to take markets away from the farmers of our country.

	I will stand up for American farmers. I will use our credit facilities, and I will see that American farmers have a friend in the White House because, all across the board--soybeans, soybean oil and meal, the threats on corn gluten, what's happening now with hogs, flour, broilers, rice, cotton--all over the world, we see games being played by other governments that undermine America's competitive posture, which you're entitled to.

	You can't solve that problem. Only a president can stand up and fight for you. I understand it, and I think we elect an American president to stand up for American farmers and not for somebody else.

	I will oppose all agricultural embargoes. Mr. Reagan doesn't. He's got an ad out, and I'd like to challenge him on that. These massive Reagan debts constitute the most massive farm embargo in history. They have caused 20 percent of your farm export markets to disappear because of the reasons we talked about earlier. It has been the most effective embargo on earth.

	As a senator, I opposed the Nixon embargoes. I opposed the Ford embargoes, and as vice president of the United States, I did everything I could to persuade Mr. Carter not to impose the embargo against the Soviet Union.

	The president said I did so quietly. I went all over that White House. I went to the Department of Agriculture. I went to the president. I did everything I could to block that embargo because I knew it wouldn't work; it would be counterproductive.

	In 1975, Mr. Reagan proposed a farm embargo. This man's record on this issue, what's happening to farm exports today, makes the embargo an issue. I have opposed every embargo. I've got a strong agricultural export program. He does not. On the issue of standing up for American farmers, I win that debate.

	Finally, Mr. President, it's four years since that embargo has been lifted. Don't blame all your problems on everybody else. You're the president of the United States. What are you doing--now--to help farmers?

	One of the things that I was taught as a young boy is that you take responsibility. When you've done something that's good, you've got a right to claim credit for it--not brag, but claim credit for it. When you make a mistake, you admit it. When you've got responsibilities, you try to deliver on those responsibilities. Once in a while, if you make a mistake, you admit that.

	What we've got now is a president who's been there four years, and he's the first perfect president in American history. Never made one mistake. There's never been anything that happened that's his fault. Well, we'll talk about that later.

	Reason eight: I'll fight for soil conservation. Mr. Reagan won't. This is very important. All through rural America, we're losing our topsoil. That's America's future. That's your kids' future. Under his program, farmers can't afford conservation measures that don't pay off right away. He tried to cut the program that would help preserve our soil.

	As president, I offer a multi-year set-aside reserve program, long-term fragile land reserve, and a sodbuster provision to protect our most erodible land. We're not going to have any future in rural America unless we protect that topsoil and that land and the waters and the rest that we need for decent, healthy agriculture.

	They are hopeless on that issue. I will work with you to preserve our land.

	Reason nine: I will strengthen the Rural Electrification Administration, the rural telephone programs and the other essential rural programs, and he won't. For four years, they proposed deep cuts in the REA. They tried to undermine the loan program.

	If you want a president who understands these rural programs, wants those essential programs supported so you can afford it, vote for Walter Mondale and against Ronald Reagan.

	Reason ten: this administration repeats a very standard mistake. They see agricultural abundance as a curse. I see it as a blessing. We are here living with what they call a problem, which any other country would rejoice in if it had what we have.

	Aren't we wise enough with this miracle of agricultural abundance to say, "Well, let's look around us"? We've got Americans who don't have enough to eat. We have old folks who can't make it through the day with decent nutrition. We have children in America who can't learn because they're too hungry to thrive. We've got a world in which there are millions and millions of people who are starving as we sit here today, in the midst of this agricultural abundance.

	There was a time, and I want to return to it, when we saw our agricultural miracle as our biggest asset, when we saw it as a chance to feed hungry children.

	I know farmers. You'd rather be paid a decent price to do what you're good at, to produce food, to feed the hungry, and to assist our economy than to be paid money not to produce. You'd much prefer it.

	All over this world, more and more, the United States is seen as a peddler of arms. Sometimes we have to do it, but I'll tell you, our moral authority is hurt when we don't also show that we care about people in trouble.

	All through western Africa now, millions of our fellow human beings are starving, children being stunted and destroyed--before they ever had a chance--for their whole lives. What we're doing is selling more guns and less food to those people. Let's put ourselves in their place. Wouldn't you admire America more if we sold more food and fewer guns and brought them what they needed?

	I want to see our food used to feed the hungry, to develop new markets. I want to see food used again to build the peace. And I know the difference.

	We have thirteen days to go. Rural America has just gone through the worst four years in its history. More good farmers, more rural Americans, more people who depend on farming, have gone through trouble in these last four years than ever before.

	You have to decide what you want to do. The power's not in my hands. It's in yours. You run this country on November 6. That's the way this nation should always be.

	Fundamentally, I know what's in your minds. You heard my program. Do you believe me? You heard what I said, but am I just another politician? You heard my pledge about our future, but can I really deliver it?

	I speak to you and I speak to all rural Americans when I say I know what the real issue is. It's not program. It's trust. It's not whether we have intentions that we express, but whether in our hearts and in our souls, we really believe them. It's not whether, among the long list of things we'd like to do, these are some of the things we might do, but whether, when we get into that White House--when the issues are tough and the budgets are tough and there are all kinds of problems--we really mean that we have a priority for rural America.

	I want you to believe in me, and I want you to trust me, and I want you to try once again to make this public system work that will demonstrate that, in America, government is of the people and by the people and for the people, as Lincoln said.

	More and more, we're being told, when you suffer, there's no hope. When you suffer, don't ask your president to help. When rural America is going under, that's too bad.

	I wasn't brought up to believe that. I was brought up to believe that when there are real problems in America, when Americans are suffering for no good reason, when we're hurting ourselves for policies that damage the long-term interests of this country, this is our country. These are our times. This is our nation, and if we want to stop it, it's up to us and we can stop it. This is our country, and we can do it.

	So I come to rural America asking for your help. I need it, and you need it. We've got to win this election for your future and for the future of this nation.

	My first campaign was 1948. I rode on the Truman train even though I was too young to vote. In that campaign, they wrote Harry Truman off, taking polls he was so far behind.

	But they forgot something. Out in every one of those little farm homes, and every one of those little stores on Main Street, every one of those little churches, people were thinking. They weren't hollering or making noise, but each of them was asking, "Wait a minute now. We can't continue this way. We need to strengthen rural America. I need a future for my family. We're not going to stand for it."

	And quietly, by the thousands and then by the millions, rural Americans with dignity went to the polls, and they voted old Harry Truman back in that White House. And following that, you had four of the best years that the American farmer has ever had.

	I ask you to use these days now. Think it through. See what you've seen. Ask whom you trust. Then, by the hundreds, and then by the thousands, and then by the millions, walk into that polling booth and take control of your government again.

	Thank you.

AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESBANKING/LOANS/CREDITDEBT, NATIONALEMBARGOES/SANCTIONS (FOOD)--AGAINST THE SOVIET UNIONHUNGER (UNITED STATES)HUNGER (WORLD)AGRICULTURE--GENERAL     S `S ZS VS NS
 CS >S 9S 3S +S )S $S S	 	  	  	  	  	 z 	 l 	 8 	 "   e: