

	Thank you very much. Thank you. I wanted to, I want to invite everyone here to visit the Dole/Kemp website and the address is: www.Dole96.com--

	Oh, you're going to show that. Good. So--and plus my dog Leader has a website, too. He gets a lot of mail and I have to answer it. So that's--he's a schnauzer.

	But in any event, I--I just want to say a couple of words and then I'll be happy to sit down and--and take questions, because it is a listening session, not a speaking session.

	But I come to Ohio, I think, about every week. Last week I had the chance to be in Williams County, Ohio, Montpelier, where I visited the grave of my great-great-grandfather. My grandfather was born there and moved to Kansas, so it was kind of an interesting--and really a very interesting experience for me to come back, come to Williams County, and I think everybody in the county turned out that night at the fairgrounds. Democrats, Republicans, they were all for Bob Dole--at least that evening they were--that night. And we had a great time.

	And then the next morning I had breakfast with some of my cousins--they were third cousins thrice removed. I don't know what that means, but they were my relatives. And we had a good time. It really was exciting for me and hopefully it was meaningful to them, too.

	But what I--what I--we've just come from Detroit, where I spoke to the Economics Club at noon. And what we are doing is out talking about this 15 percent you see on my coat.

	And a lot of the people--and I want to make it very clear that this is a Main Street tax cut. It's not a Wall Street tax cut. Nobody's charged us with helping the rich. We're looking at the working families, single parents who have to work. And let me just tell you a little about it, then I'll sit down.

	It's really a six-point program. Number one is to have a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. That's the first--balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.

	And, as Mike knows, you passed that in the House with a two-thirds vote. It came to the Senate and six of my Democratic colleagues were persuaded by the President to change their vote, so we lost by one vote. But I think it's very important. We need that discipline.

	Second, we will balance the budget by the year 2002.

	Three, the tax cuts--a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut, so that for a family making $30,000, a family of four, it's $1,261. Not a lot of money to some, but for a family of four making $30,000 that's four or five months' day care. That's a few mortgage payments. That's a home computer for your child. It--it really means something to somebody making that--and we, and we've got a--a different view than President Clinton.

	I'm not here to quarrel with the President, just to sort of state my case. I believe it's your money, and I think he believes it belongs to the government. I believe it's your money and they ought to give it back to you.

	A $500-per-child under 18 tax credit, unless you're making a lot of money. And then you phase out at $115,000. Five hundred dollars. That's for one child. Five hundred dollars. Two children--$1,000, as I said. Ten kids--that's--you were probably too busy to worry about it but that's, that's--that's $5,000. That's $5,000.

	And then we believe that people who work all their life in Shelby or wherever, and their family works, the kids work, both parents work, they save a little money and somebody passes on--you shouldn't have to sell half your farm or half the assets to pay the estate tax. And we're going to start giving you estate tax breaks.

	And secondly, to create jobs and opportunities in the private sector and to loosen up some of these assets that are being held tight. I've been told there's $7 trillion, $7 trillion in assets locked up in America because the capital-gains rate is too high. We want to cut it in half--from 28 percent to 14 percent. And that will make a big difference.

	And there are a number of other things--litigation reform. You know, when I fell off that little thing out in Chico, California, the first call I got--the first call I got was from the trial lawyer. You know, was the railing defective? I said, "Who? I don't know. I don't know [missing text]" So, you know, I like lawyers. I married one. We trust each other.

	But anyway. A lot of these frivolous lawsuits put people out of business--small businessmen, physicians, for example--pediatricians in particular.

	Regulatory reform--again we missed by two votes. I'm no longer in the Senate, but when I was there, we were two votes short. The House passed it, sent it to us, and we thought certainly that was one piece of legislation everyone would agree on. But again, the President blew the whistle and we failed by two votes to [missing text]. We needed sixty, we got fifty-eight. Commonsense regulatory reform costs the average family $7,000 per year.

	Now we've got to have clean air and clean water and clean meat and all these other things. We're concerned about the environment, too. Out in our part of the country we always thought the farmers were the original environmentalists because they knew if they didn't take care of the land, there wouldn't be anything left for their children. And we would like to think we could do this--if everything else failed we think we ought to try some common sense. I know it's rare--hasn't been tried a lot. But we'd like to try it. We think it'll work.

	And finally, I want to send power back to the governor. At least for a couple years. And, and---but anyway, we'll work that out later.

	You know, the 10th Amendment to the Constitution is only twenty-eight words in length. It's Article Ten of the Bill of Rights. And our Founding Fathers were so concerned about a concentration of power, they passed this little declaratory amendment. And all the amendment says, in effect--unless the Constitution gives the power to the federal government or denies it to the state government, it belongs to the states and to the people. And we want to send it back to the states and back to the people.

	And I'll give you one example--give you one example, Dick, because we've got $5 billion we spent for job training, vocational education--we would like to send that money back in block grants to the governors and then let them decide where the money goes. They're a lot closer to the problem than anybody in Washington, D.C.

	It's more power back to the people. It's your money. Keep that in mind. When everybody talks about these government programs, it's your money, it's not my money. It's your money. And so you've got a choice. You can either send us, if you're making $30,000, a family of four, this $1,261--you make it out to the IRS, or you make it out to somebody else, maybe a down payment--maybe take a vacation with your family--maybe visit Russell, Kansas, one of the great vacation spots in the world, and we need the business out there.

	So that's what this economic program's all about. And we can do it. We can do it. We can balance the budget and cut taxes. It's not rocket science.

	We've got several economists with me today. We've got four Nobel Prize winners. We had a full page ad in USA Today yesterday, with over a hundred economists, and one of the Nobel Prize winners said, this is just Economics 101. This is easy. We're not going to devastate [missing text], we're going to exempt Social Security and Medicare and defense--and, of course, we've got to exempt interest on the debt. But we can make it.

	And don't let anybody frighten you. They're going to have debates here in a couple of weeks. And all the pundits think, you know, Clinton's going to clean my closet. If I show up, I win. And I'm going to show up, so--

	I know he's a smooth talker. I listen to him. You know--I listened to him in '92. I even believed some of it. But this is '96. And I know he came to Ohio and promised you a tax cut. And everybody that got a tax cut in Ohio ought to vote for him.

	You didn't get one--no. What if you get interest?--you know, on this one. He's now promising another one. He gave you the biggest tax cut--increase in the history of America. I said that one day on the Senate floor and my good friend Senator Moynihan said, no--in the history of the world. So I modified it: the biggest tax increase in the history of the world.

	Not a single Republican, as Mike knows, voted for it, in the House or the Senate. And he said, "Aw, we only went after the rich." And this will come up in the debate. He'll say, "I only taxed 1.1--the richest people in America"--which includes a senior citizen, a--say, a widow making $34,000 a year in income. She got her Social Security taxes raised.

	If you drive a car or a truck it's 4.3 cents a gallon--not for highways, not for roads--that you could justify--but into somebody's general fund so they can spend it for something else.

	Small-businessmen and small-businesswomen paid seventy percent of the tax.

	If you're a Sub-chapter-S corporation, and there may have been some of you Sub-chapter-S--you've probably gone out of business. You got your tax raised higher than corporate taxes--39.6 percent.

	So, when somebody tells you they're only going after the rich, you better watch your wallet, because they probably have you in mind.

	But we're going to--we're going to change some of these things. We're going to repeal that big tax on seniors. Again, we think a senior making $34,000 shouldn't have increased taxes. He's out there trying to scare you on Medicare and Medicaid and veterans' benefits, the environment, education---and we're going to give you the facts.

	And don't forget, it was three years ago, two days ago, that we got this plan to nationalize or socialize health care--one-seventh of the economy, seventeen new taxes, a trillion and a half dollars and fifty new bureaucracies--all that between you and your doctor. If you ever got through there, you got to see your doctor. Now, if you're an emergency case, I don't know what happens. But this was what he was going to give America.

	But he wants you to forget that now, because in 1994 the Republicans took over the Congress for the first time in forty years, and since then he's been acting like a Republican.

	But if you're in business or if you farm or if you pay taxes, then I think you ought to be very, very interested in what's coming in the next six weeks, six weeks from today. And none of us are perfect. We're going to talk and discuss issues with President Clinton. We're not going to do anything else. We're going to talk about issues, and about the record. And we want the American people to listen. Ohio is a very important state and I'm very proud to be here, and I'll be happy now to take questions.
BUDGET, BALANCEDINCOME TAXINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDLITIGATION REFORMREGULATION/DEREGULATIONREVENUE SHARING/BLOCK GRANTSTAXATION--GENERAL     + * * * *
 * * * * * * *	  	 | 	 r 	 U 	 D 	 - 	  e: