

	Recently, someone sent me a radio sermon delivered by the Reverend Joel Nederhood of "The Back to God Hour" broadcast from Chicago. The sermon was about the faith of our presidents. Dr. Nederhood contended that Americans have adopted the dangerous custom of separating religion from their evaluation of national leaders.

	He said: "To suggest that one's faith might influence a person in his discharge of public office, apparently, is akin to suggesting that the man is guilty of dishonorable conflict of interest. Thus, while candidates for public office often claim some kind of membership in a religious body, they ordinarily disavow any connection between their faith and their views of public policy."

	I believe this is wrong for a nation whose founders were so deeply motivated by religious conviction.

	We all stand for the constitutional principle of separation of church and state. But we should all stand against the distortion of this principle into the practice of separating faith from politics, and morality from government.

	So I have accepted your invitation to come here to Wheaton College because I want to talk about the moral dimensions of our life as a nation.

	I have no intention of giving you a "political" speech. I suspect, in fact, that you are far less interested in my "politics," per se, than in how my religious convictions have shaped my view of America's difficulties and our destiny.

	My father attended Houghton College in New York and was ordained as a minister in the Wesleyan Methodist Church, an evangelical, fundamentalist faith. In our family, there was no drinking, smoking, dancing, or card playing. So you can see why I feel so much at home here at Wheaton.

	In all candor, I regard that kind of strict legalism as somewhat beside the point today and as not a necessary or totally positive part of a Christian upbringing.

	But that was not the whole picture.

	In our home, the family gathered every morning to read Scripture. In fact, I remember how my father taught me to read aloud from the Bible before I was old enough to go to school. We spent Sunday at Sunday School, at church, listening to our father's sermons, followed by a children's worship service, and then a prayer meeting. It is from these experiences that I have some of the most vivid and vital memories of my past. Daily teaching from the Scripture, and a constant immersion in faith, made an indelible impression.

	I went through a period of mild rebellion against some of the rigidity of my early years. But then, after my service in World War II as a bomber pilot, a pattern started to unfold in my life. I felt called into the work of serving others. At first I thought that my vocation was in the ministry, and I enrolled in seminary. During that year, I served as a student pastor for a church in Diamond Lake, Illinois, north of Chicago. It was a year that left me with fresh insight about the demands of religious leadership, and a time when I grew in many ways. I thought about my vocation, for I knew, as my mother told me, that a man should not go into the ministry unless he was certain God was calling him there.

	And after a period of deep reflection, I decided that I should become a teacher. Yet, even in my teaching at Dakota Wesleyan University, I still felt that there was something else for me to do--and that is what finally led me into politics.

	The Bible teaches that government is to serve man, not that men are the servants of government.

	When the New Testament speaks of "honoring those in authority," for instance, it points out that power is ordained by God for the purpose of doing good for the people.

	In this light, I have come to understand the responsibility of political office, and the opportunities for service which it holds.

	But we must also recognize a central fact: All that we seek in our society will not come solely from government.

	The greatest challenges of our age defy purely political answers.

	I remember the Civil Rights March of 1963, which was followed by the historic passage of the Civil Rights Act a year later. Many Americans hoped that this single act would set us on a rapid course toward the extinction of racial prejudice. But the real crisis was still ahead of us--and it is still unresolved. In the last decade, we have learned that discrimination is rooted in attitudes, and frustrations, and fears that cannot be dispelled by law, but in our hearts. There is much that can and must be done by government; but much more must be done by each of us in our own lives.

	The war in Indochina could be ended at any moment by the president of the United States. As I pointed out last night, it can be ended by the simple choice of different policies.

	But what about the attitudes that brought us to this war?

	What about the insensitivity of those who have given us weekly body counts --who have told us in effect that one death is a tragedy, and thousands are a statistic?

	What about the tears shed over the death of Americans, while too many seem indifferent to death among the Vietnamese?

	What about the weapons of mass destruction which deny our belief in the sanctity of human life?

	We can change our course, and make peace, as I am committed to do. But we must also change those things in our national character which turned us astray, away from the truth that the people of Vietnam are, like us, children of God.

	As president, I could not resolve all the problems of this land. No president and no political leader can.

	For our deepest problems are within us--not as an entire people, but as individual persons.

	So Christians have a responsibility to speak to the questions of the spirit which ultimately determine the state of the material world. Most Americans yearn for meaning and value in life. This is a preeminent task for those who are in the church--but it cannot be separated from what happens outside the church.

	Some Christians believe that we are condemned to live with man's inhumanity to man--with poverty, war, and injustice--and that we cannot end these evils because they are inevitable.

	But I have not found that view in the Bible.

	Changed men can change society, and the words of Scripture clearly assign to us the ministry and the mission of change.

	While we know that the Kingdom of God will not come from a political party's platform, we also know if someone is hungry we should give him food; if he is thirsty, we should give him drink; if he is a stranger, we should take him in; if he is naked, we should clothe him; if he is sick, we should care for him; and if he is in prison, we should visit him. "For inasmuch as you have done it unto the least of these my brethren, you have done it unto me."

	That is what Scripture says. None of us can be content until all of us are made whole.

	This is also the lesson in the lives of the great evangelists.

	Jonathan Edwards is remembered for his role in the Great Awakening that swept colonial America. But few realize that he was so dedicated to the struggle against suffering and disease that he offered himself to test a smallpox vaccine. And in this act of charity and love and sacrifice, he died.

	John Wesley set up clinics to bring medical care to the deprived citizens of London.

	In the 1800s, one of the great evangelists, William Wilberforce, was a leader in the abolitionist movement, fighting for human freedom.

	And we could go on, to Charles Finney and to others.

	But even more to the point are the forward movements in society which were at least partly impelled by authentic "awakenings" and "revivals." 

	The most notable advances of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries--the fight for decent labor conditions and against slavery, and the efforts for prison reform, seemed to flow from the evangelical tides in society which preceded and accompanied them. Breakthroughs occurred in overcoming inhumanity and injustice because individuals had become infused with a compassion for others, and, even more than that, because the conscience of the nation had been touched and enlivened.

	Today, the conscience of our nation must be touched anew.

	Arnold Toynbee has written that all the great civilizations of history have fallen not to conquering armies from without, but to a deterioration of spirit from within.

	Toynbee asserts that America "now stands for what Rome stood for." I believe that is so in many ways. America, too, is a country of enormous wealth. Our people, like the ancient Romans, seem to live more and more for materialistic satisfaction. Standards of morality and precious values are in disarray as they were then. And like the Roman Empire that ruled the world, our power is engaged far from our homeland, fighting for military influence in impoverished lands.

	Toynbee concludes: "Affluence is estranging America from her own ideals. It is pushing her into the position of being the leader of the very opposite of what America's World Revolution stands for."

	We must have a fundamental stirring of our moral and spiritual values if we are to reclaim our true destiny. That kind of awakening can free us from a relentless devotion to material affluence with too much for some citizens and too little for others. It can free us from a blind trust in armed might. It can free us from a dogmatic faith in salvation through technology.

	Such an awakening can also stir our compassion for others, restore the commitment of lives and give us happiness.

	We must look into our souls to find the way out of the crisis of our society. As was so often true for the people of God in Biblical days, we must heed the words of the prophets.

	The New Testament tells us: "Be not conformed to the world, but be you transformed by the renewing of your minds."

	Some Christians have misused this passage as a pretext for isolation from the world.

	The political process tends to reflect and channel spiritual trends. There are encouraging signs in our land that we are undergoing a new "awakening." The sophisticated "God Is Dead" talk now seems as irrelevant as a passing fad--which is what it was. Instead, the Jesus Movement and other manifestations of spiritual hunger summon millions back to belief.

	Within the institutional church and outside of any traditional religious framework, we witness a spiritual quest of increasing intensity. Even those who are uncertain about where this search should end are certain of the need to seek the deeper truth. Others wander through an inner wilderness to find their faith.

	Because spiritual currents are moving across our land, I am hopeful for our future. I believe that these currents must reach into our public life as well as our own souls.

	The president can exercise a profound influence to this end. I believe that it is his most serious responsibility.

	The president can be the great moral leader of the nation. He can ask us to face issues, not merely from a political standpoint, but in our conscience and our souls.

	By his words and deeds, the president must witness to the values that should endure among our people.

	The president must set an uncompromised standard of truth and integrity, for if these principles are corrupted at the highest levels of government, corruption will spread to other levels of society.

	Finally, the president must have within his heart a vision of what America should be, of the true calling of this country. And that vision must be at the very center of all he does. He must see a new day for our people, and labor to bring us there.

	Power cannot be his only purpose. There is no virtue in simply "being president." A candidate should seek the presidency to serve the nation, and call it to a higher standard.

	This is the meaning of true leadership. It is not expressed in power, fame, and honor, but in the washing of dusty feet.

	We know that "he who saves his life shall lose it."

	And he who seeks the presidency should not be willing to pay any price. He must do so in allegiance to his principles and his faith. "For what shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world, but lose his own soul?"

	America was founded as part of a spiritual pilgrimage. It was born in a noble vision of human existence. The first settlers named their land New England because they hoped to found a new order. Our forebears inscribed the Great Seal of the United States with the words "A New Order for the Ages." And on that seal, a pyramid, which stands for material wealth.

	So the new order of America was to be based on an abundance that freed men to find meaning in their lives as well as a livelihood for their families. In the American vision, life was supposed to be more than an exhausting effort to exist, more than material comfort and success.

	Our forebears stood against the eternal night and affirmed that there is a purpose to life--that people can find fulfillment and glory in their dreams. And the wish of our forebears was to see the way of God prevail.

	We have strayed from their pilgrimage like lost sheep.

	But I believe we can begin this ancient journey anew.

	In 1630, John Winthrop preached a sermon on the deck of the Arabella to the first Puritans. He said:

	"We shall be as a city upon a hill, the eyes of all people upon us; so that if we shall deal falsely with our God in this work we have undertaken and so cause him to withdraw His present help from us, we shall be made a story and a byword through the world."

	I believe we can still deal truly, and righteously, with the great gifts that have been ours since the time the Puritans reached these shores. But this will come only after a struggle that touches all our hearts, and is resolved there.

	The prophet gives us God's promise:

	"If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sins, and will heal their land."

	So what then do we do? What is your responsibility, and what is mine? Micah asked and answered the same question in a verse I have remembered since my childhood, and turned back to ever since:

	"What doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy and to talk kindly with thy God."

CIVIL RIGHTSCONDUCT OF LIFE--MORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHHISTORY--UNITED STATESPACIFISMRELIGIOUS LEADERSCHRISTIANITYMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES     9 8 8 8 8
 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 y8	  	  	 o 	 Q 	 ; 	 3  "   e: