

	Congressman Ford, ladies and gentlemen: I doubt whether you can understand what a climax you have given to my party and to me on a day that has been a day of climaxes.  All the way across your wonderful state we have been privileged to meet interested, fine Americans who, out of their great courtesy and generosity, have patiently listened to the few messages I have had to give them and have by their response shown a very great desire to join in the crusade which I have the honor of leading.  Now tonight each of you does me an unusual honor when you come out, when you take time off to come here and give me a chance to say a word to you.  I am deeply grateful to each of you.  It has an unusual significance for me in that I am visiting the town of the man who is probably my oldest friend among those people who are known as the important politicians and statesmen of our country--the late Senator Vandenberg.  I am particularly fortunate in having his brilliant son as my associate in this campaign.

	Senator Vandenberg was the father of bipartisanship in our foreign policy and I want to speak about that for just a moment because bipartisanship in foreign policy means this, ladies and gentlemen, it means the United States presenting to the world a united front.  It means that on essentials in what we do abroad or what we believe we must do abroad, indeed, for our own enlightened self-interest, is thrashed out here and we come to general agreement.  It means therefore that we can stand behind that policy continuously.  Our friends don't need to look over their shoulders to wonder what America is going to do, and potential enemies know exactly where they stand with respect to us.

	Consequently, he did not found this idea or this policy merely as a convenient way of avoiding a quarrel or a fight.  It was an absolute essential in his doctrine, as it is in mine, for the good of the United States.  The point I want to make is this:  Republicans have earnestly striven to live by Senator Vandenberg's teachings.  The administration has time and again repudiated bipartisanship and the Republicans nevertheless patriotically, public spiritedly have stood by it and are still practicing it when they are allowed to do so.  These are not wild words.

	I refer you to the platforms of both parties in 1948 and 1952.  The Republicans in 1948 commended the members of their party in Congress because of their constant efforts to follow this policy, and in 1952 even confined their strictures and their criticism of the administration to those points where true bipartisanship was not practiced.

	Now, the next point:  Whenever we have practiced bipartisanship in foreign policy and particularly in these late years we have such instances of success as we have enjoyed, and when it has been ignored we have our failures.  Witness China and all Asia.  No Republicans were taken into the councils of the mighty in the determinations of the policies followed there and we have lost China.  In Europe the Marshall Plan, the Vandenberg Resolution, NATO and the other features of the policies that have saved Turkey, Greece and so on--at least assisted them--have been the result of honest, American bipartisan approach.  We ignored these serious lessons at our peril because, remember this:  the passion of Senator Vandenberg was peace--world peace.  It is the Republican passion; it is mine.  It is the reason I am in this crusade:  because I believe that, through the establishment of policies abroad that can bring to our young people a long future of prosperity and decency--a life which they do not have to fear is going to be broken up by husbands and fathers being torn from their families.  That is the kind of future they have a right to look forward to, and the kind Republicans are trying to give them.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the first requirement of peace in the world is a strong America.  I do not mean strong merely in the sense of guns and planes and ships.  All armed forces are merely the cutting edge, you might call it, of the great machine that must be America's real strength.  That real strength is first made up of economic strength solvency--just sheer solvency--and what has the administration done?  It has adopted a wild expenditure program which sees us today unable to meet our bills, although they call this an era of prosperity and we are taxed more than ever before in our lives.

	I was just told this evening of a statistic which I believe you would like to hear.  Maybe it will make you sad to hear it.  The present administration, by the time of its end next January, in the seven years, will have taxed the American people more money out of their pockets than all previous administrations put together.  That is the kind of taxes you are paying, and still we can't meet our bills; we are not solvent.  As a result of this expenditure program and the deficits, and not meeting our bills, our dollar goes down and down.  The price that you pay for your basket of groceries goes up and up.  Indeed, today, those of you who are lucky enough, just think for a moment of that $5 in your pocket.  It has got five dollars printed on it; it looks like $5; it feels like $5 as long as it is in your pocket.  Take it to the store:  what is it?  In terms of a 1940 dollar--just pre-war--$2.65.  How long are you going to continue that and remain solvent?  How long are you going to be a strong United States if our economy cannot carry us and pay our bills when we say we are in the era of the greatest prosperity we have ever known?  Some of these expenditures, my friends, are vitally necessary, and the very fact that they are vital and so huge makes it essential that we view with jaundiced eye everything that looks like an unnecessary cent that is going to Washington, that we watch it and see what is happening to it. 

	But on top of that do we have to stand for dishonesty?  You are right, we don't.  We don't have to stand for tax collectors, in St. Louis and San Francisco and Boston and other places, lining their pockets with our tax money.

	All this adds up to what I call the administration mess--expenditures, unreasonable taxes, a cheapening dollar, dishonesty; that is the Washington mess.  That is what this crusade is about.  That is the reason we say it is based upon ideals, upon moral values.  That is the reason we can call on our young people, on the First Voters' League, and on all the rest:  Get into this, because it is your country; it is going to be your country for the next 65 to 70 years.

	As for my generation, we will be lucky if we are here for around 15 to 20 years more but you young people will want to take a good look at this one, because this is your great big chance to get back on the road where we can again revere such words as economy, thrift and frugality.  We are not ashamed of them.  We don't go around throwing taxpayers' money out of the car windows just to watch it sail in the breeze.  We are careful, we are frugal, and as such we become strong--spiritually, intellectually, materially strong--and we can lead the world toward the peace we must have.

	Ladies and gentlemen, my train was late, our time is short, but you have met a part of the Michigan team--Michigan members that must be on this great team to help in cleaning out the Washington mess.  Your governor, your new Senator, your Congressman--we must have them all--and with them and on behalf of all Republicans, I make these pledges to labor, to farmers, to businessmen, to every American:  first, if you want to change administrations this fall, if you want the group that the Republicans can put in the administration and in the Senate and in the House to take charge of this thing--clean it out and start us on a different road than we are now following--then they promise this:  There will be fairness, decency and justice prevailing in that administration, and they will serve you honestly as your servants and will not attempt to be your master.  That is the first pledge they make.

	Secondly they will judge every proposal, and every projected action for the federal government will be taken up in this fashion:  Is this a proper function of the federal government or does it belong to the community or state?  If it does belong to the federal government they will say one thing only:  Does this serve the good of the entire United States of America?  They will not be swayed merely by what is good for one group at the expense of another, one section at the expense of another.  Such considerations will have nothing to do with their decisions.  They will consider only what is good for all 155 million people.  Finally, my friends, their ambition will be this:  At the end of 4 years they would hope that a great crowd like this could gather in Michigan on a night like this--a crowd like yourselves--and could say, "That group was fair, it was just, and it was our friend," and we would hope, whether you were working with your hands, as a secretary in an office, a housewife at home, a farmer of any kind, or whatever your job in the United States, that you could just say, "They were our real friends."

	For the great honor you have done us, ladies and gentlemen, we are very grateful.  Good night and good luck.

BIPARTISANSHIPCOST OF LIVINGFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSTAXATION--GENERAL     -% $ $ $ $
 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $	 b 	 T 	 F 	 . 	  e: