

	Governor Rockefeller, Senator Javits, Congressman McCune, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, before we go forward with our meeting tonight, I thought you would be interested in the fact that we are going to have an unusual treat. I understand that we have group of students from Syracuse University here who want to sing us a song, indicating their differences with me, and I am delighted to hear those differences. The floor is yours. Let them go.

	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention for just a moment. This is a very unusual group because they have indicated that if they are allowed to sing, then they will listen. So let them sing. They sing first and then they will listen. So go ahead and let them sing, and please listen.

	I greatly appreciate the courtesy of this great audience in allowing what I think is the very proper role of dissent. Let us all understand that in our free society, we welcome the opportunity to hear a different point of view, and I think these students have set an example. These students have set an example. They are not trying to deny me the right to talk. We have allowed them to talk, now we are going to talk and they are going to listen for a little while.

	Now, I had the good fortune to be able to read the words of the song, and so I know what they are. I want to be quite precise in responding to those words, because unfortunately the members of the group have probably not had the opportunity that the traveling press have had to hear my speeches and to have read within the last two weeks perhaps the most significant document in terms of setting forth the issues ever put out by a presidential candidate, in which every one of the issues mentioned by this group was covered in precise detail.

	The members of the traveling press now will hear things that they have heard over and over again, but I want these young people to hear it so that they also can know the truth. And so we begin, we begin with the questions that they ask, and, my friends, listen to each one.

	The first question is with regard to my position on the Non-Proliferation Treaty. And apparently this group had the impression that I was opposed to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Let me state what the record is.

	I supported the Non-Proliferation Treaty a year ago when I visited Europe and talked to W.C. Foster, who helped to negotiate it. I support the Non-Proliferation Treaty now. I believe, however, as do most of the members of the United States Senate, as do all of our allies in Europe, and as do most of the foreign policy observers who are sophisticated in the State Department, that at a time that the Soviet Union still has troops in Czechoslovakia, in violation of a treaty under the spirit of treaties, we should not negotiate another treaty with them right now until they normalize relations with Czechoslovakia.

	My friends, I have a rather tragic figure to quote for that proposition, Anthony Eden. You may have seen his statement, if I may recall it quite precisely, in the "New York Times" about two months ago. He said those that believe that you should negotiate new agreements at a time that the others are in violation, all that they do is make a great mistake because that brings only contempt and not progress in relations between nations.

	Anthony Eden went through that in the period before World War II, dealing with other kinds of aggression. And that is why this man, a man deeply dedicated to peace--I have known him for many years--spoke as he did.

	And let me make one thing very clear. Once we win this election, as we hope to, once we are in Washington, as we hope to be in January, I will see to it that the treaty is approved by the Senate, I will see to it that it is implemented. But I say also, let us make sure that when we sign a treaty, that the other side is going to keep it. That's what I want, and I think that's what you want.

	Now, the second question raised by our friends in the rear is an understandable one, because it grows out of a television commercial which has been put out by the other side, one of the most false and truly cruel commercials ever used in a campaign--not cruel to me, but cruel in terms of those to whom it was directed.

	You promised to listen.

	And then in this instance, listen to the truth, it won't hurt you a bit, and what this situation is--and I see here in this audience, my friends, I see many older people, I see many that I imagine that are over sixty-five. I would guess that some of you are on Social Security. You have seen that commercial, a commercial which says that Nixon is against Social Security, that Nixon is against Medicare.

	That is a misstatement of fact. I have always supported Social Security, as Jack Javits knows, I was the one who served with him in the House and in the Senate of the United States when we not only voted for it but voted to extend it to 15 million people not covered.

	Why do they say that? Why do they try to mislead the older people of America? I will tell you why. Because they are afraid of what the older people are going to do to them on Election Day, and for good reason. What have they done, my friends--my friends, let me tell you our position. What has happened to those people over sixty-five in the last eight years? There are 20 million of them in this country. They haven't had an increase in their pensions, they haven't had an increase in their life insurance, they haven't had an increase in their Social Security. They have been standing still, and prices and taxes have been going up at alarming rates, and many of them driven into poverty as a result. And that is why I with my leadership got through the Republican platform committee a new provision which will provide for an automatic increase in Social Security whenever prices go up. That's what we are for and that's what the older people are going to vote for.

	And so you see here a group of highly sophisticated, intelligent students from Syracuse University were unaware of the truth. They had only gotten the word from television, from an ad.

	But we, of course, can be thankful that the press here has been covering it and has accurately been reporting what the truth is.

	And then the third point that was raised, I don't know that I have them in the exact order, but I think each of them will be of interest to you, the third point relates to the position in the field of foreign policy. And that is with regard to the position with regard to peace generally and also with regard to Vietnam specifically. And the idea has been indicated as far as the song was concerned that I was for only a military solution to the war, that I was against a negotiated settlement of the war, that I had actually no difference with the present administration on the war.

	Now, let's get that one straight right off the bat and let's get the choice in the field of foreign policy and let's get it straight and square for everybody to understand. Every one of those young people back there is vitally interested, as I am, in peace. I want peace for the young people of America. I want peace for this whole world.

	But, my friends, I say if you are interested in peace, compare the records of the two candidates for president. One man talks peace but one man has served in an administration in which we haven't had a moment of peace for four years. I have served in an administration--I have served in an administration, my friends, and here is the comparison, in which we ended one war and had eight years of peace. That's the kind of leadership we want, and that's the kind of leadership you are going to get.

	Now, my friends, with regard to the war in Vietnam, one man, the candidate on the other side, not only served in the last four years in which we have had the longest war in history, with 200,000 casualties, in those four years he has never uttered one word of the millions he has spoken in criticism of that policy. He has never differed with it, and I have.

	I have made this fundamental point that I make here today, and the point is that this is not a war for territory in the conventional sense, this is a war for people. The point is that the United States has made a mistake in Vietnam that it must not make again, and that is this. When we become involved in this kind of a war, our goal should be to help them fight the war and not fight the war for them. And that's what we should do in this instance.

	My friends, in terms of a negotiated settlement, we can get a negotiated settlement. That is the goal of the United States as far as I am concerned, and we can get that negotiated settlement with new leadership.

	But I present to you again the proposition, can you turn to a man who is a prisoner of the policies of the past, who has never objected to the policies of the past and give him that chance? I say no. Give us a chance. They have had theirs and they muffed it, and it's time for new leadership on that point.

	And on Vietnam, among the things that we have recommended are these. One, that it is necessary to see that the South Vietnamese have something to fight for, and that means a great step-up in the pacification program. I have been urging that for four years and they haven't done it.

	We have to do more than that. We have to do what we did late in Korea but are just starting to do in Vietnam now, and that is get the Vietnamese trained so that they can defend their own country and do the fighting that American boys are doing for them now. We are for that too.

	And we have to do something else. If we are going to have to negotiate, as Jack Javits will recall, I have supported the proposition that he also has advocated that we have got to broaden the number of people around that conference table. Other interested nations in Asia have to be brought there because by broadening the number of nations and the issues, we will be able to have a negotiated settlement.

	And, my friends, I just point this one other thing out. I know that there are many who would suggest, why don't you right now indicate to President Johnson where you disagree with what he is negotiating? Just let me make one thing clear. We have got one president at a time in this country. I have disagreed with President Johnson on the conduct of the war in the respects that I have mentioned. But right now he is trying to negotiate in Paris. There is a chance, I don't know how great, but some chance that some progress will be made, and if a presidential candidate opens his tongue and lets his tongue run wild, as does Hubert Humphrey, and gives an indication to the enemy that he can wait and get a better deal from another president, you are not going to end the war. Let's support the president we have got and get that war over with as quickly as we can.

	So, my friends, I simply say this. Let's go beyond Vietnam. Let's talk about Vietnam in terms of the broader aspects, the aspects that will confront these students after they have finished their university, the aspects of the foreign policy that will confront all of these young people here who are of high school age that we have seen in such great numbers at our rallies. My friends, there isn't any question but that the major problem of the United States and the major responsibility of the next president will be to keep the peace.

	And I want to tell you how serious that responsibility is, how great is the challenge, how great is the danger and how great is the opportunity. As I stand here tonight I speak with some authority in this field. And I would have to tell this audience that in the next four years we will reach the point of greatest danger of world war. And in the next four years the Soviet Union will acquire parity and perhaps superiority over the United States in weapons. That will mean that as far as negotiation is concerned, we may not be in the position that President Kennedy correctly insisted upon in his inaugural, that we should always never fear to negotiate but never negotiate from fear.

	And so as we look at that situation, we have to realize that whoever is the next president must have the wisdom, he must have the coolness, he must have the experience and he must have the patience to negotiate with the Soviet Union. And in order to negotiate, let's make sure we are strong enough that we are never weaker than they are. And that way we can negotiate the peace that we want.

	Beyond that, my friends, we must look beyond. War can come not only from that area. The danger of war in every other area of the world is greater today than it was eight years ago when Dwight Eisenhower left office. In the Mid-East, ready to explode again, even after the June war of a year ago; Latin America, worse off than it was eight years ago; Western Europe and Eastern Europe, more explosive than it was eight years ago; Asia, a war in Vietnam; Africa, in chaos.

	And so they come to us now, after they have muffed their efforts in foreign policy, after they have failed in every area of the world, and say give them four more years. I say we can't afford it. I say we need some new leadership and I think that the American people are going to provide it.

	And, my friends, on that score, let me tell you the directions of that leadership. It must be a leadership which is firm and not belligerent, it must be a leadership that will defuse these troubled spots around the world, it must be a leadership that will recognize that this is a great and rich country and very strong, but that we have been carrying and presently are carrying a bigger load than we should carry.

	And let's look at it. We poured out $150 billion in foreign aid over these last twenty years. I have supported those programs, as has Jack Javits. And we believe that those programs have served in many instances a worthy purpose. But also we have poured out our lives. We furnished 90 percent of the lives, except for South Korea and the Korean war, and we are furnishing most of the lives to help the South Vietnamese defend their country.

	Now let's look at the world today. All over the world the United States not only furnishes the money and furnishes the arms, but we are called upon to furnish the men to help others defend their freedom. And that's why I say we need a new foreign policy, and I am going to give you that new foreign policy. It's going to be one in which the United States will accept its responsibility to negotiate for peace at every level, but one that will also recognize that when war does break out, if it comes, when there are people that are threatened that ask for help, let's recognize that there are 200 million Americans and two billion people that live in the free world, and I think it's high time that other nations in the free world bore their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world, and I think you want that kind of a policy.

	So, my friends, in this whole field of peace, I think it's a pretty clear question. It's a question of one man who is one of the architects and the supporters of a program of failure. No peace in four years, and it's a question of another man who lived through an administration in which we did have peace for eight years and ended one war. That's the test.

	Oh, I don't say that it's easy and I don't say that once we get in all the problems of the world are immediately going to be solved, but I do say to you, my friends, tonight, and I say it with all the fervor of my command, America needs the new leadership that Nelson Rockefeller talked about.

	And I say to you this. If America is divided, I say that that group that we saw mismanaging their convention in Chicago is not fit to lead America in the next four years, and I believe that you will agree with that.

	And I am proud today that we head a united party. Every governor, every senator, every congressman on the Republican side, every state legislator, supports our ticket. And, more than that, we are going to bring to Washington the big team. We are going to bring to Washington not only the top Republicans, but those Democrats wherever they can furnish the job and do the job that we do not think we can do as well as they can. America cannot settle for any leadership less than that.

	We can't go forward with the old policies. We can't go forward with the men who have failed us in the past. We need new men. And, my friends, we need them not only for foreign policy, but we need them at home.

	And that brings me to the fourth question that these young ladies and gentlemen ask. And that fourth question is one that I think I can get at best by describing the America that Europeans see on their television screen night after night. When William Scranton came home the other day from Europe, he reported to me. He gave a very disturbing report. He pointed out that never in all of his travels to Europe had he seen the respect for America lower, and today I would have to report to this audience that in terms of respect, the United States has never been lower all over the world.

	That's what's happened in just four years. And, my friends, we have got to do something about that, and I want to make one thing very clear, that in our administration we are going to restore respect and the American flag isn't going to be a doormat for anybody, at home or abroad.

	Now, let us see why. Let's see why that respect has gone down. Because on the European television screen night after night flashes a picture of America. Oh, it isn't a true picture of America. It's a picture of only a part. It shows crime in America, it shows riot in America, it shows grave problems in some of our university campuses, and they think that's all of America.

	It isn't, because America is a good and a great country. But I do say this, as I look over the record of the past four years, and as I see crime going up nine times as fast as population, as I see riots in 300 cities that took 200 dead and 7,000 injured, and when I see a poll of a president's committee saying that 43 percent of the American people are afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night, then I say that instead of defending the record of the attorney general, as does Hubert Humphrey, we need a whole housecleaning, and let's get a new team in there that will restore respect for law and order.

	And now let's talk a moment about dissent. The roll of dissent in our society, and that is the fourth question that these ladies and gentlemen wanted me to comment upon, is one that I have always defended and I defend tonight. I defend their right to sing, as they did, to question, as they do; and your right to shout, as you do. My voice is so big I will carry over you anyway, it doesn't make any difference.

	But, my friends, you see the major difference between a Humphrey and a Nixon rally, at a Nixon rally the cheers drown out the hecklers. Just a moment.

	Now, my friends, in fairness to the ladies and gentlemen in the back, they were not the ones who were interrupting, because they very properly presented their case, as they should, and I am talking to them as well as to you.

	Let's talk a bit about dissent. Let us never forget that this country became great because we have had that dissent which produces change in America. Let us never forget too that we were born in revolution. And let us never forget too that our Founding Fathers after we were born in revolution had the genius to set up a system of government which provides a peaceful method to change what you don't like about this country.

	And my view about dissent is very simple. People can carry placards, they can shout, they can cheer, they can do anything that is peaceful. But I say that in a country that provides a method for peaceful change, there is no cause that justifies breaking the law or engaging in violence in the United States of America, and I think that the American people believe in that.

	And as far as our students in the universities are concerned, all of the peaceful dissent in the world is certainly appropriate. But I would certainly say that as I looked at what happened at the University of Columbia, look at one of the incidents, for example, one of the professors there, I think he was just an instructor, had just spent ten years of his life on a major study on Middle European history, and in that period of time he had given all of his life to that effort. And a group of protesters went in and burned the book for him.

	That's breaking the law. And I think that kind of student should be expelled. He doesn't belong in a university. That's what I think.

	Let's remember, my friends, the definition of the word college and university by its very definition means, and look back over the history of institutions of learning from the beginning, you know what they mean? That the rule of reason is to prevail over the rule of force, and anybody who comes to a college or a university who does not accept that rule doesn't belong in a college or university. If he is going to use force, he should be out and let people there who come there to study. That is what I think.

	And I want to say finally, the reason that it is necessary to speak so frankly on this subject, if we have a continuation, a continuation of the kind of example where people in colleges and universities resort to force, where they break the law, they are going to deny to the thousands that want to study there, they are going to deny that right. And that's wrong. That's wrong and I think that's what we are for.

	And so, my friends, let me also in this connection--now, my friends, I have taken twenty minutes of my time trying to respond to these questions. Now, I want to spend five minutes telling you what the issue is in this election campaign. And the issue is a very clear one. It was made by the other party when they selected their candidate. They didn't select a man that had gone the primary route. They selected a man who helped to make the record of the last four years and who pledges to continue it. And here is that record. Here it is. Listen to it.

	We have had the longest war in our history, we have the biggest crime wave in our history, we have the highest taxes in our history at the federal level, we have the highest prices in a generation, and the lowest respect for America in the world.

	My friends, I say based on that record they shouldn't have four more years and we are not going to let them have four more years. We need new leadership for America.

	My friends, what is our new leadership? I pledge new leadership. Don't just vote against, against those things that are wrong. But, remember the greatness of this country. Vote for the new foreign policy that I have indicated, a foreign policy that will proceed from strength and firmness and nonbelligerence. Vote for a new military policy. I have reached the conclusion, after studying the requirements of our armed forces that once the requirements for Vietnam are down, let's recognize the draft is obsolete and let's have a volunteer armed force. I think you want that.

	Vote, my friends, vote for a new policy, a new policy for the wage earners of this country. That's why I have a program in which we are going to have 15 million new jobs in private enterprise, real jobs that people can provide for. And not only jobs that will provide an increase in wages, but we are going to stop the increase in prices so that it will be a real increase.

	And I ask every wage earner in this audience, remember this: If I asked a wage earner here, any factory worker, he would say, "I've been doing pretty good." He would show me his paycheck and he would point out a very true fact, that he has got $14 a week more in his paycheck today than he had three years ago. And then I talk to his wife. And she'd say, "I haven't been doing so good." And you know what she'd tell me? She would point out that she has got two dollars a week less because taxes and prices have more than eaten it up. The American worker is on a treadmill. Let's get him off the treadmill and onto a new road to progress. How about that?

	My friends, let me talk also on another subject. I think that it is necessary for us to have a new program to deal with the problems of our cities. Let me be quite direct about it. Let me talk about a sensitive subject, the subject of welfare.

	Everybody in this great audience is for welfare, welfare for those in need, welfare for those that cannot care for themselves. It should be generous. We will support it. But let's also recognize this, and I think you will agree with it. If a man is able to work and if we can find him a job, get him a job. He ought to work and get off of welfare. I think that's what we want. That's why I say, my friends, ours is a program, you see, that instead of providing for millions more on welfare rolls, we are going to have millions more on payrolls in the United States of America.

	Our is a program that will provide for private enterprise through tax credits to train the unemployed, give them a chance to get off of welfare, because they want to get off. Give them a chance, but do it through a private enterprise program that will provide real jobs rather than make-work jobs. Ours is a program, and Senator Javits has been a leader in this field in the United States Senate, a program in which instead of talking simply of what we are going to do in public housing, let's provide the tax credits for private housing so that people can own their homes and own their apartments and high-rises or condominiums and get the self-respect that comes from home ownership. That's what we want, and that's the kind of programs you are going to be voting for.

	And more than that, my friends, we are going to do something else. We are going to provide something that every American in his heart wants for himself and for everybody else. Because, as T.R. used to say, Teddy Roosevelt, this country isn't going to be a good country for any of us to live in if we don't make it a good country for all of us to live in.

	And you know what we have to have? I want for every child in this country, boy or girl, to know in his heart that if he has it, if he studies and if he has the responsibility and the ability, that he can go as high as his ability will take him. That's why we have a program of building bridges to human dignity, bridges in which an individual isn't condemned for the rest of his life because of the color of his skin or his background to be just a worker.

	Let him be a manger, let him be an owner. Let's have that kind of progress for America. Let's have that kind of opportunity for America.

	My friends, I could continue, but now I leave one final thought about this state and what it means. This now is the state in which I live. It is the state in which I will be voting. It is a state for which that reason of course I would be very interested in carrying. But let me be quite precise. In this election year there is no question but that we will win the popular vote. We will win it very decisively by between three and five million votes, at least.

	My friends, it is quite significant, quite significant, that I have made it quite clear, and I state again, that I will abide by the result of the popular vote and that whoever gets that popular vote should be the next president of the United States of America.

	But, my friends, it is also quite significant that our opponent will not do that because he knows that he can't win this election. He knows that he is only going to be able to be president if he is able to do it through the wheeling and dealing that will result in the event that this goes to the House of Representatives.

	And, my friends, I say to you in your hands rests the power to see that this is not that kind of an election. America can't be led into the seventies by the men who bubbled and stumbled and fumbled their way through the sixties. America has to have the new leadership. We need a mandate and there is no state in the union that can better provide that mandate than the state of New York.

	Let me tell you something. New York is even today, but we can win New York, and if we win New York we can win the nation. That's what we can do, and that's what you are going to help us do. My friends, I also want to leave one other thought with you. I just want to leave one final thought with you.

	A candidate often in the last days of a campaign tries to bring home to an audience how important the election is, and I am sure the audience must say, well, of course it's important to that fellow, but it's important to you, too.

	Let me close with this one thought. Remember it if you forget everything else I say. My friends, tonight we stand at a critical time in the history of America and the world. For the first time in the history of this nation and for the first time in the whole history of mankind, what happens in America and America alone will determine whether peace and freedom survive in the world. That wasn't true before World War I. Then decisions made in Paris and Berlin and London determined whether we got into war. That wasn't true before World War II. Then decisions made in Paris and London and Berlin and Moscow and Tokyo determined whether we got into war.

	But now as far as the free world is concerned, not because we asked for it, but because the other nations no longer have the power, because it's here, all of the action is here. And in these next four years, in these next eight years, whether America meets the challenge of leadership will determine whether we live or die, whether we grow in a world of peace or a world of fear. That's what's on the line. That's why this election is so important. That's why America needs a new mandate. That's why it needs a new leadership.

	My friends, I think we can meet the challenge. And I want to tell you why. Part of it is what I see here tonight. Not only this audience that is for me, but the very fact that these young people are so involved. Let me tell you something about the younger generation. I believe in them. I believe in those that disagree as well as agree, and I want to tell you why. I thought I knew a lot about the world thirty years ago, and I thought I was very interested in politics. But today's younger generation is better educated, knows more about the world, is more interested in politics than any in history. It's a great younger generation, and we are for them.

	My friends, I want to tell you that the greatness and the goodness of this country is something you feel as you travel in the country as I do. Night after night I speak to audiences like this. Night after night I hear you, I feel you, I know what you want.

	And I say there is nothing wrong with the American people. The only problem is our leadership. There is nothing wrong with this country that a good election won't cure. Let's cure this country. How about it?
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHERFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)VIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWELFARE     { z z z z
 z z z z z z z z >		 f	 X	 J	 9	 !	 	  	  	  	 x 	 a 	 R 	 C 	 ( 	  	  e: