

	Thank you very much, Richard, for that introduction.  I want to thank you and all those Hispanic leaders in this state who have given energy and direction to the "Viva Dukakis" campaign in California.  United States Representatives Marty Martinez, Esteban Torres, and Ed Roybal.  School board member Leticia Quezada, State Senator Art Torres and Assembly Members Lucille Roybal Allard, Richard Polanco and Charles Calderon and City Councilwoman Gloria Molina have all joined me, representing an unprecedented level of involvement for the Hispanic community in this great state.  Once again, I thank you for your dedication and commitment.

	Today we're here to celebrate something else--something very important to your community:  Mexican Independence Day.  This is a time when the Mexican-American community not only takes pride in the independence of Mexico, but also takes pride in the freedom and opportunity we all enjoy in this great country.

	Like the United States, independence for Mexico was possible only because there were men and women who believed it was not enough to accept things as they were.  They believed it was not enough to simply settle in and coast along and hope for the best.  People like Thomas Jefferson and Father Miguel Hidalgo, were men of action; men who had a profound optimism about the human spirit, and a deep sense of responsibility not only to their fellow citizens, but to future generations as well.

	And there's a lesson in that.  A lesson for each of us as citizens; a lesson for our country.

	And that lesson is:  don't just be satisfied with the way things are.  The only way to realize your dreams is to aim high.  As the great educator Benjamin Mays once said, "it is not a disgrace not to reach the stars, but it is a disgrace to have no stars to reach for.  Not failure, but low aim is a sin."

	And I know you're taking that lesson to heart here at Roosevelt High.  You're aiming high when 70 percent of the students here go on to college.

	I know the Alvarez family is aiming high.  Gerardo Alvarez was the valedictorian in the class of 1987 and now he's at Princeton.  Javier and Columba Alvarez graduated from Roosevelt last year--and now he's at Boston University, just a few miles down the road from my home, and she's at San Diego State.

	The parents of Gerardo and Javier and Columba have a fruit stand.  They work hard and they don't have a lot of money.  What they do have is love for their children, pride in their country, and faith in the power of education.

	I know that their example is multiplied many, many times in this school.  And their story is what my campaign is all about.  Providing an economic future in America in which there are good jobs and real opportunity for every citizen in this land.

	Don't let anyone tell you that you're not as good as the kids in some other part of town.  And don't let anyone tell you that in this country you have to leave your language, your culture, or your heritage at the door.  Because no one group or one person can define for all the rest of us what America means.  And that's the beauty of this country.  Opportunity for all isn't a slogan on a bumper sticker.  It's what America is all about.

	I want to be the president who opens that door wide for every American--and keeps it open.

	I'm running for president because I want to open the door of college opportunity to the young people of this country.  Because you know--and I know--that education is the ticket to a better future--and you should be able to get that ticket no matter how much money your family has.

	I'm running for president to make teaching a valued and honored profession once again.

	I'm running for president because I think it's time every family in this country had basic health insurance.

	I'm running for president because I want to clean up our environment.  And I mean every year, not just in an election year.  And that means fighting for clean air and water, cleaning up toxic waste, and protecting our coastlines from spills of hazardous substances and oil.

	I'm running for president because I want to build a new partnership for the Americas--a new partnership with Mexico and our neighbors to the south.  A partnership based on mutual trust and respect.

	And I'm running for president to fight a real war and not a phony war against drugs and drug abuse in this country.

	How many of you know the name of the man who has been in charge of the drug war for the last seven years?  If you don't, it's okay--because when they asked Dan Quayle who it was, he didn't know either.

	George Bush was supposed to be in charge of the drug war.  And we all know what's happened.  Cocaine imports have tripled on his watch; drug-related deaths have doubled; and heroin imports are up by 50 percent.

	Federal aid to state and local law enforcement agencies for drug enforcement has been cut by 50 percent; they tried to cut the Customs Service; and they had half our Coast Guard patrol boats tied up at the docks all summer because they didn't have the fuel to operate them.

	At one point, agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration had to have a bake sale to raise money to finance their drug stakeout operations.

	And while parents and teachers and law enforcement officers were urging our young people to say "no" to drugs, while students were trying help their friends and classmates to resist the deadly temptation of drugs, Mr. Bush and his friends were doing business with a drug-running dictator from Panama and funneling aid to the Contras through convicted drug dealers.

	You know, if you don't show up at school--you fail.  And if you don't show up in your job as chief of the war on drugs, you fail--the American people lose--and the gangs and the drug lords take over.

	And when you don't show up, when you're out of touch, when you're not around to try to make a real difference in people's lives, it's not enough to just drop by and say you're sorry.  It's not enough to say, as Mr. Bush did yesterday, that he's "almost haunted by the lives being led by inner city children" and then say there's nothing the government can do about it.

	My friends, we need a president who'll make a difference, not make excuses.

	A president who can inspire young people to stay in school, to go on to college, to becomes teachers and doctors and social workers and nurses--and yes--the future political leaders of this country as well.

	Because I know that the language of your community is the language of patriotism--real patriotism.  The spirit that inspires people to work hard and pay our country's bills and fight our country's wars.  The spirit that inspires Hispanic Americans to answer the call to community service and public service and military service.

	Thirty-seven Hispanic-Americans have won the Congressional Medal of Honor.  They understood what real patriotism was all about.  They were men like Roy Benevidez, who served in Vietnam and Joseph Rodriguez, who served in Korea.

	Today is a special day to recall their sacrifices, and the sacrifices of all those who have worn the uniforms of freedom.

	Today is POW/MIA day, a day dedicated to remembering the almost 2400 Americans who tragically remain prisoners of war or missing in action in Southeast Asia.  Over 160 of these men are Hispanic Americans.

	These brave men put no price on patriotism.  They met, in full, their obligation to us; and we must never forget our obligation to them.  We must honor their courage; comfort their families; remember the sacrifices they made; and rededicate ourselves to demanding the fullest possible accounting of their fate.  This demand for fundamental decency is a demand we all make as Americans.  And as president, I will not rest until it is answered--completely and convincingly answered--by the governments of Indochina.

	We are a mosaic of races and creeds and ethnic groups bound together by our love for this country; by our belief in its future; and by a deep and abiding faith in the American dream.

	And if anyone tells you that the American dream belongs to the privileged few and not to all of us, you tell them that their time is over and a new era is about to begin.

	Y poco a poco.  Little by little.

	Paso a paso.  Step by step.

	Mano en mano.  Hand in hand.

	Juntos.  Together.

	Vamos a ganar.  We're going to win.

DRUG TRADE--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALPATRIOTISMPOWS/MIASDRUG ABUSE--GENERALHISPANIC AMERICANS     ! v! p! l! d!
 Y! T! O! D! :! 8! #! !	 ] 	 J 	 8 	 .  %   e: