

	It is very pleasant to consider today that I have a group of editors and publishers temporarily at my mercy. I know it won't last long. But, since the press--some of it--keeps describing me as a captive candidate, I particularly enjoy speaking to a captive audience. 

	In addition, I have had a strange feeling these past weeks that people are following me. They all seem to be friendly, inquisitive and rumpled; they wear hats and keep writing things down on pieces of paper. I cannot drink a milkshake or put on a pair of shoes without their friendly but implacable surveillance. Given this relentless observation, I find it an agreeable change to stand here and look straight back at such a distinguished group of what I believe are called "opinion molders." 

	If ignorance, apathy and excessive partisanship are still the greatest enemies of democracy--as I believe Bryce said some forty or fifty years ago--then of course it is up to a free press to help us on all three counts and all the time. Otherwise neither democratic government nor a free press can be sure of permanency. 

	In short, government--our brand of representative government--depends on you, and, something which I think your profession sometimes overlooks, you depend on government, for the ultimate protection of a free press is in the Constitution. 

	That is why the rock-bottom foundation of a free press is the integrity of the people who run it. Our press may make a million mistakes of judgment without doing itself permanent harm so long as its proprietors are steadfast in their adherence to truth. I have no doubt whatever that the bulk of owners and publishers and editors are doing an honest job with the news. 

	I ought to know, because I am straining the impartiality of the press to the limit these days. Yet, as a candidate in a hard-fought campaign, I have been well impressed by the fair treatment accorded me by most newspapers, including most of those aligned editorially with the opposition. I am convinced that nearly all publishers are doing their honest best, according to their lights--even if I must confess that sometimes their lights seem to me a little dim. 

	I am glad to pay this tribute to the press. It is true, and I think it should be said. I am grateful for the impartiality and fullness of your news columns. Yet I am not recommending complacency. And, from my vantage point, certain defects are apparent. If I were still an editorial writer I suppose I would say that there are some ominous tendencies, or even that these tendencies could weaken the fabric of the Republic. 

	In my new role in life, I can't help noticing from time to time--I want to put it as delicately as I can--that the overwhelming majority of the newspapers of the country are supporting the opposition candidate. This is something, I find, that even my best friends will tell me! And I certainly don't take it personally. In fact, I would have been somewhat startled and unhappy if I received much press support after the reception given my Democratic predecessors, Mr. Truman and Mr. Roosevelt. Some people might even have considered such support an ill omen. 

	It would seem that the overwhelming majority of the press is just against Democrats. And it is against Democrats, so far as I can see, not after a sober and considered review of the alternatives, but automatically, as dogs are against cats. As soon as a newspaper--I speak of the great majority, not of the enlightened ten percent--sees a Democratic candidate it is filled with an unconquerable yen to chase him up an alley. 

	I still haven't got over the way some of our nation's great papers rushed to commit themselves to a candidate last spring, long before they knew what that candidate stood for, or what his party platform would be, or who his opponent was, or what would be the issues of the campaign. I know where a young publisher's fancy turns in that season of the year and I don't blame them for a moment. But I feel that some of them may yet regret the impetuosity of their wooing now that autumn is here. 

	I am touched when I read in these papers solicitous editorials about the survival of the two-party system. Now I really can't bring myself to believe that the Republican party is about to fade away, even if it loses in 1952. If so, it is staging one of the longest and loudest deathbed scenes in history. How can the Republican party disappear when about 90 percent of the press for ten or fifteen years has been telling the American people day in and day out that the Republican party alone can save the Republic? Surely Republican publishers and editors don't honestly believe that they have so little influence! 

	I am in favor of a two-party system in politics. And I think we have a pretty healthy two-party system at this moment. But I am in favor of a two-party system in our press, too. And I am, frankly, considerably concerned when I see the extent to which we are developing a one-party press in a two-party country. 

	I earnestly wish that the newspapers so highly agitated over the two-party system in politics would contemplate the very real dangers of the one-party system in the press. I don't say this because of any concern over the coming election. My party has done all right in recent elections in spite of the country's editorial pages, and I have a hunch we will do all right this year too. 

	But, as an ex-newspaperman and as a citizen, I am gravely concerned about the implications of this one-party system for our American press and our free society. 

	A free society means a society based on free competition and there is no more important competition than competition in ideas, competition in opinion. This form of competition is essential to the preservation of a free press. Indeed, I think the press should set an example to the nation in increasing opposition to uniformity. 

	What I think I detect is a growing uniformity of outlook among publishers--a tendency toward the trade-association mentality of uniformity of attitude toward the public, the customer, if not toward one another as producers of consumer goods. I doubt if this shoe fits the peculiar function of the newspaper. 

	I think you will agree that we cannot risk complacency. We need to be rededicated every day to the unfinished task of keeping our free press truly free. We need to work even harder for the time when all editors will honor their profession, when all publishers will have a sense of responsibility equal to their power and thus regain their power, if I may put it that way. 

	It's not honest convictions honestly stated that concern me. Rather it is the tendency of many papers, and I include columnists, commentators, analysts, feature writers, and so on, to argue editorially from the personal objective, rather than from the whole truth. As the old jury lawyer said: "And these, gentlemen, are the conclusions on which I base my facts." 

	In short, it seems to me that facts, truth, should be just as sacred in the editorial column as the news column. And, as I have said, happily most papers, but by no means all, do struggle with sincerity for accuracy in the news. Coming from Chicago, of course, I am not unfamiliar with the phenomenon of an editorial in every news column! 

	What I am saying is that the press cannot condemn demagoguery, claptrap, distortion and falsehood in politicians and public life on the one hand and practice the same abuses on the public themselves, on the other. I know the people are smarter than many politicians think and sometimes I suspect that even editors underestimate them. 

	The free press is the mother of all our liberties and of our progress under liberty. That's easy to say, but while saying it, it is well to remember what it means. 

	Having delivered myself of this, let me say a few words about the campaign. It is going to be a tough campaign, and I am not kidding myself about the difficulties. My opponent is a great general, who has served the Army and the nation well. He has behind him a vigorous and active party--a good deal of whose vigor and activity is devoted to the continual scrimmage between the rival Republican teams. Indeed, I wait breathlessly for each morning's newspaper to see which Republican party is on top that day. Nonetheless, I would be the last to underestimate the effectiveness or the determination of the professional Republican organization. 

	But I think we have certain advantages too. One of them is that we are a relatively united party--not just in organization, but, and this may be more important, on our major problems. I do not think the people will install a party which may seem less capable of governing as time goes on. I doubt if this fretful, distracted and divided Republican party has that capacity. If it cannot govern itself, why should we suppose that it could govern the country? 

	Another way of saying the same thing is that the Democratic party has policies. It has a foreign policy, and it has a domestic policy. Some Republican leaders like our policies; most Republican leaders hate our policies; but none of them seems to have any very distinctive policies of their own to offer. 

	We have policies, I think, because we have ideas. I know, of course, that the Democrats aren't supposed to have any ideas. We are supposed to be stale and weary and intellectually and morally bankrupt--except on the occasions when we are supposed to be so vital and energetic and overflowing with new ideas as to constitute a danger to the Republic--or, at least, to the Republicans. As for myself, I continue to regard the Democratic party as the party of constructive change in this country. It is always time for constructive change, and that is what I hope we can continue to offer the American people. 

	In short, I know it will be a hard fight. I hope it will be a clean one. We have had a lot of ground to make up. We have made up some. I figure that we still have a little distance to go. But I think too that we are gaining steadily. As for more detailed predictions, I think I will leave that to you gentlemen! 

	Of course, the campaign itself bulks large in our eyes today. I would like to conclude with the warning that we must not let it obscure the outlines of the world crisis in which we are involved. This generation has been summoned to a great battle--the battle to determine whether we are equal to the task of world leadership. I am deeply persuaded that the press can be our shield and our spear in this battle. I believe Jefferson said, "If a nation expects to be ignorant and free in a state of civilization it expects what never was and never will be." 

	We must look largely to the press for the enlightenment that will arm us for this conflict. We should be able to look to the press for much of the sober certainty that will carry us to victory and peace. Our government and our arms and our wealth will avail us little if the editors do not accept this invitation to greatness. The agents of confusion and fear must not usurp the seats of the custodians of truth and patriotism. 

	In saying this, I want to emphasize my belief that the leadership for this development of a free press must come entirely from the profession itself. Government has its cooperative part to play. It must do everything possible to oppose censorship and to free the channels of communication. Beyond that point, it cannot safely go. The basic job can be done only within and by the free press itself by you gentlemen. I know you can do it superbly. We have solemn reason to pray it will be done that way. 
FREEDOM OF THE PRESSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYELECTIONS--MEDIA COVERAGENEWSPAPER INDUSTRY     U. !. . . .
 . - - - - - - -	 R 	 >  +   e: