

	Senator Mundt and my friends of South Dakota: I am here in a capacity that it never crossed my mind I would be in when my friends used to ask me to come out here to shoot pheasants.  I assure you this is a tougher job than tramping up and down the corn rows.  Nevertheless, it is an inspiring job.  The finest thing about campaigning is the opportunity it brings to a candidate to meet Americans face to face, to discuss with them problems of the day and to get their reactions.  I do get reactions from audiences such as this.  Sometimes I get them in the form of letters or telegrams to my train.  Sometimes I get them in what they shout at me as I go along the road, or from the audience, and sometimes that language is the kind that I don't dare later to use over the radio.  Nevertheless, I learn from them, I assure you, far more than I can tell them, I am trying to bring to them what is in my heart and mind as I carry on my duty and responsibility as Republican standard-bearer.

	In the first place, as that standard-bearer I think necessarily I must have trusted associates, lieutenants and partners.  Here in this state are those who are this year to be selected.  I commend to you your Governor Anderson and your congressmen.  They must be part of the team that you people send to Washington if you send a chief executive to Washington.  No one man can do the things that need to be done.  He can merely operate part of a team that believes as he does.

	I am told that in this audience today are 100 newspaper editors.  To them, I merely want to make one remark.  I saw not long ago where a prominent Democrat referred to our one-party press.  I should say that if those 100 editors are doing their part to see that we don't have a one party country they will be doing their full job, and I think they can stand the name of a one party press.

	I am especially glad to come to the home of this agricultural college of South Dakota.  You know, I am a college president on leave, myself.  It is rather up to you people to decide how long my leave is going to be.

	One reason that I had the temerity to go to a university position was because I have spent my life with the young people of the United States.  I believe in them.  More than believing in them, I believe that people of my generation, all of us oldsters, have a special responsibility toward these youngsters who are coming along and must soon take over.  I doubt whether there is a generation in American history that has compiled a worse record in some respects than has ours.  We have fought two world wars and now for the past seven years we have been in the middle of a Cold War, and even at that in one corner of the world we are tragically waging a hot war and losing our boys again.

	If these youngsters of ours will stop to think about our future and our present this way:  suppose they are 24.  If they are lucky they have a 60-year stake in this country, 60 years to live in it according to the way they make it and according to the way we can help them to start their job.  If I am lucky I have got 15 or 20 years, so you can see the difference between the ownership, the stake, that a youngster has in the United States as compared with me.  But if I can, out of the mistakes that I have made and that my generation have made, point out to them a few things that will allow them to make this even a better country than it has been in the past for the average man and woman, the people whom Lincoln called the great, common people, then I have discharged my duty and I am quite confident of what our future will be.

	As they start that job, I would ask them only one special thing today.  Please remember always the difference between the youth in this country and the youth in those countries where aspiring or actual dictators have started what they call youth movements.  Anything you do, whether it is on the football field or going to school or taking a job, is your own choice.  That is the essential difference between you and the young people in Czechoslovakia and Poland, all the long list of captive states where dictators instead of people rule.  If you will hang on to that privilege and in your turn pass on just that much to those who are young when you are my age, then you can say, "Well, we haven't done too badly because freedom, we have been reminded time and again, is something that is kept only at the price of eternal vigilance."  It does not exist merely because it existed once.

	Quite naturally, in a great region such as this there is more of a special interest in agriculture than there is in some of our other economic forms of life.  I have in a number of texts during this campaign tried to outline the specific opposition of the Republican Party and my own personal convictions about agriculture.  At Kasson in Minnesota some weeks back, later in Omaha, and in a number of so-called back platform speeches I have tried to make my position clear.  The Republican Party is pledged to the sustaining of the 90% parity price support and it is pledged even more than that to helping the farmer obtain his full parity, 100% parity, with the guarantee in the price supports of 90%.

	I have made clear the Republican support of the rural electrification programs, of the cooperative enterprises that make the family farm still the cornerstone of our agricultural industry.  Now, I have talked about all these things.  I am not going to take the time today to review in detail all of these points because I have become very convinced of this one thing.  The farmer, like all the rest of us, is primarily an American citizen.  Of course he has a special interest is soil conservation and in price supports, all of the other things that protect him against disaster of the kind he cannot prevent.  But he is also interested in peace.  He is interested in our boys in Korea.  He is interested in these extraordinary national expenditure programs.  He is interested in deficits that cheapen our dollar and make prices go up and up and up.  He is interested in high taxes to meet these expenses, and finally, he is interested in honesty and integrity in government.

	Rather a tragic thing happened to me the other day.  I had a letter from a woman who said, "General, I would like to vote for you but before I do I want you to promise me that more of the taxes I pay will actually get to Washington."  It is a sad thing when a hard-working, taxpaying citizen of the United States feels that she must exact from a prospective federal official a promise to exercise ordinary woodshed honesty.  That you have a right to demand, and you shouldn't have to ask for it.

	You are, of course, interested in all the methods that are open to us for stopping the drain on our own youth, particularly to meet the demands of this conflict in Korea.  To that conflict there is no easy answer, of course.  But one thing is certain.  We must intensify and push programs that will help make it possible for the South Koreans to defend their own front lines.  There are 20 million of them and if we can arm them, train them, organize them as rapidly as we should, very soon they can take over the place that they should in the defense of their own territory and relieve the United Nations from that onerous job, the primary part of which is being performed by American boys.

	This whole business of providing the necessary security establishment for our country brings me to a few things that our opponents seem to like to say about me.  They say that I want to reduce soldiers' pay.  I couldn't imagine looking one of my soldiers in the face, soldiers with whom I have served over the past 41 years and some that I have led into battle, and saying to them that I have never advocated differences in pay for people who are bearing the risks and dangers of defending America in uniform.  Years ago when it looked like we might have peace in our time and the UNT might be a logical solution for our problems and keep our boys from going overseas, I said, "You do not pay students and trainees like you pay professional soldiers."  That has nothing to do with today.  Moreover, this gives me the chance to say that since Korea broke out I have said time and again that UNT will not work now.  It is too late.

	As long as we have to depend upon the Selective Service Act to defend our country there is no sense in trying to confuse the issue by bringing two separate systems into our military organization and mobilization.  When that time comes when we can return to a more peaceful state and we can sit down together, young men, older men, people who have been to war, people who do not want to go to war, we can work out a system for organizing United States defenses on the most democratic, the most economical, the most efficient way that can be devised.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, on this bright sunny day that seems to be just a touch on the cool side I want to bring up one more subject before I stop.  It is the question of Communists and corruption in government.  You have read in your headlines almost daily of new instances of chicanery, cheating, stealing and corruption in important and in less important places of government.  That must be cleaned out.  Likewise, any subversion for disloyalty in our government must be cleaned out.

	If ever there was a time when we must be able to depend upon the loyalty of every last one of our important officials, now is the time.  How do you do this?  I believe we can do it in this way: first, we send to Washington a government that is committed to honesty, integrity, raising the prestige of that government.  That kind of government will bring to it and attract to the executive departments the finest men there are in all the United States.  We will not have to say we can't get good men to come to Washington.  The only reason any government can't get good men to come to Washington is because they don't deserve them. 

	Every American I have ever met who proudly called himself a loyal American is ready to serve his country in any capacity where he may be needed as long as he is given a job worthy of his talent and responsibilities equal to his ability.  That kind of person lives all over this country.  He is in agriculture, he is a working man, he is in a profession.  You bring those men down to Washington, men who are incorruptible, and they will carefully select their own subordinates on the same basis: does this man meet the test of true Americanism?  How then, I ask you, my friends, is disloyalty going to get into the government?  Where are the corrupt going to come from?  They won't get there, and if any man under a temptation of the moment should let his feet stray from the path of honesty, I promise you this: it won't take your new administration 3 and 1/2 years--as it did in one instance after the man had been reported as going dangerously close to crookedness by a Congressional committee--to get rid of that kind of guy.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have been told that all this government needs is a slight refreshing.  That cannot possibly do the job.  You might as well try to refreshed a bad egg, and if any of you try it, let me know how it works.  This administration must be cleaned out from top to bottom, and by that I do not mean to touch or think of touching the great army of loyal civil servants who serve all of us every day of the year and are proud to do so.  I am talking about the political appointments that come in and do not pass through civil service.  We want to give our great army of civil service people bosses and chiefs of their services of whom they can be proud, and they will give us even better service then.  So I say a top to bottom clean-out is what is indicated, and we want your South Dakota share of the new team that must displace the old.  It is time to take out the scrubs that got in the first team.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not come before you to make a bunch of specific promises.  I have talked about a number of things that in my mind should be completely outside politics.  Americans, as I say, can demand honesty.  That would not be a political issue.  Unfortunately, this year it has to be.  All of our broad farm programs should be lifted out of politics.  Bipartisan commissions to help determine policies is the correct approach.  But I do, in lieu of promises, make you a pledge.  I pledge you that if you want to change national leadership to establish in Washington a government of which you can be proud, and in your pride create for that government prestige abroad, then that government will have first this purpose: to be fair with all Americans; to be just in determining the claims among different sections and different groups so that the answer will be reached on the basis of what is best for all Americans; and finally, that government will be friendly.  It will be part of the people from which it sprang.  It will be part of the people who gave it its [missing text].  It will not be a government that tries to work you.  It will merely try to work with you.  And there is a vast difference, my friends.

	Above all, that government would promise this: to be honest--just honest.  It would want to stand before you at the end of its term so that you could look at it from top to bottom and say, "They were fair; they were just; they were friendly and they didn't cheat."

	Thank you a lot.
AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT APPOINTMENTS--GENERALGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSKOREAN WARMILITARY PERSONNELMILITARY RECRUITMENT--COMPULSORYYOUTH     5 5 5 5 5
 x5 s5 n5 e5 Y5 W5 W5 M5	  	  	  	 ` 	 A 	 7 	 % 	  e: