

	Governor Volpe, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, all of this distinguished group of party leaders and workers here in the audience: I am honored to be here, to be reminded how old I am. However, there is only one thing I've got to correct, John. You said that for eight months the other fellow didn't say anything. It's not the guy I am running against, I can assure you. No, he has never been even silent for four minutes. You don't like what he says one minute, ask him again in another minute. He will tell you the other thing.

	It's a good thing he wasn't the umpire of the World Series. It would still be going on. He'd call every pitch a ball and a strike, either way, you know. Talk about a debate, he is a debate.

	Before I talk to you and give you some of the marching words which I hope you will carry into the precincts and the districts all over this state, I would like to say a word about the men who are here and the women who are here on this platform. I do have many pleasant memories of this state, and, incidentally, John, they go back longer than sixteen years. I came up here as a congressman, I remember, in 1947 when I was on the Herter Committee, and I had the opportunity to come here at Chris Herter's request, and that great and good man, I learned a great deal from him about foreign policy and also about the responsibility of leadership. And from that time and also because of my association with many other leaders who are on this platform, my feeling for this state, for the people in this state, is a deep one. I recognize what you have contributed to the previous administration--ours, I mean.

	I know the talent, the brains, that is here in this state, and, incidentally, we just want more of it in our party and not so much in the other party, that's all. And in that respect I would not want the opportunity to say one word about a man who I know since he announced his retirement has been receiving, of course, the plaudits at retirement dinners and perhaps is very tired of hearing all nice things said, and I am going to say to Leverett Saltonstall now that I imagine this is one thing he's never heard said because it's something that only I know and one other person about him. Oh, it's good, but nevertheless, in 1951 at the time that the Republican party was searching for the candidate in which the great battle was going on, the possibility of whether it would be Taft or Eisenhower or somebody else, I had a talk with Tom Dewey. I don't think that he would mind my disclosing that talk. I was then a junior senator from the state of California, and we were talking about the men in the Senate and the men in the House. And Tom Dewey, who should be somewhat expert on this point, said that if he could select a man, select a man and put him in the office of president of the United States and who had the experience, the background, and above all the character to be president, it would be Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts.

	And through the years that I sat around that Cabinet table with him, I remember his wisdom and his judgment, his good sense. He had a leavening process which worked upon all of us. It's something that is needed, a cooling-off when the tempers were hot, and I wanted to say that about this man, a man that I have personal affection for and for his wife, and I am glad to say it here among those who know him perhaps even better than I do.

	And also, as I stand here, I of course am appreciative of the fact that when we win this election, as we hope we will, we are going certainly to have to count on some people in the House and the Senate. Naturally, you do not have on this platform a man who is running for the United States Senate, but you have two men who are in the House of Representatives. Believe me, they don't need my help. I just hope that I can do half as well as they do in this state, but let me just say that as I look at--remember the men behind me, and I am glad they are behind me, Silvio Conte and Hastings Keith, that's the kind of men we need in the Congress. I just hope we get a lot more to help them across this country. And now a word about the two men who have spoken so graciously about my own activities.

	Ed Brooke, who joined me in the earlier stages of this campaign when we were moving off across the country on those intensive motorcades. I learned to know him. I talked with him about the great issues confronting the country, not just the issues of the cities, but his broad expertise, far beyond that, in the field of law enforcement, in establishing the justice and the respect for law which is necessary if you are going to have the kind of order and progress and justice that he has described. And also his expertise in foreign policy. I look forward to having the benefit of his advice in the United States Senate for many years, as many years as I am there. Let me say you can be proud of him. He is a great senator for this state and for this nation. And you feel kind of embarrassed when a good friend like John Volpe says all those nice things about you. How do you respond without appearing to be going overboard?

	Well, I am overboard on this man. He is one who has that great warm heart which comes through as he talks to you, and I'm glad to have been the beneficiary of his friendship and also of his advice and counsel. And I look forward, too, to working with him, working with him in the years ahead, because he has that intimate understanding of the federal-state relationship and the relationship of the state to the local communities and the cities, which we must have if we develop the new programs that I am going to touch upon here today, and, John Volpe, I thank you for not only for your support in this campaign but for the advice and judgment you are going to provide for us in the next administration.

	That brings me to the subject at hand. I know that everybody in this room, since you are the party leaders in this state, are interested in how is it going, what is going to happen across the country. You have been reading the polls and you have been reading what the experts say, and you have been reading what I haven't said or have said, I mean, it depends on which one you read.

	But, nevertheless, as you read all these things you wonder, really, what is the feel of America? Ed could give it to you from those early days in which we traveled and also on other occasions. 

	And John can, he has been around the country. Let me give you very briefly my analysis of where we stand now and what we have to do to go over the top.

	Today, as I look across this country, not based on polls, but based on the feel that a candidate has after he has been out on the hustings for as many years as I have, I have the feeling that we are ahead. I have the feeling that we are ahead for reasons that go deep into the conscience of America. Some of them have some very practical political considerations. Mention has already been made of the fact that our party is united. I want to mention that and tell you how I have seen it.

	For example, you remember there was an intensive fight for our nomination, a fight which was clean and hard, and it went right down to the wire. On that first ballot we didn't win until we got to Wisconsin. And I recall that at the end of that fight there were those that thought, well, now, the Republican party will shatter again as it had in 1964.

	Within one week I had called upon personally or by telephone every leading party figure, governor and senator, who had supported some other candidate, and within one week everyone was on our team, and everyone is working just as hard as I am for our nomination--our election at this time.

	I can tell you, within the last two weeks I have been in the state of New York, and Governor Rockefeller, Mayor Lindsay, Jack Javits, are all going all out in New York. I believe we are going to carry New York this year. I think that.

	And I can say the same about Pennsylvania where Governor Ray Shafer is putting together that organization and Governor Bill Scranton, former governor, is working with him.

	I can say the same about Ohio, where Jim Rhodes has taken that great Ohio organization and has given it the personal thrust of his own leadership. I can say the same about the state of Michigan where Governor George Romney is campaigning--actually as I said to him when I was speaking in Michigan a few days ago, he is campaigning harder for me than he did for himself, and believe me that means we are going to take Michigan in my opinion.

	The same is true in California, with Governor Ronald Reagan, in California. All over America this party is united. We are working together. That doesn't mean that we are going to have a government of consensus. We have had enough of that. We are going to have disagreement, honest disagreement within our party, and then we are going to have leadership. And that's what we need rather than the conformity and the mediocrity of consensus. That is the difference, and that is the new vision we offer America, the great leadership of the united party.

	It also means something else. When you put together a team, a team that can unite your party, that means that you have certainly the possibility of uniting the nation. And, believe me, we need to do that. We need to bridge the generation gap and we need to bridge the gap between the races, and we need to bring this country together from this sectional standpoint.

	I think it can be done. Also it means that if you can bring together a team of this sort that you can look forward to an administration in which the best brains, and, believe me, our party has them, as governors and senators and congressmen, are the best brains will be brought to the solution of four problems.

	Oh, I understand, incidentally, that we just have a new visitor who just arrived, Congressman Margaret Heckler. Where is she? Here she is. Right. You know when I see Margaret sitting over there, I am reminded of an editorial endorsement I got a few days ago when I was in Moline, Illinois, and the Moline Dispatch endorsed us that morning, and the morning of the meeting, in a big front-page editorial. It was a pretty blunt editorial. And it said we are endorsing Nixon because this is a presidential election and not a beauty contest.

	We have a lot of beauty in our party also, let me say, right around up on this table.

	My friends, something else is happening. You all know particularly in this great state of Massachusetts that in the--and this is true of so many other states, it's true of California, it's true of Michigan, it's true of Pennsylvania, it's true of New York, you can get all the Republicans together and you can't win unless also Democrats and Independents come with you. And I can tell you across the nation we are getting them. They are coming to our meetings, the rank and file Democrats and Independents, in unprecedented number.

	And we are getting some of the leaders. Within the last week Senator Frank Lausche of Ohio has endorsed us. Within the last week Congressman Sid Herlong of Florida. Within the last week, and this one may not mean anything here, but it is decisive in California, perhaps one of the most respected men in California's political history in either party, Senator Hugh Burns, the President of the State Senate, for the first time in forty years has left his party. He has endorsed the Nixon-Agnew ticket in California. So that gives you the point.

	I say to you, your job, of course, in the state of Massachusetts is to get out that Republican vote. That's simply, however, getting that first first down. Beyond that we have to go on. We have to go on and get the Independents and the Democrats. And I know that in this state Independents and Democrat votes are so decisive. I know that in this state the success of men like John Volpe and Ed Brooke is the fact that their appeal is far beyond just the party. People in this state have voted for men like this because they recognize that the issues that they stand for are bigger than party, and that is the case which I make today for our ticket. Not on the basis of voting Republican, because you are Republican. That isn't enough reason this year to vote for a man. Not on the basis of voting for a man because you may like the fact that he has too much hair or too little. That isn't the reason for voting for a man.

	But this year we have to think of the country, we have to think of whether either man, one of the two and only one of the two is going to be elected president of the United States, one of the two nominees of the major parties, which one of those two men can provide the new leadership that America needs. Each is a new man. The question is who is going to bring a new policy. And I am going to put it quite bluntly today. When a man helped to make the policies of the last four years, when he has always supported those policies, when he has never disagreed publicly with any one of them, when he has never criticized either the foreign policy or domestic policy either then or now, I say that when the nation is in as much trouble as we are in at home and abroad, no peace abroad, no peace at home, no progress without inflation, you don't turn to a man that helped to get you into trouble to get you out of trouble. It's as simple as that. But now, my friends, I want to accept a challenge here today. It didn't occur to me until I arrived here and heard the remarks that were made. Ed Brooke brought it home quite, I thought, effectively and bluntly. He pointed out that the American people are not going to vote for the third-party candidate because as they vote for that third-party candidate, the American people will be aware of the fact that they are voting first for a man who can't win, and that through those votes they may create a crisis in terms of the Constitution of this country. And the wheeling and dealing in the House of Representatives that could certainly have a very detrimental effect on that new leadership image that the nation needs, not just the image, but the reality of leadership. We are all aware of that.

	He also said that the American people aren't going to vote for four more years of the same. He didn't say it quite that way, but that's what I am sure he was getting at. And so that indicates you're voting against the third-party man and you're voting against the party man who is nominated by the other party.

	But I want to tell you this, why we ought to vote for. I do not believe that we should cast our case in these last two-and-a-half weeks simply on being against number three and against number two. Let's show why we are going to be for our candidate.

	And I accept that challenge because at this time in America's history, let me tell you something that I feel as I go across the country. There is too much hate. The young against the old, the black against the white and the white against the black, and simply to allow the American people to vent that hatred and as they vote for Nixon, for example, to do so only because they are voting against somebody else, that isn't enough.

	We don't want to win it that way. We don't want to back into this victory. We want to win it going away. That's what we want to do, and we want to be for something.

	And so today I say to you that's the reason why despite the fact that the polls show us with good leads in the major states, the ones that count in electoral votes, that we have in these past three weeks planned a campaign which is more intensive than any candidate in history has waged in the last three weeks.

	I am making ten national radio broadcasts one after another starting on Wednesday on every major issue. By the time this campaign will have been completed, I will have spoken out more precisely, more definitely, on every major issue facing this country than any candidate in history. I am doing that because I want the American people to know what they are for and not just what they are against. In these last three weeks of the campaign I should say this finishes the third week, and in the last two weeks I think you should know what we are going to do.

	Let me get you a feel of it. On Monday of next week we go to Ohio, a key swing state, and we are in Cincinnati. The following day on Tuesday we whistle stop that date. The next day we prop stop in Michigan. The following day we motorcade Pennsylvania. The following day we go on to another major state, in the last two weeks of this campaign, and this is what distinguishes it from 1960. Day after day we are in major states where the electoral votes are. And we are campaigning them such as they have never been campaigned before.

	On the Thursday before election, for example, we are having a national broadcast from Madison Square Garden, the final rally of the campaign, one hour across the nation, and we are not stopping there. We are then flying directly--we are prop-stopping Texas on Friday, we are motorcading California on Saturday, and then on Monday, the day before election, I am going on a national telethon for four hours, televised across this country, two hours in prime time in the East and two hours in prime time in the West.

	We are going to carry this right down to the wire because again we cannot afford to take a chance. Let me put it quite directly. We cannot afford four more years of what we have had, and that's what a vote for the other party means. We can't afford it.

	So, my friends, now, what are you going to be voting for? You are going to be voting for a new foreign policy, not simply a foreign policy which directs itself, if we have to direct ourselves, as we hope we may not have to, toward the problem of Vietnam, but a foreign policy that goes far beyond that and that looks at this great world in which we live and come up with a shattering fact, and it's this.

	Leave Vietnam out, that terribly difficult war which we trust can be brought to a conclusion before the next president takes office, an honorable conclusion, leave it out of the perspective. Think just a moment about the world. No one in this room can name one major area where the American people in terms of their foreign policy aren't worse off than we were eight years ago when Dwight Eisenhower left office.

	The Mid-East, closer to war then than it was--now than it was eight years ago; Latin America, Africa, Europe, Eastern Europe, our relations also with the other countries of Asia, what we find is that any area of the world that you can name, the United States has its respect at the lowest point in our history, we find that the danger of war is greater and the prospects for peace are less, and so as we look across the world, the question is are we going to go forward with the same old leadership? And the answer is we have got to have new leadership and that's why I pledge a new foreign policy, a new team, a new team with fresh views, with new spirit and new vigor that will move in on these questions, and defuse them so that young Americans will not have to be fighting in another Vietnam four, five years from now. That's the kind of policy that we want.

	And I point out to you, time will not permit its discussion today, but in this campaign I already have covered or will have covered by the time we reach the Election Day a new policy toward NATO. In a national radio broadcast, a new policy toward Latin America in a national radio broadcast, a new policy toward the Mid-East which I covered in an earlier speech, a new policy toward Asia after Vietnam, a new policy with regard to our relations on foreign aid, and I can sum it up in just a few words.

	I can simply say this. We look at America today, we are committed all around the world. We are not going to turn isolationist. We are going to carry our share. But as we look over the past twenty years, America has poured out $150 billion in foreign aid and, what is even more, we have poured out our men. We poured them out first in Korea and now over 200,000 casualties in Vietnam.

	And when we look at the world today, the world has changed since that twenty years ago that I was on the Herter Committee when only the United States could save Europe and only the United States had the power and the wealth to help the other nations that were underdeveloped in the world. And so the world has changed. Other nations are richer, and in terms of population there are 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world, and I will have a foreign policy, basically, in which other nations will bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world. And I think we need that.

	We turn to the problems of peace at home. Ed Brooke has stated my position eloquently. I will not expand on it, except simply to say this. The choice is very clear. One man who helped to make the policies of the past four years, who defends those policies and defends the policies of the men who have been implementing those policies--the attorney general and others.

	Let me make one thing very clear. No individual, whether it's the secretary of agriculture or the attorney general, is the issue. But what that individual stands for is an issue, and when the present Attorney General of the United States says, as he has said, that there is no significant crime wave in the United States, when he says that organized crime, and I quote him, "is only a tiny part of the crime problem," and when the facts show that we have had crime going up nine times as fast as population over the last four years When the facts show that in addition to that 43 percent of the American people today are afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night, then I say it's time for a housecleaning and to get a new attorney general and new leadership from top to bottom that will reestablish respect for law and order.

	But now the essential difference between the third-party candidate and my position, Ed Brooke has laid it out. You cannot have order unless you have the hope for progress. You cannot have order and respect for law unless your laws deserve respect. That is why we stand for those new programs which will reestablish respect for law and also laws that deserve respect. That is why we stand for programs that will light the lamp of hope in millions of homes where there is no hope today. And that is why that kind of a program will bring the law and the order and the justice that all Americans want, and that's why I have said this in every speech, and I have talked this way in the north, in the south, in every part of this nation. Because we need to talk as one nation and not as a divided nation.

	And let me turn to the problem of progress, just briefly. And here again we get into the positive programs. What is the difference in approach now between our program and that of the other major party candidate? And it's such a clear difference.

	It's again the question of whether you go with the programs of the past, whether you are satisfied with them, or whether we turn to new leadership and vision. And look at the past. If they worked, we would accept them. But for the past four years we have poured billions of dollars into well-intentioned programs, certainly, well-intentioned.

	We are going to wage a war on poverty. But billions of dollars into federal programs for federal welfare and federal housing and federal jobs, and what has been the result? For the most part, failure and frustration and riot across the land.

	And now what is their answer? More of the same. Billions more for the same program. And, my friends, I simply say this, that when you are on a road which has brought you to a dead end, instead of going more down that road and pouring the gas on, you get off that road and take a new road. And that's what we offer to the American people, a new road to progress. That is why when you are voting in this election, you are voting for programs that will provide for the enactment of the Republican Human Investment Act which will provide a tax credit to industry to train the unemployed for real jobs and not simply a government program which will leave the frustration that the Job Corps so often has left.

	That's why you are going to be voting rather than for more and more public housing, you are going to be voting for programs, the exciting new ones, that we Republicans have been offering for so many months, programs that will enlist private enterprise in building the housing that people can own and get the pride and the dignity and self-respect that comes from owning it, either single family or in high rises.

	That is why you are going to be voting for an entirely new concept, the concept that I spelled out in my speeches Bridges to Human Dignity, in which we recognize that all Americans, and this includes not just black Americans, because there are many others that haven't had that chance, it includes Mexican Americans, it includes some white Americans in some parts of the country, where all Americans can feel from the time they go to school that if they work, if they are going to have a chance to get the best education any place in the world that can be provided, a subject that I am going to cover in a major radio address two nights from tonight, and that in addition to that if they make it in school they not only are going to be workers and have a job, but that they are going to have an equal chance to move up, not just in government where the opportunity is pretty good today, and not just in athletics or in the arts where the opportunity is pretty good for all Americans, but in that five-sixths of America, private enterprise where we ought to give every American a stake in the action. That's what we need to do.

	And, my friends, that's why I say, when I see a great project like the Progress Plaza in Philadelphia, Leon Sullivan, a supermarket which is owned and which was developed as a result of black capital, I say that we have to provide more opportunities for that to happen for all Americans. This is the train. This is the way to go.

	And we can talk of so many other areas where we are on dead center. The problem of research. Research we find during this past administration has been allowed to fall away and fall behind. The United States in many areas is second. We have to make it first again. We shall.

	But you are not going to get it by going with the old programs. You need a new approach. That's why we need a new approach to the problems of pollution, the problems of natural resources, that I am discussing in a major radio talk tonight, because here again you have a proliferation of government agencies, none of them adequately handling the problem, all overlapping.

	And we need to build a country in which we recognize that America must use its natural resources for the development of our great technical and other progress, but where this land can still be a beautiful land, and we can do that. Sixty years ago Theodore Roosevelt spoke in those terms. "It's time to look back to what he said and see how far we have gone now."

	I remember Edmund Burke once said that, "patriotism, when you translated it literally meant love of country." And then he went on to say that "if you are to love your country, your country must be lovely."

	We must make this country, it is a great country, it is the best country, but in terms of our human relationship, in terms of our environment, in terms of the cleanliness of our rivers, of our seas, of our air. We have got to make America a country that deserves to be loved by all Americans. It will be. We pledge that kind of leadership.

	But, my friends, here is the choice, you see. It isn't just the usual political choice, the Democrats lining up against the Republicans, labor lining up against management, youth lining up against the older folks. What this involves is a choice such as a great people never has had in this century.

	Two men who honestly disagree, we do, about the function of government. On the one side a man who believes that the policies of the thirties are adequate to the problems of the sixties, who would continue those policies and put more billions into them, and on the other side myself who honestly believes that government has a great role to play in education, in Social Security, in those areas where people cannot care for themselves.

	But if we are going to move forward, we have got to recognize that this is a great country and we have got to remember how it became great. America became great not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves. That is the way to move.

	But, my friends, it is not enough just to say that and not speak of all the people. And that is why I feel the deep conviction here this morning that we stand at one of those great turning points in history. The world is watching America.

	Bill Scranton, when he came back from Europe a few days ago, gave me a report on the attitudes in Europe. He said never, and he visited several countries, was American respect less or its prestige less. And I asked him why, and he said part of it, of course, is Vietnam, but more of it, the television screen, the newspapers day after day, showing violence and failure and riot in America.

	Here this great and good country, and we know, we know that if people have a choice, the traffic's all one way. But, nevertheless, here we stand with all of the opportunity in the world to move forward if we just seize it, if we recognize that our greatness is going to come from within us, if we recognize that our greatness is going to come only if we enlist all of the American people, bring them all in, this is what we must understand. This is what this past administration has failed to understand.

	We believe in people. They believe almost exclusively in government. We have faith in people. We recognize the role of government but we recognize that only through enlisting people, not only private enterprise but people in their volunteer capacities, can we reconcile America again, can we have respect for law again, can we bridge this gap between the old and the young. These are the feelings that I have. And I speak them here because here in this state there is perhaps no greater tradition in the United States than the right of dissent, the feeling about progress, the need to look at things as they are and to move forward.

	I know of this great progressive tradition, and your administration is going to be that. And I close with one final thought. There are not many people in this room in terms of the audiences I have been seeing. For example, when I was in Rochester last night, in a hall that seats 10,500, 12,000 were standing there and there were a couple of thousand outside. And it's that way all over the country.

	But looking at this room and the people in it, let me tell you how much power you have got. Let me be quite realistic. I know Massachusetts is a difficult state to carry. I realize that the polls show that we are behind in this state. But also I know there are a great number of Independent voters, and tonight when I go on statewide television networks and for one hour answer questions, I hope a lot of people listen, get them to listen, but for the next two-and-a-half weeks, if you can get out, each of you, and talk to people and enlist your precinct workers in talking to those on the fence, you can win it here.

	That could make the difference, because I am the expert on losing a close one. We are not going to lose a close one. We are going to win a big one. How about it.
BUSINESS--MINORITY OWNEDCRIME--GENERALENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALHOME OWNERSHIPPARTY AFFILIATIONPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPOVERTYPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALTHIRD PARTY CANDIDACY