
	Thank you, Mr. Schary. I deeply appreciate that introduction--or perhaps I should call it a preview of the coming attraction. Anyway, I hope I can live up to your superlatives--and that the production will have a long run--at least four years.

	This is the third time I've come to San Diego this year. This isn't as many as I'd like. And yet it's enough to have the feeling that I am among friends, and that's a good feeling. Sometime I'm going to come here just for a visit.

	And if you think that's something I tell all the folks, I might tell you that my fondness for this state got me in first-class trouble two weeks ago in Miami, Florida. I was going full speed ahead when I heard myself saying, "and you folks here in California know what I mean." They sure did.

	I heard later that the Republican Truth Squad which has been following me around put out a special report on that slip up in Miami. It was the first raw meat they'd had in the campaign.

	And I've had a lot of fun with this Truth Squad today. This is Columbus Day. And I've been reminding these campaign followers that there were Truth Squads in Columbus's time, too. They followed him around saying, "The world is flat. Go back. Go back. The world is flat."

	Well, I have a truth these Republican Truth Squads won't like. Yesterday and today here in California I've been watching something that's been happening all across the country: and that's that people everywhere are turning to the Democratic party.

	And when I say "everywhere," I now include the territory of Alaska. For on Tuesday of this week the people of Alaska voted to fill twenty-one of the twenty-four seats in their legislature with Democrats--an exact reversal of the vote in Alaska four years ago.

	And I guess you know that for forty years now, ever since 1916 and without a single exception, the party that has won the October election in Alaska has won the national election in November.

	There are many reasons for this nationwide Democratic upsurge. One reason is that after four years of Republicanism the people know better than ever that the Democratic party is their party--that it cares for the people, works for the people, and fights for the people.

	Another reason is my running mate on the Democratic ticket, Estes Kefauver. Senator Kefauver is a great campaigner--as I have good reason to know. But he is far more than that. He is a faithful and effective champion of the people and of their rights and liberties, and he will serve us all nobly in the vice presidency. Estes Kefauver's record is clear and consistent. He doesn't have to turn over a new leaf, adopt a "new look," at the start of each new political campaign. I realize that Senator Kefauver's opponent has the preeminent virtue of being a Californian--but a good many people feel that after that there's a long drop.

	Another reason for the Democratic tide this year is that this party of ours has become truly the party of youth. I've been campaigning today with Senator Humphrey of Minnesota, Senator Gore of Tennessee, and Governors Leader of Pennsylvania, Meyner of New Jersey, and Clement of Tennessee. These men symbolize the young, vigorous, dedicated leadership you will find in our party in state after state across the country.

	This is what Walter Lippmann meant when he said recently that the Republicans are the party of the passing generation--and the Democrats are the party of the rising generation.

	I am confident that here in California you are going to send the Senate of the United States another outstanding young Democrat, your thoughtful and eloquent candidate, Dick Richards. 

	And I hope, too, that you will send Gordon Shepard and George Cheney to join your fine, experienced congressional delegation in Washington.

	Let there be no mistake about it: we have the Republicans on the run, and we mean to keep them on the run until November 6th.

	Now I know that this has all been a blow to the Republican leaders.

	Last spring, the Republicans were saying smugly that five to six television speeches would take care of the campaign. President Eisenhower, they said, wouldn't need to go around the country campaigning. Well, as you have noticed, they changed their minds. He's been doing quite a bit of traveling with more to follow. Indeed, I suspect as the hurricane flags are hoisted, he'll be here in California too. I guess they had gotten so used to a part-time president that they figured a part-time candidate was all right too.

	We cannot too often remind ourselves that the president and the vice president of the United States are the only officials who are elected by all Americans. Only from the White House does there come a voice which speaks--or should speak--with equal regard for everyone of us--from whatever state, of whatever race or creed, and of whatever economic condition.

	It is important, vitally important, however, that if the president is to be the effective servant of every American, he must also be the effective leader of his own political party. He must, as president, make that party the instrument of the national will, the general welfare. He must be willing to exercise the full prestige of his office to serve this end.

	This is one of the great issues in this 1956 election. It is another of the reasons for this tide that is now crossing the land. For the people realize that the Republican president is either unwilling or unable to lead his party leaders--they will follow him to the polls but no further--and that the Republican vice president is the heir apparent and his views are adjustable to say the least.

	In short, people are coming to realize more and more that the Republican candidate and his party leadership are indistinguishable; that this is the last chance to audit the accounts, that this election will close the books, that to vote for the Republican candidate is to vote for Humphrey, for Wilson, for Benson, for Dulles--and for the new head of the Republican party--Mr. Nixon.

	Four years ago the Republicans chanted, "It's time for a change." To many voters, this meant more than a change in the control of our Government. It meant a change in the Republican party as well.

	These voters saw, or thought they saw, in the 1952 Republican candidate the hope for a new leadership in the Republican party; the hope for an end to the Old Guard control of that party, an end to instinctive opposition to every new idea; the hope for an awakened spirit of Republican search for new solutions to new problems.

	And four years ago, many Americans who were not old-line Republicans felt, for honest and conscientious reasons, that an experiment with a Republican administration would be a good idea. Some believed that twenty years of power was enough and had worn out the Democratic party. Some hoped that responsibility would civilize and modernize the Republican party. Others simply perceived an inherent virtue in change for its own sake.

	I disagreed--as some of you may recall--with the judgment of these Americans. But I would never question their motives.

	I know they voted as they did after an earnest searching of their minds and hearts.

	Now we are in a position to weigh the results of the Republican experiment. And I ask thoughtful Republicans and Independents and Democrats who voted the Republican ticket four years ago to join with us in this process of appraisal.

	Let us first freely admit that some Democrats were wrong in some of their fears of a Republican government. Some Democrats believed--and this, too, for honest and conscientious reasons--that Republican rule would result in an open and ruthless attack on the social gains so laboriously won by Democratic administration under the New Deal and the Fair Deal, and so bitterly opposed by the Republican Old Guard every step of the way. Such an open and ruthless attack has not taken place--for at least one obvious reason--they didn't dare.

	But what has taken place is something different, something more intangible, something harder to identify. I think the perils are equally real.

	What has been the character of the Eisenhower Administration? Its spokesmen tell us that its overriding aim has been to stick to the middle of the road. I would put it differently. Under the Eisenhower Administration, national policy has become stalled on dead center. A paralysis of will has overtaken our national leadership. Grim and pressing problems accumulate. But our federal government, the instrument of the people, has stopped thinking, stopped feeling, stopped caring, and stopped acting. The administration's only answer to the oncoming rush of problems, at home and abroad, is a bland and weary complacency, a yawn, and an assurance that all is well.

	We Democrats were wrong in 1952 if we predicted surgery. But who would have believed us if we had predicted anesthesia?

	The Republicans promised the voters four years ago--in Candidate Eisenhower's words--"not to turn back the clock." They haven't. But they haven't wound it in four years either.

	And at the bottom of all this is the hard fact that the Republican President--after a few feeble tries at it--has evidently long since given up the job of making over the Republican party. And as a result we have had four years of government without ideas, without energy, and without direction, made up of leaders who do not wish to lead and followers who do not choose to follow.

	During his first two years in office, the Republicans in Congress fought the President on housing, on taxes, on trade, and on other key programs. Privately, we now learn, President Eisenhower was so disheartened with the Republican party that he gave serious thought to forming a third party.

	Publicly, however, he expressed his preference for "the election of every Republican over every Democrat for every office any place"--including, as you know, a Republican Congressman from this area who had opposed the President at every turn. Apparently the definition of an "Eisenhower Republican" is any Republican who is up for reelection.

	To this day, the Republican President's worst opposition in Congress is still Republican opposition. Senator Knowland still opposes on foreign policy. Senator Bricker still proposes his amendment. And when the President said he wanted federal aid for schools, 119 Republican Congressmen voted against and killed a bill for federal school aid.

	This abdication--or failure--of political leadership means just one thing: the Republican Old Guard still rides high today and the Republican party is still the same old Republican party.

	A Minnesota farmer came up to me during the primaries this spring and told me he was going to "switch again," as he put it, this year. "You know," he said, "I just didn't realize the Republicans would act like Republicans."

	And now it is clear that the loss of new leadership in the Republican party has meant in a very real sense loss of real leadership among the people as well.

	Most Americans, I deeply believe, support the decision of the Supreme Court's school desegregation decision. Yet only recently, the President said that he didn't think it mattered whether he supported that decision or not.

	Most Americans, I am convinced, realize, whether they like it or not, that federal aid is necessary in many places to build more schools and train more teachers. But the President, even though he said he agreed, chose not to throw the weight of his office into the fight for schools. For two years he proposed nothing; in the third year, the equivalent of nothing. As in most everything, it took an election year to revive the administration's enthusiasm for domestic progress.

	He said, from 1952 on, that revision of our immigration laws was a "must." But there was no action in this direction from the White House until another election year came around.

	We have read eloquent Presidential messages speaking our common conviction that it is America's "moral obligation" to provide decent housing to clean up the slums. But precious little has been done in this direction.

	Most Americans I know, are concerned and deeply concerned about mankind's need to tame the hydrogen bomb. Yet only yesterday the President said he had uttered his "last word" on this subject. I say that there can be no "last word" on this fateful subject until mankind is freed of the menace of incineration. And I shall have something more to say about the obligations of leadership to the human race as well as the nation the Monday night.

	We all know that there is something wrong, that something has gone out of American life--something that used to be there, something that gave people's lives meaning and dignity. "We are missing that intensity of conviction, that moral passion which we desperately need if we are going to rise to the challenge of our opportunities and the demands of our necessities in this revolutionary epoch. And the results are all too plainly written in the facts of America's daily life.

	Mothers know about crowded schools and half-day shifts in many, many places.

	Farmers know what's happened to prices and costs and their diminishing share of the consumer's food dollar.

	The small businessman knows what's happened to his credit and his profits.

	The housewife knows that prices are at an all-time high.

	The union man knows that in spite of all the 1952 promises, the labor relations law is still as Taft and Hartley wrote it.

	The thirty million Americans who live in families with incomes under $2,000 a year are not so impressed with the prosperity refrain.

	And in our dealings with the rest of the world we have, in these four years, lost precious ground on the military, the economic, and most of all, the political and moral fronts. Instead of bold, creative, magnanimous, understanding leadership, our allies and the uncommitted masses of peoples newly free have found a new America of bluffs and boasts and threats, of advances and retreats, an America more reliant on military pacts than on the economic reliance and the self-reliance of the great regions of the world who want progress more than they have Communism.

	The American presidency is the greatest temporal office on earth. Its capacity for good or evil is almost beyond measure. When the president speaks, the world pays heed; when the president is silent, millions despair.

	In the days of the youth of our republic, great presidents taught us what the presidency can really be. Thomas Jefferson made the Louisiana Purchase; James Monroe gave us the Monroe Doctrine. And in the years of our own lives, Woodrow Wilson conceived the League of Nations; Franklin Roosevelt led this nation from depression to victory against the mortal challenge of totalitarianism; Harry Truman led America to her rightful place at the head of the Free World.

	The need is as great today, the need for leadership and new ideas. 

	And I say it's time we get up and get started again.

	It is time to return again to an ideal of national leadership that will recall our nation to its instinct for greatness--a leadership that acts, and that in acting, gives people the chance, yes, and the faith, to act for themselves.

	I believe, and that is why I stand before you here tonight, that the Democratic party can provide the leadership.

	We have a program--an action program--for education, and we will do our level best to carry it out.

	We have a program for health security, and we will do our level best to carry that out.

	We have a program for our older citizens, and we will do our level best to carry that out.

	We have programs for our cities and for our suburbs, for our farmers and small businessmen--and for a new faith in liberty and the Bill of Rights.

	America is a land of a abundance. We want to use it--to enrich all our lives.

	We want to work for an America where no man fears to think what he pleases and says what he thinks and where everyone can make his way in life, without regard to the color of his skin.

	And we want to work--and work hard--to secure that peace in the world which is man's oldest dream.

	These are the purposes that inspire the Democratic party. They are the faith which is our title to the trust we seek from the nation.
 



PARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPRESIDENTIAL POWERRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     e@ 1@ +@ '@ @
 @ @ @ ? ? ? ? ?	 C 	 0 	  e: