

	Thank you very much Senator Muskie and Governor Milton Schapp, my friend and colleague in the Congress, Bill Green, Assemblyman Willie Brown, Delores Tucker, Representative Coffman, Representative Burson, Joe Clark, and our Pennsylvania friends. I have heard Ed Muskie speak many, many times, but I have never heard him speak more eloquently or more passionately than he did tonight. And it is just amazing to me to see the great growth that has taken place in his judgment. It demonstrates once again, the greatness and the generosity of Ed Muskie, who is my friend. And I can tell you it is much more comfortable and reassuring to have him speaking for you than it is to be competing with him.

	I think Senator Muskie put his finger on the central reason why we need a change in the leadership of this country in l972. And that is the uncomfortable fact that for the last four years we have had a leadership that really has no vision of the greatness of this country. And it is still just as true today as it was thousands of years ago, that where there is no vision the people perish. And so we desperately need a change in the direction of our country. And to bring that about, the American people have an opportunity this fall, on November 7, to cast their vote and their influence and their voice on the side of a new day for this country.

	Now, over the last twenty months, I have been campaigning for the Presidency in what has to be one of the longest formally announced campaigns in the history of this country. And during all of that time, especially during the past five or six weeks, I have concentrated a great deal of my time and effort on the whole range of domestic problems that face our country--problems of unemployment, the problems of inflation, the mismanagement of the economic policies, the misdirection of the priorities of the nation, the loss of confidence and credibility in our government and in our institutions. But there is one concern that surpasses all the others. I move away from it from time to time in order to concentrate attention on these difficulties that face us here at home, but that matter has weighed on my conscience for almost nine years. And for all of that time it has literally been an obsession with me. And now that challenge--that issue that will not go away--more directly and, I think, more insistently than any other, forces us to ask the question of what kind of country it is we intend to be. What it is we want to stand for in the world and how we would like to be remembered when the history of our time is written. 

	Now as we meet here tonight in the course of these remarks that I will deliver, if we keep up the pace that we have set over the past six months, 100,000 pounds of deadly bombs will fall, in the course of these remarks, on the people of Southeast Asia. As I speak to you tonight, hundreds of American pilots and airmen are confined to their prison cells in Hanoi; some of then have been there in those cells for seven years. More than 100,000 Americans are still mired down in this war. The President talks about winding it down, and he has withdrawn forces from Vietnam. But upwards of 150,000, including those in Vietnam and offshore and in Thailand, in Guam, whose direct assignment is to continue the combat in Indochina are still ground down in that bitter struggle. And as I speak, hundreds of Asians at this very moment are burning and bleeding and dying under the bombs that fall from American planes. Most of those people are dying in a conflict and a struggle over which they have no control; many of them are innocent children, many are the old; but none of them have direct responsibility for the conflict that takes their lives. And I want you to know tonight that every fiber of my being, every ounce of moral sense that I possess, is determined to do whatever we have to do in 1972 to see that we don't have another four more years of this barbarism.

	Now in the presidential campaign of 1968, the Republican presidential candidate in his most unctuous and serious tones said that he had a plan for peace that he did not want to unveil in the course of a political campaign for fear it would disrupt the Paris peace talks. But he said once the campaign was over his plan would be unveiled and then he added, on October 9, 1968, almost four years ago, "those who have had the chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance." Now today that candidate is President of the United States and his four years are up. The tragedy is that this secret plan--which I have always thought depended on the President's false hopes that somehow he could make a deal with Moscow to bring an end to this war--that secret plan will remain forever a secret in the heart of 20,000 young Americans who were alive at the time that plan was announced and who are no longer with us. And it will remain a secret to countless tens of thousands of human beings in these little countries in Southeast Asia who have died under aerial and artillery bombardment since January of 1969.

	Now what is it that keeps a great and decent country like the United States involved in this utterly senseless and cruel killing and destruction that has gone on now for another four years? Why is it that we cannot find the wit and the will to escape from this dreadful conflict that has tied us down for so many years? We are told, first of all, that the bombs continue and our military presence continues in order to rescue the prisoners of war. What a fraud on the American people that a supposedly sensible leader would try to sell that bill of goods to the families of these prisoners of war. We know that recently three prisoners of war have been released in the wake of Ramsey Clark's visit to North Vietnam. But last week the one hundredth American in the last five months was blasted out of the sky and is either locked away as a prisoner or missing in action. More than 550 airmen have become prisoners or missing in action since Mr. Nixon set out on this course to free the prisoners of war. Surely, we can all see that bombing does not release prisoners but that it does create more prisoners with each passing day. It will make new prisoners of men who at this very moment are now free. Men who have not yet been sent out on these murderous bombing missions that not only kill people below but that each day adds to the list of American prisoners of war. And only one thing will bring these prisoners of war back to the United States and that is the return of peace and an end of this war in Southeast Asia.

	I had a brief argument with a young man at a Western Electric plant in Columbus, Ohio, this morning, who is one of many Americans who has been told, and I suspect sincerely believes, that we are staying in Vietnam and that the bombers go out day after day on behalf of self-determination and freedom for the peoples of Vietnam. What a tragic deception that is. General Thieu's brand of freedom means jail for anyone who has the audacity to tell the truth about what is going on in South Vietnam. It means that if you have the courage to run against him for the presidency of the United States, as the lawyer Mr. Dzu did four years ago, that you go to the penitentiary for five years. It means forcing a law through his puppet assembly to disqualify all other candidates. His brand of democracy recently has meant suspending the electoral process and village control in ten thousand villages across the face of South Vietnam. And anyone even vaguely aware of the importance of village life to the people of this part of the world knows what a cruel and terrible blow that is to the whole political and social structure of the people of this little country. His brand of democracy means closing down on the newspapers anytime an editor has the courage to suggest that there might be something wrong in the administration in Saigon. 

	General Thieu's brand of self-determination and freedom and the dignity of man which we are supposed to stand for around the world means executing more than 38,000 of his fellow countrymen without a trial because they are politically suspect of not supporting the government. It means a government that literally seethes with corruption of the worst kind--with officials who steal our aid, with high officials who traffic in hard drugs that send poisonous, killing heroin into the veins of 100,000 American GI's. And it is now flowing into this country as a principal source of the drugs that not only kill our people and destroy their lives, but that is probably responsible for 50 percent of the crime that makes it unsafe to be on the streets of the cities of this country. Now Mr. Nixon told us on Monday that we ought to cut off military and economic aid to any government that traffics in hard drugs. I would suggest that the place to begin is with his friend General Thieu in Saigon.

	Now we are also told that there is a third reason that we are in Vietnam, and I suspect this helped explain the anger of my young friend in Columbus, Ohio, this morning. We are told that the bombs fall so that America's honor will be preserved. How many of us know what is really happening to the honor of America in Southeast Asia; and how we have suffered in terms of our moral posture in the world because of this business of death and killing that has gone on in the name of America? We are told that the war is winding down and that our combat role is ended. And it is a fact that American casualties are down and the economic costs have been somewhat reduced. But another kind of cost has escalated.

	The war now, more than at any stage since we have been involved in Southeast Asia, has now become an assault on the decency and self-respect of the people of this great country. For what we now present to the world is the spectacle of the richest and most powerful country in all of the history of mankind standing off at a safe distance and raining down our terrible technology of death on helpless people below. The most incredible and murderous bombardment in all of the history of mankind: 3.7 million tons of bombs dropped since 1969 under this present administration; six million civilian victims, dead, maimed, or made homeless by this kind of destruction; twenty million bomb craters scarring the face of Indochina. And those of you concerned about the environment of our own country think what we have done to the ecology and the environment of Southeast Asia, all of this in the name of saving those people from terror and destruction. We seem to reflect the saying that "one man killed is murder, but thousands killed is a statistic." And I fear that this war has gone on so long that many of our people have come to accept it as a way of life. 

	I was looking at my own son, the other day, who is now twenty years old. It is hard for me to believe that the first time I spoke out against this war he was a little boy nine years of age, and all of this has transpired throughout his life. We have counted bodies so long, and somehow they just don't seem to count anymore at all. I think, sometimes, we need to listen to how the war seems to the people who are on the receiving end. Listen to this young father in Laos: "My son is six years old. We are from Ban Hui. In July, 1969 we were all sitting in our little shelter out in the forest when the planes came. Two people with us--a man aged sixty and a little girl aged seven were killed lying in their beds. My little son's hand was hit and his fingers blew up, embedding themselves in the roof of our shelter." And then he goes on to tell about the death and destruction all around him that has transpired in the months since then.

	The strikes come with new weapons and new techniques And these weapons have a very special purpose--they cannot blow up a bridge most of them, they cannot destroy a structure, they do not stop a truck or even penetrate a rubber tire. Many of them have only one military purpose at all and that is to kill human beings. We have, for, example, a bomb that we call the pineapple. And I want to show you what it looks like. This is a pineapple bomb, it has 250 little steel pellets, they blow apart on impact. One American bomber carries 2,000 of these bombs. And when that bomb load is let loose it means that 250,000 of these little pellets, that are capable of doing nothing except tearing human flesh, are set loose. It can saturate an entire area and kill or maim or wound every living thing within an area the size of four football fields. And these are the things that are being dropped hour by hour on the people of Indochina in the name of protecting the honor of America and advancing the self-determination of the peoples of Asia. We have developed other bombs that explode above the ground so that they can reach down into the little shelters that people have dug to protect themselves. This is one of those. When it hits, when it explodes, it has an effect of bouncing somewhat so that the shrapnel can come down into areas that can't be reached by a rifle bullet or by an ordinary bomb. We have others, known as the steel fleshette bomb, that can penetrate skin in such a way that it cannot be removed. We have napalm, which is jellied gasoline that sticks to the skin as it burns. We have white phosphorous bombs that cannot be extinguished until they literally burn themselves out.

	Now these are some of the weapons that produced that picture we saw in the press a few weeks ago of the little girl, Kim, running away from a school that had been hit by American napalm. She was naked, her clothing had been in flames, her flesh was burned and she was running directly into the lens of a cameraman nearby. I want to say to my fellow Americans that that picture ought literally to break the heart of the people of this country if we understand what its meaning is. We are told that it was accidental that they hit the school, that it was supposed to be a bomb that fell someplace else and that we did not intend to bomb this school in South Vietnam. But how many of us think that the tragedy would have been any less if it had been a little nine year old girl running away from a North Vietnamese school? These are the questions that I am going to force the people of this country to examine before they make their judgment on November 7th.

	It is good to know that American forces have been withdrawn in the numbers they have, and my heart aches for every one of these young Americans who is still tied down to this terrible war. I have been to Vietnam on several occasions and have spent most of the time talking to the American GIs who are stationed there, and I know that a sizable percentage of them are sick at heart over what they are asked to do. But does it make our honor any less questionable that we have reduced the number of American casualties while we have increased the number of bodies dying under this murderous artillery and aerial bombardment. I ask if we are more honorable because the color of the bodies has changed from white to yellow. I think not, for the blood is still red, and the pain is still as great. I think not, because when we think of the people of Indochina, we have to know, in our more thoughtful moments, that they too are created in the image of God. The war does not represent the honor of America at all, and it does not represent, in my opinion, the decency of the American people of which Senator Muskie spoke.

	I have traveled this country I think as intensively as anyone over the past two years, and I have looked into the eyes of troubled people in every part of this country. I know that they are not all primarily worried about the war. Some are worried about inflation, which in itself is a by-product of the war. Some are worried about the deterioration of our cities, the mounting crime and drugs, the deterioration of our environment, and much of that can be attributed to the $150 billion we have thrown away in Southeast Asia that we should have used reconstructing and redeeming our own country. But there is one thing I do believe that the American people have in common. I think they want very much to love this country. They want to be proud of it, they want it to stand for the ideals that gave us birth some 200 years ago--ideals that we are going to commemorate in this very city, especially in 1976. So I urge here again tonight, as I have so many, many times in recent years, that we bring this deeply troubled country of ours home to the great ideals with which we began. I ask you to come with me in an effort to restore America to the kind of a great and good and decent land that I think our people want it to be. That is my hope and my prayer for the people of America.
DICTATORSHIPSDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIES--SOUTHEAST ASIAPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPOWS/MIASPACIFISMVIETNAM WAR     B sB mB iB aB
 UB PB KB ?B 3B 1B 1B 'B	 ~ 	 q 	 D 	      e: