

	[Missing text] and we're here tonight and we will be in the weeks immediately ahead not just to welcome George McGovern but to arouse all of Ohio to the opportunity [missing text] and this wonderful audience who have waited so patiently for our arrival. I want to say to you who are on the outside of the fence, we love you just as much, and once the election is over we are going to take down some of the fences of this country, and we are all going to work at being brothers and sisters again, which is what America is all about. I am deeply honored to be introduced by Jack Gilligan, the governor of this state, not only because it is a great and important state in terms of changing our hopes in 1972, but also because of the kind and good and decent man he is and what he stands for in the politics of this country. And I am pleased also at what I read on the signs that are being held aloft--I am pleased to see this sign that says "Homeward Bound America".

	I am glad to see that the United Auto Workers are here and the Communications Workers and the teachers and students from Ohio State University and Dennison University, but maybe the sign--we try to arrange one of those at every rally just to symbolize the way the Democratic party is taking off, but I think the sign I like best of all is the one that says "Nixon, four more months." I realize that at the recent Republican National Convention at Miami Beach which was hailed as a well-managed and well-orchestrated political convention that they took up a cry that we had not heard before which apparently is the slogan for this campaign of the Republicans, and as I recall it was a chant of the Republicans saying "four more years."

	Now I want to ask everyone here to think seriously about what that means. I realize that when we Democrats come before the people of this country asking for your confidence and asking for your support over the next four years that we are asking for a tremendous expression of confidence and it ought not to be taken lightly when a candidate for the presidency of the United States asks you to trust the fate of this country in his hands for a period of four more years. But the same thing ought to be true with our friends of the opposition, and so I ask you to think about young Americans still dying in Southeast Asia, to think about our bombers going out month after month and day after day destroying and killing all across Indochina, and I ask you whether we want four more years of that. And I ask everyone here in the state of Ohio and all across this country to consider very carefully what has happened to our opportunities for jobs in this country at a time when there are perhaps six million able-bodied men and women out of work who would like to work, and I ask you whether we want four more years of the policies that produced that kind of unemployment in this country. I ask you to think about the wiretappers who invaded the Democratic National Committee, and I ask you to remember that political agents who will invade the headquarters of a major national party would not hesitate to put a wiretap on the phone in your office, in your legal firm, in your union, at your university or even in your home, and I ask you if we want four more years of that kind of policy.

	Now I am convinced that all of us in this country love America enough so that we want to call this country to a higher standard, and I say here again tonight as I have said on other occasions that as we approach the 200th anniversary of the birth of our country--and as we approach the 200th anniversary of the revolution that was consecrated to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness--that the time has come to call this country home to the great ideals that once gave us birth two centuries ago. And we ought to begin that call to our country to come home by putting an end to the longest and cruelest and most savage war in all the history of this country. So I make this pledge here tonight--it is not a secret plan--it is an open and public commitment that I mean from the very depths of my spirit that if we win this election on November 7th and we take over the White House on January 20th within ninety days of that Inauguration we will have every American soldier and every American prisoner back in their homes. 

	Now I believe that ending the war is not the most difficult problem that faces the next President of the United States, but until we end that war we are not going to have the energies and the concentrations of leadership that we need to deal with the problems at home. What are those problems? To me problem number one is to undertake economic policies that will stimulate private industry and that combined with that will provide public service employment so that through that combination of government and free enterprise working together we can guarantee a job for every man and woman in this country who is able to work. And then we need to set about a second long overdue task in this country and that is to modernize and update our tax structure so that everyone pays their fair share. Now some of my Republican critics say that the Democrats want to soak the rich. We don't want to soak the rich--we just want them to pay their fair share--nothing more and nothing less. 

	There is something wrong with a tax structure that permits a $150,000-a-year corporate executive to deduct from his tax obligation a $20 martini luncheon and a working man or a student or a farmer can't deduct the cost of a baloney sandwich--that is not fair. And beyond that, I am tired of a government that consistently over the last four years had advocated one course in public while secretly plotting an entirely different course behind the closed doors at the White House. Now I believe in the free enterprise system--I believe in the competition between the business and industrial units of this country. What I don't believe in is the kind of under-the-table deals that permitted ITT to escape the breach of our antitrust laws about a year ago, and I do not believe that any thoughtful, fair-minded American can defend an arrangement in which a great conglomerate of that kind is faced with an antitrust action and then we read where an enormous political contribution, perhaps extending to $400,000, is contributed to the Republican National Convention. Is it just a coincidence that in the wake of that kind of deal the antitrust action was dropped and another merger took place? To me that is the kind of special interest favoritism that has not a place in a free society.

	Now I come from one of the most agricultural states in the United States and we depend more heavily on the produce and the income of our farms per capita than any other state in the Union. But you don't have to be a farmer, you don't have to live in a farm state, to know that there is something wrong with the way our governor handled this recent grain deal with the Soviet Union. Here was an opportunity for several hundred million dollars to be earned by the wheat farmers and the grain producers of this country in a perfectly valid objective, which is to sell wheat to people who are willing to pay cash for it but, unfortunately, insiders in the Department of Agriculture, some of whom are now working as the vice presidents of a handful of great grain corporations, gave that information in advance to three or four great exporting corporations and the profit on the increase in prices and grain that should have gone to the hardworking farm people that produced that grain went into the hands of three or four of the great grain corporations of this country. And I say that is a moral and economic outrage that has to be corrected. I don't think it is just accidental that Mr. Nixon has a $10 million secret campaign fund whose contributors he will not divulge. The question is why--why does the President of the United States insist on keeping secret the names of the people who contributed some $10 million to his campaign. 

	I am not boasting about what we have done in this campaign, but I am telling you that for the last year and a half we have published the name, the address, and the amount of money contributed of every single dollar that has come into this Democratic presidential campaign. And we can only ask here tonight, and I think it is legitimate: is the Board of Directors of Lockheed that got bailed out by this administration on that list? Do we find on that secret list that top people in these great grain corporations that gave farmers a pitchfork in the back on this recent grain deal with the Soviet Union? And those are the kinds of questions that I intend to keep pressing, and we are going to do everything we can, not only to find out the names on this secret list but we are even going to try and make the President come out in the open and face the people and face his opponent in this important presidential contest.

	Now I want everyone here to listen very carefully to what I have to say about the finances of this presidential campaign. We need money too. We need television money, we need radio money, we need newspaper advertisements, we need pamphlets, we need registration, we need telephoning and we need all of these things that are necessary to bring our message to the people of this country. We don't have these big special secret funds behind us, but I want to ask everybody here, no matter how poor you are, to think seriously about contributing something to this campaign. Those of you who are students or housewives or farmers or working people--go to your friends, your neighbors, your associates and ask them to contribute something to make this truly a people's campaign. If you do that we will not only win this election, we will have a President in the White House who is put there by the people of this country and who knows no obligation to anyone other than the people of this country.

	So I am back here in Columbus tonight because I believe very deeply in what we are attempting to do in this campaign to restore the government of our country to the hands of the people, to restore this nation to peace and to bring some semblance of common sense to the way we are handling our economic and social priorities here at home. This is the thing that keeps me going night and day and I know--I don't have to be told--that we are the underdog in this campaign, but remember that was the same thing that was said about John Kennedy in 1960, it was the same thing that was said about Harry Truman in 1948, and it is the same thing that has been said about other people who have undertaken this race for the presidency of the United States. And if you stand with us and persevere and don't pay too much attention to these public opinion polls, I have no doubt that when the votes are counted on November 7th, Ohio will be in the Democratic column. And if we win Ohio, we are going to win the nation and we are going to make America once again the great and good land that it ought to be. 

	Thank you and God bless you.
AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONCAMPAIGN FINANCECAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCEINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESJOB GROWTH/CREATIONMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSTAX REFORMVIETNAM WAR     , ], W, S, K,
 ?, :, 5, -, +, ', , 	,	  	  	  	 o 	 X 	 @ 	 - 	  	  e: