

	Last Thursday evening, I discussed with you our first essential in keeping the peace. Tonight we discuss the other essential.

	I spoke of some of the problems and urgent needs of our national defense. I talked of my conviction--which I believe you share--that, in the current state of the world, if we are to keep the peace, America must stay both resolute and strong.

	But military strength is not enough. A peace that will endure cannot come from a continuing fighting-cock stance between the United States and the Soviet Union, each intimidating the other with weapons of apocalyptic power. A precarious peace that is the product of a continuous confrontation between the world's two super powers will always be subject to a sudden, catastrophic end. We must move away from confrontation in this nuclear age into a new era--the era of negotiation.

	Let us understand, first of all, that the awesome thermonuclear weapons have radically changed international affairs. Every one of us knows that these weapons are both wasteful and costly--and also that nuclear missiles and submarines and other weapons of mass destruction endanger human survival.

	Yet, history tells us it is not weapons but men who bring on wars. That is why last Thursday I said, "If we let those who threaten world peace outpace us, in time we will generate tensions which could lead to war."

	We prayerfully hope that reason will prevail among leaders of the Soviet Union and Communist China. We hope that through patient dialogue we and our opponents can one day arrive at meaningful and trustworthy ways to limit arms and other paraphernalia of war and ultimately dispose of them entirely.

	In the meantime, we must urgently concern ourselves with the control of weapons of mass destruction. Of course, arms control does not eliminate the military balance--it attempts to create a new and safer balance. Even if we and our adversaries were to destroy all weapons, we would not have eliminated the balance of war-making capabilities. We would simply move to a new balance, with the advantage moving to the side best able quickly to adapt its civilian resources to military purposes.

	Our Department of Defense and our arms control and disarmament agency share the same objective--the enhancement of our national security. Their perspectives, while different, are complementary.

	There are two kinds of arms control measures. First, are those measures we take independently on our own--measures we take because they are in our own interest, even though they also benefit our adversaries.

	For example, we have established elaborate safeguards to prevent an accidental launching or detonation of a nuclear weapon. Our precautions to reduce the danger of accidental war are in our own interest, but they are no less in the interest of our allies and our adversaries as well.

	The second kind of arms control measure requires reciprocal action. This requires an agreement and enough exchange of information to assure each side of the other's compliance. The greater this informational exchange, the greater are the prospects for mutually advantageous arms control agreements.

	For this reason, one of our major goals must be to convince the Soviet Union that its obsession with secrecy does not bring security. On the contrary, it impedes measures that would increase the security of everyone. The more openness we can achieve, the more extensive will be the agenda of possible arms control measures, and the greater our prospect of reaching larger agreements that will advance the security of all.

	But progress will escape us entirely unless we set our priorities straight.

	Our first priority must be to convince actual and potential troublemakers in the world that aggression will not pay. Once they are convinced of this, they will be better disposed to work with us toward international stability.

	Since the end of the Second World War, we have reached two constructive agreements with the Soviet Union. One--the Austrian State Treaty, concluded in 1955--removed Soviet and Western forces from occupied Austria. This treaty was the product of the prudent but firm diplomacy of the Eisenhower years, when our power was adequate and our commitments were credible.

	The next administration initially had the same objectives as the Eisenhower administration. But its priorities were wrong. It attempted to reach for a relaxation of tension and constructive negotiation without maintaining the credibility of American commitment and power. The result was not an immediate improvement of relations, or even fruitful negotiations, but the most dangerous Soviet offensive of the Cold War, which began over Berlin and was finally stopped in the perilous Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. Then, after the Soviets were convinced that their tactics of intimidation had become too risky, we moved on to negotiate the partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.

	A new administration will establish at the outset the prerequisites and incentives for realistic negotiation on arms control and other outstanding issues. We will do this, not through dangerous confrontation, but through alert, quiet, preventive diplomacy.

	Always, in considering these agreements, we must focus on our ultimate objectives, and not become obsessed with the means. A reduction of armaments on both sides is desirable only if it produces a more stable military balance; it is clearly not desirable if it produces instability and hence threatens to breach the peace.

	We must also distinguish between conventional and nuclear weapons, seeking always to reduce the chances of a nuclear exchange. But our overriding purpose must be to eliminate all temptation to war, nuclear or conventional.

	In short, for arms control to be successful, we must first establish prerequisites and incentives, and this requires a cooperative pursuit of common objectives. We will succeed, first, to the extent that we can convince our adversaries to share our interest in stability and to rely on peaceful, not military, means for effecting change. Second our success will depend not so much on mutual trust as on mutual knowledge, so that each side can know with reasonable assurance what the other is about.

	Perhaps our most difficult choice is not the one most often mentioned--the argument between the hard line and the soft line, or between the s0-called hawks and doves. Rather, the choice is between arms control agreements that are sensible and realistic, and those which in the end might prove to be illusory and deceptive.

	The choice is not between the reservation of the present world order and some quick and easy alternative, but rather between attempting to maintain peace and failure to do so.

	I therefore pledge continuation of efforts to reach meaningful arms control agreements with our adversaries. We will build upon those initiated by President Eisenhower--particularly his dramatic "Open Skies" proposal--and those also advanced by his successors.

	In the final analysis, the essential condition for a more stable world of law must be the settlement of the basic issues that divide the world. Once this is accomplished, no nation would need to engage in an arms race to ensure its own security.

	To achieve a stable world order we must synchronize or national security programs and the search for arms control and disarmament agreements--all the while seeking the settlement of the deep-rooted political issues which divide us. For success, all of these elements must be pursued simultaneously.

	Tonight I wish to set forth the objectives and principles which I will follow in the search for meaningful arms control agreements.

	My program will be based on the assumption that East and West will continue to carry on technological competition, for we live in a world of dynamic scientific and technological innovations. Today, as never before, sudden technological breakthroughs can rapidly alter the balance of power. Clearly, the cause of peace is not served by sudden and decisive changes in this balance, which generate fear, distrust and misunderstanding.

	In a very real sense, we are constantly arming and disarming at the same time, as new weapons are phased in and older ones phased out. Technology will not stand still for the arms controller any more than it does for the military planner. The initial purpose of arms control is not to deliver a final "package," but to establish a framework of consultation which will enable us, our allies, and our adversaries to cope with the onrush of technology in a cooperative way.

	This bears on the kind of inspection system and information exchange we should press for. It is important for us to know as accurately as possible the quality and quantity of the Soviet weapons inventory. But it is even more important for us to know at least approximately what kinds of weapons they have in production at any given time. The real question in an environment of dynamic technological change is which side will achieve something new. Thus, a general openness which will permit rapid cooperation in coping with new developments in military technology is ultimately more important than detailed inspection agreements for existing armaments which may quickly become obsolete.

	Hence, in an environment of continuing technological innovation, the United States and the Soviet Union must strive to attain reliable arms control agreements which serve their mutual interests.

	I have repeatedly stated in this campaign that not only do I favor the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, but I fully expect to implement it in my new administration. I remain convinced that Senate approval and ratification of this treaty were properly delayed because of the sudden, brutal Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia--a delay also favored by our European allies. In January the Senate will undoubtedly reassess Soviet intentions in Central and Western Europe; I am hopeful that we can then proceed with this important treaty.

	We share the world's hope that the spread of nuclear weapons will be arrested. We cannot count on it. Even the most successful conclusion to the Non-Proliferation Treaty cannot automatically prevent other nations from seeking to acquire nuclear capabilities.

	At the present time, one of the minor nuclear powers is following an irresponsible and mischievous foreign policy. In the future, other nuclear-armed states might display a similar inclination. The possible use of nuclear weapons by third parties threatens instability in all the rest of the world. These are matters which transcend the common interests of the major powers, and go to the heart of the problem of world peace.

	Beyond the non-proliferation treaty--and utilizing the channels of diplomacy, our existing arms control machinery, and, where appropriate, the United Nations--I will undertake these initiatives:

	(1) In the spirit of President Eisenhower's "Open Skies" proposal, I will seek agreement for the exchange of information with the Soviet Union regarding the location of our respective offensive and defensive forces. I propose the establishment, under appropriate international auspices, of a reconnaissance satellite agency to gather and to make available such information to both parties;

	(2) I will work for administrative, technical, or political arrangements to minimize the risk of a nuclear accident, unauthorized use of nuclear weapons, precipitate response to an apparent crisis, or strategic miscalculation of an adversary's intentions;

	(3) There will be programs of weapons research, development and deployment, as well as the evolution of a strategic doctrine, stressing the nonbelligerent aspects of our national security posture;

	(4) We will effectively use modern technology to improve facilities for emergency communications between us and our adversaries, and between the United States and our NATO allies;

	(5) We will maintain the critical distinction between nuclear forces and strategies on the one hand, and conventional forces and strategies on the other;

	(6) We will seek international agreements to restrict the sale or transfer of conventional arms and delivery systems to countries in "tinderbox" areas; and,

	(7) Most important, we will press for long-needed changes in the neglected machinery for consultation on arms control measures with our European allies. Specifically, I will propose the formation within NATO of an arms control body. This group would coordinate national arms control and security policies within the framework of alliance responsibilities. It would also develop joint arms control proposals. These proposals, developed in partnership under NATO auspices, might lead to a real reduction of our military forces levels in Europe, with comparable reductions of Soviet forces in Eastern Europe.

	Our search for peace will require patience, skill and determination. Negotiations on the limitation of weapons will span months, even years. But they will not take place in a vacuum, as both sides--in the absence of effective agreements, continually labor to prove their offensive and defensive capabilities.

	While negotiations proceed, then, we cannot allow our strength to undergo a radical downward change. The maintenance of United States superiority in a world still ruled by force will remain a requirement for our security and for the undergirding of peace. It is for this reason that I must again emphasize the necessity of maintaining our strength.
NATO (NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION)WEAPONS PROLIFERATION--MINOR POWERSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)SOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     6 5 5 5 5
 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 v5	  	 m  J   e: