

	Mr. President, Senator Carlson, Senator Darby, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, and the delegates and guests of the Future Farmers organization: it's a very great privilege for me to take a break from campaigning to appear before this organization, and I was just thinking as I looked at all of the states named down here that this is the first time that I have appeared at a meeting in the campaign where all the states are represented since our own national convention in Miami.

	I also realize from having noted that you not only have a president but several vice presidents that there is probably a little politics played in this organization too. I too wanted to tell you that when I sent the wire to your convention that I did so based on several appearances before state organizations, but never one before the national organization previously.

	And I am delighted to see this great attendance, all the enthusiasm that you have for the cause in which you are engaged. I suppose that I should identify myself with you, if I could, by my own agricultural background. Naturally, being a lawyer, having been trained in the law, you would not suppose that that came from any agriculture background, but you will find that everyone in this country probably has a little bit of a farm, of the country, in him.

	I grew up in California and in my early days of my life up until I was in the fifth grade we lived on a lemon ranch in California. Now, it wasn't a very successful venture. My dad said it was probably the worst and poorest lemon ranch in the whole country. That's why he sold it and we eventually got a grocery store and went on from there to other occupations.

	I went back to that lemon ranch that we had in California, Yorba Linda, California, just a few days ago, and a very interesting development has occurred. They found too that it wouldn't grow lemons, and so they sold it to the school district and they built an elementary school on it. And then they were very kind. It was the town in which I was born, I was born in the house on that ranch, so they named the school for me, the Richard Nixon School. Of course, I was very complimented about that.

	Now; however, you know, once you get something like that you get a little greedy--you want something more. And this year I am trying to get a college named for me. I was thinking maybe the Electoral College, if that could be worked out.

	But I want you to know that while my agricultural background will not qualify with yours, that my wife's can. We did not know each other until after she had been graduated from the University of Southern California and was teaching school in Whittier, California, but before that time she grew up in Artesia and she was not a member of Future Farmers, but she was a member of 4-H, and one of her proudest possessions is a Blue Ribbon she won for raising a prize pig in Artesia, California. So, you see, you have got some real competition on the feminine side of the family, at least.

	Now, in speaking to you today in the brief period that I have, I naturally am going to stay away from national politics. This is a nonpolitical organization. You are Democrats and Republicans and Independent voters; some of you, of course, in the future, I am very confident, will enter national politics. I hope you will, as I will indicate as I conclude my remarks today.

	But it did seem to me that an organization like this was one in which it might be well to put in perspective American agriculture as it relates to our problems in the nation and our problems in the world. And I say it is important to put it in perspective for several reasons that most of you are quite aware of.

	In this year 1968 many of the political pundits constantly make the point that the farm vote is no longer decisive in the United States and many even suggest that it is not too important. And they point to the fact that only 6 percent of the population of the United States is needed to run the farms and, therefore, that when we think of power blocs and voting blocs that the farm vote doesn't add up very high in the percentages, unless you go to some of the great agricultural states of the Midwest or the South.

	I simply want you to know that in terms of the nation, apart from the political effect of farmers as a voting bloc, this kind of analysis misses the mark. I was looking at some figures this morning that bring home to me, as it will bring home to you, the tremendous importance of a healthy, strong agriculture to the United States of America.

	It is true that 6 percent of the population of America produces all the food and fiber that is necessary to feed and clothe this country and also enough to export and give away billions abroad in a Food For Peace Program. It is also true that as we compare our achievement in agriculture with that of our major competitor in the world, competitor in many ways, the Soviet Union, that whereas 6 percent of our population is engaged in agricultural production, approximately 45 percent of the population of the Soviet Union is engaged in such production.

	And while there are differences, of course, in climate and soil and we have to take all that into account, nevertheless, primarily because of the tremendous efficiency of the American farm, and I am speaking of farm in the broad sense that all of you understand it, the modern sense, not only of growing but transporting and storing and credit, agribusiness, as it's called, because of that tremendous efficiency we find that in this area there is no question about the United States being first.

	It is our major advantage over the Soviet Union. As a matter of fact, it is our major advantage over any other potential competitor in the free world or any other part of the world today.

	And the point that I make is this. Today we look to America's cities and we see how great they are. We look to America's business community and we see how much it produces, and it is a magnificent achievement. We look to what America has done in the field of production and the production and assembly lines of automobiles and steel and the rest, of course, surpass all of those in the world.

	But if there is one area in which the American achievement is most remarkable and which too often we do not pay attention to it as much as we should, it's in the area of agriculture.

	And now let me put this in perspective. The reason that we do not give the credit to agriculture that we should is that we are blessed, and I say "blessed" quite deliberately, with so much production that it requires a farm policy that is controversial. And I know in this group we probably have a little disagreement on that point.

	I find it, for example, between the various farmers' organizations. As you know, you can go to a Farm Bureau meeting and get one point of view. You can go to a farmers' union meeting and get another point of view. You can go to a grange meeting and get another. And the independent farmer may not agree with any of them. But, nevertheless, the point that I make is that when we talk about the problems of agriculture and we talk about the amount that it is necessary in order to maintain the price support program, let us never forget that the production of American agriculture is the major source of America's strength in maintaining our industrial capability, in maintaining our military strength, in maintaining our position of leadership in the world.

	Now, let me put it in another perspective. Today, still circling the earth and preparing to make the landing on the moon is the Apollo spacecraft. It's a very exciting venture for all of us. I met the men who are on that craft when I was in Houston a few days ago and, of course, all of us are tremendously thrilled by their accomplishment. And yet we are aware of the fact that Mr. Webb, the head of the Space Agency, when he resigned a few days ago, had to admit that overall in space the United States was not first, but second.

	Let's look at America's military strength in the world. There, whereas it is true that a few years ago there was no question about our being first in land based missiles and many other areas, today a question is being raised as to whether or not the Soviet Union may have caught us in various areas and may pass us. We may be second in military strength, particularly where missiles and nuclear capability insofar as overall ability to hit a particular area is concerned is involved.

	And in the field of basic research, here again many Americans have expressed concern lately that the United States may have fallen from or may be falling from a position of first to second. So much for that.

	In the area of agriculture, we are first. There is no question that we will remain first. It is vital that we remain first and we must remain first because agriculture is the basis of any kind of overall productivity that a nation may have.

	And now may I take you briefly around the world and then back to the United States, and I will be through. Look at the American foreign aid programs. This nation has been very generous in its foreign aid. We put out $150 billion  in foreign aid in the last twenty years to countries abroad. Much of it was necessary. Much of it has been most worthwhile. Look at the nations of Europe, what they have accomplished as a result of our aid.

	But when we look to the so-called underdeveloped nations of the world, we find a very significant fact, that while our aid has been helpful in some areas, in the area in which the United States is preeminent, in the area in which we know the most, in the area in which we have the most know how, we have not succeeded, and I mean the area of agriculture.

	That doesn't mean we don't have many fine people from the Department of Agriculture and many volunteers and many in the Peace Corps and others who are working on agriculture projects in other underdeveloped countries around the world. But let me give you some examples. Latin America. When I was in Peru, the President of Peru, Mr. Belaunde, he was president then, there has been a coup d'etat since then, but Mr. Belaunde told me that in Peru a country potentially is very rich in agricultural production, that the problem there was not the growing of crops but the fact that 50 percent of everything grown in Peru spoils on the way from farm to market. They do not understand. They have not yet developed the high techniques that we have developed in this country, as I said, of the whole complex that you so well understand of agribusiness.

	And then I went over to Brazil. This great giant, a sleeping giant, one that is awakening, the country of the future in Latin America, and maybe in this hemisphere. And in Brazil, a country with immense poverty and terrible hunger in many areas of it, the president of that country, Costa e Silva told me that 50 percent of everything grown in Brazil spoils on the way to farm and market. They don't have the storage capabilities, they don't have the transportation capabilities, they don't have the packaging and the merchandising capabilities that you, we in America have developed in our agriculture.

	And then we take a great country like India, and you often hear that the problem in India is population, that there are four hundred million people in that country, and it seems to be parched and full of famine, and the rest. And yet when you look at India, I was seeing a study the other day which indicated that if India really went all out in terms of a modern agricultural establishment, that continent could produce three times as much food as was necessary to feed the four hundred million people in India. They could support one billion two hundred million people.

	Now, what does all this mean? What it means very simply, is that here in America we have a strength, a strength that sometimes we tend to overlook because that strength is so great it creates problems, the problems of surpluses.

	But looking at that strength, let us also recognize that as we look down to the end of this century, America has a strength that it can share with the rest of the world. I know that most of you are going to have very wonderful and productive lives in building the agricultural economy of this country so that America can continue to be first in agriculture here. But I am sure that some of you, and I hope some of you will undertake assignments in countries abroad, as it must be undertaken, because instead of going to so many of these countries abroad and putting so much emphasis on industrialization, we must remember that whether it's India or whether it's Brazil or whether it's Peru or whether it's Chile or whether it's any of the underdeveloped countries, they must learn as we have learned that the basis for a strong industrial society is a strong agriculture.

	And what can America do? We have the wisdom, we have the experience, we have the talent that could teach them how. And so when we speak of foreign aid, speak of it in the broadest sense, I have said and I say again to this great audience, you men of the future, you men that are going to determine what kind of a continent and world we are going to live on in the year 2000 when you will be as old as I am and are going to be looking back to this year 1968 and see what happened in the intervening period--but I would say that to the extent that American agriculture can take the message abroad so that other nations can learn to feed themselves and clothe themselves through their productivity, as we have, this will determine the kind of a world we live in.

	And one fact that will bring it home. The population of this world is going to double between now and the year 2000. In terms of that population increase, five-sixths of it will come in the poorer nations of the world. Right today, during the two hours that you will sit here in this meeting, one thousand people will die of starvation some place in the world. Twelve thousand a day die today. And in the event that population increase occurs without a corresponding increase, not simply in what America does in exporting its foods, but in what the rest of the world does in developing this capacity, it means that we are going to be confronted with worldwide hunger and world-wide famine to a degree that we have never experienced it before.

	So as we have conquered pestilence through our medicines, we must also conquer this problem of production and conquer it with the kind of talent we have in the United States.

	And I come back to my basic point. Yes, it's true, only 6 percent of the population of America lives on our farms, only 6 percent of the workers in America and the managers are needed to produce what America needs in agriculture. But what a great power, what a great strength it is, how much you give to this country, and how much you can give to the world and the kind of a world we live in.

	And I say to you, and I am speaking to you not in terms of your youth but in terms of your maturity, because you are soon going to be running this country, you and your colleagues of your age, that this period in which we enter can be the greatest period in America's history. I think it can be and will be with your help, but it can be and will be only if the vision and the excitement and the interest that I feel in this room can be transmitted not only throughout the United States, but throughout the world.

	You have made, you and your parents who live on America's farms, a tremendous contribution to the wealth of the country and you are going to make an even greater contribution in the years ahead.

	One final word. This is about politics, politics in the partisan sense. There are in this room Republicans and Democrats and Independents, some of you will get into political campaigns and others will stand aside. And I simply want to urge all of you, get in. I hope most of you become Republicans. If you don't, become Democrats or be Independents or whatever you like, but get into the fight. And I want to tell you why.

	I often hear people who don't get into politics and political campaigns make the excuse, "Well, I don't want to get into politics because then I argue with my neighbors and I have difficulties with my friends, and I am going to stay out of it and let somebody else have those fights."

	Don't you ever believe it. Just remember that it has once been said that greatness for a people or for a nation comes from stepping up to great events, and not sitting on the sidelines while history is made by others. In the last third of this century, what happens in terms of America's leadership will be determined by the effectiveness of our political leadership, how strong the Republican party is, how strong the Democratic party is, what kind of men we contribute and develop, and how strong each becomes and what kind of people we develop at the top level will depend on the competition.

	It will depend on whether or not you, each of you, gets into politics. Don't sit on the sidelines. Get into the arena. Contribute to the cause in which you believe. You won't win them all, I know, I am an expert on that, but the most important thing is to get in and fight for the cause that you believe in, because, remember, this is a great country, we are a great people. But your true greatness will only come as you get into the arena and participate and do not sit on the sidelines.

	I wish you well. I appreciate the opportunity to address you and I know that as I see here before this audience that there is no audience looking to America's future that has in its hands more the strength, the power, not only to feed America and clothe America, but to lead America than the future farmers of America.
AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESAGRICULTURE--PRODUCTIVITYCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHCONDUCT OF LIFE--SPOUSESFOREIGN AID--THIRD WORLDHUNGER (WORLD)POLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHPOPULATION (WORLD)SOUTH AMERICASPACE EXPLORATIONWATER RESOURCES--MIDDLE EASTAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     &G F F F F
 F F F F F F F F	 	  	  	  	  	  	 ~ 	 ` 	 N 	 A 	 0   e: