

	Thank you. Thank you. Well, it's good to--thank you. Now those are two four-letter words I don't mind hearing from you.

	Before I say anything, I just--somebody has been doing a little research--every time you go somewhere, and I was told this morning that way back there in World War II, I was sent to the 70th General Hospital for treatment for injuries and the 70th General Hospital was organized and sponsored by St. Louis University Medical School. So that's good.

	So I have a real obligation to this university and I'm very proud to be here today, proud to be here with everyone in the audience, Republicans, Democrats, Independents--and those--there's always one or two who've just come to the wrong meeting. Whoever you are--you know. And they tell me you play a pretty good game of spoonball here. And I've read about it, and I've heard about it.

	And there's good reason, as Allen said, for celebration in St. Louis today, after last night's great performance by the Cardinals. If I wanted to titillate the press, I would have said the St. Louis Browns, but that's another story, you know, that's--but in any event, they got the division title. And I'm going to win a new title of my own on election night, November 5th, 1996.

	And I want to say hello--I just talked to my wife, Elizabeth, who said tell everybody hello. She does a great job. She is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her.

	Now I've been planning for a long time to be in St. Louis, because this is supposed to be the place for the first debate, but I--and I'm ready. I was ready. I'm here. But President--President Clinton is somewhere else, so hopefully we can come to St. Louis after I'm president or president-elect, and then we can just debate each other. But in any event, it's great to be here.

	No, we're not scared of Perot. No, never. No.

	And I can't wait--and I can't wait for the first debate a week from Sunday. And tune in that night, and you'll hear Bill Clinton, the President of the United States; you'll hear from Bob Dole, the next president of the United States. That's the important thing.

	And I don't know what my opponent will say in our debate, but I'll say that the American people know how to spend their money better than any government bureaucracy. They ought to give some of it back to you with tax cuts and we're going to get it done.

	And I'll say the American people haven't had a tax cut for ten years, and it's time they got one.

	And I'll say that taxes are too high so long as American families spend more on taxes than on food, clothing, and shelter combined, as they do now. And in some families, as you know, both your parents work--one full-time for the family, and the other full-time to pay the government's taxes. And that will stop in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	Don't be distracted by the noises here. It's all going to be over and we're going to win. We're going to win because we have the ideas and because we have the agenda, and because the American people understood that it's--it's your money. It's not the government's money. It is your money.

	And our opponents have a vision that puts the government in the center of your lives, and we want to take the government off the backs of families, and we will get it done with your help. We believe that the American people and all the students who are going to be out looking for jobs and opportunities are going to have a better chance if we have the Dole-Kemp economic package, and let me tell you what it's all about.

	It's a choice between two distinct visions of government and of America's future. And our opponents--they have a very--they're very liberal. President Clinton says he's not liberal. Don't believe it. He's been liberal all his life. He's a perfect liberal. The American people are going to understand he's liberal. He raised your taxes. He tried to give you the biggest health care bill in the nation's history--one-seventh of the total economy. The government was going to take it over. Oh, yes, he's liberal, all right.

	But our opponents have a vision. They want to place the government at the center of our lives; and economic growth, put that on the back burner. And President Clinton may say that the era of big government is over. Yet for nearly four years now, he's been doing anything in his power to make certain the government stays big and gets bigger and bigger and bigger, and that will end on November 5th, 1996.

	I remember--you won't hear that, of course, in the campaign. When I was in the Senate--I remember when the President was inaugurated--we all wanted to be helpful because he was the President of the United States. But in politics, actions speak louder than words. And let's remember the action.

	He came into office and he proposed his so-called stimulus package, a $16 billion pork-barrel government spending. And [missing text] what he wanted to spend it for: a bike path in Oregon, a casino in Connecticut, carousel renovations in Rhode Island, a shopping center in Indiana, an alpine slide in Puerto Rico, an indoor baseball field in Alabama--all of it at your expense or your parents' expense or somebody's expense, because somebody had to pay the bills.

	But he didn't get his second big wish--that one failed. We stopped it cold. His second big wish was a $265 billion tax increase that hit every American family, and he said he only hit the rich.

	If you were a senior citizen, you got hit. If you were a small-businessman or woman you got hit. If you drove a truck or a car you got hit, really hit with a truck or a car, at 4.3 cents--not for highways, the gas tax, but for more spending programs for President Clinton and the liberal Democrats who controlled the Congress in 1993 and 1994.

	Then his third idea, as I mentioned earlier, was a government takeover of the greatest health care system in the world--right here--the health care power grab would have cost $1.5 trillion. It imposed a total of seventeen new taxes and created fifty new bureaucracies.

	And then he says he's not liberal. I don't believe it and the American people don't believe it, either. And on November 5th we're going to demonstrate what he really is.

	So when he talks about smaller government, you better grab your wallet. You'd better grab your wallet because he's got something else in mind. And while he's saying, as I said [missing text] big government [missing text] since entering office in 1993 he has proposed 484, 484 new spending initiatives--the price tag, over $2 trillion, not billion, not million, but $2 trillion. And that's a lot--a lot of money.

	You know the late Senator Dirksen used to say, "A billion here and a billion there adds up to real money." Now we're talking about trillions, trillions, trillions. And that's a lot of money even in Washington, D.C.

	And had Republicans and Congress not said no to those initiatives it would have cost every American family about $4,000 per year. That's what's been--would have been the cost if Bill Clinton had had the liberal Congress he had in 1993 and '94.

	And since he's never offered a list of specific spending cuts, that leads to only one conclusion: he's going to have to raise taxes again on the American people to pay for all these new spending initiatives. He will do it again. He promised you in 1992. He came to Missouri, a great state, and said, "Okay, the centerpiece of my first four years will be a middle-class tax cut." Instead, you got the largest tax increase in the history of America--$265 billion.

	He will do it again. He'll promise a targeted tax cut in 1996 and then once--if he should be elected, it's not going to happen--he'll unleash a tax increase once in office--and some of his plans may already be out. Just last week Secretary Babbitt, Secretary of the Interior, former governor of Arizona--they were going out to the Grand Canyon for a photo op, and he started talking about--if they had a new idea for a tax--something nobody had thought about. He called it a win-win situation for everybody.

	Everybody wins if you pay more taxes, according to the Democrats. Unless you camp or ride a bike or take pictures or feed the birds. They're going to tax birdseed. They're going to tax birdseed, believe it or not. They're going to tax your bikes and your hiking boots and your skis and your scuba gear and your binoculars--we'll be hit with a 5 percent tax. Americans who use cameras or film or other photographic equipment would also pay special new taxes to Washington, and the list goes on and on and on.

	And that's the way it is with this administration. They tax you when you work, they tax you when you save, they tax you when you try to take some time off with your family and go hiking. If they get their way, you won't even be able to escape the IRS when you're hiking in the wilderness. Somebody will be right there following you--"Have you paid your taxes? Have you paid your taxes?" And I say it's time to put the shoe on the other foot and tell the big--the big taxers to take a hike. It's time for them to take a hike. We've taken a hike long enough.

	So--so what are we going to do about it? It's one thing to criticize--it's one thing to criticize our opponents--and they are opponents, they're not our enemies. They've got a lot of plans. They've got millions of plans for you. If you don't even have problems yet, they've got a plan for it. Ted Kennedy's got a big book full.

	I remember once on the Senate floor I was making a statement and I said, "Now, gentlemen, let me tax your memories," and Ted Kennedy jumped up and said, "Why haven't we thought of that before?" They want to tax everything.

	So, Jack Kemp and I have one big plan--our big plan is to give you back more of your hard-earned money and more of your freedom, because we believe that you can run your family better and your lives better than any government bureaucracy ever can or ever will. And I'm talking about the students, I'm talking about your parents, I'm talking about everybody in this audience. And we're going to make it happen.

	We have one big plan. It starts with a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut for every American taxpayer. It's simple. It's simple and it's straightforward. And for those with children, a $500-per-child tax credit for children under 18. I said if you have one child, that's a $500; two, $1,000--if you have ten, you're probably too busy to worry about filing taxes--that's $5,000.

	And one thing to get this country moving, to make certain you have a job when you graduate from St. Louis University, we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half by 50 percent. And we're going to eliminate the capital gains taxes for virtually all homeowners.

	And we're going to repeal Bill Clinton's tax hike on senior citizens. Your grandmother may make $34,000 a year, and if she is, she gets a big, big tax on her Social Security, because Bill Clinton has ordained that she is rich--she is rich. And I don't think that's the case. We're going to repeal all those Clinton tax hikes on seniors--about four to six million seniors.

	We're going to expand individual retirement accounts so you can save some money and use it later. It's all based on one simple belief: it is your money. It is your money. It is your money.

	And we've got a little best-selling book that's going on the market today, Trusting the People--that's another difference. We trust the people. President Clinton and Vice President Gore, they trust the government. We trust you. They trust the government. We trust you.

	We believe in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution--what does it say? It's only twenty-eight words long and it says this: unless the Constitution gives the power to the federal government or denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people--and you are the people.

	So today the government is taking more money out of the economy than ever before. As I said earlier, families are working longer and longer and taking less and less home. It now takes both spouses to make ends meet, and we don't think that should happen.

	But the bottom line under our plan--let's just take a real example--it's not a lot of money but it's a lot of money to somebody making $30,000. A family of four making $30,000 will save $1,260 on their federal tax bill. Now think about this. When you sit down to write that $1,261 check out to the IRS, wouldn't you rather write it out on a student loan or day care, or maybe a family vacation? That's what we'll say: you keep the money. The government's got plenty of your money now--they don't need any more money. You need a tax cut. You haven't had one in ten years and you're going to get one when Bob Dole and Jack Kemp are elected.

	And that's only phase one--that's only the beginning. In phase two we're going to replace the entire tax code with a fairer, flatter, simpler system, and we're going to end the IRS as we know it. We're going to end the IRS as we know it.

	I'm going to give a little pop quiz here on how many forms--we don't need a federal tax code running tens of thousands of pages. Why do we need some 480 different tax forms and another 280 forms explaining the 480 forms? That's complicated--even at St. Louis University. The answer is we don't.

	In the Dole-Kemp administration, it's going to end. It's going to end. We're going to balance the budget by the year 2002, and lock it in with a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, which President Clinton will not do. He opposes a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, and that just means--and another reason I know it's good is because the New York Times editorial said today it was no good--so I know it's good.

	The elite--the elite don't want a tax cut. They're going to get it anyway. Even former president Bill Clinton is going to get this tax cut when he's back in Little Rock, Arkansas. He'll get the tax cut.

	So you deserve a government--and I'll conclude here in a moment--that lets you keep more--I know you want to get back to class--keep more of your money and more--keep talking--well, the record's held by Strom Thurman. He once spoke for twenty-four hours and eleven minutes--and--I didn't bring him along.

	But--but you also need a government that will live up to its serious responsibilities. And I just touch on one that may affect some people and I hope that it doesn't affect anybody in this audience. Drugs are dangerous. They ruin your body, they ruin your life, they ruin your opportunities for better jobs, for families and everything else--so if you've never used drugs, don't ever use drugs.

	But what we've seen in the Clinton administration is a doubling of drug use of those between twelve and seventeen years of age. And if you don't start before you're nineteen and twenty, you probably never will use drugs. That's the good news.

	But we've a 50 percent--we've cut it 50 percent between 1979 and 1992--now it's doubled since President Clinton took office. We're going to have a war on drugs in a Dole-Kemp administration and we will use the National Guard if necessary to stop drugs getting into this country. One way to stop it is to stop the suppliers.

	And we will have a slogan--I know it's good advice, and I think it's Nike who said, "Just do it." That's all right on the basketball court. When it comes to advice about drugs, there's only one message--just don't do it. Just don't do it. Just don't do it. And we're going to repeat the message and repeat the message and repeat the message so at least people understand they ought to stop and think.

	Now, my friends, I want to conclude here by telling you there are only forty-one days left, and tell you how important Missouri and all the states you are from are, because you're probably--anybody here from Kansas? There's got to be some here. All right.

	In those forty-one days Jack Kemp and I invite all Americans to compare our opponents' vision to our vision.

	Compare this administration's moral confusion on drugs to the clear, unmistakable message that we have in the Dole-Kemp administration.

	Take the Clinton record of high taxes and high spending in a slow-growth economy and compare it to the plan that Dole-Kemp--we've laid out--you keep more of your money, more of your freedom, and we'll get the economy moving again.

	And decide which vision for America you trust--for America's future, because it's about young people, it's about children, it's about everybody in this audience, about your parents and your grandparents--four more years of the liberal status quo or a brand new administration led by Bob Dole and Jack Kemp. You get to make the choice, and you will make the right choice, and Bob Dole and Jack Kemp will be elected.

	Now, before I go, I want to give a short quiz--I want to give you a short quiz. Bill Clinton says he's not a liberal, but I want to know what you think. What do you call someone who broke his promise and gave you the biggest tax increase in history?

	What do you call someone who tries to take over the nation's health care system and put the government in charge of it?

	What do you call someone who twisted arms in Congress to kill a balanced budget amendment?

	What do you call someone appointed as Surgeon General who talks about legalizing drugs?

	You're right--liberal, liberal, liberal Bill Clinton. And you have a much better choice on election day: on election day you can turn out the liberals.

	So let me again thank everybody for coming--Father Biandi, St. Louis University--Easy Ed McCully is around here somewhere. I think he spoke early. I want to invite all the Republican candidates up here. I know that we have a number of candidates. These are all--all these are winners coming up right now. All right. Allan, come on up here.

	And let me just say one thing. You know, there've been a lot of negative ads run in this campaign. We understand the opposition's had about 4,400 ads, and 4,200 and some have been negative.

	And they frighten a lot of people--maybe your grandmother who worries about her Social Security or Medicare or maybe your father worries about his veterans benefits, or maybe you are worried about education--because they've had what we call a scare campaign. They don't have any facts, they don't have an agenda, they don't have any ideas, but they've got a lot of money and they're trying to frighten the voters.

	They're trying to tell you that Bob Dole and Jack Kemp are going to cut student loans. We increased student loans. Pell grants are higher than ever before in a Republican Congress. Don't let them kid you.

	I believe in an education. I got an education because the government believed in me, and after the service we got four years of education. We changed the face of the world. Millions of young men and women since then have had so-called GI Bill of Rights.

	We need to educate the American people. We need to go into the inner cities in St. Louis and other places and make certain that young people, starting in kindergarten, have opportunity scholarships, where we put up so much money at the federal level, the state matches it to give that money to the low-income parents, and they put their child in the best school possible. Why shouldn't everybody in America have the same choice that President Clinton and Vice President Gore have?

	But don't believe the scare-mongers. Take a look at our records. We may not be perfect, but take a look at our records. We're going to make it work. We're going to have a future for America. We're going to have a better America as we move into the next century that's going to be so important to all the students here and everybody else in this audience.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
DRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINCOME TAXINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDLIBERALISMSALES TAXSOCIAL SECURITYTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERAL     N N N N N
 N N N ~N vN tN `N UN	 		  	  	  	 y 	 d 	 Z 	 = 	 3 	 * 	  	  e: