

	On Monday, I laid out my plan to cut the deficit.

	It answers the crisis facing our economy.  It's a road map for jobs, trade, growth for rural America, and a strong future.  That plan is fair to Americans.  It's fair to working Americans of middle and moderate income.  It's fair to our senior citizens and to the people who need our attention.

	After I presented my plan, yesterday in the White House the press said, "Mr. President, where is your plan to deal with America's future?"  And he said, "No problem; no plan until after the election."  Well, Mr. Reagan, that doesn't play in Peoria.  It won't play here because, for the people of Peoria and rural Illinois, they know what your deficits are doing to them.

	I remember coming to the Caterpillar plant here in Peoria in 1980.  You were working three shifts, and you were building a new plant there of $200 or $300 million because you could not keep up with the demand for the wonderful products, produced by the best workers on earth here in Peoria.  Since that time, they have stopped working on that expansion.  I understand the pillars are up there as a memorial to Reaganomics.  Eight thousand workers in that plant that used to dominate the world are now out of work.  Keystone Steel has lost over half its workers, and some people are wondering whether it will continue.  Unemployment is over 10 percent.

	Yesterday, I met with the machine-tool manufacturers in Chicago.  Four years ago, America was the number-one machine-tool producer on earth.  Today, four years later, thanks to his deficits, we are now the fourth nation on earth, behind even the Soviet Union.

	So, when you come to Peoria, Mr. President, these people know what is going on.  No blue smoke and mirrors will work here.  The farmers are suffering their worst year since the deep depression.  Good farmers are going broke.  The farm equipment business and the farm workers are losing their jobs.  It won't play in Peoria because it is not working in Peoria, and we want a president who will get with it and put America back to work, and that is why we're here.

	Next, Mr. Reagan is stonewalling the American people, and that won't play in Peoria.  The people of Peoria want leadership, not salesmanship.  You want plans, not alibis.  You want answers, not arrogance.  And you want action and not irresponsibility.

	I have played my cards.  They're on the table--face up.  Mr. President, the American people are calling your hand.  Let's see your cards.  Let's see what you've got.  Joe Louis once said something that I now say to Mr. Reagan:  "You can run, but you can't hide."

	Third, Mr. Reagan's plan won't play in Peoria because it's not fair.  Look at his taxes.  No matter who is elected, the next president must restore revenues to reduce the Reagan deficit.  The question is whether it is going to be fair to the American people.

	What did they do in 1981?  They cut taxes for people making $200,000 a year or more by $60,000.  But for Americans making $30,000 a year or less, all taxes included, they either didn't go down or your taxes went up.

	In other words, if you are rich, they gave you enough for a big swimming pool.  If you're a working family, they gave you a little wading pool.  And if you are unemployed, they told you to turn on the fire hydrant.

	Reaganomics is like one of those chain letters--the only ones that get rich from it are the ones who thought it up.

	Now, I have Mr. Reagan on the run on this tax issue.  At first, he said they wouldn't raise taxes.  And then they said they might.  And then they would and then they wouldn't raise income taxes.  Then he said he'd only raise taxes as a last resort.  Well, for Mr. Reagan, it's always a last resort in October and a first resort in December.

	When he was running for governor in California, he said, "I'll never raise taxes."  Then he signed the biggest tax increase in the history of California.

	After he got elected president, he said, "I won't sign a tax bill.  They'd have to have a 'palace coup' to get me to sign one."  And then he signed one of the biggest tax increases in American history.  As a matter of fact, he has signed four tax increases into law since he's been president.

	We know the difference; he's not against all taxes.  He's just against taxes that ask the wealthy and the big corporations to pay their share.  But when it comes to taxes on the average American, that's OK--he'll sign any of them.

	That's the big issue here today:  Who will be fair to people of average and middle income, and who will not be.  You're looking at the person who's going to protect working Americans of average income and ask the others to join them.

	The other day, Mr. Reagan said something that I had to agree with.  He said, "You ain't seen nothing yet."  And that's exactly what we're afraid of.

	If you think the wealthy made out like bandits under Reaganomics, you ain't seen nothing yet.  The Republican platform promises over a $100 billion in new tax breaks for Mr. Reagan's rich friends.  Under my plan, Mr. Reagan's friends will pay more and not less.

	If you think working families were pounded by Reaganomics, you ain't seen nothing yet.  Mr. Reagan says he won't raise income taxes, and that is because he is planning to sock you with a national sales tax.  Under his plan, a family earning $25,000 will pay $500 or more to pay for his deficits.  Under my plan, they won't have to pay another penny.  Under my plan, all Americans making $70,000 a year or less will be better under Walter Mondale than under Ronald Reagan.

	If you think the big corporations got away with murder under Mr. Reagan, you ain't seen nothing yet.  Today, ninety thousand profitable corporations don't pay a dime in taxes and your family is paying the difference.  Under my plan, their free ride is over.

	No matter who is elected, this budget must be squeezed.  This deficit must be cut.  But the question is:  Which one of us will do it fairly?

	Yesterday, the press asked Mr. Reagan, "Isn't it fair to spell out to the American people precisely what cuts you have in mind?"  His answer was this:  He said, "Take a look at the budgets I've already submitted since 1981 and look at the cuts I asked for and was not given."  Let's do that.  Let's take a look at what he tried to cut.

	He tried to cut $80,000 billion out of Social Security and destroy Social Security for millions of Americans.  He tried to destroy the Medicare program for millions of sick and elderly who only have that between them and disaster.  He took an ax--a sledgehammer--out and tried to destroy help for our schoolchildren, our students needing to go on to college.  He took an ax out and tried to destroy help for our handicapped children.  He tried to cut off school lunches for schoolchildren and nutritional assistance for mothers and infants during pregnancy.  He tried to cut off money to help agriculture, to cut off money to protect our environment.  He tried that, and he did too much of it.

	But why is it that even the Republicans wouldn't go along with his cuts?  I'll tell you why.  The cuts he wanted were cruel and uncaring and mean to people in trouble in this country, and Americans would not go along with it, that's why.

	The question in this campaign we must ask is, "What kind of people are we as Americans?"  I'll tell you what we are.  We're fair.  We're decent.  We're kind.  And we're caring.  We insist that, as we care for ourselves, there are some in America who need our help, and we're willing to help.

	When our fathers and our mothers retire, they are entitled to Social Security without anybody fooling around with it.  And when our parents get sick, they are entitled to Medicare.  We're not going to rob them of their health to save a few bucks.  We are willing to help.

	When our kids need education, as Americans we're willing to educate our kids.  And when they're handicapped, we are willing to give those kids a chance.  And when they need to go on to college, we want those kids to have a good education, and we're not going to rob them.

	And in this country of abundance, this country of our agricultural miracle, we're not going to save money by starving hungry children.  There's a limit to what Americans will permit to happen in this good country of ours.  We are a nation that cares.

	We're not going to let them destroy our environment or poison us with those toxic waste dumps.  We are willing to spend money to protect America's air, water, land, and health, and that's what divides me from Mr. Reagan.

	I see a fair America; I see an America that will not permit discrimination.  I see an America that is kind and caring.  Let's do it fairly.  Let's get the job done.  But let us be a decent, honorable, caring America, and stand up for what counts.

	Mr. Reagan is in for a big surprise.  He thinks he can get by this election without telling the American people what he is planning to do to them.  He misjudges you.  He doesn't trust you to know the truth.  And he thinks you don't know the difference; but you do.

	This is a contest over what kind of people we are.

	I will be fair; he won't.  I'll tell you the truth about the future now and not after the election; and he refuses.

	Pick a president who hurts when you hurt.  You've got thousands of wonderful people in this community looking for work and unable to find it, watching your jobs go overseas that used to be here.  You're not here today to plead for welfare, to ask for someone else to take care of you.  I know what you are talking about because I've been with working people all my life.  You're asking for a job so that you can care for yourself and stand on your own two feet. Let's elect a president who will put America back to work.

	Let's elect a president who will build the future here in America for our children and their children.  Let's restore prosperity to our farms and to rural America.  Let's build a better future for our children and more security for our parents.

	This is our country.  We can do anything we want.  All we need is a leader who will take us there.

AGRICULTURE--GENERALBUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONEDUCATION--GENERALENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMANUFACTURINGMEDICARESALES TAXSOCIAL SECURITY     ( ( {( w( o(
 d( _( Z( T( L( J( J( ?(	  	  	 o 	 ] 	 E 	 - 	   	  	  e: