

	Yesterday, I continued the process of presenting some specific ways in which I hope to build a better America, by outlining some of the steps that I would take as president to protect and preserve the environment.

	I believe that the United States must be a leader in the global effort to pass this world on to the next generation in better shape than we found it. Under a Bush presidency, we would lead.

	I'd like to speak about this subject again this morning; because cleaning up and protecting the environment would be a major priority of my administration. I want to stress my conviction that environmental protection is not only consistent with economic development; it is a key element of any successful strategy for long-term economic growth.

	First, let me tell you what I'm for:

	I'm for taking action to curb the damage done by acid rain. The time for study alone is over. I would agree to a program of emissions reductions on a specific timetable.

	I'm for an aggressive, no-nonsense approach to cleaning up toxic waste dumps. I'm for strengthening enforcement action against dumpers and streamlining the bureaucracy that sometimes slows down our cleanup efforts.

	I'm for a ban on the ocean dumping of sewage sludge after 1991, and a strong effort to track disposal of medical waste.

	I'm for beefing up the Coast Guard's ability to stop illegal dumping of wastes at sea, and for calling in the FBI, if need be, to help track down those who dump illegally.

	I'm for convening a global conference on the environment, here in the United States, so that all nations can work together in solving problems like global warming, acid rain, ocean pollution, and deforestation.

	I'm for working to preserve our wetlands, resources which are of tremendous value as a wildlife habitat, as a flood control device, and as a natural filter for clean water.

	I'm for an America in which all of us treat our air, water, and soil with greater care, and in which all of us can be proud of the legacy which we pass on to the next generation.

	But I would also like to talk to you this morning about my opponent, because--on this, as on other issues--it is important to compare his rhetoric with his record.

	My opponent talks a pretty good game on the environment, but, as the baseball sage Yogi Berra used to say, "Sometimes you can observe a lot just by watching."

	Well, many people have watched closely what my opponent has done about pollution in Boston Harbor.

	Over at the Boston Aquarium, they have an exhibit featuring a "sewage meter," to measure the pollution flowing into what the exhibit calls "the dirtiest harbor in America."

	That sewage meter is a measure of the cost of my opponent's neglect of the environment. While Michael Dukakis delayed, the harbor got dirtier and dirtier. Half a billion gallons of barely treated sewage a day--into the harbor. [Missing text] tons of sewage sludge per day--into the harbor. PCBs--into the harbor. Trace metals--into the harbor.

	"Harbor of Shame," the Boston Herald called it.

	And the exhibit revealed an appalling fact: the amount of sewage dumped into the harbor in 1986 would cover all of metropolitan Boston up to a depth of seventeen feet.

	My opponent's solution to this pollution: delay. Fight. Anything but clean up. Well, I don't call that leadership; and I certainly don't call that competence.

	Let's review the record:

	In 1972, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts signed an agreement with EPA to stop dumping sewage sludge in Boston Harbor by the Bicentennial. The agreement also pledged to give "secondary treatment"--or treatment which reduces 90 percent of the solids--to the sewage then going into the harbor--by 1980.

	That was before Michael Dukakis became governor. Today, the sludge is still being dumped in the harbor. Boston is the only major city in America to dump it right in its own harbor. And the sewage is still barely treated. It spews into the harbor at a rate of 5,000 gallons every second.

	What happened?

	In 1977, Congress amended the Water Pollution Control Act, and changed its name to the Clean Water Act. The law required "secondary treatment" of sewage by all publicly owned wastewater treatment facilities in America.

	In 1978, during my opponent's first term as governor, the Metropolitan District Commission prepared an application for a waiver from the secondary treatment requirement. From the beginning his administration did not want to meet the clean water requirements.

	But my opponent's four-corner offense, his stalling game, wasn't finished. The very next year, his administration applied for another waiver--without any new information--in what the EPA called a "blatant delaying tactic."

	By this time, the courts had seen enough. Judge Paul Garrity ordered a ban on new connections to the aging Boston sewage system. And when that decision was overturned by the Supreme Judicial Court, our EPA announced that it would seek a federal ban.

	In 1985, EPA not only denied the Dukakis administration's second request for a waiver from clean water; they went to court to end the delay for good.

	I guess they had a pretty strong case, because in finding Massachusetts liable for the continuing pollution, U.S. District Court Judge David Mazzone said that what was being discharged into the harbor revealed "chronic, flagrant violations of federal law."

	The next year, after all the years of foot dragging by Massachusetts, the Federal District Court put Massachusetts on a schedule for completing the necessary sewage treatment plants. My friends, that is why Massachusetts will finally treat its sewage properly.

	My opponent will tell you that he'll be aggressive in cleaning up the environment. The secondary treatment plant will be complete 1999, 22 years after the law requiring it was passed.

	My opponent will tell you that the federal government is responsible, because it didn't give him the money. Since the construction grants program first started, the federal government has given $1.5 billion to Massachusetts for sewage treatment. Of the money sent to Massachusetts, the state chose to devote only 18 percent of it to the Boston area authority which services fully half of the state's population. Boston Harbor was simply not a priority.

	My opponent will tell you that the federal government has turned its back on sewage treatment. The federal government has invested $45 billion in sewage treatment over the years--a wise investment. Ninety percent of the sewage flow in America receives secondary treatment. Boston's sewage does not.

	My opponent will tell you that sewage treatment is expensive, and that's the reason for the delay. The current estimate of the cost of constructing the necessary plants is six billion dollars. EPA estimates that if my opponent had gone ahead and built the plants in his first term, the cost would have been about one billion dollars.

	When Boston's sewer rates quadruple--and they will, to over $1,000 per family, the people should remember this.

	And they should remember this central fact: the reason that Boston Harbor is not cleaner today is that the Dukakis administration twice sought to avoid making it cleaner.

	My opponent will tell you that he's the one now cleaning up Boston Harbor.

	Well, ask Bill Ruckelshaus, former EPA administrator, who says my opponent was the one asking him for permission to continue polluting the harbor.

	Ask Michael DeLand, EPA Region I administrator, who called Boston Harbor "the most expensive public policy mistake in Massachusetts history."

	Ask Judge Garrity or Judge Mazzone, whose actions forced the Dukakis administration to act.

	I reveal this litany for a reason. My opponent has said that he will do for America what he has done for Massachusetts. If so, I fear for the country.

	It's campaign season, and you will hear promises for my opponent about his commitment to the environment.

	Consider the quality of those promises.

	Several times this year, my opponent has visited New Jersey and told the people there of his concern about ocean pollution. He has said that he would stop it.

	What he didn't tell them is this. The Dukakis administration had applied, in 1985, for a permit to dump Massachusetts' sewage sludge off the New Jersey coast. That's right, his administration wanted to dump sludge off the very beaches on which he stood.

	The stealth candidate is at it again. Making promises on one hand, but hiding his secret record on the other.

	I'm here today because my opponent's record should be shown for all to see.

	Two hundred years ago, tea was spilled in Boston Harbor in the name of liberty. If tea were spilled in Boston Harbor today, it would dissolve in the residue of my opponent's neglect and delay.

	I have been an environmentalist since I first entered Congress in 1966. And I will be one as president.

	We need a president who will clean up America's environment.

	My friends, I am that man.

	Thank you.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONMASSACHUSETTSSEWAGE DISPOSALWATER POLLUTION     # # # # #
 # # # # # # p# f#	 C  +     e: