

	It looks as if we're going to win.  Why?  Because we have the support of the people.  We have trusted them, and we have won their trust.

	I have traveled from one end of America to the other during this campaign.  I have been in big cities and small.  I have talked about the issues, about the future of our country, and about the need for mutual trust between the people and their president.

	I have listened to the people, and they have told me of their fears an doubts, their hopes and dreams.  We have not spared one another the facts, and we have found a common sense of purpose, of commitment, to carry forward our heritage as a people, to preserve the greatness of our land.

	This bond of mutual trust will lead us to victory on November 5th--a victory for all Americans, and to four years of peace, renewed unity, and continued progress throughout the nation.

	Tonight I want to talk about my view of the presidency.  I approach this subject in difficult times.  Never have we had more need for a leadership of strength and wisdom, to unite, to hear, to guide, and to help us find a new sense of confidence in ourselves.  Never has there been a greater need for people to learn once again to trust one another.  And never has the need been greater for the president to find new ways to marshall the nation's greatest resources, the American people, to stand behind the ideals and beliefs of America.

	In other times of peril, our greatest presidents have summoned us to cleanse the evils in our midst, to resist brute force, to tame and master it.  They have made the presidency, itself, a rallying ground for the better angels of the American nature.  They have made their hopeful vision a source for strengthening the trust of our people in their capacity to achieve a more perfect union.

	In the last quarter century, the presidency must also change, to meet the new demands placed upon our people and our democracy.

	I will begin these changes, not just in the structure of the office, but in its role in American society, as well.

	We must have an open presidency and an active presidency: a presidency that can overcome the increasing gap between Americans living in cities and towns and government if far-off Washington; a presidency that can enable each American to feel that he is an important part of the democratic process despite our bigness; a presidency responsive to the people, not just at the end of a long chain of bureaucracy but directly.

	I shall have such an open presidency, and I shall be a people's president.

	In the next four years, there are three great realities that must be faced by our people, and by their president.

	First is the reality of war--or peace.

	My first duty will be to work for peace--not just for ourselves, but for all mankind.

	Our power confers responsibility; our strength requires restraint; our actions must lead to justice.

	One billion people in the world look to the American president for leadership towards peace.  And all men everywhere trust in him to keep that peace.

	I shall be a peace president, beginning in Vietnam and continuing with effective controls on the strategic arms race.  And I shall look to all Americans, as part of the open presidency, for wisdom, ideas, and support in my effort.

	As the Prophet Isaiah said:  "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace."  That should be America's role in the world: that will be America's role when I am president.

	Second, is the reality of division in American society--or the paramount need for a new reconciliation.

	The president must understand the temper of our people--their trials, their fears, and the key to unlocking their energies in common purpose.

	The president must lead the American people away from divisions and discord, to a trust in our future as a united people.

	The president must inspire us with confidence that our efforts will provide success, that our unity means a new freedom for each of us, that no man need fear loss, where others gain.

	And the president must listen to his people, listen to the quiet voice as well as to the loud, listen to the common man as well as to his spokesman.  When any one of us calls in need, or in confusion, the president must hear, the president must respond, the president must act.

	This will be the standard for my presidency.  I will travel throughout America, keeping in close touch with the people--in cities, suburbs, and on the farms.

	If we are to be a united people, the president must serve as a symbol of trust and confidence, for one nation, and one people.  And there is the third reality of our time, the reality of stagnation, or progress, in the search for human rights, social justice, and continued economic prosperity.

	We are a great people, but our true greatness has not been known.

	In this campaign, I have spoken out, despite warnings that America has had enough, that this must be a fallow time in the search for justice, that our people are seeking only ease and security.

	I do not believe that this represents the character and strength of our people.  We seek, above all, greatness and compassion for all men.

	I have spoken with our people about the needs of America--openly, forthrightly, and honestly.

	And they have answered with their own commitment to finding answers... to fulfilling the greatness of America: that no single child will go hungry; that no single child will be denied good health; and excellent education; a chance to unlock the door to life, and develop to the limits of his abilities; that no single family will live in poverty; that no one who wants to work will lack a job at decent wages.

	This is what I have heard from the people... and more.  And I shall respond.

	There must be other ways of hearing the peoples' voice, as well.

	I have made specific proposals for bringing the people and the president closer together--for herein lies the key to unlocking our potential greatness.

	I will create a National Domestic Policy Council, within the office of the president.

	It will help me, as president, to foresee and deal effectively with the growing crush of domestic problems, to sharpen priorities, to decide between alternative policies, and to forge new links between the presidency and our nation's states and cities.

	As part of my open presidency, I will also create: a National University Forum, to provide a direct communication between the president and the academic community; a Youth Talent Bank, to recruit dynamic young people for public service, and to put them in positions early in their careers where they can affect government, a Council of Citizens in the office of the president and in each major executive department, to promote public discussion, debate and consultation on the issues facing our people.

	I will also commit myself to finding other new ways of bringing government, groups, and individuals together to solve domestic problems.  We must go beyond the traditional interest groups of American life, to involve all our people in their presidency.

	We have started to do this with the National Alliance of Businessman, and the Urban Coalition.  And we must do much more.  Tomorrow's problems cannot be solved with yesterday's tools.

	A president must tap the talents of the entire nation.

	I will bring new people to Washington, from our cities, from our universities, from business, from our farms, from wherever there are Americans who are concerned, who have ideas, and who want to take this country forward to future greatness.

	Throughout this land, there are exceptional people to fill the many jobs of government, to do the hard work of democracy.

	Many are young men and women--they will have a special place in the Humphrey-Muskie administration.

	There are Democrats, Republicans, and Independents who will occupy positions of high trust and responsibility in the Humphrey-Muskie administration.

	One question will be decisive in staffing the Humphrey-Muskie administration:  "Do you stand for the people?"

	There are many devoted persons now in Washington.  But as president, I shall want my own team., to place the Humphrey-Muskie stamp on policy and on the presidency, and to involve new people, to bring a fresh approach to every problem.

	Building on the experience of the past, making full use of the wisdom of the future, the Humphrey-Muskie administration will serve our people, and serve them well.

	That is my pledge tonight.

	But new patterns of government--new people in Washington--will not alone create a people's presidency--an open presidency.  This requires our common will and commitment.  And I have seen this in the faces of people across America.  I have seen the wealth of this nation.  I have seen a people glow with fantastic vigor.  I have seen our awesome military might--yet always met by an overriding desire for peace.

	My vision of America these last few weeks has made me confident: that fear will wither in the voting booth; that hope is in our nation's heart; that greatness shall win the day; in this election, and in the next four years.

	This is the promise of America--200 years old--which, together, we shall fulfill:  with the firm leadership of a peoples' president; with the courageous effort of the American people; and with the special grace that comes to those who know, as President Kennedy said, "that here on earth, God's work must truly be our own."

	There is so much to do in America.  And we can do it.

	I ask your help. 
POLITICAL PARTICIPATIONPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHOPEN PRESIDENCY     <& & & % %
 % % % % % % % %	 D 	 -   e: