

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Let me tell you that Humphrey wants you. And I want to let you go on like that, but you have paid television, and we just can't afford to have you say those things that long, you see.  Say it on election day, November 5th, that is the time that will count.  

	Senator Brewster and Senator Tydings, this great congressional delegation, all the officers in this party and this state government that are here, our friends, I wish that I had the time tonight to go up and down these tables to just pay my respects to every person here that has given of such great service in this campaign and more importantly, service to this great state of Maryland, to our country.  But if I did so, the time would soon be consumed, and I am sure I would leave somebody out, and I would go away broken hearted.  So tonight all I say to all of you is thank you, thank you for what you have been doing for 
me, for what you are going to do for yourself an for your country. 

	By the way, some people have been asking me lately, they say, "What is it that has happened?  What kind of a happening is this that things seem to be moving so rapidly, that the momentum is with us, that the Humphrey campaign seems to have taken off?"  And I guess folks just forgot that I had a secret weapon, my Muriel.  Muriel, you stand up here and let them take a look at Mrs. Humphrey.  And she will make a mighty good first lady even if your won't like me as president. 

	Why I had a person say the other day over here in Akron, Ohio, somebody stuck their head in the window and said, "Well, I don't know about Humphrey, but I sure do like his wife."  And I said, "Let's not quibble about details, we go together in this whole thing." 

	Friends, this is the last week of the campaign, and I am going to let you in on a secret.  I feel better this last week than I felt the first week. 

	And I hope you feel as confident as I feel tonight, because I am absolutely sure that if we keep doing what we are doing, if we keep building as we are building, if we keep fighting as we are fighting, if we keep this sense of buoyancy and confidence that we have, we are going to win this election and we are going to have a victory. 

	You know, I read about two or three weeks ago in one of the weekly magazines it said Mr. Nixon had this election in the bag, and then somebody came by here about a week ago and consoled me and said, "Don't let that bother you, Mr. Humphrey, don't let that bother you at all," and I said, "What do you mean?"  He said, "When they say Mr. Nixon has this election in the bag, I want to tell you what is going to happen on election day.  When he opens that bag, out jumps Humphrey Muskie." 

	By the way, don't you like the sound of that ticket, Humphrey and Muskie? 

	He has been a wonderful help, a great asset to us, and we are going to win this campaign for another reason, a basic one, because we trust the people, and I have taken my message to the people, I have talked the issues to the people, and the people trust us.  Now tomorrow is the national Republican holiday, it is 
Halloween.

	Our holiday, our holiday will be on November 5th.  Now let me explain it to you.  You know you have heard about tricks and treats.  Well now, you have had several weeks of Nixon's tricks that come to and end on October 31, and the treats start with Humphrey and Muskie on November 5th. 

	You know, dear friends, I have been trying to state why the people of this country should be with us, and why the people of this land cannot accept the leadership of the other candidates.  I believe I can put it best in just a series of questions, questions that go right to the heart of some of the things that concern us, a nation with a younger population all the time, a nation with more and more people that are sixty, sixty-five and over, a nation that is growing rapidly, a nation that has a great missing in this world, a nation that is changing more rapidly than time itself, and I can't help but think when they use that slogan for the Republicans that Nixon is the one that every question could be answered the same way, because the first question I would ask is who voted no when our youngsters needed some help, and our schools needed help?  Who voted no on federal aid to education?  We know the answer.  When the chips were down, the tie vote, Nixon was the one.  He was the one.

	Who joined his Republican friends in years and years in killing federal aid to education on the basis of either race or religion?  You know, Mr. Nixon and his Republicans or with his Republican cohorts, and who voted a consistent anti-labor record against every form of labor organization in this country?  You 
know the answer.  Mr. Nixon was the one.

	And who was it that said you couldn't possibly put any faith in Medicare, that it wouldn't work, that it was the wrong way to do things, and that it was filled with all sorts of uncertainties?  The man that fought it all of his life and now says he would like to improve it.  I will tell you, I will tell you, Nixon was the one.

	I wouldn't trust him five minutes with Medicare.  I will be glad to give him some, but I won't trust him with it.

	VOICES:  Sock it to `em!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who was it, my friends, that never once cast a single vote to help an unemployed man get a job, that never once lifted his voice for training, for a young teenager that might have dropped out of school and needed a chance, and who was it that only the other night on Face the Nation said, "Let's do away with the Job Corps," and as one of the American heroes at the Olympics, George Foreman, heavyweight champion, representing the United States, holding high the American flag, with the gold medal on his chest, and when he received that high honor, what does he say, and as Mr. Nixon is speaking on Face the Nation, he aid, "I got my chance in the Job Corps," and yet Mr. Nixon says do away with it.

	VOICES:  Sock it to `em!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And who is it that thinks that a little unemployment, not only a little, quite a little, 5.5 million, if you 
please, might be good for this economy, what kind of talk is this for a man that wants to be president of these United States, to talk in terms of statistics as if it was a bookkeeping operation?  We are talking in terms of human lives, we are talking in terms of families, we are talking in terms of human needs, and yet Mr. Nixon said that if it wasn't over 4.5 million, it wasn't dangerous, and he has raised his ante now, and his chief adviser says we could possibly go up to 5.5 million.  Whose job are you talking about, Mr. Nixon?  Maybe yours, because I intend to see that you are unemployed November the 5th. 

	Yes, my friends, the record is here, and as the Scriptures say, "We shall judge them by their deeds and not by their words," particularly not by their words a week before the election.

	Oh, what a debate Mr. Nixon has been having.  It is the Nixon versus Nixon, the old and the new, the old positions and the more recent positions, which only reveals the real position that he hasn't changed a bit, except for election purposes.

	Who was it, my friends, when we were struggling to slow down the arms race, called the Nuclear Ban Treaty a cruel hoax, and who said it was catastrophic nonsense?  You know the man.  Thank God that the president of the United States didn't listen to it, and I had the rare privilege as a member of the Senate, along with your senators, to sponsor the resolution and the fight for many years for a test ban treaty to protect the peace of the world, to protect the health of our people.  Mr. Nixon called it a cruel hoax.  I call it a building block in sanity and peace for the world. 

	And who was it that called the Peace Corps, which it was my privilege to author, who was it that called it a haven for draft dodgers?  You know the answer, ladies and gentlemen.  A man that can't see that the Peace Corps was one of the finest exhibitions of American kindness and of American know-how, a man 
that can't see that cannot have the vision to lead this nation as president. 

	And who was it within the last week has told the American people without either fact or information that there was a security gap in our country that could lead to a survival gap, misinforming the American people, destroying the confidence of our allies, misleading our enemies that could lead to miscalculation; who was it that totally misrepresented the facts and demonstrated his incapacity for leadership of this country?  Mr. Nixon, the Republican candidate, you know the answer. 

	Somebody said from this state if you have seen one slum you have seen them all and I say, my friends, if you have seen one Nixon, you have seen them all.  

	Serious business, ladies and gentlemen, very serious business.  Campaigns are not confetti and balloons; campaigns should be substance and ideas.  Campaigns should be able to tell the people what we are thinking, not just exactly how many miles we can travel.  One week from tonight, yes, just a little less than one week, the people will have recorded their choice, and their choice of who shall lead this nation in the next four fateful years, and that is the people's decision.  It is because of that that I have wanted this man to stand along side of me, on the same platform and discuss the issues, man to man.  I say that a man that is unwilling to debate the issues with his competition in a free and open election in America where we have the right of free speech, the right to debate, to discuss and dissent, that if he can't do that here, 
how can he possibly discuss our case before the enemies of democracy abroad.  How can he possibly represent us? 

	VOICES:  Sock it to `em!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Exactly 12 weeks from tonight that new president will have spent his first full day in the White House, and from--on January 20th, when the balloons have collapsed, the confetti is gone and the television 
commercials are silent and the crowds have gone home, on January 20th a president and a vice president will stand together on the steps of the Capitol in Washington and they will take the solemn oath as president and vice president of these United States of America, and under the president's leadership this 
country, this great country of ours, will take its direction and so will the world.  The choice that the American people make six days from no, just six days, will chart, I believe, the course for all mankind, because it is still true that Lincoln--as Lincoln put it, that America is the last best hope of earth, and when we vote here, we do not merely vote for ourselves or for the generation that is ours.  We vote for generations yet unborn, and above all we vote for mankind.  So I want to talk to you tonight about a course, about what kind of a president that I would hope to be if the people would give me that chance.

	First of all, I want you to know I will by my every word and deed try to earn, to merit, and deserve the people's trust.  I will tell the people of this country the hard truth, domestic and foreign, the truth about our society at home and the world in which we live.

	I am one of those Americans that believe that the American people have a toughness of character, a quality of integrity which needs to be tested, and I will open the White House doors and listen to the people.

	I approach this subject in the most difficult of times.  Never have we needed, never have we needed more, longed more, for a leadership of strength and wisdom, a leadership to heal, to guide and to reconcile, and 
to help us find a new sense of confidence in ourselves.

	Too many Americans have been saying that America has lost its way.  I say to this audience tonight that it has not.  I say that America is finding its conscience, and that is good news. 

	Never has there been a time, never has there been a time or a need for the people to trust their president more than now, because the people and the president must be one.  We need what I call, and what we must always have, the open presidency, a presidency that can close the widening gap between Americans 
that live in the great cities, Mayor D'Alesandro, like Baltimore, and the people who live in the rural areas, the people who live in towns, and the government in the far off--what is to them far off Washington.  We need a presidency that can enable each American to feel that he is important, that he is needed, that he is 
a part of the great democratic process, despite our bigness.

	We need a presidency that is responsive to the people.

	I shall do my best, yes, I shall have such a presidency, because my hope and my only hope and purpose is to be the people's president, not some people's president, but all the people's president. 

	The times tell us that there are stark realities that face us, and the first is the reality of war or peace, not just for ourselves but for all mankind.  

	America has awesome power and great wealth, but what America needs with that power and wealth is the sense of strength that comes from its people, and the compassion that comes from understanding.  Our power confers responsibility upon us, and our strength requires restraint.

	I have always believed that the greatest task that a president has is not the use of power but restraint in the use of that power.  Over one billion people in this world look to the American nation and the American president for leadership towards peace in the days ahead just as they do this very night and in the days past, and all men everywhere must trust him to keep that peace.

	I want to be, as I know my own President now wants to be, and I shall be, a peace president, because peace is the highest calling of statesmanship. 

	The Prophet Isaiah put is so beautifully when he said, "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace."

	This is the mission of this country.  This is America's role in the world, and it is this role that is trying to be fulfilled even as I now speak to you.  When a man sits in the White House tonight who strives for peace, works for it with all of his heart and all of his mind, and if there ever was a man that needed our prayers and needed our confidence, it is tonight the President of the United States as he seeks that peace.  

	Now there is a second reality that I must call to your attention, and you know it.  There is a division in America, the division in our society, and there are those who prey upon it.  There are those demagogues who spread confusion and doubt and bitterness and hatred, who build their political career upon it.  They 
are unworthy of the trust of the American people.  They are unworthy of the gift even of American citizenship.  There is no room in America for hatred, the toxin of prejudice and bigotry and discrimination, and I call upon the people of Maryland to reject it as anti-American and immoral.  

	Yes, that president, and if I am permitted to be your president, must understand the temper of our people, their trials, and they have them, and their fears, and the key to unlocking their energies and common purpose, and the president must use that great office to educate and to lead, to inspire and to guide.

	I happen to believe--to be one of those persons who believes that there is a basic goodness in the American character.  I happen to believe that there is a greatness in this nation, and the task of the leader is to tap that goodness, and to call forth that greatness because without the goodness and the greatness of which I speak there can be no great America, and our work cannot be great or good.  But it is here to be called upon, an I need your help in calling.

	We can no longer satisfy ourselves with our worldly goods and our petty needs.  If we are to be the nation that we think we are, and if we are to realize the American dream, then that richness of goodness which is inherent in this character of the American nation and that great spirit of greatness which is there to bere lease, it must be found, and your president and the people together must unlock this great source of power, of goodness and greatness.  

	Yes, I hope to be able to inspire us with confidence that our efforts will succeed  and that our unity means a new freedom for each of us, because if there ever was a time that we needed a new freedom of opportunity, a new freedom of participation, that hour is now, and that president must listen, listen very 
carefully to the people.  He must listen to the quiet voice as well as the loud, and he must listen to the common man as well as his spokesman.

	If we are to be a united people, and that is the only way we can succeed, the president must serve as a symbol of trust and confidence.  His very life must represent the embodiment of this nation, one nation indivisible, a nation of people that trust one another and in trusting one another they can trust the 
institutions of their government, and they can trust their president because all of it they have created with their own trust and with their own hands.  That is the dream of this land. 

	My friends, there is yet the third reality of our times, the reality of stagnation or progress, and that is the choice in this election.  Will we tread water as the rivers of change and time flow by us, or will we move with the stream and chart its course?  Will we move with social progress and human rights towards social justice and continued economic prosperity, or will we fall back into bad habits and old practices?

	I say we are a great people, but the true greatness is yet to be fulfilled.  The story of America is the story of its unfinished business, and I am proud to represent a party tonight that has understood that America is 
but another name for the future, a future with promise an with hope, and I come to this audience tonight to ask you to continue the progress that we have made, not to draw down the shades and cut out the light, but rather to let the sunlight of progress and social change come through those windows of freedom that are ours.

	I ask you tonight, my friends, not to vote your hates but rather to call upon the people to vote their hopes, and if they vote their hopes, the United States of America will be in good hands.  If they vote their hopes, my fellow Americans, the Democratic cause will have a victory and the candidates that will win are your candidates, the Democratic candidates of Humphrey and Muskie.  

	Thank you very much. 
CONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALEDUCATION--GENERALFOREIGN SERVICEMEDICARENUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGOPEN PRESIDENCYORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     ,J I I I I
 I I I I I I I I	  	  	  	 y 	 g 	 X 	 P 	 < 	 - 	  e: