

	This is my first campaign visit to Ohio, the residence of Senator Taft, whose team lost the Chicago game, but he won the breakfast game in New York single-handed. They're planning to play the third game in the White House in Washington--unless, of course, they are rained out on November 4th.

	The Republican Convention reminded me of the story of the two fellows from Straddle Ridge who swapped mules--or should I say elephants?--and then fell to bitter quarreling, each accusing the other of skinning him. When a bystander asked why they didn't trade back and settle the fight, another witness of the battle said: "I reckon they're both afraid of getting skinned again!"

	Well, it sort of looked to me as though the GOP had swapped elephant drivers at Chicago and half of them were skinned, and so they traded back again, and now the other half are skinned.

	Anyway, I am glad to be in Ohio and pay my respects to the uncrowned boss of the Republican party--Senator Taft. At least you know where he stands, even if you don't know how he stands.

	I've tried in this campaign to talk about all the specific public questions that concern you and your federal government and I've tried to make my views clear on them, one by one, because I think you're entitled to know my views as a candidate for president, even if you can't always agree with me.

	Tonight I want to talk with you about the most precious thing in the world. I want to talk about people--about you and your children and your father and your mother. I want to talk about the family problems of a democracy: such things as seeing to it that children are fed and educated, that there are hospital beds for those who are sick, that there is dignity for those who have done a life's work, that the scars of slums are removed from America.

	I choose tonight to speak of these problems because this is Democratic Women's Day. It marks the occasion, thirty-three years ago, when women first took their places in the directing councils of the Democratic party. The following year our party won for women the right to vote; no Democrat has ever had reason to regret it--and we don't think we will on this November 4th.

	Understanding human needs is half the job of meeting them. I think we Democrats understand them. We have learned how important it is to approach the writing of laws, themselves cold things, from clear warm pictures in our minds: of a family sitting around a supper table; of a rent bill coming due when there has been sickness in the family; of a child going off to school dressed differently from the others. We think we understand the feeling someone has when he is denied a job he knows he would have gotten if his skin had been of a different color. We think we know the feeling of an older man and woman who do not want to move in with their children.

	It is upon this understanding that we have built the laws of twenty years.

	First of all, we have been working for better housing. Twenty-four million families now own homes of their own--an increase of ten million in two decades. The job has been accomplished in the American way, through private enterprise and local responsibility, with the federal government providing the means to bring down interest rates to reasonable levels, plus the help necessary to build homes for low-income families.

	What the Republican position is on housing we do not know. The Republican platform has no housing proposals at all.

	While we have been building homes we also have been bringing to our farm people most of the comforts of city life. We have banished the hand pump, the kerosene lamps and battered zinc washtubs which once made life so hard for our farm women. These relics have been replaced, on nine farms out of every ten, by electric lights, running water and all the other conveniences which the magic of electricity makes possible. By these improvements we are encouraging young people to remain on the farms, where there is a shortage of labor, so that they may participate as their fathers and mothers have, in the feeding and clothing of our nation.

	Here again we have done the job in the American way, working through farmer cooperatives which are locally organized, locally owned and locally managed. Your own Ohio Farm Bureau Federation, under the far-sighted leadership of Murray Lincoln, has pioneered in developing these rural electrification co-ops under federal sponsorship.

	I hardly need to remind you that these things have been accomplished in the teeth of implacable and relentless opposition of Republicans in Congress. Year after year, decade after decade each social advance meets with shouts of the old refrain, "socialism," as if the American people could be frightened like children on Halloween. I sometimes secretly suspect that the Republicans haven't caught on to the fact that we have free public education in this country and have had for quite a while. We know more than they think, and we know it isn't socialism to give a veteran a chance to buy a home of his own. We know we are not softening the moral fiber of America when we help a farm woman put a washing machine in her kitchen.

	We know, too, what the Republican leaders plan to do if they ever get the chance. The junior Senator from this state of Ohio made that quite plain when he spoke to the Chicago convention. "The last vestiges of the New Deal ..." he said, "must be destroyed."

	That is a shocking statement, unless, of course, the people of Ohio don't take their junior senator seriously. But do you dare take a chance when so many of them echo the same refrain of contempt for all that's been accomplished?

	Let us take a careful look at what it is they want to destroy. Here in Columbus you are now building a million-dollar health center; I am told that it has been badly needed for many years. The federal government is paying about one-quarter of the cost. Throughout the country 1,500 such hospitals are going up, or have already been completed--most of them in farming areas which have never before had any kind of hospital service.

	Is this socialism? Is this something we can permit the Republicans to wipe out to the last vestige? Of course not.

	The hospital construction program is only a sound beginning toward meeting the medical needs of all our people. I am just as much opposed to socialized medicine as any doctor in this country, just as I would be opposed to socialization of my own profession of the law. I never want to see our physicians on a government payroll, and I'm sure you don't either. You and I know that the United States already has the best system of medical care in the world, but we also know that it is not yet good enough.

	Many small towns and rural areas still suffer from a dangerous shortage of doctors and nurses. Unhappily it looks as though private support is not enough and that it will take federal aid to help support the medical schools necessary to turn out enough doctors and nurses.

	And so far we have found no way to cope with the problem of catastrophic illness, which may spell economic disaster for a whole family. No matter how thrifty, few families can ever protect themselves completely or endure the crushing cost of the accident which disables the father for life, or the case of rheumatic fever which puts a child in the hospital for months or years. We await the recommendations of the president's excellent Commission on the Health Needs of the Nation, which is now holding hearings throughout the country and will make its report in December.

	With the advice of that Commission and with the guidance and cooperation of the medical profession we must find the means of solving our health problems in a constructive spirit and without, I hope, abuse and ill temper and misrepresentation.

	Now let's talk for a moment about children. Did you ever wonder what happened to the old-fashioned orphan's home? Twenty years ago nearly every town had one--a mournful institution, sheltering lonely youngsters whose fathers had died and whose mothers could no longer keep the family together. Today these institutions have almost completely disappeared--and do you know why? Because the Democratic party, thinking in terms of human needs, wrote into the Social Security Act a provision to bring help into homes where a father is disabled or dead.

	The youngsters we are raising now have never had to wander hungry and homeless, riding the freight cars and sleeping under old newspapers in the hobo jungles. They don't have to leave school for want of clothes. There are more children attending school today than ever before, and they are staying in school longer.

	What I have been able to do, as governor of Illinois, in building up our school system has been one of my most satisfying experiences. Many of our schools were and some still are in pitiful shape--insufficient teachers, underpaid teachers, classrooms overcrowded, buildings in ill repair, and Illinois was one of the lowest in state aid to education. One of the first things I did was to ask the legislature to increase vastly the state's contribution to the common-school fund. Now it is almost double what it was four years ago. We have set up a permanent commission to study the needs of our schools and take them and their appropriations out of the area of lobby and logrolling. Teachers' salaries have been raised and our common-school system is healthier than it has ever been. And we have not raised taxes either!

	We have not solved all of our school problems in Illinois, and the nation hasn't yet found a final answer either. We pursue our folly of paying the lowest salaries in many communities to those who handle, not our goods, or even our garbage, but our children's education. We have far too few school rooms for the vast increase in school children that is ahead of us. Too many areas, especially in the South, lag behind in education, because they produce more than their relative share of the nation's children and get less than their share of the nation's income.

	These are real problems, hard problems. The Democratic platform spells out a program of action to meet our needs. We mean what it says.

	And again the Republican platform is entirely negative, offering no program at all for better education. And they mean that, too.

	We hear those who would push aside federal action with the usual cries of "socialism" and "regimentation." But there has been federal help for education ever since 1785, when the government set aside one section in every new township for school support, and we are no closer to federal control of our schools than we were then. The Democratic platform says squarely that "the federal government should not dictate or control educational policy." And we mean that, too.

	And now of our deep concern for our senior citizens, which is a new name for our older people. For millions of Americans, old age once meant charity, or the county home, or a life as an unwelcome burden on their children. We're proud, as Democrats, that today--thanks to Social Security--these people can pass their evening years in dignity, security and independence, not with handouts, but with the proceeds of insurance earned by a life of hard work.

	Splendid as it is, our social security system has room for improvement. It should be extended to many workers not now covered. Benefit payments should keep up with living costs to accomplish the purpose for which they were intended. The present law should be changed to encourage people who are still alert, able-bodied, and eager, to keep on working even after they are sixty-five. Our country needs every hand and brain we can give it and enforced idleness is good for no one.

	What are the Republican views on social security? The General once told us what he thought about it, when he blurted out--thoughtlessly, I hope--that the best place to find security is in prison. The General talks differently now; in fact, he seems to change his mind not infrequently these days. But the Republicans in Congress have written a record that can't be changed. When they controlled the Eightieth Congress, they took Social Security protection away from more than a half million people. Now they say they want to extend it. What should we take them at--their word or their deed?

	The American people want no retreat on these issues. We want to advance, to improve, to carry forward our efforts to provide better housing, better health, better schools, better security. These are not "vestiges" of the New Deal that we mark for destruction. They are part of the fabric of our life, part of the progress we have been making toward human dignity and human freedom, part of the promise of our future.

	The voters of our nation will not be fooled by the Republican leaders who have arched their backs and been dragged, protesting, through these years of advance in human welfare--who even now are saying, on the one hand, that all these hard-won social gains are now "above politics," and, on the other, that they want to destroy, to go back, to tear them down.

	The strange alchemy of time has somehow converted the Democrats into the truly conservative party of this country--the party dedicated to conserving all that is best, and building solidly and safely on these foundations. The Republicans, by contrast, are behaving like the radical party--the party of the reckless and the embittered, bent on dismantling institutions which have been built solidly into our social fabric.

	I had a letter the other day from a man who said that I evidently wanted to put the word "candid" in candidate, which seemed to be a novel and appealing idea. Well, I never thought of it just that way before, but I do want to do just that. I think candidates for high public office have a responsibility to deal in fact, not fiction, in truth, not fancy, transcending any responsibility to their party to get elected at the price of guile and deceit. This is a democracy, the most difficult form of government there is, requiring the most informed and discriminating electorate. Who but candidates appealing to the electorate for support can set the standards?

	In short, I've decided that I could have no better epitaph than "the man who put 'candid' in candidate." And in that spirit, I owe it to you to say that I think of our Social Security system and our Democratic party's sponsorship of the social reforms and advances of the past two decades as conservatism at its best. Certainly there could be nothing more conservative than to change when change is due, to reduce tensions and wants by wise changes, rather than to stand pat stubbornly, until, like King Canute, we are engulfed by relentless forces that will always go too far.

	But change for the sake of change--even in national administrations--has no absolute value. The changes in our society and national life to meet changing times and needs must be first studied, weighed, evaluated. The radical shouts "change!" The conservative says "change wisely."

	Even more important, candidly, than immediate further advances, such as I have sketched, is our national solvency. It is not just that a program is desirable; the question is also whether we can afford it without endangering something else, or, indeed, everything. The top priority now is defense and inflation control. Social gains at the price of peace or a healthy economy, on which the whole world depends, will not be gains but frightful losses.

	Our directions, our party purposes, our new social horizons are clear and I am proud to bear the Democratic standard in this fateful campaign. But I would not earn that epitaph of candor if I shamelessly promised immediate delivery of what we either could not deliver at all, or could deliver only at too hazardous a price.

	We stand at a perilous moment in a perilous century. The false prophets of Communism would offer us security without freedom. The false prophets of reaction would offer us freedom without security. Every day these false prophets--both the Communists abroad and the Republican Old Guard at home--tell us that freedom and security are incompatible.

	But we know they are wrong. We have proven that a free society is strong enough to take care of its own without losing its freedom. We know now that freedom and security are indivisible and that any society which chooses one loses both.

	We have made a new society here in America. We have given democracy a new dimension. We have given our men and women a new strength. We are moving toward a spacious future--a future in which our children's children will be born in freedom, work in dignity and live in peace. This is our faith and our passion, and in that faith and with God's help, we shall make our own the promise of the future.

AGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABOREDUCATION--GENERALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHEALTH CARE--FACILITIESMEDICAL PROFESSIONRURAL DEVELOPMENTSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYSOCIALISM     C B B B B
 B B B B B B B |B	  	  	 | 	 a 	 J 	 8 	 ' 	  	 	 e: