

	Ladies and gentlemen, you warm my heart.  I thank each of you who has come out here this morning, who has taken an hour out of his day to give me a chance to bring him a friendly greeting and to express to him a few of the thoughts that are on my heart and mind as we go through this great campaign.

	First, because we are here in the heart of this industrial empire of Michigan where we make so many of our vehicles in the United States, let me pay a special word of tribute to those working men and women who helped to win World War II by providing the American Army, the American Navy, the American Air Force and the Marines with the finest and best equipment that any armed services have ever taken into war.  I am certain that I speak for every serviceman and every ex-serviceman in this whole crowd when I extend to those men and women and their families our very deep and sincere thanks.

	As this political campaign has proceeded through the past hectic weeks, the opposition has found that it undertook one task that is impossible.  It undertook to defend the sorry record of the past seven years.  That it has found impossible to do in front of the American people.  That record includes the fumbling away of the American strength in the world and finally bringing us the great tragedy of the loss of China and the Korean War.

	Now, I am not going to recite this morning the long list of things, the ignoring of warnings that led up to the Korea War.  That will be the subject of my talk tonight in Detroit, and I will discuss over both national television and radio the whole sorry Korean mess.

	At home, we have had an administration that has been spending money at a higher level than any in our history--our money.  It has been taxing us more severely than we have been taxed in our history.  Yet, in spite of that taxation, those expenses are so high that we can't meet our bills.  Because we can't meet our bills, we create deficits and our money gets cheaper and prices go higher.

	Today, the housewife goes down to the store to buy a bag of groceries that she bought in 1940 for ten dollars and now she pays twenty-four dollars and fifty cents.  So the rat race goes down, desperately trying to get wages up to the increased cost of living, and money gets cheaper and cheaper.  What happens?  This means that every cent you have saved up, every dollar you have in the bank, every bit of money that is in your social security pensions, or old age pensions, every bit of money in your insurance policy is cheaper and cheaper.  It will buy less and less.  We have more dollars running around and more dollars finding their way into your pocket but many, many more of them finding the way out through the hole that we call inflation.  Inflation is not something that just happened by accident.  One of the greatest editorial staffs of our country, after long research, says, inflation has been the deliberate policy of this administration.  So that is another item that our political opponents have found themselves unable to defend in this long record.

	Then we have had the case of subversion and disloyalty in government.  They cried, "Red Herring."  The real crime is not that an occasional person out of 155 million people would be traduced and would fail the trust that the American people have put on him, but it is a crime when there is complacency and indifference in uprooting that sort of thing and getting rid of it instantly.  The same applies to all of these people who have been lining their pockets with your tax money.  A total of nine of the great tax collecting agencies of our country have had their chiefs relieved because of malfeasance in office.  One or two of them are behind the bars where they ought to be.  I understand it is not for as long as they ought to be, but still they are behind the bars.

	Ladies and gentlemen, when these people take your money or are indifferent toward subversion and dishonesty in government, that may hurt your pocketbook some, but that is not the real crime.  The real crime is that it robs you of your rightful pride in your government.  Americans have a right to be proud of the institutions they have set up and of the men and women who fill them because this country teems with outstanding men and women of ability in every section and every walk of life; in labor, in management, in agriculture, there are men and women of ability who can go down to Washington and do this job correctly.  Instead of that, we have had twenty-two-caliber men trying to fill fifty-four-caliber jobs and they just haven't been up to it.

	When the opposition found it impossible to defend this record, what did they do?  They started singing hymns of hate and songs of fear.  They have come around trying to sell to the United States, of all people, a program of fear.  What do they fear?  I will tell you just a few of the things that they have been trying to sell.

	They fear that I and my associates would cut soldiers' pay, sailors' pay, airmens' pay, the pay of the marines.  I, who have spent forty years of my life in uniform working with these men--veterans and their successors now in the service--would cut their pay.  I sometimes am tempted to ask just how low can you get in this business.  Possibly, my friends, my wonder and sometimes my anger comes from the fact that I have never been a politician in the accepted sense of the word, and I am not one now.  I am just another American appearing before my fellow Americans to describe some of the things that are happening to us and what we can do about them.

	Then they fear that my associates and I in this crusade would cause unemployment.  Remember, my associates include people who are Republicans, people who have never voted before, people who class themselves as Independents, and thousands and thousands of people who, up to now, have classed themselves as Democrats.  This is a great crusade and they accuse us of wanting to bring on a depression.  They even made the astounding prediction that twenty-nine million workers would be out of work.  By what kind of reasoning or lack of reasoning could anyone reach such an astonishing conclusion?  Of course they haven't reached it.  They are merely trying to sell you another bill of fear.  If there is one thing to which this crusade is dedicated, it is peace.  How can you have peace?  Only if you have a strong, prosperous United States.  That means full employment at decent wages, standards of living that are the envy of the world.  They will be maintained.  This crusade has pledged to use the full power of private industry, of local and state governments, and every single bit of influence and power of the federal government to foresee and forestall the approach of any depression that could reestablish breadlines in this country.

	They fear, next, that we would bust unions.  Ladies and gentlemen, my work week before I entered the Army in 1907 was eighty-four hours a week.  I worked fifty-two weeks a year.  Since that time, I know what organized labor, organized unions have done for our country.  They have brought into our lives, into the lives of working men and women, decency.  They have brought decent hours of work, recreational facilities, higher wages, higher standards, greater conveniences.  I have put myself on record as firmly as I know how that I am the world's biggest opponent of union busting and the greatest believer in collective bargaining conducted by strong unions.  Yet they go around spreading this kind of a falsehood.

	Finally, they say that I and those with me would like to cut social security programs; that I would like to leave destitute our aged, our infirm, that I would just allow them to lie out in the cold and in the gutter, I suppose.  You know, I wonder sometimes whether I haven't had more experience taking care of unfortunates--wounded, sick--than some of these people.  In any event, this crusade is dedicated by the most solemn promises to expand and improve social security, not to eliminate it.  Moreover, my friends, here is the one big thing we are going to do to improve social security.  We are going to make sure that your dollars retain their purchasing power so that these pensions, this insurance, will mean something to you and that you will not have to carry as big a basket to bring your dollar bills to the market as you will to carry home the groceries they will buy.  We intend to save your money.

	Now, of course, the big mistake that the opposition has made in trying to sell this program of fear is this:  How do you sell fear to an American?  On the battlefields of every continent of the world America has proved its courage.  In meeting internal crises of every possible description, it has proved its courage.  And when people come around and have nothing to sell but fear, they find a very poor market in America.  I assure you wherever I have been, from San Diego to Massachusetts, from the Canadian border to the Gulf of Mexico, I haven't found any crowd, any group buying fear from these people who were trying to peddle it.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not come before you to indulge in any contest of political promises.  I told you before that I am not a politician.  I can bring you only what is in my own heart and on my own mind.  I know among other things that all the political promises possible to use have been worn out during the past recent years.  Some of them are shopworn; some of them were never intended to be kept.  But what I do bring before you is a pledge, if you want to charge my associates and me with the responsibility for directing the national destinies of our government during the next four years, that:  First, there will be brought to Washington from every walk of life, from every principal section the finest men and women that those sections afford.  Those men and women known to you, because they will come right out of this crowd, will be your guarantee that Communism, crookedness, and just plain filth are kept out of government.  That is what they will do first.

	Secondly, they will apply the full strength of America and all the wisdom that we can marshal out of all of the several sectors of American life to the problem of producing and maintaining peace--peace, in the first instance, through our strength and leadership of the free world and gradually leading toward the kind of tranquil peace that America deserves.

	Thirdly, that group will be fair and just, as God gives them the power to see justice and fairness.  And finally, and most important, they will be friendly; they will not be complacent, arrogant, so sure they are right that they will want to run your business from two-thousand miles away.  They will be a helpful government, but they will be there to work for and with you.  They will be there not merely to work you, something of which we have had too much.

	That is a pledge my friends, that I make to you on this bright morning just some ten days before you finally have to make your decision.  Paraphrasing the words of a man I heard speaking not long ago, I would say merely this about your decision.  After you have studied all of these problems--what you want in your government, where you can put your confidence and trust--I would paraphrase this man's words in this fashion:  "Now is the time for every American to caucus with his conscience."  Beyond that, I have nothing to say except allow me to bring out and present to you my Mamie before the train pulls out. 
COST OF LIVINGECONOMY--DEPRESSIONELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSINFLATIONORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     A. . . . -
 - - - - - - - -	  	  	  	  	 ` 	 W 	 ? 	 0 e: