

	Thank you, thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Governor.  Thank you very much, Governor Dempsey, Senator Ribicoff, Congressman Monagan, all of the state officers that are here, and particularly may I thank the number of young people that have come here from your high schools, your colleges and your university. 

	And, Governor, and Mr. Mayor, and our chairman.  May I thank also the senior citizens that have come here from all around this great area.

	Ladies and gentlemen, this is, without a doubt, one of the finest meetings that we have had and, of course, it means so much to me to come to your great state and to know that we are received with this genuine enthusiasm and this wonderful spirit of hospitality.  I want you to know that both Senator Muskie and myself are deeply grateful for the reception that you are giving the Democratic nominee for the office of president, and I know that--and I know that on November 5th, I know that on November 5th the city of Waterbury and all of the neighboring communities are going to give the Democratic ticket an overwhelming majority.  That I know. 

	Now, you waited quite a little while, and I want to get right down to business.  You know, I have been trying to get that Republican candidate--the man that says he is brand new now--I have been trying to et him to do something that every good American ought to be willing to do:  I have been trying to get the Republican candidate to stand on the same platform with me along with the third-party candidate and to stand up here and debate the great issues of this campaign before the American people.  Don't you think that is the fair thing to do? 

	But, you know, I got to thinking the other day why he wouldn't do it.  I got to thinking why is it that Mr. Nixon doesn't want to talk to Mr. Humphrey?  And I guess I know why.

	Let me tell you why.  To every member of organized labor here, let me tell you why: because when he has to answer my questions, he will have to say that he always voted against you and he doesn't want to have to say that, but he did.  And let me say--and let me say to every student, if I ask him a question or two he is going to have to say that he voted against you,  too, because he voted against aid to higher education, aid to elementary and secondary education.  He voted "no" against young people.  That is why he is afraid to debate. 

	And if I get a chance to get him to debate me, I am going to ask him some questions about the older people, the senior citizens--and I know why he doesn't want me to ask him any questions: because he was against Medicare.  That is why.  He doesn't want to have to face up to that.  

	And because he doesn't want to have to face up to the fact, he doesn't want to have to face up to the fact that only once in the history of the Republican party, only once, have they ever voted for any Social Security.  They started out being against it and they have been against it every since, and he doesn't want me to remind the American people that he and his Republicans have been the foremost opponents of everything that was ever good for our elderly citizens.  He doesn't want me to remind him of that. 

	And I will tell you why he is afraid to debate me.  He doesn't want me to remind him that when he and John Kennedy were campaigning, that it was Mr. Nixon who said the Peace Corps, one of the finest programs that this nation has launched, that the Peace Corps, which John Kennedy asked the Congress to pass and which I was privileged to put my name to as its leading sponsor, Mr. Nixon doesn't want me to remind him that he called the Peace Corps a haven for draft dodgers, and he ought to be ashamed of himself.    

	And he doesn't want me to remind him that when we were trying to negotiate a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty to protect your children, to slow down this arms race, to prevent radioactive fallout from contaminating your food and your milk, he doesn't want me to remind him that he called the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty a "cruel hoax and catastrophic nonsense".

	That man is not fit to be president of the United States.    

	Yes, my friends, I know why he doesn't want to face the public: because he has no record.  What else did he say--and there are many workers here in Waterbury.  What was it this man said?  He said he didn't think unemployment was very dangerous until it got to be over 4.5 million, and what did his economic adviser say the other day?  His economic adviser said that we could take more unemployment.  Ladies and gentlemen, any man that wants to be president of the United States and advocates that we can have more unemployment is the man that ought to stay unemployed.  We don't need him in Washington.  And I will tell you something.  He isn't going to come to Washington except as a guest or a visitor, not to the White House.    

	Now, let me say a word about the other fellow.  Now, if my voice sounds a little gravely, and it does, I want to tell you why.  Mr. Nixon makes about one speech every other day.  He is so sure he has got this election wrapped up that he is already picking his cabinet.  You know, by the time he gets to the election, he is going to have thought he was president so long that it is going to be time for a change and I am going to be president. 

	VOICES:  Give them hell.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, I am not going to give them hell.  I am just going to tell them the truth and it is going to sound like that, that is all. 

	Now, there is another candidate running around this country and I want to talk to you very seriously about him because ladies and gentlemen, this has not been an easy fight for me.  There are many of you in this audience that only a few weeks ago didn't think we had a chance.  But I want to tell you something, dear friends.  We not only have a chance.  You join in quick because we are going to win this election as sure as my name is Humphrey.    

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You have got him.

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  All right now, wait a minute.  Wait a minute.  Let me tell you something:  If you think you want me, you ought to know how much I want you. 

	Boy, do I need you.  Do I need you.  I have to depend upon the people. 

	I want to tell you friends something here.  I don't think the White House ought to go to the man with the biggest advertising budget.  I don't think the presidency is for sale.  I think the presidency ought to go to the man that has the people and you give me your help and I will have the people and we will win this election. 

	I don't need to remind you what happened in Waterbury the last time the Nixon Republicans were in.  You remember.  Now, listen, if some of you want a long vacation with no pay, vote Republican.  You will get it.  But if you want to live like a Republican, vote Democratic and you will get it.    

	I remember coming to Connecticut in 1958 and 1960.  I remember when I campaigned for John Kennedy.  And I remember when John Kennedy said, "Let's get this country moving again", and my fellow Americans, John Kennedy, and Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey and Abe Ribicoff--we got this country moving again. 

	And let me tell you, my friends, we can keep it moving if you will help us and if you don't listen to this other crowd.

	Now, let me talk to you about that third party fellow for a while.  I want to talk to you about him and I will tell you why: because this man preaches a doctrine in this country that is dangerous, because this man preaches a doctrine in this country that is based upon fear and suspicion and doubt and hatred and, ladies and gentlemen, the American people cannot afford to have that kind of a voice.

	This country must be a country in which we trust each other, in which we have a sense of community, in which we recognize people not be the color of their skin but by their merit, by their performance.  Simply because they are Americans we give them every chance and we are going to give everybody a chance.    

	Mr. Wallace, he goes around this country thinking that he is a national sheriff.  He talks law and order.

	Let me say a word to you about law and order.  I was the mayor of a city that had to give law and order to that city.  Let me just talk to you a little bit--not Chicago, Minneapolis and I took care of it very well, don't worry about that.

	Mr. Wallace, the law and order man--the man that says he wants to give you law and order Montgomery, Alabama style.

	Let me tell you what that meant.  Alabama under George Wallace had the highest murder rate in the nation.  Alabama under George Wallace, the second highest aggravated assault rate in the nation.  Let me tell you, my dear friends, we don't need that kind of law and order in Washington, or any place else. 

	And what did he ever do for the police?  Now, let me tell you, friends, John Kennedy once said peace and freedom are not cheap, and law and order are not cheap.  If you want better enforcement of laws, if you want safe streets and safe parks, if you want this country to be law abiding and if you want your laws enforced, then we are going to have to pay our police better, we are going to have more of them, we are going to have to give them better training, we are going to have to give them better equipment, we are going to have to pay for it and I think it is worth the price. 

	But neither Mr. Nixon or Mr. Wallace has said a thing about it except law and order, and what do they mean?  Black versus white.  And you know it and I know it.

	And let me tell you from this platform, this nation needs every black man.  This nation needs every white man.  This nation needs every American doing the best that he can.  This nation needs people that have a respect for each other.  This nation needs people that trust each other.  This nation needs to be one nation, not two.  This nation needs to be united. 

	And now, Mr. Worker, let me say a word to you about this Confederate three-dollar counterfeit bill, and that is what it is, that candidacy.  Why, I am shocked.  I go to a factory and I find people who are workers and they carry a union card, some of them, and what do they say?  They say they are for Wallace, a union buster.  Good grief.  It is a good--I could make it more explicit, believe me I could. 

	Well, I want to talk to the women for a minute.  Let me tell you something, girls.  If you have got a husband that is going to vote for George Wallace, you had better have a talk with him.  Let me tell you why.  I will tell you why, because that man is going to lose his job.  George Wallace has nobody in Congress.  He has no economic program.  His state has the second-lowest wages in the nation.  His state has the second lowest per capita expenditure on education in the nation.  His state has a six-percent sales tax on everything that you buy.  His state has the lowest workmen's compensation in the nation.

	Listen, George Wallace makes Scrooge look like Santa Claus.  Let's face up to it. 

	And, we are not going to listen to him.  We are not going to listen to that kind of talk.

	Now, let me tell you about that Republican candidate just once more.  He doesn't talk like George Wallace, and I will tell you why: because they write all his stuff on Madison Avenue, and it is a little cleverer.  It is a little smoother.  He is cool, they tell me.  They say, Mr. Vice President, you look a little tired.  Well, I am.  I am making ten speeches a day, and why?  He has got the money.  What have I got?  Myself and you.  That is all.  But that is enough.    

	But, I don't intend to let Richard Milhous Nixon, who fought Harry Truman and called the Democratic Party a party of treason.  I don't intend to let Richard Milhous Nixon, new or old, who fought Adlai Stevenson and John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey, I don't intend to let him occupy the White House.    

	Friends, this is your fight.  It is not just my fight.  This is your country.  This is your community.  This is your city.  And ladies and gentlemen, the Republican candidate has yet to speak out on jobs, on cities, on human rights, on the protection of the consumer.  He wrote a letter up to Wall Street the other day.  Oh, yes, he took care of those fellows all right.  But he didn't take care of the investor.  I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I can't win this election alone.  I know it.  But I will tell you what we can do.  If you will join me and trust me, I will join you and trust you, and we will give them the whipping of their lives. 

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Please, my friends, let's go away from this meeting tonight--let's go away from this place tonight determined that we are not going to turn this country back, determined that we are not going to let the progress that we have made thus far be destroyed, determined that we are going to build a better country with better schools for our young people, with better Social Security for our older people, with better job opportunities for every American.  And my friends, I might as well be very candid.  I know that many people say on these jobs, "Oh, that Humphrey fellow, all he is ever trying to do is get some poor man a job, some black man a job."  Let me tell you what I am trying to do:  I am trying to give any man or woman who wants to work a job.  I am trying to give Americans jobs.  That is what I am trying to do.

	And I happen to believe--I happen to believe that this country has yet to realize its greatness.  We are a wonderful country.  This country has not lost its way: It is finding its conscience.  This country is not sick.  This country is growing up.  This great America of ours today, my dear friends, this great America has yet to realize its potentiality.  I want you to help me, my friends.  I want you to help me make this country a better country.  I want you to help me help every boy and girl, white or black, to have this chance.  I want to remind you that today, my friends--that America--some of the best people of this country came from the poor, and some of you are in this audience.  This country has much goodness in it if we but call it forth.  This country has qualities of greatness in it if we but call if forth.  And I want to be your president for one reason above all others.  I want to help America achieve its greatness.  I want to help America be what it ought to be: the greatest hope of the Earth.    

	Now, let me introduce to you two people that have been traveling with me.  I must go to New York tonight.  I hope and pray that these tubes of mine hold out.  But, friends, it is a fight to the finish.   You know what they said two weeks ago?  They said we didn't.  Well, by cracky, we have got one tonight, haven't we?    

	We are going to do to Richard Milhous Nixon in 1968 what Harry Truman did to Thomas Dewey in 1948.  

	And we are going to have the biggest victory party that they have had since Andrew Jackson became president of the United States.  And I am inviting every one of you to come--every one--and I want you fellows to save your money to buy mom a new gown because it is going to be the damnedest party you ever say in your life.  

	Look at this crowd.  Look here, friends.  Look around at your neighbors.  Think of what is here.  This is America.  This is what makes us great.  Let no one destroy it.  Let no one divide us.  Let no one spread fear.  Don't vote your hates.  Vote your hopes.  Vote Democratic.  Vote for Humphrey and Muskie in November.  

	Thank you.  Now--

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you.  God bless you.  Hold it, now.  Shhh.

	Listen, I have a surprise for you.  I want to tell you something.  The whole Humphrey family is out campaigning.  Muriel Humphrey and Jane Muskie are out working together today.

	Say, by the way, don't you think I have got a great vice presidential running mate in Ed Muskie?  Ah, what a man, what a man.  Listen, we are going to have a great time together, friends.  That White House is going to sing again, I will tell you, when we are down there.    

	Now, I have here on my right and on your left, one of the most talented and gifted and one of the loveliest ladies I have ever known.  She is really a remarkable person and a beautiful, wonderful spirit.  She knows I feel this way and I am very fond of her.  And I want you to meet her.  She is a great actress.  You have met her before on the screen, you have seen her on television.  Inger?  I want you to meet Inger Stevens.  Inger, come on up here.    

	MISS STEVENS:  Thank you.  Oh, what a tremendous turnout this is.  It is really beautiful.  I am so proud to be supporting Vice President Hubert Humphrey.  I want to tell you that the most moving thing about the Vice President is his compassion for humanity, and we were having a conversation the other day.  He was speaking with great pride about his family, his three sons and his daughter and his remarkable wife, and specifically he was talking about his little granddaughter--and his granddaughter is mentally retarded--and he turned to me and he said, you know, Inger, this child has taught me what pure love really is.  And this is what Vice President Humphrey has for you.  Pure love.  And he has it for his country, and I can say this honestly after traveling with him for a week and a half, he is the most fantastic human being and he is our next president.  Thank you.  

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You see, it is fun to run for president, isn't it, fellas, huh?  I knew you guys would like that.  

	Now, let me introduce to you another champion.  Let me tell you why this country is so great.  This young lady is an immigrant girl.  Her father came here to teach at one of our great colleges and universities.  See how wonderful it is.

	Now, we have somebody else here.  We have a champion, a remarkable man, a man of really such great and good character, and I am just so honored to have him as my friend. 

	You know what is the greatest gift that you can receive?  The gift of a good person's friendship.  And I have received the gift from Inger, of her friendship and I have received a gift from Rafer Johnson, champion, Olympic champion, of his friendship.  Rafer, come here.    

	MR. JOHNSON:  Thank you very much.  I know you were all listening to the words the Vice President had for you this evening.  I am sure that you know that he was very pleased by your turnout here and he was very happy--and that makes me happy, because he is a man that I think should be in the White House come November.  He is a man who has worked to face the problems of this great country.  He is a man who is willing--and I am glad he is--to serve America, and I know that all of you, and I hope Americans across this country, will vote for Hubert Humphrey in November and make him our next president of the United States of America. 

	You know, it is very easy sometimes to talk about the things you plan on doing today--to talk about the great, great programs of tomorrow--but I find it very easy to support Hubert Humphrey, not only because he is the man he is today, not only because he promises great promises for tomorrow, but even greater than that, and I think that what he has done in the past makes the individual much more predictable in terms of what he will do tomorrow, and his record as a mayor, as a senator, as vice president, makes it even more important that we cast our vote for him, because he is a man that will lead America in the right direction, will make America what it should be for all Americans, whether they are black or white, rich or poor, from the North or South.

	I thank you for this support and I hope you continue to do so.  Thank you very much.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Isn't that wonderful?  Isn't that marvelous?  Ah, friends, can I just conclude by saying you have made my day so happy, you have blessed us.  We are going to work hard for you.  We are going to go away from here now.  We have got a big meeting in Madison Square Garden tonight.  We are going to have meetings, ten of them a day, every day.  There are only eighteen more days until election, friends--eighteen more days.  That is enough, isn't it? 

	Now, every man and woman in this audience that wants to help the Democratic ticket, that wants to help Hubert Humphrey and Ed Muskie, put your hand up.  I want to see you. 

	God bless you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Good night.
ALABAMACRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALEDUCATION, HIGHERENDORSEMENTS--CELEBRITIESEQUAL OPPORTUNITYLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSENIOR CITIZENS     Q Q Q ~Q vQ
 jQ eQ `Q WQ LQ JQ JQ ?Q	  	  	  	  	  	 f 	 U 	 ; 	 ' 	  e: