

	I am grateful for the opportunity to talk with you about national farm policies. I won't waste our time this afternoon telling you, in the political tradition, all about how I am myself a farmer. I own farm land in Illinois, and I come from a family that has lived in the heart of the Corn Belt for over a hundred years. But I am here today as a candidate for public office--not masquerading as a dirt farmer, but as a politician. 

	My first venture into public service was in Washington in the old Agricultural Adjustment Administration. That was in the desolate days of 1933, when the American farmer, like everybody else, was flat on his back. I do not want to suggest to anyone that we Democrats are still running against Herbert Hoover, but I am thankful for my AAA experience, because it showed me in a way I will never forget how bad conditions can get on our farms--conditions that must never occur again. 

	In this spirit, Democratic administrations have developed the farm policies of the last twenty years. As a result, we of this generation, who saw farm conditions at their worst in 1932, have had the happy privilege of seeing them over the last decade at their best. I am proud of the work my party has done in these twenty years to restore the American farmer to a position of equality and dignity in our national life. 

	For the last three and a half years I have been governor of a great agricultural state. In this capacity I have worked closely with farmers and farm organizations. With their help and cooperation, we have reorganized our Illinois Department of Agriculture; and, if you will forgive a commercial here at Kasson for a rival show, we have improved our great Illinois State Fair and cut the cost to the taxpayer by two-thirds. I have relied on farmers' advice in other fields too--notably school and highway legislation. We now have under way in Illinois the largest highway program since the advent of the hard road. For the first time a share of our gasoline tax is going to the townships for the rural roads. 

	I come to you today as the Democratic candidate for the greatest responsibility on earth--the presidency of the United States. I am running on the Democratic platform. I believe it is a good platform. I believe its agricultural plank is clear, definite and sound. I can stand on it without squirming. I feel no need to modify this provision or that, to explain or to reinterpret, to dodge or to hedge. 

	And I am for this platform, above all, because I believe that its pledges are not just in the interest of the farmer--they are in the public interest. I know that the American farmers do not want, nor will they get through any effort of mine, anything more than what is justified by the larger good of the commonwealth. We can all stand on the words of the first philosopher of American agriculture, Thomas Jefferson: "Equal rights for all; special privileges for none." 

	A society can be no better than the men and women who compose it. The heart of any farm policy must therefore be the life of those who work the farms. Our objective is to make that life full and satisfying. We believe, as Democrats have always believed, that our society rests on an agricultural base. It is our determination to keep that base solid and healthy. Our farms must grow more than crops and livestock. They must grow what Walt Whitman described as the best bar against tyranny--"a large, resolute breed of men." 

	This means that farm policy must focus first on the question of farm income. This is not because farmers are more concerned with money than any other group in society. It is because farmers, like all other citizens, are entitled to a fair return for their labor and a fair chance in the world for their children. In the past, the labor of the farmer has remained the same; but his income has risen or sunk according to the unpredictable fluctuations of the market. It has been a constant objective of our Democratic farm programs to maintain farm income--and thereby to assure the farmer that he can provide food, medical care and education for his family. 

	The way we have chosen to maintain farm income is to support farm prices. Our platform lays this out in clear language. Here is what it says: "We will continue to protect the producers of basic agricultural commodities under the terms of a mandatory price-support program at not less than 90 percent of parity." 

	There are no ifs, buts or maybes about this. And I think it is a policy that most farmers today understand and believe in. I only wish that everybody understood it so well. One place it was clearly not understood was at the great fracas in the Chicago stockyards, two months ago, where one of the casualties was the farm plank in the Republican platform. There are, of course, two Republican parties for agriculture as well as two Republican parties for foreign policy and almost everything else. The general evidently decided this morning to plow under the Republican platform altogether. 

	As you all know, the Chicago slaughter finally ended in a cease fire agreement. According to that agreement--better known as the Republican platform--Republican policy is "aimed"--that is their word--is "aimed" at parity levels. That phrase may have looked good in a smoke-filled room in Chicago. It isn't very clear here in the daylight in Minnesota. There is, and no one should know it better than my distinguished opponent, a vast difference between aiming at a target and hitting it. 

	How good is their aim anyway? Their sights were a mile off in June of this year when more than half the Republican members of the House of Representatives voted against the law that extended price support at 90 percent of parity through 1954. 

	If the Republican candidate says one thing, and the Republican platform says something else, and the Republican members of Congress say still another--how then can anyone tell what a Republican administration would actually do in Washington? 

	There should be no mystery about price supports. What our program does is to place a floor under our agricultural economy in order to protect the farmer against sudden and violent price drops. What it does is to maintain farm income--and the farmer's purchasing power--in those uneasy moments when there is a temporary glut in the market, or when real depression threatens. By stabilizing farm income, our program maintains markets for the businessman and the worker. The total effect, obviously, is to help stabilize the whole national economy at a high level of production and employment. 

	I know that opponents of the program claim that price supports raise food prices for housewives. Let us examine this charge a moment. Food prices are high enough today, heaven knows. But supports are not the reason. High employment and strong purchasing power--in short, prosperity--are keeping most farm prices above support levels. 

	What the support program does do is to encourage farmers to grow more food. You can now plant crops fairly secure in the knowledge that prices will still be good at market time. That is one reason why farm production has increased almost 50 percent in the last twenty years. The support program thus helps to keep supply up with demand--and that is the way to keep prices from going up. 

	The price-support program thus does more than assure a decent life and a fair opportunity for most of our farm families. It also improves the life of the boys and girls in our cities. From your farms today food pours in a steady stream to every corner of the country. Think what this means in the terms of human lives! We are feeding thirty million more people than there were in our land in 1932; and we are giving the average American a far better diet. More than that, this better diet costs the average person no greater share of his income after taxes than it did in 1932--if he was lucky enough to have any income, after or even before taxes, in that gloomy year. 

	I am not presuming for a moment to say that support at 90 percent of parity is necessarily the permanent or only answer. Economic conditions are constantly changing and I think this program, like all our economic policies, should be constantly reappraised to determine if it is fair to the taxpayer and responsive to our needs. We are all dependent on one another and the only certainty of a stable, prosperous agriculture is a stable, prosperous nation. 

	The price-support program is doing a good job for the basic crops--corn, cotton, wheat, rice, and the others--for which loan and storage operations are now in effect. The same protection could be accorded to other storable commodities. 

	For perishable products, however, such as hogs, dairy products, fruits and vegetables, these loan and storage operations do not work well. Yet these products provide about three-fourths of all the income received by farmers. 

	Our first line of defense for the producers of perishables is, of course, a strong economic policy that will ensure, so far as it is humanly possible to do so, high employment and purchasing power. But behind this there should be protection against unreasonably low prices for those producers of perishables who need it. They should know they can expand production and that the public that benefits will bear part of the risk. 

	I do not underestimate the difficulty of finding a satisfactory method of doing this. And I can only hope that with continued careful study and close consultation with farmers and their leaders, ways will be found to do something both practical and effective. 

	The farm problem has changed much since the thirties. Once abundance created surpluses because people could not buy what the farmer could produce. Today we seek even greater abundance as we look ahead to a thirty or forty million increase in our population in the next twenty-five years. 

	Nevertheless, there is the constant necessity to adjust output to need in the short run. We have worked out excellent voluntary methods for doing this. 

	The Republican leadership would now dispense entirely with production controls. "We do not believe in restrictions on the American farmer's ability to produce," their platform states in one of its rare bursts of clarity. Well, I do not like acreage allotments and marketing quotas myself. I hope--we all have good reason to hope--that a growing population and expanding markets will keep us from again needing controls for staple crops. 

	But farmers have learned from bitter experience that we need these controls in reserve. I learned how useful they could be in the hard school of the triple-A. Incidentally, there could be no tobacco program at all right now without marketing quotas--as every tobacco farmer knows. I would never favor controls for the sake of control. But I think we have to face a practical problem when we see one. 

	Price policy is the heart of the farm program but it is not the whole of it. Farming is a way of using our great inheritance of water and land; and it is a way of life. Our effort must be to improve the fertility and productivity of our farms, and to improve the quality and content of life for our farm families. I hope to have a personal part in the continuation and extension of the policies which in the last twenty years have given farm life new strength and new dignity--and so restored it to its old place of honor in the republic. 

	We of this generation are the trustees of our soil and water resources for our children and their children. We have an elaborate soil-conservation program. It too should have constant scrutiny to determine if we are getting the maximum value in land improvement out of our conservation tax dollar. We still have far to go in upstream flood prevention and water and forest conservation. And I wish I could say that every farmer was using the best conservation methods to protect his farm--methods such as those demonstrated here at Kasson at this magnificent and celebrated exhibition. With the kind of local leadership you have in the Conservation Service and Districts we see here today, we will get the job done everywhere in time, and I would say very soon in Minnesota. 

	You may have heard that, where administration is concerned, I am no admirer of mere size. Let us strive for big men, not big government. We must continue to decentralize the management of our agricultural and conservation programs and, if anything, increase farmer participation. I like to think of soil conservation as democracy at work with technical assistance. I think we can go further toward making local administration compact and efficient and getting dollar-for-dollar value for the money we spend. 

	Rural electrification is one of our finest national achievements in this generation. It is more than a government program. It is a blessing. 

	It means electric lights for farm families who have had to live by coal-lit lamps. It means electric power for the farm wife in place of the back-breaking labor of the old-fashioned washtub and the hand pump. It means electric power to grind the farmer's feed, heat his brooder house, and help him with a hundred other chores. You know about this in Minnesota, where the number of electrified farms has risen from 7 percent in 1935 to 90 percent today. 

	The great task of bringing electricity to the farm is now far along to completion. It must be finished and generation and transmission facilities must be adequate to meet the constantly growing demand for power on the farm, at prices the farmer can afford to pay. 

	We must also look toward the time when every farm home may be in touch with its neighbors, the doctor and the world through rural telephone service. 

	The chief agency in this miraculous transformation in country living has been the farmer-owned cooperative. I've been a member of one for years and the cooperative seems to me a wonderful example of people solving their own local problems in their own way. Its effectiveness must not be crippled by hostile legislation. 

	There is one final part of our farm program which especially concerns me. 

	Farm ownership and the family farm are the foundation on which our whole agricultural system is built. From 1880 to 1932 we lost ground on farm ownership. In these years--years, incidentally, when Republicans were mostly in power and hadn't yet invented that slogan "it's time for a change"--the proportion of farm owners declined, until by 1932, 43 percent of all farmers--two out of every five--were either tenants or sharecroppers. That trend has now been reversed; three-fourths of our farmers now own their farms. We have recovered, in twenty years, the ground lost in the previous fifty. I've sold some farms and I've seen to it that they were sold to operators, not landlords, where possible. 

	Things are not yet as they should be. Many young, vigorous and ambitious men would like to become owners of farms. What is more serious, many farmers cannot, with their existing land and equipment, make a decent living from the soil. In 1950, more than one million farmers had net incomes from all sources including outside employment of less than $1,000. How can a farmer rear, clothe and educate a family on that? We can take pride in our remarkable progress, but we cannot be complacent. 

	Research, housing, and credit programs particularly must be focused on this problem of rural poverty. No one should promise miracles here; but there must be ways to help the industrious small farmer who wants to help himself. That kind of American is a good risk. And no one knows it better than my running mate, Senator John Sparkman, who has led the battle for them, and who was himself one of eleven children of an impoverished tenant farmer. 

	This nation faces a stern present and a challenging future. The American farmer has a great role to play in these next critical years of precarious balance in the world. Our national commitment to an expanding economy rests upon the continued growth of our agriculture. Our struggle to strengthen the free world against Communism demands the continued and growing productivity of the American farm. A hungry man is not a free man. In the long run, peace will be won in the turnrows, not on the battlefields. 

	The last twenty years have established a framework of justice and equity within which the farmer can do his indispensable part for the greater strength and safety of our nation. Only in an atmosphere of growth and confidence can the farmer make his necessary contribution to our nation, and our nation its necessary contribution to the worldwide fight for freedom. 

	If I didn't feel that the party which saw our needs and charted our course in the past is the best custodian of our future I would not be the Democratic candidate for president, and I would not be here on this great day in Kasson asking not for your thanks, but for your confidence. 

	And now let us get back to the plowing. 
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORAGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMAGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYRURAL DEVELOPMENTAGRICULTURE--GENERALAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTS     -D C C C C
 C C C C C C C C	 	 	  	  	  	  	 ] 	 J  9  % e: