

	Governor Rhodes, Attorney General Saxbe, my colleagues from the House, all of the distinguished guests and other candidates on the platform, and this tremendous audience here in Cincinnati: as I sat here tonight and saw this crowd, my memory went back eight years to one of the truly great crowds of the whole campaign in 1960. I didn't think it could be topped, but because of the number of people that are standing in the aisles tonight, this is the biggest ever, 16,000 in Cincinnati tonight. And, incidentally, in speaking of that welcome, anybody that says there's anything wrong with the younger generation today, look at our younger generation. How about it?

	I tell you tonight what I see here I have seen all over the nation. Young America is on the march. Older Americans are on the march. People everywhere. In Cincinnati, all over Ohio, all over the nation, are coming out in unprecedented numbers. And I sense here what I have sensed in recent weeks all over this country. You know what it is. You feel it. I feel it. It's the feel, the sense of victory in the air. We are on the way. And I particularly feel that sense of victory as I begin the final leg of the campaign in the state of Ohio. I feel it here, because I know what this state did in 1960, the best record of any of the big states. I think it's going to even do better in 1968, incidentally. I know that we are backed in this state by what is perhaps the best political organization in either party in any state in the nation, and we thank you for that organization.

	And I am very proud in this state to be running with the fine ticket. I refer to Bill Saxbe. I refer to the fact that I have privileged to run in this state with the man who has made an outstanding attorney general and who will make one of the great United States senators of this generation, Bill Saxbe. And because they represent the entire Ohio delegation, to Don Clancy and Bob Taft and Buz Lukens, a hand for them, because we need them and others like them in the Congress of the United States.

	Another reason I have that feeling of confidence here is because of the record that has been made by the governor of this state. I refer to the fact that his record is not only well known in the state of Ohio, but I refer to the fact that when new governors were elected all over America in 1966, governors that were faced with deficit problems and spending problems and tax problems in their states, they came to Jim Rhodes to get the answer, and we are going to get the answer from Jim Rhodes in the years ahead.

	My friends, as we meet this time, two weeks from this election, I think all of you will be interested to know that I consider this to be the critical turning point in this campaign. Oh, I don't mean by that that all the months that have gone before and all the weeks of campaigning and all the days of big rallies were not meaningful. But I do mean that here tonight in Cincinnati we are beginning the last two weeks that can make the difference between victory and defeat in any election, because undecided voters historically change their votes in the last two weeks. There are undecided voters in this country, and I can assure you that how you speak tonight, the work that you do between now and election day two weeks from now, can make the difference in this county, can make the difference in Ohio, can make the difference in America, and so let's go out and work as we have never worked before.

	My friends, in your morning papers tomorrow you are going to read of a new poll, a Gallup Poll, showing that we are substantially ahead, and I am sure that many of you will want to know my reaction. And I want to give it to you. One of the men that I admire in the field of sports is Cincinnati's Pete Rose. I like him. I like him not only because he is a batting champion, but I like him because of his competitive spirit and all of you who have seen him play know that when he even gets a base on balls, he runs to first base. And whatever the polls say, I want you to know that we are going to run all out between now and November 5th because we are going to leave nothing to chance. We are going to whistle stop Ohio tomorrow, we are going to prop-stop Michigan the next day, we are going to motorcade New Jersey the next day. We are going to be in New York the following day, and in the final week we are in great rallies in each of the big states, finishing in California and on the night before election we are on for four hours on national television in a telethon, because every vote counts and this time we are going to make sure we win all the way.

	Now, there is another reason we are going to pour it on, another reason that we are going to run as hard as we can, because obviously we are in a race with another man--as a matter of fact, two men. But as we consider that race, it seemed to me that tonight at this Cincinnati rally a turning point in a campaign, two weeks before the election, it is appropriate for me to analyze the issues of this campaign, where they are and where we are going, and to tell you just where I think we stand with regard to our opponent on the other ticket, the other major party ticket.

	You will have noted over the past few weeks that I have not responded to a number of personal charges. I have not responded to misrepresentations and distortions in great numbers that have been made by Mr. Humphrey. And tonight I want to give you the reason that I haven't, and I want to also tell you what I am going to do starting tonight, and from now on out. My friends, I say to you that I will not respond in kind. The presidency of the United States is too important and it is too vital to unite this country, it is too vital to have respect for whoever is even the candidate for president to engage in personalities.

	My friends, but the record is something else again, their record and my record. And on that score let me say that from now on out beginning now we are going to sock it to 'em. Now, last night on a national television program if some of you were listening between 10 and 11 o'clock, you saw and heard a very unusual program, an hour's program. And I want to tell you something about it. The first part of the program opened with Hubert Humphrey debating with two empty chairs, and he lost that debate.

	And now he says he wants to debate someone else. He doesn't need anybody to debate with. He is a debate. If you don't like what he says, just wait until tomorrow--he will change it. It's a good thing he wasn't the umpire in the World Series. It would still be going on. He would have called every pitch a strike and a ball.

	But, my friends, more important than that was the rest of the hour's documentary. For a solid hour there was discussion and pictures of the thirties, of the forties and the fifties. But scarcely anything about the last four years. Nothing about the great issues of our time, nothing about what Americans are concerned about, and I know what they are concerned about across this country.

	Why is it that a candidate for president of the United States refuses to discuss the great issues, turns his back on the present and looks to the past? And the reason is first that he is a man of the past with the solutions of the past. And, my friends, they are not adequate to the present and the future of America.

	The other reason is that he cannot discuss the record of the last four years and he cannot discuss that record for a reason that all of you are aware of, because it is a record of failure. And let's look at those four years, because that is the issue of this campaign, not what happened in the thirties during the Depression, not what happened at the Democratic Convention of 1948, not what happened when we passed the Civil Rights Act during the Eisenhower years, but what happened in the last four years and what Hubert Humphrey did then. That's the issue in this campaign, and we are going to make it the issue right now.

	And what happened? Look at those four years and measure them upon the three great issues that every American is interested in and see how that administration measured up. The issue of keeping the peace abroad--it's failed. We haven't had a moment of peace for four years. The issue of maintaining safety and peace at home--they failed. We haven't had a moment of safety or peace at home for four years. The issue of maintaining the value of our currency--they failed. We have seen rising prices and rising taxes for four years.

	And in the light of that kind of a record, what do they present to the American people? They present to the American people a man who tells us, as he did, that he helped to make the policies of the last four years, he has supported every one of them, he has never disagreed with the one publicly or, we understand, privately, and if he is elected he will continue those policies for four more years. That's the issue before the American people.

	And, my friends, I say the American people can't afford four more years of the failures of the past. We are not going forward with that. It is not in the American tradition to reward failure. When a man has been up to bat and strikes out and strikes out and strikes out again and again, the thing to do is to get him out of there and get a new batter up to the plate and we will hit the big ball.

	So, my friends, that is the issue as far as the past is concerned, and based on those issues alone I say to you tonight that it might be possible for a candidate for president of the United States standing in the place that I stand to win simply by being against, by being against the failure in foreign policy and the failure in our Department of Justice and what it has done in failing to meet the crime crisis, to be against the failures in handling our fiscal policies, to be against the failures that have led to all of the problems in our cities.

	But, my friends, that isn't good enough for America today. It isn't good enough for the Republican party. It isn't good enough for the Democrats and the Independents who will join us. Let me tell you why.

	We stand at a great moment in history. How America meets the challenges of these times will determine not only the future of every American, but it will determine the future of peace and freedom in the world for the balance of this century. And that's why I say to you tonight that as I enter these last two weeks, I do not campaign just against those failures, and I will name them, but I say join me in standing for and voting for and working for what we are going to do for America. Let's be for something. That's what we want.

	I want to tell you what you are going to be voting for on November 5th as you vote for our ticket. You are first going to be voting for what America has needed for the past eight years, a new foreign policy, a new foreign policy in so many directions, and if you ask the reason why, let's look at the record.

	Look not just at Vietnam, an issue which we do not discuss because we want to give every opportunity for those peace negotiations to succeed before the end of the year or before this election. But look around the world today, my friends, and as you look around the world you can't name one place in the world where the United States isn't worse off today than it was eight years ago, where the danger of war is not greater, where the hopes for peace are not less, where the respect for the United States is not less today than it was eight years ago.

	And I say based on that record, America needs a new team. We need a new team in the White House, we need a new team in the State Department, we need new policies, new directions, and I pledge that kind of leadership for the American people at this particular time.

	My friends, I want you to know that when you vote for our ticket you are voting for a new defense policy, one that will restore the strength of the United States of America so that your next president will always be able to negotiate with any potential enemy of this country from a position of strength and not of weakness. You are going to be negotiating--you also, my friends, you are going to be voting for in the field of foreign policy a new policy of negotiation, one in which we will restore the strength of the great NATO Alliance. A new policy for Latin America, a new policy for Africa, a new policy for the Mid-East, a new policy for Asia.

	Why in all these areas? And I have, of course, put our papers and speeches in all of these areas. Because, my friends, we need to defuse the trouble spots around the world so that young Americans, fourteen, fifteen years old, won't be fighting in some other Vietnam someplace in the future. And we are going to see that that is done.

	My friends, you are going to be voting too for a new policy, a new policy to establish again respect for America around the world. I pledge to you that in our administration the American flag will not be a doormat for anyone, at home or abroad. I do not suggest, my friends, that the path of peace is an easy one. But I do speak from some experience, and I approach this problem recognizing that it is the most important responsibility of the next president of the United States. I pledge every effort. I pledge all the experience that I have to that task.

	And I would point out to you that I have had a pretty good teacher. I am proud to have been serving in an administration and having served in one under a man who ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that is the kind of leadership that America wants.

	In addition to a new foreign policy, you are going to be voting for a new policy at home, to bring peace at home, to restore respect for law and order in this country. A few days ago Governor William Scranton of Pennsylvania returned from Europe after a fact-finding tour and reported to me a very interesting and a very troubling fact. He said that never had respect for America been lower than it is in Europe today.

	And I asked him why. And he said first, of course, because of some of our foreign policies but mainly because of what they say in the United States night after night on European television; pictures of riots and crime and of division and hatred in America.

	And, my friends, I say to you there is no ground today that is more important than the ground we stand on. It is time to restore again freedom from fear in the United States of America, in the great states of this land.

	Here we have a pretty clear choice between the two candidates for president of the United States of the two major parties. The one on the other side says that he defends the policies of the last four years, he defends the attorney general and his record, he attacks me because I have disagreed with some of the decisions of the Supreme Court and other courts in the field of respect for law and the establishment of order. Let me lay it right on the line, my friends. I say to you that the man who must set the example for respect for law must be the president of the United States and the vice president of the United States. And I say to you that when a vice president of the United States did what he did two years ago, when he said in a public speech that if he had had to live under slum conditions he might have led a pretty good revolt, that was adult delinquency and not worthy of a vice president of the United States.

	My friends, I believe in the right of dissent and will always fight to protect it. I believe in the right of peaceful protest. But, my friends, in a country whose Founding Fathers had the genius to set up a system that provides a method for peaceful change, I say there is no cause that justifies breaking the law or violence in the United States of America.

	And turning to the decisions of courts, and I refer not to the courts as an institution which I will always defend as well as the men on them, but the decisions that they make, and I like any other American has a right to disagree, turning to those decisions, I say to you that when we find, as we do find, in city after city in this country that convicted murderers, convicted rapists, are turned free, confessed murderers, I mean, and confessed rapists, are turned free after they confess their crime because of a technicality, then I say that our courts in their decisions have gone too far in weakening the peace forces as against the criminal forces in this country.

	That is why I say we need to reestablish that balance, reestablish it in our courts and reestablish it in America.

	And then finally with regard to the conduct of the Department of Justice and the record of the present attorney general, I point to the fact that he is a man who said that organized crime plays only a tiny part in our crime problem and who also said that there is no significant crime wave in the United States.

	Here are the facts. Over the past four years, crime has gone up nine times as fast as population. We have had riots in 300 cities, 200 dead, 7,000 injured, and 43 percent of the American people in a recent poll indicated they were afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night. I say that in the light of those figures, it's time for a housecleaning and new leadership from top to bottom in the United States of America. That is why I have submitted to the American people the most intensive and the most precise program for reestablishing law and order with justice ever submitted by a presidential candidate: a new national council for law enforcement, a new national academy for the training of law enforcement officials at the state and local levels, a new program to deal with prison reform, a new program to wage war against organized crime, a new program to deal with the problem of narcotics.

	My friends, I am somewhat an expert in this field and I pledge to you I will take personal charge of this battle and we will make sure that the wave of crime will not be the wave of the future in the United States of America, with your help.

	And, my friends, you are going to be voting for something else on November 5th, something in which my friend and your governor Jim Rhodes is most expert and in which he has advised me most effectively, and that is for the proper management of our nation's affairs, living within our means, because, as we look at America, what do we find? Taxes at an all-time high, prices going up at an all-time rate over the last generation. And what is the result? Let me give you the figures in very practical terms.

	The fact of the matter is that we find in the United States today the wage earners, looking over the past three years, have had an increase of between $11 and $14 a week in their pay checks, but actually because of increases in prices and increases in wages, the housewife has $2 less a week to spend.

	I say that's wrong. American labor has been on a treadmill and falling behind. We are going to get him off the treadmill. We are going to stop the rise in prices and stop the rise in taxes in the United States of America.

	My friends, to the millions of older people in this country and the thousands in this state, let me say a new day is coming for you. You have suffered the most, the 20 million who are living--who are over 65, who are living on a little life insurance, a pension or Social Security. Over the past eight years you have seen 20 percent of everything you saved destroyed because the value of your dollars went down. Over those past eight years you have been forced to the wall because the prices of what you were buying went up and up and up at a time when your income was staying the same. And that is why I propose with the support of my Republican colleagues, and I hope to get the Democratic support for it, too, in the Congress of the United States, a new program whereby we not only will attend Social Security benefits but we will provide that Social Security will automatically go up if there is an increase in prices in the United States of America. I say to you, my friends, we can have prosperity without war and progress without inflation, and that's what you are going to be voting for on November 5th. You are going to be voting for many other things.

	You are going to be voting for the far-seeing kind of programs in which looking beyond Vietnam we will institute what Senator Robert Taft said twenty years ago should be instituted in America. Rather than having the compulsory draft, a volunteer armed force for America. That's what we will stand for. You are going to be voting, my friends, for a new program to deal with the problems of pollution, of our air and of our water in this country, for new programs to develop our tremendous natural resources and to retain for future Americans not just an America that is productive but an America that is beautiful for all of them.

	You are going to be voting, my friends, for a program that has long been needed. And let me put it quite precisely because Congressman Taft has been the leader in this field before the Republican Coordinating Committee. For forty years in America we have seen power flow from the states and from the local governments to the government in Washington, D.C. until too much power is there.

	And I say the time has come for the change to be made and for power to flow back from Washington to the states and to the local governments.

	And so you will be voting for a new system of federal tax-sharing with the states, of federal block grants to the states, so that the states and local governments can spend the money and make the decisions themselves as to what is best for Ohio without having a bureaucrat in Washington, D.C. telling you what to do. That is the kind of program that we are going to be for. These are just some of the many new programs I have advocated in this campaign. But they are enough to prove the point, and I make that point to you quite precisely. And I ask you to consider it as you consider the decision you will make on November 5th.

	The choice is between a man of the past, a man who honestly believes in the policies of the past, a man who believes, for example, that the theories of the thirties are those that should be applied to the problems of the sixties and the seventies. A man who is on dead center, whether it's on peace abroad or peace at home or stopping the rise in the cost of living. That's the one.

	And so if you are satisfied with the past four years, if you don't think we can do better, that's your man. But, my friends, I say we can and I say we must do better. I say that at this time America cannot afford to be led into the seventies by men who stumbled their way through the sixties. And let us not forget that they stumbled precisely because they were so busy tripping each other they didn't know where they were going half the time.

	My friends, I say that what America needs is a united party, and we are united, which opens its arms, and we do open our arms, to the Democrats and independents across this nation, so that America can meet the challenge of all the problems that we have, so that we can turn from failure to success, so that we can have a new foreign policy that will bring peace abroad and keep it in the years ahead, so that we can have a new domestic policy that will restore the safety of our cities at home, so that we can have a new policy, a new policy to stop the rise in the cost of living, which will mean real increases in wages for all of the American workingmen, so that we can have a new policy for progress in our cities based not on simply bigger and bigger government programs, but programs in which private enterprise and individual Americans are enlisted in the unfinished business of America.

	Let us never forget, America is a great country and let's never forget how we became that way. America is a great country not because of what government did for people, but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years, and that is the way to greatness in the future.

	My friends in Cincinnati, as we enter this last historic two weeks of the 1968 presidential campaign, I know that you are going to look back four years from now, eight years from now, and you will look at this decision and realize how important it was. It is in my view the most important political decision you will make in your lifetime. It is in my view the most important political decision that will be made for America in this century because it will determine whether America will meet the challenge of the seventies or whether America will fail.

	It will determine peace and freedom for the whole world as well as for America. And I have faith we are going to meet it. I have faith not just that we are going to win this election, we must start with that, but I have faith that the American people, if they get the new vision, if they get the new sense of purpose, that there will be a new spirit that will sweep this land.

	Let me put it quite bluntly. As we look at America and we look over the last four years, the spirit of America has been in a shadow. We have been too long in the dark of the night. It is time to let in the sun. It is time for a new dawn. We can help to bring that new dawn and you can help.

	The 16,000 in this room can vote, but, more than that, you can go out and talk to others and as you talk and as you work and as you vote, remember, you are not just voting for victory for a man or for a party, you are working for a victory that is bigger than a man, bigger than a party. It's as big as America itself. Let's win it, win it for America and you will never be sorry.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALREVENUE SHARING/BLOCK GRANTSSENIOR CITIZENS     e e e e e
 ~e ye te je fe de Ae 7e	  	  	  	  	 z 	 b 	 B 	 + 	  e: