
	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. I can't believe this crowd. I can't believe this crowd. I can't believe the crowd outside. And I would certainly hate to play basketball against the University of Oregon in the [missing text]--it's amazing.

	 I want to thank Governor Roberts and all the fellow governors of mine. We have gone all across the West for the last two days, trying to write a new chapter in how the West was won. Yesterday we were in Pueblo, Colorado; Cheyenne, Wyoming; and Billings, Montana. This morning we were in Seattle. And we're going from here to Orange County. Even in Orange County they want to change George Bush.

	I want to say to you that too many times people have been elected to the presidency from both parties and have forgotten about the West. These people will not let me forget about the West. I will be your president too.

	I want to say also, to all of those who are here who are running with me in what I believe is a new Democratic party for a new America, I appreciate your presence here, I welcome you. I thank Elizabeth First and Denzel Furgeson for being here. Send them to Congress so they can help us change America. I thank Peter DeFazio for proving once again that there is room in America--even in the Congress--for somebody with a hard head, and a warm heart and a clear eye. He is a great leader for Oregon and for the United States.

	And finally, let me say, you heard what Peter said; if you elect me on November third, according to the New York Times, you will vote for the candidate with the most detailed, specific, aggressive, program for change in modern American history. But I have to have help to implement that program for change. In the United States Senate that means only forty-one senators can block consideration of a bill. Even if the overwhelming majority of the American people are for it. I ask you, therefore, to send Les Aucoin to the United States Senate to help me help change this country. We need him. We need him.

	And one last thing; this country has been divided for too long, in too many ways. We have not found the ways we could work together, for all the distractions about how we could be divided against one another. Many people look to the West and see tomorrow. They see the shape of tomorrow. I ask you to send a message to America by resoundingly defeating Resolution Nine. Vote no on number nine.

	My fellow Americans, there are many reasons to vote against this administration. But here at the University of Oregon--the campus which has the highest percentage of registered voters of any campus in the United States of America--I'll just give you another one; George Bush doesn't want you to vote. He vetoed the motor-voter bill, rock the vote on November third and send him a message that the vote is yours and the country is yours and the future is yours.

	This has been a profoundly rewarding campaign. In the last few weeks, people from all over America, from all walks of life, have joined hands in an unusual coalition of Americans committed to change. Here in Oregon, for the first time in its 142-year history, the Portland Oregonian endorsed a Democrat for president. And I'm grateful for that. Just a couple of weeks ago, twenty-four retired admirals and generals--including the deputy commander of Operation Desert Storm and a chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of our military under President's Reagan and Bush--endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket for a change for America.

	Just a few days ago over 250 prosecutors, thirty-two state attorneys general and Sarah Brady--the brave wife of Jim Brady, who was President Reagan's press secretary--voted to endorse the Clinton-Gore ticket for real law enforcement--the Brady Bill; a waiting period before people can buy handguns and a end to assault weapons on the streets of the cities of this country.

	A few weeks ago in northern California, people who will have a lot to do with your future--twenty-one executives of high-tech computer and electronics companies, two-thirds of them Republicans, people who created more jobs in their companies than George Bush created in the entire private sector of the United States--endorsed our campaign for a change for America.

	But let me say to you that the people who have really touched me are the people from all walks of life who have just come to this campaign who aren't leaders in any conventional sense, but who bear the heart and the spirit and the hope of America.

	Today when we left Seattle I was working the crowd, three people told me they were Republicans who'd never before voted for a Democrat, but they would. Today I got a little postcard from a thirty-year-old woman in Oregon, as I got off the airplane, saying she had never voted before in her life, but she would to help change her country.

	A few days ago in south-central Los Angeles when I was there near the scene of the riots, I met four young men who had been gang leaders who signed a truce to try to do their part to end the violence and the killing and the bloodshed and the destruction. And they were registering people to vote for the Clinton-Gore ticket to change America.

	In Cedar Rapids Iowa, we stood in front of the Quaker Oats factory and had a great rally. And I was working my way through the crowd. I saw a lady holding a baby of a different race, and I said, "Who's baby is that?" And she said, "That's my baby, I adopted that baby. I adopted that baby. My baby has AIDS, but I'm going to keep it alive as long as possible. And I want you to help me. I want a president who will face this problem, not at election time, but every day, all day until we get something done about it."

	I talked to a young businessman in Charlotte, North Carolina, a couple of weeks ago, who almost got tears in his eyes saying, "You know, I'm one of those people who's going to pay more taxes under your plan. But I've got a seventeen-year-old son, who's the most important person in the world to me. And he has diabetes. I want him to have a good life. And when George Bush vetoed the Women's Health Care Bill--caving in to the far right on the fetal tissue research--he threw away my son's best chance to have a normal life. I'm voting for a change this year. I want a change."

	There's a lot of talk now, in the closing days of this election, about who represents real change. I just want to say this, of all the people you could vote for, there's only one person who's ever balanced a government budget; only one person who's ever passed a plan to restrain the influence of lobbyists and special interest groups on the political process; only one person who's ever gotten a complicated, controversial program to revitalize the economy and improve the education system through a legislature; and only one person who has never been part of the Washington political establishment. And that is me. And I want you to help me in this election.

	There is, today, a new Democratic party, committed to the growth of jobs and incomes, to the improvement of education, to controlling health care costs and providing quality health care to all Americans. There is a party now committed to the elemental proposition that preserving this environment is critical to growing the economy, not undermining it. We do not need bigger government, but goodness knows we need better government, one that works. The crowd that's in there has run out of time, run out of energy, run out of ideas. And it's time we ran them out of town on November third.

	You know, in the last debate, I was listening to Mr. Bush and it kind of reminded me of that great Peanuts comic strip where Lucy says, "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can." So they keep saying the same old things about Democrats being too liberal and too tax and too this and too that. It doesn't matter if it doesn't feed the facts--fit the facts. My friends, I want you to think about what this means to you.

	Here in basic form is what I stand for. This country's been hurt by trickle-down economics, by the proposition that the only thing the government needs to do for your future is to keep taxes low on the richest Americans and get out of the way and let something happen. How much more evidence do you need? Most Americans are working harder for less money than they were making ten years ago. Unemployment is up. Many countries are growing faster than we are. One hundred thousand Americans a month are losing their health insurance. And we are the only advanced nation in the world that does not control health costs and provide a basic system of affordable health-care to all of our people.

	At the Earth Summit in Rio, when the world was looking to the United States for leadership, Germany and Japan came down, they signed off on a treaty to limit global warming, they signed off on a treaty to protect biodiversity--diversity and promote the economy. And guess what, the United States came down and dragged its feet, and dragged its feet. And while we were down there fighting against global warming, you know what they were doing--the Germans and the Japanese? They were selling environmental technology to other countries and make a killing of jobs that ought to belong to Americans if we had a president who understood that the environment is an important source of our future economic growth.

	No matter who is elected president, no matter what the rhetoric of this election is, the defense budget will come down because we are at the end of the Cold War. The Red Army has been cut in half in two years. The issue is, what will be done with the defense cuts. The answer today is, spend it on the S&L bailout, spend it on higher health care costs.

	My answer is, reinvest it in your future--in environmental technologies, in infrastructure, in building an economy for the twenty-first Century. I do not ask you to vote for Les Aucoin and for these candidates for Congress and for me so that we can give you a tax-and-spend government. I ask you to let us give you an invest-and-grow government. I don't mind people paying lower taxes and making themselves millionaires. I want to make more millionaires than Bush. But I have this crazy idea that people ought to make a million dollars in America the old fashioned way--by putting the American people to work and lifting their incomes and building the country.

	And so, the thing my opponents never say is--yes, I want the wealthy to pay their fair share and I think foreign companies should pay the same taxes on income in America that American companies do. But I want to spend that money giving those same people incentives. You want to lower your taxes; start a new factory, start a new business, explore new technologies, build new housing, put the American people to work. Lift the American people up. Then you can make lots of money by making America better and giving you and your friends around the country a future. The future you deserve.

	My fellow Americans, in just a few days you will have a decision to make which will chart the whole future of America well into the twenty-first Century.

	If you look at the whole history of our country, about once a generation we are called upon to make decisions like this--you and I.

	All of our ancestors were. When we became one nation there were a whole lot of people who said, "We don't need to be one nation. We ought to let all these little colonies keep their own army, their own money system, their own business, their own economy. We don't need to do that."

	But George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and others said, "We can do better." The other crowd said, "Things could be worse."

	The we-can-do-better crowd prevailed.

	In the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln was beset on all sides by people who said, "Give up the United States of America. Let it go. Let this country be divided. Who cares? It's not worth all the sacrifice." And he literally laid down his life for the proposition that we were one nation, indivisible, under God--that all people were created equal. And he said, "We can do better than this." We can do better.

	In the Great Depression, just before I was born, when 25 percent of the American people were out of work, there were many people who said we shouldn't vote for Franklin Roosevelt. He had all these crazy ideas, he was going to experiment. He was going to use the power of government to help people.

	He said, "We can do better."

	Herbert Hoover and his crowd said, "Things could be worse."

	And thank God we listened to the we-can-do-better crowd.

	Today you're being called upon to make that decision again. You're being called upon to make that decision again.

	You listen to what the others say. There is no doubt that this is a race of hope against fear, of new ideas against stale ideas that have failed, of the courage to change against the comfort of the status quo.

	When I was a boy--fourteen years old--and John Kennedy was running for president, about this time in the election he said, "This election has now become more about the American people than the candidates, for you must decide what kind of people you are, what kind of values you have, what kind of country you want." That is what this election is about.

	I got into this race because I was tired of seeing my folks at home work harder for less. I got into this race because I did not want my child and all the people of your generation to grow up to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents.

	I got into this race because I believe the end of the Cold War opens up vast new opportunities for America in a world that is smaller and richer and more peaceful and more diverse if we have the courage to change.

	Be there with me on November 3rd and we can lift this country. Thank you and God bless you all.

ENDORSEMENTS--GENERALENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYGLOBAL WARMINGHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCES     /7 6 6 6 6
 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6	  	 { 	 c 	 U 	 3 	  e: