

	At this second, folks, I can't possibly think of anything better to say than, "California, here I come!"  There are so many things unique about this state that it is difficult, indeed, to pick out one that impresses most the stranger who comes from without your gates.  But I am certain of this one thing:  that a tribute to the political leadership of your state is always in order as long as it has the quality and character it now has.  Your Governor Warren is a man whom I have long admired and respected.  You have heard the tribute paid to him on this platform this morning.  To that tribute I enthusiastically subscribe.  Within the last few days I have had the privilege of traveling up and down this country with your senior senator.  I understand why in California your political independence expresses itself by the endorsement of both parties for your senator for the next term.  Again, that act finds an enthusiastic supporter in me.  Your junior senator, now my running mate, is a man who has shown himself to be of great courage and well qualified for the high office for which the Republican Party has named him as their candidate.

	I think it would be unnecessary for me to dwell here at this moment upon the diversity and excellence of your climate, your scenery, the greatness of your agriculture.  Such things as that are better known to you than they are to anyone who comes from the outside even if, as in my case, he has been for a long time identified with the West.  To all of those things I pay tribute.

	I want to talk specifically and seriously about the need for expanding California's greatness in agriculture and industry.  As the local problem itself shapes up, you have a growth in your state that even surpasses the rapidly growing size of the United States.  The United States as a whole, I believe, is about 6,000 souls richer today than it was yesterday.  But in California in 10 years you have had a 3 and 1/2 million growth and last year a half million all by yourselves.  So your own problem of expansion in agriculture to feed this growing population and in industry to provide jobs so that there is a balanced economy is merely a sample, somewhat aggravated or somewhat emphasized, of what we have throughout the nation.

	When Governor Warren spoke about my support of the Central Valley Project, it is not merely that I believe this is needful for California.  It is because I believe that such projects are absolutely essential to the United States of America.  In fact, I know of only one way of deciding whether any one of us should be for or against any proposal, and suggestion, whether it be economic, political, social or whatever category it may fall in.  That yardstick, the criterion by which we must measure these things, is whether it is good for 155 million Americans.  We must understand that there is no part of us, whether it be a geographical part or an economic part, that can long prosper unless the whole shall prosper.  In the good of the United States lies the good of each one of us.

	The particular reason why in California and the great West these still undeveloped areas can be so important is the fact that in a matter of 20 years there are certain to be five people sitting down to dinner where there are now four.  A 25 percent increase in population can confidently be predicted because always we have been low in our predictions.  Experts only a few years ago were saying that by 1970 or 1980 we would have 153 million people.  Already, in 1952, we have surpassed that mark.  So we must look upon these great projects not merely as a means of increasing temporarily the prosperity of a section.  They are the means, they are a new frontier, whereby all of these expanding millions are assured of food, of the fiber and of the balancing industrial capacity that will make for a better life.

	If we are going forward, ladies and gentlemen, remember, to an increasing standard of living, we are not talking about an increasing standard of living just for 155 million people.  No, folks, we have got to accomplish a progressive expansion that not only takes care of 155 million but of 6,000 new ones every single day of our lives.

	So as people go around, for example, people who were on a campaign train that just preceded mine through this city recently, say that I and my associates of the Republican Party, the Independents and the enlightened Democrats--when they say that we oppose the expansion of these multiple-purpose projects in the far West, they are simply talking like the unintelligent people that they apparently are.  I and those associates of mine know America too well, can at least read the certain facts of history and the present day too well to believe that there is any possibility of stopping America suddenly in its tracks as the opposition wants to do.  They say, "Don't let them take it away," and we say, "Let us go on from here and get something better."

	Now ladies and gentlemen, in this progress as we go ahead in the development of multiple purpose dams and all of the other kinds of projects that are needed in industry and in the development of natural resources, the one thing that we insist upon that is different from the opposition is a very vital one.  We insist that this must be done through partnership, through first of all getting the wisdom, the power and the facilities that are available in the locality and bringing in the federal government not as a boss, not as your dictator, but as a friendly partner ready to help, and to get its long nose out of your business as quickly as that can be accomplished.

	We hold that these great projects are far better planned, developed and operated with the full cooperation and wisdom of the local authorities than they are by putting them exclusively under the direction of some long-haired bureaucrat sitting behind a desk in far away Washington, D.C.  There are many sides, of course, to the programs that will bring us forward, carry us forward into that America that we know the genius of our people can take us.

	It would be impossible even to hint at some of the things this morning that must be done but there are two fears that overshadow the lives of our young people today that we of the older generation must help to eliminate.  One is a fear of global war and difficulty, the fear that never again are we going to be free, of the fear that our youngsters may have to put on uniforms and go overseas, the fear that after all they are going to have to live on a high plateau of tension throughout their lives and their children's lives.  We can make progress toward that peaceful solution and I shall address myself to one phase of that problem tonight in San Francisco when I make a rather formal talk. 

	But folks, there is another fear.  With the disappearance of the free land and the untapped resources of the United States, these youngsters want to say to us, "Where is that reserve of protection that you in your lifetime have through the existence of those free lands?"  The reserve of protection they knew of are represented in all of the social advances, the social security laws, the old age pensions, the unemployment insurance, all of those things that say to every human in America, "You shall not be neglected.  You in your turn, having given your part to the development of America, deserve well of America and you will not be forgotten."  That is their assurance represented in laws, represented in all of the cooperation, again, between federal and local authority and private enterprise.  Altogether working for this goal.  But we will never admit that that is the end of all things.  The genius and individual capacity of America are what has made us great. 

	We must go on from there, guaranteed against disaster, let there be no limit to the risk you are ready to take in America for your children and that is what my associates and I heading this crusade believe is going to represent the future of America; one produced by this great initiative, the great enterprise and intelligence and genius of the people standing here this morning and the other folks throughout this country who are just like you, just like you, 155 million of you.  That is very roughly the picture of the future the Republicans would like you to have always in your mind, and the picture that they are going to help make come true.

	Thank you!

NATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSSTANDARD OF LIVINGPOPULATION (UNITED STATES)     ! ! ! ! !
 u! p! k! a! W! U! U! K!	 ^ 	 A 	 ,  