

	Thank you very much.  Thank you.

	Thank you very much, Senator Yarborough.  I'll tell you--when you
are introduced by Senator Yarborough, you are introduced.  There's
no doubt about that.

	Governor Connally, Congressman Poage, Congressman Wright,
Congressman Gonzales, and all the distinguished Texans that are
here:  You know, the governor said that today at this platform you
are seeing a miracle.  Well, this is just one of the miracles,
because the Republicans sort of think they have this election
wrapped up--and the next miracle that you are going to see is the
miracle that you are going to make possible, a Democratic victory
on November 5th.

	I just--I said earlier today to your friend and my friend, Ben
Barnes, that all I wanted him to do was to give me a few of his
surplus votes, and it will assure--it will assure a Democratic
victory for the Democratic ticket here in this state.

	I have been told about the wonders of Waco by Congressman Bob
Poage, and I have had active support about the wonders in this
community from Will Davis, who claims, of course, that the
university of all universities, the college of all colleges, is
Baylor University.

	But I must say--but I must say that I see a mighty good
representation here today from Paul Quinn College.

	And I also see that Waco Community College is represented here. 
And Texas A and M.

	And may I--may I just say to the ladies to my left, and to your
right, the Beta Phi Beta Sorority of Paul Quinn College, that
sometime--that sometime in this program I hope they are going to
let you sing a song that you have written in my behalf, because
I'll bet it's good, and I want to hear it.  If it's sung in Texas
style, it will be good, and it will be loud, and it will be
wonderful.  So I would like to hear it.

	By the way, there was one man on this platform that I asked to come
here that is a fellow Texan that you would like to meet, I know. 
He comes from over near Dallas way, at Hillsboro.

	He is a very great American.  He is a true champion.  He was the
decathlon champion of the Olympics in 1960.  He is none other than
one of the finest friends that a man could have, and a great
gentleman.  He is Rafer Johnson.  Rafer, please stand up.

	You see, I like to have champions around me--makes you feel
better, more secure.

	And speaking of that, that Carver High School band over there,
another group of champions.

	And I want to pay my respects to the Mark High School Band that is
here, too--a fine-looking group.

	And to the Sing Out group here that we have from Waco--all these
young people.

	Now, I mention young people for one reason.  Young people typify
the spirit of the Democratic Party.  As Ralph Yarborough said here,
"We are not here to moan about the yesterdays, we are not here to
complain about what has been, we are here to look to the future of
what can be.  We look to the past primarily to learn some lessons. 
We look to the past to have some basis of measurement, and some
basis of comparison."

	And today I want to ask you to spend just a little time with me,
talking somewhat about the yesterdays, so that we can have a better
idea about the tomorrows.

	You know, I have been trying for the last month--I have been
trying for the last month to get the Republican nominee, Mr.
Richard Nixon, to come on this platform with me and to do a little
debating before a good Texas audience, or any other audience.  As
a matter of fact, we will take him on any place.  We will take him
on out at my home, at Waverly, Minnesota, or up in his Fifth Avenue
apartment, or in one of his well-groomed television shows.  We want
the chance to talk.  We want the chance for the American jury, for
the American people, to make a judgment of men and issues, of
political parties and political programs.

	And, my fellow Americans, if for no other reason that you should
vote against the Republican ticket, the one reason is that it is
afraid to face the American people and discuss the issues.

	Now, let's just ask some questions here.

	I tell you--I suppose we can pretend this is Mr. Nixon over here
[indicating water pitcher] because it's cool, it has ice in it, and
it is no stronger than water.

	But I would like to ask the Republican nominee just a few questions
--because these questions go to your thoughts and your needs.

	As I look around this audience, I see people of every walk of life,
of every race, creed and nationality.

	I want to ask Mr. Nixon-"Where do you really stand, Mr. Nixon? 
Where do you and your Republicans that constantly vote against
Social Security benefits, where do you really stand on the issue? 
Why don't you talk to the people about it?  Do you think we ought
to have an improvement?  Do you think we ought to have benefits
that are expanded, or are you going to settle for what we have?"

	Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon, on consumer protection?  Where do
you stand in terms of the right of a man to know what he is getting
when he buys?

	I know what you write to the stock market.  I know that you are
worried that the Securities and Exchange Commission like to
regulate a stock broker.  But you don't seem to be worried about
the fact that the purchaser of the stocks might not get a fair
deal.

	Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon?

	And I want every person in this audience that is age sixty-five or 
over to ask him this question.

	Where do you stand on Medicare, that you said would not work, that
you called a socialist scheme.  Where do you stand.

	And to the students in this audience--and there are thousands here
--ask Mr. Nixon where he stands on helping your college.  And ask
him where he stands on helping you.

	Let me say to every college president, to every board of trustees,
to every university student:  that the Republican party and the
Republican nominee never lifted a finger, never lifted as much as
a penny or a dime to help a university or a college--as the great
needs of expanding education beset this country.

	Mr. Nixon, you broke a tie in the Senate.  The only time a vice 
president has the right to vote is when there is a tie vote.  And
that tie vote was on federal aid to education--for every boy and
girl here in Waco, for every young man and woman in a university. 
And what did he do?  When you needed him--he voted no.  And that
is what he will do to you if you make him your president.  He will
vote no against you and your needs, my young people.

	And I would like to ask Mr. Nixon what he would do about the Braza
River.  I would like to know what he would do to control its use. 
Or are we going to go back to that program of Republicans which was
no new starts, no resource development.

	Listen, my Texan friends, the Republican party has never been good
for you.  The last time a Republican ever did anything for the
South, his name was Sherman and he marched through Georgia.  That's
the last time.

	The Republican party just doesn't have the mentality, it doesn't
have the spirit that belongs to Texas.

	Texas is a state of growth.  Texas is an expanding state.  Texas is
a state of new homes, new cities, new people, new opportunity.  All
of that is foreign to the Republican party and the Republican
leadership.  Texans and Republicans just don't mix.  Don't try to
mix them, folks--it's bad medicine.

	And now let me ask a question again of Mr. Nixon.  Mr. Nixon, 
where do you stand on something that relates to the
peace of the world--like the nuclear test ban treaty, that you
called a "cruel hoax", that you said was "catastrophic nonsense".

	Where do you stand on the treaty now that would stop the spread of
nuclear weapons to countries that are on the verge of a nuclear
weapons technology.

	Mr. Nixon, where do you stand?  I know where you sit and I know
what you sit on, but I want to know where you stand.

	Now, my fellow Americans--my fellow Americans, you have a right to
know--I have spoken out on every one of these issues.  I have had
many a person criticize me because of it, and I have had some that
have supported me because of it.  But I believe that--I believe
that before you select a president, you better know, not only how
many parades he has, but how many programs he has in mind.  I think
you better know more about his ideas than you do about his confetti
and his balloons.  I think the American people ought to know what
the man who seeks the highest office within the gift of the
American people--what that man intends to do in that office.  What
is his attitude about you.  What are his views about the needs of
our people.  What are his views about our cities, about our farms.

	I saw a sign out here a moment ago--it said Texas Ranchers and
Farmers for Humphrey.  You bet they ought to be.  And why?  Because
those people that hold that sign, they remember Ezra Taft Benson,
that Republican who was the greatest surgeon of all times.  He
practically decapitated the American farmer.  Mr. Benson and
Republican farm policies stripped American agriculture of $3
billion of farm income in eight years.

	And has Mr. Nixon repudiated that?   Not on your life.

	I want to know a little bit more about his economics.

	I look out here into a great, growing state.

	I want to know if you think there will be jobs, if you think there
will be better business under a Republican administration.  The
last test of it we found differently.  And every young man and
women, every person in this audience needs to look to that future.

	Our problems in this country are immense.  We are not going to
solve those problems with recession and unemployment.  We are not
going to solve those problems if American business cannot invest. 
We are not going to solve our problems if we cannot pay for our
schools, pay for our job training.

	The Republican party gave you an example of what they will do. 
They gave you an example of ignoring the needs of this country for
eight years, ignoring the needs of Texas for eight years, ignoring
the needs of agriculture, ignoring the needs of the working man,
ignoring the needs of the businessman, ignoring the needs of the
elderly.  Their record is a miserable one.  And I submit that this
country that is on the march now, with ninety-two months of prosperity
behind it, with ninety-two consecutive months of economic growth, that this
country should never turn over the management of the affairs of
this Republic to the Nixon Republicans that will bring you
trouble and plenty of it.

	We just scared off one.

	Now, I want to leave you with this--this message.

	here is something even more important in this country than
economics.  It is the relationships between our own people.

	This America of ours is capable of fulfilling its destiny only if
we can work together, only if we can trust each other, only if we
can build one nation, a united society.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, any demagogue, wherever he may come
from, that preaches hate, suspicion and doubt, is a dangerous man. 
America cannot afford that kind of demagoguery.

	There are three candidates in this election, and one of them
appeals to your fears, to your doubts, to your hates, to your
frustration.  That is the third-party candidate.

	Another appeals in a more subtle way--in a sort of a Madison
Avenue, public relations, dressed up way, to your doubts, to your
fears, to your suspicions.

	One is crude and direct; the other is subtle and slick.  And, 
ladies and gentlemen, it all adds up to the same thing.

	You know, I have been watching and listening.  I hear Mr. Nixon
come to the South and he takes a very, very lukewarm attitude on
what we call civil rights.  When he gets up North--my, he is a
brave liberal on that issue.

	I hear him come to the South, and I hear him talk about states
rights, and I see him up in New York and he talks about what the
federal government can do.

	Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one message for America--this
is one country, it is not North and South, it is not black and
white, it is not rich and poor--it is the United States of
America.  And that is the way we have got to talk about it.

	And let me say to you very frankly that it is to the advantage of
every person to help the other fellow help himself.

	Every time a poor man gets a job, it makes it better for the other
fellow that has a job.

	Every time a black person gets a chance to live the full privileges
of citizenship in this country, it makes American citizenship for
a white man just that much better.

	Every time, my friends--every time one of our Spanish surnamed
Americans has a chance for a full education, to live a good life,
we are all the richer.

	America is not going to be better because some people are pushed
down in order that other people can push themselves up.  And I
don't intend to tear America down in order to build myself up.  I
don't intend to tell the nation that it is sick when I know that it
is only restless and growing.  I don't intend to tell the people
that America has lost its way, when I know it is finding its
conscience.

	I don't intend to tell you that it will be easy.  I say to you that
we are being tested as never before.  We are being tested here at
home and abroad.  We are being tested as to whether or not we can
build a nation of trust and of understanding.

	We are being asked whether or not we can learn to live together.

	And I appeal in particular to the young people.  I ask you to
remember this--that in a growing economy, in an America of better
education, in an America that is expanding and developing, there is
room for everybody.  There is no need to be fearful, no need to be
concerned that you will be cutout.

	The thing that we need to keep in mind is how we bring Americans-
all Americans, regardless of race, creed or color, how we bring
them all into the benefits of this country, how we bring them all
into the participation of this democracy.  That's what it is all about.

	And in this election we are going to decide, friends--we are going
to decide whether America is going to turn back--and that is what
the third-party candidate represents--or whether or not America is
going to stand still and tread water and make noises, make sounds,
have a little hoopla, but still stand still--that is what the
Republican party represents.  Or whether this nation is going to
dare to come to grips with its problems, whether we are going to
mobilize the resources, human and physical, to do things that need
to be done here, to heal our sick, to bring reconciliation between
our peoples, to start to rebuild our cities, to conserve our land,
to develop our rivers, to build our industry, to educate our
children, to help our handicapped, to build American enterprise, to
give it a greater chance than it has ever had before.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic party has demonstrated
that it knows how to do these things.  And the team of Humphrey and
Muskie know how to do these things.

	So I come to you tonight, this beautiful evening in Waco, and I
come to you to ask for your help.

	The governor of this state has laid it on the line.  Governor
Connally has spoken the truth to you about this election.

	Frankly, folks, we are outmatched in money.  We are outprogrammed
on television and radio.  We know it.  We haven't had much time. 
And we have had fewer resources.  We have had to unite a party that
was torn apart.  We have had to try to bring together a campaign
organization in a short period of time.

	But, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that you believe that
the White House is for sale.  I don't believe that you think that
the presidency of the United States ought to go to the man with the
biggest advertising budget.  I think it ought to go to the man with
the best idea, and with the best idea about America.

	So I ask you to leave this meeting tonight, not just to have come
to another meeting, but I want you to become a committee of one to
work as you never worked before, to work for candidates that want
to bring peace to this world, to work for candidates that want to
bring understanding and reconciliation amongst our own people at
home.  I want the young people in particular to go from this
meeting to work for us, to work for Humphrey and Muskie, that will
listen to you, that want to listen to you and hear your message.

	I ask the elderly people that are here not to forget that it was
the Democrats, under Roosevelt, the Democrats under Truman, the
Democrats under Kennedy, the Democrats under Lyndon Johnson, that
gave you social security and medicare and gave you decent housing
and dignity.

	And I want you to put on your fighting clothes. I want Mr. Nixon to
know that in Texas we started his defeat.  I want him to get the
message from this great Lone Star State that he started down the
hill, that he is not going to go from Waco to the White House--he
is going to go from Waco back to Fifth Avenue.

	And I want it clear from this platform tonight that you people here
have given me the inspiration, have given me the new strength to
carry on, and I guarantee to you that we are not going to turn the
White House over to the Republicans--we are going to go from Waco
with Hubert Humphrey and Ed Muskie right to Washington and the
White House on November 5th.

	Thank you very much.

CIVIL RIGHTSDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALEDUCATION, HIGHEREQUAL OPPORTUNITYWEAPONS PROLIFERATION     ND 