
	A presidential campaign usually concentrates on two essential questions: What is the record of each candidate? And what does each candidate believe are the solutions to current problems?

	There is one other question, however, that rarely is asked in a presidential campaign: What is the candidate's vision of America's future?

	What does each candidate envision our nation should look like, not just five years from now, or ten, but well into the twenty-first century?

	Since the decisions we make this year will shape that future, it is important that each candidate let us know what he believes America can be--and what America should be.

	A candidate may offer voters complex and sophisticated programs that will delight the political scientist--but if those programs are not part of some controlling vision, some idea of what America should be, they are merely exercises in political gamesmanship. There is nothing more destructive of the faith of the American people in their government than leadership that knows a lot about the machinery of government but very little about what that machinery is supposed to do.

	As governor of California for eight years, I found that effective leadership certainly demands a thorough knowledge of the machinery of government. But that knowledge must have some guiding principle of action, something that controls and directs the enormous power of government toward desired ends.

	Young Americans deserve to know not only what a candidate says he is going to do, but why he is going to do it. They are the ones, after all, who will have the responsibility of citizenship and leadership in the future that is now being shaped.

	If I were asked to put into a few words what I believe to be the vision which should direct America's destiny, I would say that for the rest of this century and into the twenty-first century, America should be a nation where freedom is secure--a nation of secure freedom.

	I think the time has come for America to have leadership that does something more than talk about freedom or pay freedom ritualistic praise on formal occasions. We need leadership that trusts freedom, leadership that not only knows the right words to say about freedom, but also is willing to let freedom work.

	Saying that we want to make freedom work is more than just paying homage to some pious abstraction; it is a realistic appraisal, based on irrefutable evidence, that when citizens work in freedom, the energies and ideas and dedication that are released can create a world of prosperity for millions.

	If you want proof of that assertion, just look at what freedom has done in this country. What we have came from freedom in action, not from government in action.

	It is this vision of secure freedom which is the central idea of my campaign and will be the guiding principle upon which all programs and all policies in my administration are based.

	Security without freedom is life without hope or challenge; freedom without security is tenuous and temporary. Each concept is essential to the other. Freedom that is secure is confident. It calls forth the best from every citizen and allows the energies of the people to explore new paths. Security that is inspired by freedom is a living, vital, changing part of the growth of a free people.

	One of the central issues of this campaign on which Mr. Carter and I take clearly different positions, specifically concerns one question of secure freedom.

	I refer to the question of registration for the draft.

	Mr. Carter has instituted registration for the draft. He believes that this is the best way freedom can be defended.

	I oppose registration for the draft.

	I oppose it because I believe the security of freedom can best be achieved by security through freedom.

	The all volunteer force is based on the sound and historic American principle of voluntary commitment to the defense of freedom. With the proper support and direction from a president committed to freedom, it can and will provide the military manpower necessary for the margin of safety our nation needs in the years to come.

	Mr. Carter obviously disagrees. He believes that the registration of millions of young Americans for the draft will send a message to the Soviet Union.

	I am not certain exactly what kind of message Mr. Carter has in mind by telling the Soviet Union that America has sent its young people on their way to the draft board by way of the post office.

	I say we can send the Soviet Union and the world a more direct and less ambiguous message by doing all we can to build the strength of our all volunteer force--including the reserves. That message will be that the United States of America believes a free people do not have to be coerced into defending their country or their values and that the principle of freedom is the best and only foundation upon which a defense of freedom can be made.

	My vision of a secure America is based on my belief that freedom calls forth the best in the human spirit and that the defense of freedom can and will best be made out of love of country, a love that needs no coercion.

	Out of such a love, a real security will develop, because in the final analysis, the free human heart and spirit are the best and most reliable defense.

	There is another area where a vision of secure freedom must revitalize America, and that is the economy.

	I am not going to go into detail about the disastrous state of our economy this evening. You know it as well as I do.

	And I am not going to go into the kind of detailed discussion of my own economic program for America that I did in Chicago two weeks ago. The statistics and the projections and the figures and the dollar amounts are important, but this evening I want to go behind those figures and talk about the future I know we can have if we are committed to a secure economic freedom for Americans.

	There has been much attention paid to my call for controlling federal spending by fighting waste, fraud, and the abuse of tax dollars in government, for a reduction in tax rates, and for a balanced budget. There have been close, indeed microscopic, examinations made of my strategy for economic growth. But, oddly enough, in all the questions I have been asked about my economic program, no one has ever asked me the most important question: why?

	Why do we need a new strategy for economic growth? One obvious answer is that the current economic disaster we are enduring calls for a change. But why the specific change I envision?

	My answer to that involves my commitment to secure freedom.

	I see an America whose economic growth and progress in future years are built on the idea that Americans, working together freely, are the greatest source of economic prosperity ever known.

	As president, I am going to do all within my power to see to it that freedom is the driving force of economic growth in the United States.

	For eight years, I was a governor and I know from experience what an efficiently run government, based on sound principles, can do for citizens.

	But I also know what government cannot do, and chief among the things that government cannot do is create economic prosperity.

	That statement is so obvious, so demonstrably true that I am hard put to understand how anyone could deny it. And yet, even today--especially today--we are still developing long and detailed government programs in Washington, funded with billions of tax dollars, in the vain belief that they can create prosperity.

	Well, it doesn't work. It never has worked. It never will work.

	My vision of America's future does not contain any room for the erroneous view that government is the source of economic growth.

	Young Americans want and deserve a secure economic freedom.

	This means that their paycheck and their savings and the ability to buy a home must not be destroyed by inflation.

	It means that lower rates of taxation must leave them with more of the dollars they earn so that they can make their own choices.

	It means that they know their parents and grandparents and, yes, someday themselves, can, when the times comes, retire on a fixed income that won't be robbed month after month by inflation.

	The interaction of freedom and security are all important. We can attain economic security both for our families and our nation only by trusting freedom to work. And we can keep freedom only if we are economically secure, if each family and each individual in the United States knows that government policies are not going to suddenly change the rules of the game through inflation, taxes or unemployment. Such changes erode the spirit of dedication and sense of purpose which is at the heart of a defense of freedom.

	President Carter disagrees with my vision of a secure economic freedom. He still believes--after three and a half years of failure--that economic prosperity can somehow be created by the machinery of government.

	One important point should be made while we are on the subject of the economy and freedom. How will the needs of the poor and the helpless and the needy be met in the future I envision?

	I know that compassion and concern for the needy are part of the generous and open hearts of young Americans. I know they care about those who need help. And I therefore want to spend just a few minutes offering my ideas of how such compassion can be put into action within a philosophy of secure freedom. One of the problems we face is how we think about aid to the needy. Take the word welfare. Through continuous association with government programs, the word has come to mean only tax-supported aid to the needy.

	I recognize the critical need for government aid to the needy and as president I will see to it that our important aid programs are continued. But surely in its most inclusive sense, welfare also encompasses those works of charity and devotion to human needs performed on a daily basis by private citizens and organizations all across the country. So the first thing we have to do is stop limiting our vision when we talk of welfare reform. Such reform is necessary in ongoing government programs--but it also is needed in our idea of what true welfare is.

	The old saying "charity begins at home" means not only that we Americans take care of our own, but that from the homes where we live and the businesses where we work and the schools we attend and the unions we join--from the great centers of our lives--charity and compassion should and will come.

	In every neighborhood, in every home, there is someone who has benefited or whose relatives have benefited from being part of this great system. Let's make it work for more Americans and, in doing so, do the great work of charity that can transform our country.

	For the source of all welfare in America, both government and private, is the American concept of freedom. Only in a free land such as ours is aid to the needy abundantly and freely given. Only in a land where people are free is the ability to live in dignity seen as a right for every person. Freedom, indeed, is the one area where America truly and significantly stands apart from the other powerful nations of the world.

	A few years ago a gymnastic team from the Soviet Union was making an appearance in the United States. An American television commentator was interviewing one of the young gymnasts with the aid of an official Soviet interpreter. The commentator asked the gymnast, "You are a member of your nation's team. Do you belong to any private gymnast teams?" And the Soviet interpreter didn't even bother to interpret the question. The interpreter quickly said, "There are no voluntary associations in the Soviet Union."

	That is perhaps one of the most chilling sentences I have ever heard.

	Think of it: from the borders of Eastern Europe, across the Urals, to the unimaginably vast spaces of Siberia, across more than ten time zones, to the shores of the Bering Straits and the Pacific--in all that awesome, immense space there is not a single organization that exists without the implicit or explicit forbearance of the state.

	That's the essential difference between the United States and the Soviet Union. Not weaponry, not gross national product, not production, not standard of living. The difference is that all that we have has been built through freedom. Are we going to just walk away from that great source of security and growth? Are we going to gradually, over the next decade, forget that great tradition until it is only a dream in the minds of a few who remember, vaguely, what freedom can do?

	Before the American people and before God, I pledge that this great power of love and dedication will not be forgotten, but, rather, that it will be the central energizing force of the next administration and of American life for years to come.

	If it is asked by history what this campaign was all about, let the record show that for my part it is a campaign in which every program, every policy, and every goal I have are based on the belief in a secure freedom for our nation in the years ahead.

	On January 21, 1981, there will be a new beginning in the White House, a beginning based on trust in freedom and in the conviction that only out of freedom can prosperity and compassion and true security bless our nation.

	 
DEMOCRACYFREE MARKET ECONOMIESGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYWELFARE     5 4 4 4 4
 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4	 Y 	 P 	 ; 	 & 	  e: