

	Governor Beardsley, Mr. Wittenmeyer, and my friends:  During the course of a fairly long life I have traveled in many countries, and I think to almost every corner of the United Sates.  Having been born in Texas and raised in Kansas, there is for me a special feeling once I cross this Mississippi and get here on this side of it.  There is just something different--probably part of it is in my imagination:  but the feeling of homesickness begins to subside.  I feel that I am back with the people I know--I am back with the country I know.

	Once, I remember I was in a very hilly country, and I got tired of being penned in, and I said to a companion, "For goodness sakes, I would like to get out to a place again where I could look and see some distance.  I would like to get back in the plains of the West."  He said, "Yes, there you can look farther and see less than any place in the world."  And I said to him, "And that is exactly what I want to see, because I believe that those people out there, because they look off to great and distant horizons, have just a little bit different viewpoint.  I get tired of getting shut in every once in a while."  So, I just want to tell you that I am glad to be back on this side of the old great Father of Waters. 

	Now, my friends, I am in an unaccustomed business.  I am now a politician, and I have many political associates, and they complain about some of the habits that I acquired through the years of farm life out in Kansas--specifically one about getting up early.  Some of them have never even heard of the old expression that "we get up with the chickens."  I do, and they object.  But they are getting accustomed to it.  But the reason for getting up early is because there is so much to do these days in this political business.

	Of this I am sure:  since this political campaign started, I have been in Florida and in Idaho, in New York, and in the southwest corner of the United States.  America is troubled.  Everywhere people are worried, people are doubtful, they are certain that this is wrong in a country that has the strength of ours, our broad acres, our great population, its genius, its scientific advancement, its productive capacity.  Why should we be confused?  Why should we be indecisive?  And we come back to the belief that
there is something wrong with the leadership that we have.

	Now, their discontent, my friends, is expressed in a number of words, and these words mean certain ideas.  For example, Korea.  Why are we in Korea?  Why must we lose in the course of the last two years 117,000 killed and wounded and see no end to this affair yet?  Why do we seem to be stumbling and fumbling so badly in the pursuit of peaceful programs in the world?  Why does peace, far from seeming to gain strength-- why has it weakened so much since that day in 1945 when finally our last enemy surrendered, and we were at that moment the greatest, most powerful military force on earth, as well as the most dynamic people, and with the greatest productive capacity?

	Why do we fear Communists?  Why, in the paper this morning, I saw that in the West, there were eighteen new Communists arrested who have all these years apparently succeeded in hiding their identity or at least their connections with that party.  We fear Communism abroad, and we fear its infiltration at home.  Why do we have to do that?  We are not accustomed to the kind of leadership that leaves us bewildered, helpless.  We want to get rid of those people soon. 

	Why do we have a 260 billion debt?  Why does each baby born today--and this evening remember there will be 6,000 more Americans alive than there were this morning--why does each one of those babies have to be born with a 1700 dollar debt hanging around his neck?  That is what his share of this great 260 billion debt means, and it is still growing.  Even this year, when we have probably the greatest income measured in dollars that we have ever had, the most prosperous with the highest taxes, and we are still going ten to twelve billion dollars in debt.

	Why do we have a 50 cent dollar?  Why does the housewife have to take twice as many dollars to the market as she did only a few short days ago in order to get the same basket of vegetables?  Why do we have such high taxes?  Everything, invisible taxes, income taxes, import taxes, excise taxes, everything contributing to the crisis we pay and taking out of our pockets that we thought we could save for a rainy day or for our old age.  When the average American is working four months a year just to discharge his tax debt to the government, it is high time that we were looking some facts in the face and doing something about it.

	Why do we have to read in the paper that the Boston internal revenue collector had to be arrested, tried, fined, convicted and put in the penitentiary?  The same with the man from St. Louis.  The same from San Francisco--with 177 other collectors in the Internal Revenue Department dismissed or dropped for speculation or malfeasance in office.  America does not have to stand for that kind of thing.

	And then the waste after they collect all these dollars, after they do so many things that are plain wicked and evil, we have on top of that just sheer waste.

	Now, in this field, I am going to give one specific example.  Some months ago, a Republican committee conducted an investigation of the Commodity Credit Corporation.  And they figured, and so reported, that there was some five to seven million dollars unreported in that corporation; that it just disappeared, and no one knew where it had gone.  The Secretary of Agriculture, in testifying before Congress, as to the disappearance of this money, intimated that five million dollars was not very much.  He said, "Why, in a ten billion dollar operation, five million dollars could easily disappear through the cracks in the floor."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, my old Pennsylvania Dutch ancestors never had five million bucks, of course, but I declare this:  There could not have been five cents lost through the floor of our house that someone wouldn't have had to answer for it or at least go hunting on his hands and knees.

	But now, let's take a look at this five million dollars.  It was true it was an estimated loss, and the Secretary of Agriculture later kept bringing his estimates down of loss under this searching examination until it got smaller and smaller; but that leak in the floor was there.  And let's think of five million dollars this way:  five million dollars is the income tax paid by 35,000 people, each of whom is earning $3,500 a year.  Now, is that something to lose through a crack of a floor and make some sort of a wisecrack about it?  Not out in Kansas.  We do not have that kind of money.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a government that has lived on crisis.  Every time something has happened that we didn't understand the taxes have been raised, controls have been clamped on or controls have been taken off or they haven't been applied.  We have had excuses and alibis based on what?  Emergencies, crises!  Was America made to jump from emergency to emergency, from crisis to crisis?  If there is one thing that our people deserve it is the right to live in tranquillity and happiness, to think as they please, speak as they please, worship and earn as they please, and to save with a minimum amount taken out of their pockets for necessary expenditures of government.  And unless we live by that simple little formula, America is not going to be what you people make it and what you want to pass on to your children.

	Now, this kind of waste, this kind of carelessness, this kind of complacency and arrogance in power, comes from one thing--too long in the seats of the mighty.  In this long weary 20 years everybody who is hanging on in Washington thinks it is a very good job; particularly he has a good job if he has any kind of access to the wielding of power or to seeing the streams of money that flow through there now--just think--in terms of 85 billion dollars a year.  If there is anyone in this great throng this morning who has any idea of what 85 billion dollars could look like if we had it piled up here in a heap, I would like to hear him sound off because I haven't the slightest notion.  I just know it is too much money for America to be spending because it is more than we have got to spend.

	I have come to you, ladies and gentlemen, this morning with one belief; it is time to open up the windows of this great governmental structure of ours and let some fresh air in.  Let's find out what is in the dark corners, what is going on.  We have got to have a good old fashioned spring cleaning to put people in who remember, with our founding fathers, that public service means public service--service to the people who form the public.  It is not service to one's self or to one's own pocketbook.  We have been living too long under people whose philosophy is that the pocketbook is the most sensitive nerve in the body.  We have got to remember that moral principles, the spiritual basis of our country, are still the things that have made it great and we have got to live in that doctrine and by that philosophy.  We must have a clean-out from top to bottom.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is a free country.  A free country means that people have a right to rule themselves.  It means that each individual has the right to say, "I am created in the image of my Maker and because of that I have these rights that no one can take away from me."  Now, those rights are individually owned, which means they must be also individually protected.  The greatest right and at the same time the greatest responsibility that the citizen has in a free country is to participate in every part of the political processes by which that country is governed.

	If we are sick of waste, of corruption, of wild expenditures, of deficits that cause inflation, if we are sick of all those things we have the cure--the doing of our duty in civic affairs; registering, participating in our precinct caucuses, participating in our county conventions, our district conventions, our state conventions, in any way participating to the limit of our ability in the political process and choosing what we want.  This whole duty, expressed in a very decisive form on November 4th, does not end there, ladies and gentlemen.  If we believe that our entire responsibility and duty has been accomplished once we elect a group of our own choosing, we are making a grave mistake.  The opinion of this crowd right out here this morning, a great segment of America, is important.  It is a mighty force and as long as your representatives in the county, the state and the national government know what you are thinking, what you are demanding, you are going to get it because public opinion is the mightiest force in this country.  It wins wars; it can win the peace if it has proper leadership.

	Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you to provide for yourselves the kind of leadership that you want.  It is then up to you by your constant following of every fact, every straying from the straight path of truth and honesty and integrity, to see that that leadership stays of the kind you want.  Don't ever let government believe that it is your master.  Government is your servant.  As long as you demand that it stay in its place, ladies and gentlemen, you will have the finest kind of government that this country of ours can produce, and that means the finest that the world can produce.

	Before I go back to my train, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make you one pledge, one promise.  I did not come here specifically to ask anybody for his vote.  I respect your right to make your own decisions and in the form of your vote to make the decisions stick at the polls.  I do ask on your part that you study the issues, that you determine whether or not you now have the kind of government you want and what you want to do about it.

	My pledge is this:  if you place upon me and my associates the responsibility of heading this national government, your opinions, your convictions, your criticisms will always be welcome in Washington.  That government shall not grow apart from you; it shall not abuse your confidence; it will try to live with you and for you.  It will have no other purpose.  That is the promise and the pledge that I should like to leave with you this morning as you make up your minds for the decision that you are going to register in November.

	I want to tell you this:  I not only am going to live faithfully but I am going to live happily with your decision, whatever it is.  Good luck to all of you.  My grateful thanks for your coming out this morning to give me a chance to greet you and to speak these few words.  No American can have a greater honor than to be placed in this position in front of his fellow Americans.  I am truly and deeply grateful to you.  

	Thank you a lot, and good-bye.
DEBT, NATIONALGOVERNMENT WASTEPOLITICAL PARTICIPATIONTAXATION--GENERALTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     3 3 3 3 3
 3 3 {3 r3 n3 l3 l3 b3	 v 	 h 	 X 	 A 	 0 e: