
	Thank you very, very much. Thank you very much. I want to thank Carol Bauman and the Institute of World Affairs for hosting us here. I want to say how delighted I am to be in this magnificent theater and this wonderful city. I want to say a special word of thanks to the mayor of Milwaukee, John Norquist, for this outstanding work to bring together representatives of all racial and ethnic groups, and to promote the preservation of the cultures of this great American city.

	I also want to say a special word of homage to George Kennan, a native of this city, for the work that he did, and has done, over the entire twentieth century to support freedom and democracy.

	And finally, I would just like to thank all of you who have come here. I'm not exactly sure what the number is, but I am sure there are representatives of at least thirty-five different racial and ethnic groups in this audience today, representing not only the future of democracy in America, but the future of democracy in the world.

	I want to talk today about an idea that is at the heart of this campaign, and at the center of my vision for our country and the world, an idea that generations of people around the world have fought and died for, and lived by--an American idea called democracy.

	I know we may have more immediate problems on our minds. But even at a time when America's needs here at home are crying for attention, we cannot forget that the person we elect to lead America will also be the protector of our interests, and the champions of our values around the world.

	Democracy has always been our nation's perfecting impulse. It transformed us from a nation of slavery to a land of civil rights; from a land of male suffrage to a land of universal suffrage. And now it is transforming the entire world.

	Many of you here in this audience have taken part in this democratic revolution. Your contributions to the nation have been matched by your devotion to the cause of freedom abroad. Here at home you have built schools, research institutions, and libraries that have preserved your cultures, your values, and your faith.

	You have raised your children to be proud of their heritage. As the freedom movements in your homelands have gained strength, you have marched and organized. And as the voice of John Paul II gave that movement inspiration, so you gave your moral and your financial support to Solidarnosc in Poland. You helped keep RUKH alive in Ukraine, Sajudis in Lithuania, and the pro-democracy movement in China, as the freedom-loving people in each of those nations rose up to challenge communist orthodoxy.

	You stood behind those in this hemisphere and in Africa who fought to gain and preserve their freedom. You have been stalwart in your support for our democratic ally, Israel.

	Your passionate commitment to democracy has helped carry the torch of freedom both here and abroad.

	Many factors contributed to the downfall of the Soviet empire. But the decisive blow was clearly delivered by the peoples imprisoned within it.

	Some Americans, especially within this election season, are tempted to overstate their role in ending the Cold War. But still it would be wrong, and dangerous, for Americans to underestimate the part that our country did play in the victory that was won. It would be wrong, because there is still great work to be done.

	The Cold War is won, but democracy's victory is far from assured. It could be dangerous, for the world is still full of perils and of nations that could easily drift toward violence.

	If this work is left half-finished, then we, our children, and multitudes abroad who now stand at the threshold of a new life, will suffer a crushing disappointment, and live in a more dangerous world.

	One of the reasons that I'm running for president is that I believe Americans must help see that this work continues. We cannot turn away now and rest on our laurels. Our national interests oblige us to join in building a just, enduring, and ever more democratic peace in the world.

	This is not the first time that our nation, victorious in a foreign struggle, has faced such challenges. In the aftermath of World War I, Woodrow Wilson argued that we had to make the world a safer place, and that it should be made more democratic.

	But the isolationists prevailed. And it took the leadership of Franklin Roosevelt and the sacrifices of the American people in the Second World War to protect the world's democracies from the aggression that followed from our isolationism after World War I.

	After World War II, it fell to Harry Truman to shape a postwar world. We led in the creation of the United Nations, and aid to Greece and Turkey; in the Marshall Plan, and the policy of containment. And this time America joined behind a pro-democracy policy. From Senator Arthur Vandenberg, who was such a model of putting country ahead of party, that tradition spanned the decades after World War II, from President Eisenhower, who sustained the NATO alliance through some of the darkest days of the Cold War, to President Reagan who spoke out against communist aggression.

	A pro-democracy foreign policy is neither liberal nor conservative; neither Democrat nor Republican; it is a deep American tradition.

	And this is so for good reason. For no foreign policy can long succeed if it does not reflect the enduring values of the American people. We do not stand behind the cause of democracy simply because of the goodness of our hearts. The fact is, democracy abroad also protects our own concrete economic and security interests here at home.

	Democratic countries do not go to war with one another. They don't sponsor terrorism, or threaten one another with weapons of mass destruction.

	Precisely because they are more likely to respect civil liberties, property rights, and the rule of law within their own borders, democracies provide the best foundations on which to build international order. Democracies make more reliable partners in diplomacy and trade, and in protecting the global environment, something we must do more of in the years ahead.

	It is no accident that in those countries where the environment has been most devastated, human suffering is the most severe; where there is freedom of expression and economic pursuit, there is also determination to use natural resources more wisely.

	Our task then is to stand up for democracy as it remakes the world. That challenge will have its costs and its burdens. But it need not divert us from the pressing need for economic, educational and social reconstruction here at home.

	As Admiral William Crowe, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, said recently, in endorsing my candidacy, the world needs a strong America, but American strength must begin here at home, facing our problems here at home, making progress on those problems here at home.

	But we cannot choose between international engagement and domestic reconstruction. They are two sides of the same coin. Our economy is increasingly tied to the global economy. Our access to energy supplies, export markets, new scientific developments, and even our ability to create a healthier planet, all of these things require our active engagement in the world.

	And there are still other reasons why we cannot retreat to a fortress America. The collapse of Soviet communism has not only brought new democratic forces onto the world stage, it has also unleashed some darker undercurrents: civil war, ethnic hatred, intolerance, and the spread of dangerous military technologies. There is the risk that the pendulum could swing back against democracy, freedom, and the hope for peace in many places in this world.

	In the face of these opportunities and these dangers, we must have a President who can conduct both a domestic policy and a foreign policy.

	Franklin Roosevelt fought the Great Depression, when 25 percent of our people were out of work, and in places like my home state, one-half the people were in abject poverty. But he fought the Great Depression and the rise of fascism at the same time.

	Harry Truman carried out the fair deal at home, the GI bill, a new housing program, and economic reconstruction, and at the same time moved to contain communist aggression in Eastern Europe and Korea.

	They would have laughed, these presidents, at the idea of conducting foreign affairs in the first term, and then switching to domestic affairs in the second.

	In saying this, I do not in any way belittle President Bush's accomplishments abroad, from putting together the international coalition and war effort against Iraq, after Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, to his success in getting the Middle East peace talks moving. Indeed, I have supported those efforts.

	But no American foreign policy can succeed if it neglects our domestic needs. And no American foreign policy can succeed if it slights our commitment to democracy.

	The President often takes a lot of credit for communism's downfall, but fails to recognize that the global democratic revolution actually gave freedom its birth. He simply does not seem at home in the mainstream pro-democracy tradition of American foreign policy. He shows little regard for the idea that we must have a principled and coherent American purpose in international affairs--something he calls "the vision thing."

	Instead, President Bush seems too often to prefer a foreign policy that embraces stability at the expense of freedom; a foreign policy built more on personal relationships with foreign leaders than on consideration of how those leaders acquired and maintained their power.

	It is almost as if this administration were nostalgic for a world of times past, when foreign policy was the exclusive preserve of a few aristocrats.

	This approach to foreign policy is sometimes described as "power politics," to distinguish it from what some contend is sentimentalism and idealism of a pro-democracy foreign policy.

	But in a world where freedom, not tyranny, is on the march, the cynical calculus of pure power politics simply does not compute. It is ill-suited to a new era in which ideas and information are broadcast around the globe before ambassadors can read their cables.

	Simple reliance on old balance-of-power strategies cannot bring the same practical success as a foreign policy that draws more generously from American democratic experience and ideals, and lights fires in the hearts of millions of freedom-loving people around the world.

	Let there be no mistake, this world is still a dangerous place. Military power still matters. And I am committed to maintaining a strong and ready defense. I will use that strength where necessary to defend our vital interests. But power must be accompanied by clear purpose.

	Mr. Bush's ambivalence about supporting democracy, his eagerness to defend potentates and dictators, has shown itself time and again. It has been a disservice not only to our democratic values, but also to our national interest. For in the long run, I believe that Mr. Bush's neglect of our democratic ideals abroad could do as much harm as our neglect of our economic needs at home.

	Let us look at the record. It reflects an unmistakable pattern in the Bush administration's foreign policy.

	Fearing attacks by isolationists in his own party, President Bush was reluctant to offer Boris Yeltsin, Russia's freely-elected president, a helping hand. It took a chorus of complaints, culminating with the prodding of another Republican, Richard Nixon, to move him into action on the Russian aid package.

	Just weeks before the attempted coup in Moscow, President Bush traveled to Ukraine. There he lectured a people subjected to genocidal starvation in the Stalin era, warning that their aspirations for independence constituted, and I quote, a "suicidal nationalism." A few months later the people of Ukraine voted by a huge margin for the immediate and total dissolution of the Soviet Union.

	For over forty years, the United States refused to recognize Soviet claims to the Baltic nations--Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia. But when at long last, the moment of Baltic independence came, President Bush suddenly became a reluctant bridegroom.

	The United States was thirty-seventh among the world's nations to extend diplomatic recognition to these countries. We should have been first.

	A year ago last June, Mr. Bush sent his secretary of state to Belgrade, where in the name of stability, he urged the members of the dying Yugoslav federation to resist dissolution. This would have required the peoples of Bosnia, Croatia, and Slovenia to knuckle under to Europe's last communist strongman.

	When, instead, these new republics asserted their independence, the emboldened Milosevic regime launched the bloodiest war in Europe in over forty years.

	When I argued that the United States, in cooperation with international community efforts, should be prepared to use military force to help the U.N. relief effort in Bosnia, Mr. Bush's spokesman quickly denounced me as reckless. Yet a few days later the administration adopted the very same position.

	While the administration goes back and forth, more lives are being lost and the situation grows more desperate by the day.

	In the Middle East, I supported the President when it became necessary to evict Saddam Hussein from Kuwait, and I support his decision now to provide air cover to Saddam's Kurdish and Shiite opponents in the north and the south of Iraq.

	But I am angered by the administration's appeasement of Saddam Hussein before the war, and disappointed by its callous disregard for democratic principles after the war. Just this week another friend of freedom, my running mate, Senator Gore, laid out in precise and devastating detail the errors of this administration in dealing with Saddam Hussein.

	President Bush showered government-backed grain credits and high technology on a regime that had used poison gas on its own people. After the war, Mr. Bush encouraged the Iraqi people to revolt against Saddam Hussein but then abandoned them.

	The administration has sometimes treated the conflict between Israel and the Arab states as just another quarrel between religions and nations rather than one in which the survival of a democratic ally, Israel, has been at stake.

	I support strongly the peace talks that are underway, and if elected, I will continue, without interruption, America's role in them. I also believe that America's policy in the Middle East should be guided by a vision of the region in which Israel and our Arab partners are secure in their peace, and where the practices and principles of personal liberty and governmental accountability are spreading.

	For example, I believe we can and must work with others to build a more democratic and more free Lebanon.

	This pattern continues in other parts of the world. In South Africa, Republican administrations had to be prodded by a bipartisan coalition in the Congress to abandon their failed policy of constructive engagement, and to impose sanctions on the apartheid regime in Pretoria.

	President Bush has been slow to place America's support behind the fledgling democratic movements in other democratic nations or to distance ourselves from corrupt and dictatorial leaders elsewhere in Africa. We should encourage and nurture the stirrings for democratic reform that are surfacing all across Africa, from the birth of an independent Namibia, to the pressure for democratic reforms in Kenya.

	In Central and South America, the democratic revolution has won the first round, but our efforts to strengthen the fragile democracies in this hemisphere are still directed too much toward the central government and the wealthy.

	We should do more to support those struggling to establish grassroots democracy in South America and to strengthen the courageous small entrepreneurs who are burdened by corruption and bloated bureaucracy.

	We have a particular democratic responsibility in our own hemisphere to help end the cycle of violence in Haiti; to help restore democracy to Peru, even as it struggles to end the murderous violence of the Shining Path. And to help Cuba's repressive regime join its communist cousins, to borrow a phrase, in the dustbin of history.

	There is no more striking example of Mr. Bush's indifference toward democracy than his policy toward China. None of us will ever forget the images of the millions of Chinese people demonstrating peacefully for democracy; the solitary young man staring down a tank; or the students raising a model of our Statute of Liberty in Tiananmen Square.

	Neither will we ever forget the horror of seeing hundreds of innocent people mowed down for their belief in freedom.

	But instead of allying himself with the democratic movement in China, Mr. Bush sent secret emissaries to raise a toast to those who crushed it.

	The stakes in China's future are very high--for the course taken by that great nation will help shape the future of Asia and the world. Three years after the Tiananmen Square tragedy, the tremors of change continue to shake China. We do not want China to fall apart, to descend into chaos or go back into isolation. But rather, we want to use our relationship and influence to work with the Chinese for a peaceful transition to democracy and the spread of free markets.

	Today, however, we must ask ourselves, what has the President's China policy really achieved? The Chinese leadership still sells missiles and nuclear technology to Middle Eastern dictators who threaten us and our friends.

	They still arrest and hold in prison leaders of the pro-democracy movement. They restrict American access to their markets, while our trade deficit with China will reach $15 billion this year. The Chinese now have the second biggest trade surplus of any nation in the world.

	Just a few days ago, President Bush vetoed legislation, passed with bipartisan congressional majorities, that would have placed conditions on Most Favored Nation trade status for China's state-owned enterprises. And just today the Senate failed, by a vote of fifty-nine to forty, to override that veto.

	But fifty-nine senators, Republicans and Democrats, believe that we have a right to ask a country that has a $15 billion trade surplus with us not only not to export goods made with prison labor, but to observe basic human rights while building market strength.

	I will say again, I do not want to isolate China. There is much to admire in the phenomenal progress that has been made there. But I do believe our nation has a higher purpose than to coddle dictators and to stand aside from the global movement toward democracy.

	For the greatest strength that America can count on in today's world is not our personal relationship with foreign leaders. Individual leaders come and go--even in the United States, I hope. It is the powerful appeal of our democratic values and our enduring political institutions for people around the world that make us special.

	This does not mean we can embark on reckless crusades, or that we can force every ideal, including the promotion of democracy, on other people.

	Our actions must be tempered with prudence and common sense. We know that ballot boxes alone do not solve every world problem, and that some countries and cultures are many steps away from democratic institutions.

	We know there may be times when other security needs or economic interests, even in the aftermath of the bipolar Cold War world, will diverge from our commitment to democracy and human rights.

	We know we cannot support every group's hopes for self-determination. We know that the dissolution of old and repressive empires will often be complex and contentious.

	Moreover, we know there will always be those in the world who pursue their goals through force and violence. But they should know that a Clinton administration will maintain the military strength we need to defend our people, our vital interests, and our values.

	They should also know that the danger that we will get carried away with our ideals does not loom large. That has not been our problem in the last four years.

	The real danger is that in this time of wrenching, sweeping change, under President Bush, we will cling to tired and outdated notions that do not work and cannot inspire.

	Even within our budgetary constraints, we can contribute a great deal to help democracy take root around the world. But while the new democracies will need financial assistance from the international community, they also need our help in learning how democracy and free institutions work; about freedom's institutions, its values; and yes, about its problems.

	As president, I will reorganize and redirect our foreign assistance programs. I believe we shouldn't use taxpayer dollars, as this administration has done, to pay for advertisements to entice people to shut down their plants in America, and take advantage of 57-cent-an-hour labor in other countries.

	I do not believe we should have one more year in which we spend more federal tax dollars training workers in another region of the world than we train people who lose their jobs here at home. I do not believe that. That not only does not make sense; it is absolutely wrong.

	But I will support the establishment of a Democracy Corps, which could provide teams of experienced Americans in local centers throughout the former Soviet Union, to help grassroots leaders overcome bottlenecks to democratic development. We will renew our support for institutions like the bipartisan National Endowment for Democracy, and its partners in business, labor, and political leadership.

	We will revive the spirit of the Peace Corps, offering young people the opportunity to take part in the central political experience of their time. We will rely on America's voluntary organizations to help in the development of independent, civic, and service sectors in the new democracies.

	My administration will work in partnership with business and professional leaders, trade unionists, environmentalists, representatives of state and local government, and other skilled practitioners of our own democratic life. We will enlist the untapped skills of the many immigrants and their descendants in cities like Milwaukee, Chicago and Cleveland, who came to our shores to escape oppression and to build America--to help build democracies in the countries from which they came.

	One of the most effective things we can do in international affairs is what is called public diplomacy. This covers a multitude of our government's activities such as radio broadcasting that allows us to speak to peoples of foreign lands directly. When Lech Walesa was asked if Radio Free Europe gave birth to the Solidarity movement he said, "Would there be an earth without the sun?"

	We should build on the success of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty and expand our successful surrogate broadcasting by bringing news and information to the despotisms that remain in Asia, in China, in Vietnam, Laos, North Korea, and Burma.

	The President's opposition to Asian Democracy Radio is further evidence that he still thinks it's more important to talk to dictators than to their oppressed subjects.

	Finally, building democracy is not a job for America alone. We will strengthen the United Nations and seek more support from our democratic allies in Europe and Japan in strengthening the world's new democracies. We all have a stake in the democratic revolution.

	America's purpose in the world is not simply to be another great power in history. As the flow of resources and information and peoples causes--and people cause this old world to shrink, we have a particular contribution to make to the march of human progress. I call on us to set an example of how a nation of many peoples can harvest strength from diversity.

	It calls on us to give back to a contentious world some of the lessons we have learned during our own democratic voyage. It calls on us also, my fellow Americans, to deal with the increasingly racial and ethnic tensions here at home in a spirit of humility and generosity--reaching out to one another and binding up our own nation's wounds.

	For we have learned here in America, and we relearn every day, that democracy is not always easy and tidy. We have learned that it is a process of trial and error--that it suffers from all the imperfections known to humankind. But it is also the only system we know that can produce wisdom out of disagreement, and peace out of our warring hours. America's power, prosperity, and sense of justice may be providential. But they are not accidental. For those blessings flow from the world's greatest peaceful experiment in making one out of many, our motto, E Pluribus Unum.

	The force of democracy's magnetism is reflected in the stories still told around holiday dinner tables today. The story of the young couple who abandoned Havana for the promise and safety and opportunity in the United States. The stories sprinkled with Yiddish of the family from Minsk who fled to the land of religious freedom. The story hardly known of forced exodus from Africa, and a slow exodus from slavery and hardship to liberty. The stories still told in Polish of the farmers who left the old country for the rich and limitless land of our own Midwest.

	In this election, let us join together to ensure that our American epic can offer meaning and guidance to freedom loving people around the world. Let us seize this historic moment to help expand democracy's embrace. And let us act toward the world in a manner worthy of our heritage, our ideals and our name.

	Thank you very much.
AFRICABALTIC NATIONSBOSNIADIPLOMACYFOREIGN AID--GENERALIRAQLATIN AMERICAMIDDLE EASTRADIO, OVERSEASREVOLUTIONS (FOREIGN)SOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)DEMOCRACYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA