

	Let me first thank my friend Phil Klutznick for that kind introduction--and for his lifetime of service to B'nai B'rith and to our country.  Let me also commend two outstanding leaders whose dedicated efforts have advanced the causes we share--your President, Seymour Reich and your Executive Vice President, Tom Newmann.

	Kitty and I are grateful for the opportunity to be with you tonight.  And let me tell you how proud I am of the work she has done as an Executive Committee Member of ADL's New England Region in fighting against every form of prejudice and discrimination.

	Whenever the security of Israel has been threatened, whenever the rights of people anywhere have been challenged, whenever citizens of any faith or race in America have needed help, whenever the principles of democracy and decency and tolerance have been under assault, B'nai B'rith has been there as a powerful force for freedom and justice.

	I am proud to stand before you today; I have been proud to stand with you for many years, both in the State House in Boston and in private life.  The principles you fight for are my principles; the causes you champion are my causes.  I look forward to working with you--as president of the United States.

	Last Saturday morning, I went with my mother to Ellis Island, where she arrived seventy-five years ago.

	And my friends, you can't look at the Statue of Liberty, you can't read the words inscribed on its base, without feeling very good about America's past and about our future.

	What an inheritance we have!  And what a responsibility we have.

	To keep America strong.  Militarily and economically.  To protect our security, defend our vital interests, and support our allies and friends.

	To celebrate the magnificent diversity of our people--to draw strength from each other's wisdom and skills and cultures and pride; and to rid this land forever of the cancers of racism and anti-Semitism and discrimination.

	Those who came to Ellis Island believed in the dream of liberty; and we must defend that dream against all adversaries--against those who would threaten us from abroad; against those strident voices from the radical right who would undermine the Constitutional principles of individual liberty and the separation of church and state here at home.

	Those who came to Ellis Island sought economic opportunity, and we must work together to make that dream a reality, not just for the privileged few, but for every citizen in this land.

	And some came to Ellis Island, some of you came to Ellis Island, to escape persecution, to escape political prisons and death camps and the threat of torture; you came to America seeking life itself; and we must never forsake our role as a place of refuge for the victims of terror and repression in other lands.

	My friends, we must keep the trust we have been given; we must prove worthy of our inheritance; we must work together to bring opportunity and prosperity home to every citizen here in the United States; and we must stand shoulder to shoulder with democratic nations and peoples abroad.

	America's place is not with dictators.  It is with governments that trust and respect their own people.  It is with democratic nations that are proud and strong and free.  It is with nations like Israel.

	From the day of Israel's rebirth four decades ago, we Americans have understood that Israel's fate is our fate.  That when Israel is threatened, all those who cherish freedom are threatened.  Israel--like the United States--is a special place.  Born in conflict.  Dedicated to freedom and democracy.  Committed to peace.  Resolute in defense of its people and our shared values.

	I believe deeply in those values.  That's why I was the first Governor to sign a comprehensive agreement with Israel to encourage joint economic development projects.  And that's why I was the first Governor to insist that any company doing business with my state must reject the Arab boycott of Israel.  That was 12 years ago, and the principle hasn't changed.

	And in 1975, when the United Nations turned history on its head and declared that "Zionism is racism," I spoke out against it.  And I was proud to join this year with the Governors of every state in the union--except the Governor of New Hampshire--to condemn and repudiate that action.

	My commitment to these principles is deep and personal.  They have guided me in the State House; they will determine the policies of my Administration in the White House.  The United [missing text] throughout the Middle East.

	[Missing text] Soviet influence in the Middle East; a partnership that provides the United States with valuable intelligence information, and with cost-effective weapons like remotely-piloted vehicles and Popeye missiles for our B-52s.  When the United States needs a place to store military equipment in the region to protect our national interests, Israel is there to help.

	You know, for forty years, Israel has been tested every day and every week and every month.  Tested economically by the challenge of building a nation.  Tested militarily by the need to defend its borders against hostile neighbors and ruthless terrorists.

	Today, Israel faces new dangers.  Violence in the territories.  King Hussein's withdrawal from the West Bank.  A rise in radical Islamic fundamentalism.  Enemies armed with ballistic missiles that can carry chemical and biological weapons.  And new Soviet arms shipments to Syria that speak louder than the new Soviet rhetoric of peace.

	These dangers will test not only the leaders of Israel, but of the United States, as well.

	As president, I will work with Congress and with the leaders of Israel to maintain Israel's qualitative military edge.

	We will not sell weapons that would threaten the security of Israel to any nation.  And we will work to persuade our NATO allies to join us in that policy.

	We're going to continue to help Israel defend itself by providing generous levels of military and economic aid; we'll work for a worldwide ban on chemical and biological weapons; and we're going to do all we can to protect Israel from the growing threat of tactical ballistic missiles.

	We're going to tell the Soviet Union and China that if they want to join the international economic community, they will have to get out of the business of selling these deadly weapons.  And we're going to help Israel defend against this threat by continuing to support the ARROW anti-missile system.

	Last month, the President vetoed the bill that funds the ARROW.  He vetoed it as a favor to George Bush, but that veto was no favor to Israel.  Lloyd Bensten and I will never play politics with Israel's security.

	The Republicans have sold AWACS to Saudi Arabia, Mavericks to Kuwait, Stingers to Bahrain and billions of additional dollars worth of sophisticated arms to Arab countries that refuse to make peace with Israel.  George Bush has supported those sales, and Dan Quayle has voted for them.  Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to say "no" to Arab shopping lists that endanger the security of Israel.

	Mr. Quayle has voted repeatedly against foreign assistance to Israel.

	Yesterday, he told the Washington Post that George Bush was leaning on him for foreign policy advice.  I'd rather listen to Lloyd Bentsen--and I'm sure you would, too.

	The Republican ticket doesn't acknowledge Israel's sovereignty over its capital--an undivided Jerusalem.  We do.

	The Trade Representative in this Administration has turned common sense into nonsense by threatening Israel's trade with the U.S. and placing Israel in the company of Syria, Haiti and Burma--because of alleged violations of labor rights.  That's absurd.

	In a Dukakis Administration, we're going to have a Trade Representative who can tell the difference between right and wrong.

	And there will be no trips to Bitburg.

	Beginning on January 20, we're going to have a president who will work for peace in the Middle East from the day he takes office until that long awaited dream is fulfilled.

	One of my first acts as president will be to appoint a special envoy with my instructions--"use every ounce of your energy to convince Arab leaders to negotiate peace with Israel."

	Of course, we cannot--and should not try to--impose a solution on the region.  Only the parties to the conflict can make peace.  And that peace must come through direct negotiations.  No settlement that is unacceptable to Israel will be acceptable to the United States.

	But the United States does have a responsibility to help build that peace.  A peace that will guarantee Israel's right to live within secure and defensible borders and provide, in the words of the Camp David accords, for the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people.

	King Hussein's decision to withdraw from the West Bank and Gaza has changed the debate in the Middle East.  But it has not changed the fact that Jordan must play a role in future negotiations.

	Nor does it make the PLO a fit partner for peace.  Only last month, the world once again saw the true face of the PLO--in a terrorist attack that injured 25 innocent people, some of them children, in Haifa.  My friends, there can never be a role in negotiations for the PLO unless it renounces terrorism in word and deed; unless it accepts UN Resolutions 242 and 338; and unless it clearly and explicitly renounces its own covenant which states that peace can only come at the price of Israel's right to exist.

	A Dukakis Administration will never recognize a unilateral declaration of a Palestinian State or government in exile.  I met with the Israeli Ambassador in August and he posed an interesting question:  "How can a government that has never existed declare itself to represent a state that has never existed?"

	If there is to be peace in the Middle East, Arab leaders must follow the path of Anwar Sadat.

	And if Mr. Gorbachev is serious about wanting to be constructive; if he wants to encourage lasting progress in U.S.-Soviet relations, he should take these simple steps.  Establish full diplomatic relations with Israel.  Stop voting to expel Israel from the United Nations.  Use your influence with Syria to gain support for peace.  Live up to your commitments under the Helsinki Accords to respect the rights of your own citizens to practice their faith and study their culture without fear.  And grant Soviet Jews who wish to leave their country the right to do so.

	After all, Mr. Gorbachev, if glasnost can open Soviet society, why can't it open the door to free emigration by Soviet Jews?

	And a Dukakis Administration will stand by Jackson-Vanik to make sure those doors open wide--once and for all.

	I know that many of you have devoted your lives to helping Soviet Jews.  Over the years, Kitty and I have been grateful for the opportunity to work with you; to do our part; to be inspired by the [missing text] and to rejoice in the freedom of people like Benjamin Charny and the Fuchs-Rabinovich family.  We will never forget the long struggle of Michael, Marina, and Mishka.  We will never forget the joy in our hearts at Mishka's long overdue Bar Mitzvah, where Kitty was called to the bimah for an aliyah.  And it is an honor to have this brave family here with us this evening.

	We will never forget their courage.  And we will never forget the courage of those who still wait for freedom.

	On November 9, the day after the presidential election, we will observe the fiftieth anniversary of one of the most tragic days in history: Kristallnacht, the "night of broken glass."  On that night, the basic principles of civilized people were set aside--and the world would never be the same again.

	The broken windows of Kristallnacht should have shattered the worldwide silence about what was happening to Germany's Jews.  Instead, anti-Semitism had free reign while the world stood by indifferent to the fate of a doomed people.

	History has shown us the cost of that indifference and taught us that no work so touches the human spirit as the work of remembrance.  We advocate remembrance, as our friend Elie Wiesel has said, "as a means of redemption of the future."

	Three years ago, Kitty and I hosted the first state dinner to benefit the United States Holocaust Museum.  When that museum is completed, it will be a symbol of our determination to never again tolerate such unspeakable barbarity on any people.

	It is up to all of us, public officials and private citizens, to speak out forcefully against anti-Semitism, racism, and every form of bigotry--whether it occurs in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles or New York or anywhere else in America.  That is a responsibility we all share, but it is especially the responsibility of the President of the United States.

	Because silence is no substitute for leadership in the Oval Office.

	Last month, I joined with thousands of Americans to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the March on Washington.

	We came together to remember the work and the words of Martin Luther King.  We came together to summon once again the spirit created in 1963 by Dr. King and Whitney Young and Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel and Father Theodore Hesburgh, and so many other Americans of every color and religion.

	We came together at the Lincoln Memorial in 1988 because while America has made great progress in the last quarter century, we have miles to go before we fulfill the dream of equal opportunity for every American.

	That dream is more powerful than any single cause; it soars above all barriers of race and culture and creed; it is sustained by our belief that we Americans--for all our wonderful diversity--are one people, one nation, one community.

	We know that opportunity for some is not good enough for this country; that we cannot rest until every single citizen in this land is a full shareholder in the American dream.

	We cannot rest until all of our schools are good schools and American students are the best-skilled, best-prepared, and best-educated in the world.

	Until we have ended the shame of homelessness in America and made good on Harry Truman's promise of basic health security for every American family.

	We cannot rest until we bring prosperity home for all Americans--not just for the wealthy and the privileged.

	And we cannot rest until apartheid is abolished and all the people of South Africa are free.

	It is a tribute to B'nai B'rith and the Jewish community in America that you have always fought for the people who are struggling for basic rights and a decent life for themselves and their families.  You have recognized and taught the basic truth that human rights are indivisible.  You have supported Jews in the Soviet Union and shipyard workers in Poland and mineworkers in South Africa.  You have fought for dignity and decent treatment and expanding opportunity for working men and women in the United States.  And you understand how important Constitutional separation of church and state is.

	Your agenda, your aspirations, and your achievements are America at its best.  We have worked with you in the State House in Boston.  We are going to work together in the White House.  And let me say tonight, as we approach Rosh Hashanah, may we all be inscribed in the Book of Life for a happy, healthy, and sweet New Year.  And may it be a year of compassion, moral courage, vision, justice, and opportunity for all Americans.  L'shanah Tova Tikatevu!

ANTI-SEMITISMEMIGRATION--SOVIET JEWSFOREIGN AID--ISRAELFOREIGN TRADE--ISRAELHOLOCAUSTIMMIGRATIONJEWISH AMERICANSMIDDLE EASTMILITARY AID--ISRAELMISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS--ISRAELPALESTINE AND PALESTINIAN ISSUESPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--MIDDLE EASTSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS SALES--ARAB NATIONSISRAEL     E> > > > =
 = = = = = = = =	 7	 *	 	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	 i 	 A 	 !   e: