

	Buddy, thank you very much. I've been looking at your prices and it's a short haul. You know, it's only about four minutes.

	Well, I want to say again how honored I am to be in Virginia. It's a great place to be, and it's always good to be with my good friend John Warner, who works every day--every day--seven days a week, I don't know how many hours a day, for this great state. And I know you appreciate it, I know he's coming back, he's going to be reelected, I'm going to need his help in 1997.

	And I've known Tom Davis for a long time. Where is Tom? Where--? That was a great speech you made. I heard it back there. Agreed with everything you said. And I'll introduce some other people later on, but I want to just acknowledge it.

	But I'm very honored to be standing here before all these young people. Because we can talk all day long and make all the political speeches and run all the negative TV ads or whatever. And the bottom line, it's about their future. It's about their future and their opportunities and what they'll have as we go into the next century.

	What kind of government? What kind of leadership? What kind of an America? And so I would like to just take a few moments and I'd be very happy to answer questions--be sort of a warm-up for the debate that's going to happen in San Diego if I show up. So we'll--if there's no railing there I'll make it. So in other words...

	There are a lot of things important, a lot of issues very important, but I believe--and I see Jim Miller. One of them I'm going to talk about is the economy. How do we get the economy to grow? How do we create more jobs and more opportunities? And Buddy's done a great job, and his father before him, Arthur, his mother--starting this business. This is again what can happen in America. But we want it to be even better.

	So Jack Kemp and I have an economic plan. It's not a radical plan, not at all. We just start off on the principle--and I'd say to all the people here--all the taxpayers in this room, all the mothers, grandmothers, fathers, grandfathers, small-businessmen and women--our basic premise is that it's your money. The money belongs to you.

	Now, we don't think a 15-percent tax cut will break the government. Fifteen percent, that's the basic plan; 5 percent a year, phased in over three years. I see a lot of little $500 tax credits here, too.

	The money goes to their parents. They can take the $500, for example under our plan, and put it into a college fund--tax-free. You start today at birth; you'd have--depending on the rate of interest--maybe as much as $17,000, $18,000, $19,000, $20,000--a pretty good start for college. A $500-per-child tax credit, if you're under 18 and certain--if you make over $115,000, you'd probably be excluded. But I don't think that would exclude many in this room.

	Basic--we believe cutting the capital gains rate in half will stimulate the economy. And we think it will work. And again, it's not a radical idea. It's not a radical idea.

	My friend Wayne Angel, who was a member of the Fed for some time, tells me there's $7 trillion in assets locked up--Jim would probably concur with this--$7 trillion. Think of the activity that would be created if we'd cut the capital gains rate in half. And I'll quote from a former constituent of mine. I had a letter just last week, saying: "We own property in California. We live in Kansas. We'd like to expand our business. We'd like to sell the property. We can't do it at a 28 percent rate."

	It's all about growth. It's about opportunity. It's about jobs. It's about America. It's about growth--something this administration, so far, has failed to understand.

	And let me just give you a couple more things we have in mind. Estate tax relief--we don't get all the way we'd like to, but if you work all your life, and your family works, and your kids work, and you work Saturday and some Sundays because you have to, and you build up a little nest egg, and something happens, someone passes on, you shouldn't have to sell off half the property or half the farm to pay the estate tax. That's not right in America. So it's very basic--very basic.

	Another thing I would just mention, because I know you have great schools in Virginia, but I think for a lot of people, low-income parents, we have a program called Opportunity Scholarships. We'll match what the state matches. It's 500 and 500; that's a thousand dollars per child we give to the parent, which might be enough to pay half the tuition, and you could go to a better school.

	If we're going to get a handle on drugs, crime, teen pregnancy, we need to start in the kindergarten. We need to start with education. We need to give every child in America the best education possible, and that's going to happen.

	And I would say to the--I'm a product of public schools. So is my daughter--right here in Virginia, Jeb Stuart High School. Good schools. I like teachers. But I'd like to give it back--schools back to the parents and the teachers, to the parents and the teachers--and take it out of the hands--and take it out of the hands of the labor leaders at NEA, at NEA. Take it out of their hands. That's not just because they give 99.5 percent of their money to Democrats. I'm trying to find that one Republican who got 55 cents, because I figured it out.

	But it's because we have a president who can't move because they won't let him move. He came--he came out against truancy, which I thought was courageous, said he's opposed to it. And I said, "That's--that's statesmanship." Didn't even take a poll; he just did it on his own. And he suggested a national curfew, and I said that's fine with me, as long as it applies to the White House--a national curfew. So let's give kids a chance. That's the whole thrust of our program.

	In addition, we have regulatory reform, litigation reform, stop some of these frivolous lawsuits. The first guy to call me when I fell off that thing in Chico, California was a trial lawyer.

	So we're--we think we know what we're doing. And just in case you've forgotten--then I'm going to sit down and take questions--because we know that three out of four jobs in the next twenty-five years are going to be created by small-businessmen and small-businesswomen, not by the big, big companies. They're downsizing and downsizing.

	And I'm from Russell, Kansas; I know what a small business is. That's when somebody comes in to relieve you for lunch. That's a very small business. We just had a little place open up that's going to hire thirty-five people. That's a boom in our hometown. That's a boom.

	Small business is where the action is, and that's who we'll help reduce the cost of capital, cut the capital gains rate, as I said, and do a lot of other things we think are on the right track.

	We're going to enforce the Paperwork Reduction Act. You know, we passed it in the Congress when I was there, and then the President exempted IRS, and they create three-fourths of the paperwork. You can't exempt the IRS. We want to end the IRS as we know it, not exempt it.

	Three years ago yesterday--it wasn't on a Sunday, of course, but it was on the 22nd of September--the President introduced this massive health care plan. And we've got to address some health concerns, and we've--you've done that, John, in Congress, and I appreciate that.

	But I brought along a chart. Some of you may remember this chart. The patient is finally there on the bottom. If he ever gets through all those things--the patient's going to be worn out anyway. But those are some of the fifty new bureaucracies, seventeen new taxes, one-seventh of the total economy all in this massive, massive federal-run health care plan.

	And in case you think they've forgotten it, let me just give you a couple of recent quotes. Remember Ira Magaziner, where they had this secret meeting, 500 people, cost millions of dollars, nobody could find out, they wouldn't tell anybody anything? Here's what he said in May 1996--that's this year. He said, "Certainly,"--he's talking about the president's failed government-run health care system--he stated, "Certainly his views haven't changed. President Clinton remains committed to the idea. Indeed, the President will try again if a more receptive Congress is ever elected."

	Well, there's never going to be one elected, but don't take any chances. Don't reelect him, then you don't have to worry about Congress. There, 1996.

	And on July 6th, this year, Mrs. Clinton said, "I think the basic model is still the right model." Now, these are not my quotes. No disrespect to Mrs. Clinton or Ira Magaziner, but they haven't forgotten.

	And this morning on the NBC Show Marian Wright Edelman was saying, "Well, we're going to fix up that welfare plan. He just signed that. Probably a little politics involved. We'll take care of it next year." He vetoed it twice, and then he had this election-year conversion. And then he signed it and took credit for it like he's taking credit for a lot of other things that's happened in the Republican Congress.

	And the point I want to make is this: President Clinton came to town a liberal; he's still a liberal; the only thing that stopped him in his tracks was electing a Republican Congress in 1994. That's all that stopped him in his tracks.

	And let me--let me give you where the American people are. And I don't believe in polls. If I did, I probably wouldn't be able to sleep tonight. I know the poll that counts.

	When it comes to polls on candidates, it's pretty hard. You never know the model where they're asking more--this or this, or whether they're just registered voters or all voters, certain voters.

	But on the issues, let me tell you where the American people are, according to surveys. It could be off four or five points, maybe more.

	Tax relief and a balanced budget, 84 percent say yes--84 percent. A balanced budget amendment. Remember, President Clinton twisted arms in the Senate and changed the votes of six Democrats, some of whom campaigned on a balanced budget. We lost by one vote. Eighty-three percent of the American people say we ought to have a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.

	Life sentences for drug dealers--maybe that's being too kind to them--but 82 percent support that, life sentences for drug dealers.

	Increased funding for violence against women--seventy-some--74 percent, 74 percent. And we added--we increased funding, Republican Congress increased funding because we think it's important. And we led the efforts in the early seventies, as John knows, to get the bill passed.

	And just one other: reducing all government agencies, 71 percent. Now, that's where we are.

	But I wanted to remind you, that's it. See that national health board at the top? They were going to determine everything. They were going to be between you and your doctor. If you get by them, you get to see a doctor. It maybe wasn't the doctor you wanted, but there'd be some doctor there. We believe you ought to have a right to choose your own doctor in America--choose your own doctor in America.

	And I know that we all like to move on to more pleasant things. We forgot about that terrible idea that Clinton had. But I wanted you to know that he still has it. He hasn't forgotten it. And don't forget the tax increase. Remember the middle-class tax cut he promised everybody in Virginia?

	Everybody gotten it yet? Or have you spent it yet? Don't do it, because it hasn't happened yet. But now he's going to promise it a second time. The second time--"Oh, yeah, we're going to have middle-class tax cuts."

	Keep in mind the last time he did that he raised taxes 265 billion--that's with a B--billion dollars. And he says--and he's going to probably say this in the debate, so I'm practicing. He said, "I only taxed 1.1 percent of the people, the rich." Well, if you drove a car or truck, it's 4.3 cents. Didn't go into highways; it went into the general treasury to start some other new programs.

	If you made $34,000 as a senior citizen, he raised your taxes on Social Security. If you're a sub-chapter-S corporation--Jim, you correct me--had about a 30 to 40 percent tax increase on a sub-chapter-S corporation. And I'll bet there are some sub-chapter-S people who were sub-chapter-S people who are here today. That's a big, big tax increase. That's small business--it's small-businesswomen.

	And 70 percent of the increase would be paid by small-businessmen and women. So I don't know where the rich are. They're still out there somewhere. And of course, that's the bottom line. This is very serious business. It's very serious business.

	It's not about Bob Dole, it's not really about Bill Clinton, it's about the direction of America. It's about which way do we want to go. None of us are perfect. Maybe none of our ideas are perfect. But I'll stack ours up against theirs any time of the day or night--any time of the day or night. We believe in you. We trust the American people. And that is the basic difference.

	Back to the children, and I'll sit down. I assume in twenty-five years one of these young people will be standing here. By then, Davis will be retired. Maybe, maybe not. Well, he'll probably be in the White House. I don't know, Tom, wherever. Anyway--and then those who are still around--I know Senator Thurmond will be here, but maybe others will not be here--will say, "Well, what did we do? When we had an opportunity in 1996, did we made the right choice? Did we make the right choice between Bob Dole and Bill Clinton? "

	Disregarding personalities and everything else, let's take a look at their philosophy. What do they really believe? What do they want for America? What do they want for my children? And what do we get? What do we get twenty-five, thirty years later?

	Do we still have Social Security? Do we still have Medicare? Do we still have some of these programs that are very, very important for vulnerable groups? Do we still have a safety net for low-income Americans and others who can't buy health care, or some who must rely on welfare or food stamps, or are all those gone, too, because we lost our way and wouldn't make tough decisions?

	So it's not about--just about November 5th and the next four years. It's about the year 2000 and beyond. And I know I've been accused of looking backwards. He talked about building all those bridges. And of course, we immediately said, "These are all toll bridges." We've had enough toll bridges in this administration.

	But I've got to bet that Buddy Morrissey looks back from time to time where your father was, and where your mother--how they started and how they worked--and how they worked--and how it paid off because they had values--integrity and honesty and hard work. That's when you look back. That's what you build America on. You're always looking ahead. If you don't look back now and then to see where you've been, you're in real trouble.

	So I'd be very happy to take questions from--I know there are a number of participants here. I--again I want to--I'll say a word or two at the end, but I probably--I sort of thought I was back in the Senate, where there were no time limits. But--but I do miss the Senate.

	And I would just say to this group, I left there to make a statement, because there's a lot of cynicism in our business. And a lot of people say, "Well, Bob Dole wants to be president, but he also wants to be majority leader; he wants to be in the Senate. He doesn't want to give up anything; he just wants more."

	And so on June the 11th I walked out the front door. I gave up the majority leader's office--and there have only been, what, fifteen, I think, in history--and a seat in the Senate--very proud to represent my state--because I wanted you to know this: that I was willing to put my career on the line because I think the future of America is on the line. That's how important the election is in 1996.
BUDGET, BALANCEDBUSINESS, SMALLCAPITAL GAINS TAXEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINCOME TAXINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDINHERITANCE TAXSOCIAL/ECONOMIC CLASSTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERALTEACHING PROFESSIONWELFARE