


	Tonight, Monday, October 20, has a special significance for me.  It is the opening night of my final swing, the last lap of the campaign.  I think that this is a good time to draw breath and to take personal inventory.

	Months ago, I used the word "crusade" to describe my innermost feelings on why I had become a candidate for the presidency of the United States.  That word "crusade" has a special meaning for me, and I would like to make it the theme of tonight's talk.

	I have always believed--I was always taught by my parents--that muscle, that weapons, that machines, that rules were weak things in themselves.  Unless the will and determination of the spirit was coupled with these things, they either got nowhere, or they became instruments of evil.

	Every major experience that I have had since then has borne out the wisdom of that teaching.  And I have been lucky because, throughout my life, the major events always had that extra spiritual factor to make them a crusade.

	Let me try to illustrate what I mean.

	How else can you explain the successful landings in North Africa, and the campaign that followed through Sicily and Italy, except in terms of a crusade?  We had the ships and the arms; we had the necessary men; but without the spirit of crusade in our fighting forces, we could have been repulsed.

	Furthermore, let's remember, two years before I had been a Lieutenant Colonel in U.S. Army maneuvers in Louisiana, and here I was heading the largest invasion armada that had yet been seen, with scores of American and British career officers senior to me by many eagles and many stars.  The harmony, the dedication, the spirit of Allied Force Headquarters was not something that could have been ordered in a directive; it could only exist as part of a crusade.

	Then almost two years later came Normandy and the liberation of Western Europe.  Despite the utmost military cunning and planning, how could Hitler's Fortress Europa have been breached, and how could the Nazi Armies have been rolled back to ultimate destruction, unless the spirit of every man involved was a spirit of crusade?

	Many books have been written by now on this great operation.  They reveal contradictions as to detail, differences of opinion, clashes of military theory; but through them all runs a single common thought.  The crusade in Europe was, indeed, a crusade.

	Then late in 1950, I was asked to take over the setting up and direction of NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  The job on paper appeared impossible.  It consisted of reconciling the military heritage, the national prides, the temperamental backgrounds, the traditional fears, the economic inequalities, the political differences, and the language barriers of twelve nations, and creating a united Western European army.

	Here again, how could anyone have tackled that job unless there was the spirit of crusade?

	Today, SHAPE, Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe, exists as a fact--not necessarily a perfect fact, but a fact already real enough to act as the first shield of defense against a Soviet Russian onslaught.

	I think it is important to point out that the presence of these NATO soldiers has a greater significance for peace than it has for war.  A defenseless Western Europe is an invitation to invasion, just as defenseless South Korea was an invitation.  A line of armed men represents for the Kremlin rulers not a calculated risk, but the fateful decision.

	Then came 1952, when I was presented with the greatest decision of my life.

	By now in this campaign, I have had a liberal education in the use of invective, and, shall we say, inaccuracies and distortions.  The reason, of course, is that our campaign is a constructive, progressive crusade to liberate the American people from the shackles of expensive corruption and waste, from the straitjacket of inflation and taxes, and from the terrifying shadow of war that a vacillating stop-and-go foreign policy has cast upon us.

	Against this crusade of ours, their sole retort had to be abuse.

	But I said at the outset that I felt this was a time to restate my personal beliefs.  I think it is important to spell out the beliefs which make this a crusade for me.

	These things I believe:

	(1) I believe that the president of the United States should serve all the people, irrespective of their race, their creed, their color, and particularly irrespective of how they will or how they have voted.

	I further believe that a presidential candidate has the first responsibility to speak for his party.  This I have done.  This I will continue to do.

	At the beginning of this campaign I said that I was a "no deal" man.  I said that I would make no arrangement or agreement of any kind that could be interpreted as even an implied promise of future political favor.  I have made none.  I am still a "no deal" man.

	(2) I believe that the social gains achieved by the people of the United States, whether they were enacted by a Republican or a Democrat Administration, are not only here to stay, but are here to be improved and extended.  Anyone who says that it is my purpose to cut down social security, unemployment insurance, to leave the ill and aged destitute, is lying.

	I do propose, through prudent handling of government expenditure, through the elimination of the national deficit, through halting inflation, and through eventual lowering of taxes--to preserve for the people of the United States these security gains.  I do not believe that these gains should be secretly whittled away by creeping inflation.

	(3) I believe that waste is not a necessary part of government.  There have been in our history too many efficient administrations, and there are today too many well-run states--as Massachusetts will be under Chris Herter next January--to have us believe, as the Administration apparently would have us believe, that waste and racketeering are an inevitable part of government.

	(4) I believe that corruption in government is not something to be shrugged off.  I further believe that when corruption is discovered, the faster and more firmly it is rooted out, the less likely it is to appear again.

	The worst indictment against the present administration is not that corruption exists, but that it has been consistently condoned.  That is why this Scandal-A-Day Administration stands before the country discredited.  That is why you are going to throw it out of office on November 4th.

	(5) I believe that inflation is as dangerous an enemy as any we face today.  Inflation can be stopped with foresight, intelligence, and determination.  It must be stopped in this country if our savings, our pensions, our insurance policies, our social benefits, are not to be destroyed.

	Bringing inflation under control does not mean swinging over to deflation or depression.  Never again must the crime of mass unemployment be visited upon our people.  This disaster must not happen, not only for the welfare of our own citizens, but for the security of the nation and of the whole free world.  Our pledge is this: we will enlist all the resources of private industry, and we will marshal all the resources of the federal government, to insure that this great nation is never again paralyzed by a great depression.

	And don't let anybody tell you different.

	(6) I believe that taxes are too high.  The size of our taxes reflect not only the necessary cost of defense, the cost of social welfare, and the other costs of government.  Today's taxes also have to cover the added cost of waste, inefficiency, duplication, and corruption.

	When some million-dollar government scandal breaks in the newspapers, that million dollars did not grow on a bush.  It came out of your pockets.  When you read of tens of millions of dollars misspent in the construction of North African air bases, those millions also came out of your pockets.

	Our first task must be to go after waste and extravagance.  This involves a fresh analysis and reappraisal of all government outlays.  We must attack the problem from the standpoint of achieving our objectives by a steady, long-term, planned program of expenditures, which in the end will cost much less than the present administration's stop-and-start, high-priced, last-minute emergency spending.  By this means, we will be able, first, to eliminate the deficit, and then to lower taxes.  As a result more money will be yours to spend or to save.  And whichever way you use that money, it will reinforce the economy of this country.

	(7) I believe in the American fact of organized labor and in collective bargaining.  How else could an individual worker compete successfully for his fair share of the business dollar?  I say this because I do not believe, as so many Socialists believe, that the relationship between labor and capital has to be class warfare.

	Elsewhere, unfortunately, that has too often been the case.  Class warfare has too many times brought about the enslavement of labor in once free lands.  Every farseeing American labor union leader knows what I mean.  Today in Europe, Irving Brown for the A.F. of L., and Victor Reuther for the CIO, are working night and day with European labor in the still-free countries.  They are explaining the difference between competition and class warfare, the difference that has made American trade unionism effective within the framework of industrial progress and the individual freedom of the worker.

	(8) I believe in our dynamic system of privately owned businesses and industries.  They have proven that they can supply not only the mightiest sinews of war, but the highest standard of living in the world for the greatest number of people.

	There are many ways to account for the phenomenon of America, including its fantastic natural resources, and favorable political and economic climate.  But it required someone to take these things and to produce the extraordinary statistic that the United States, with seven percent of the world's population, produces fifty percent of the world's manufactured goods.  If that someone is to be given a name, I believe that his name is the American businessman.

	(9) I believe that without a healthy, prosperous agriculture, we cannot have a healthy, prosperous America.  The farmers of this country are engaged in a hazardous activity subject to the uncertain ties of weather and to the ups and downs of business.  To reduce these hazards, we have worked out a bipartisan farm program to help stabilize agriculture.  We must continue to improve this program, to develop ways and means that insure to the farmer his full, fair share of the national income.  We must do this by methods that do not chain him to Washington, but leaves him on his soil the free man he wants to be.

	(10) I believe that the federal government should be the partner of State Governments, and not their oppressor.  The political structure of this nation was designed, and the nation has grown great, on a most wonderful balance between the rights of the individual citizens, the rights of the States, and the rights of the federal government.  Whenever this balance becomes upset, as it is today through the growing encroachments of Washington into the rights and lives of all of us, only trouble can result.  We protest against a business monopoly which may be oppressing other smaller businesses.  Should we protest less strongly against the ever- growing monopoly of Washington, which oppresses State and local governments?

	Our objective is to keep government close to the people.

	(11) I believe that the defense of the United States is the paramount concern of our government.  This defense requires more than just money or what money can buy.  It requires imagination, thoughtful planning, and above all else, the conviction that freedom and not slavery will prevail.

	Our determination must go beyond the negative concept of containment to the positive concept of expanding by peaceful means the areas of freedom.  If this is not done, we will once again find ourselves at war.  It must be done.  It can be done.

	(12) I believe that in this business of defending freedom, we must have loyal allies.  It is impossible to achieve dynamic alliances unless there is mutual respect among allies.  There cannot be sufficient respect for the United States so long as we continue to reveal to the world a shocking spectacle of government corruption and indecision.

	Even if the present Administration manages in its blindness to treat such matters casually--to the British, to the French, to the Canadians, to the Scandinavians, to the Italians--to all our many allies--this is a life and death matter.  They want to sign up on the side of integrity and strength.

	How would any of you react if you were thinking of making a life-and-death deal with a man who did not have a plan, who could not make up his mind, and about whom a scandal appeared every week in the local newspaper?

	The terrifying arithmetic of the Communists shows one-hundred million people a year enslaved since the end of the war.  That is not containment; that is containment-plus.  At this rate, there will soon be nothing left but the Western hemisphere.  That is why I say that whether we are motivated by the loftiest international neighborliness, or by enlightened self-interest, we emerge at the same fork in the road.  America needs allies.

	America cannot be isolationist without being isolated.

	(13) I believe that loyalty is the first essential qualification for government office.

	(14) I believe in the fundamental dignity and equality of all Americans.  The Bill of Rights to the Constitution provides a code of ethics and of practice which is clear guidance for any president who really wishes to serve all the people.

	(15) Finally, I believe that all great endeavors, be they military, be they intellectual, be they industrial, be they social, be they political, require leadership.  If that leadership is strong, is honest, is dedicated, all the people benefit.  If it is weak, if it is corrupt, if it is cynical, a few benefit at the expense of the many.

	A united America, 156-million strong, can achieve anything it sets its mind and heart to.  We have been blessed beyond most nations of the world with material advantages.  We have also been blessed in the past not only with a spirit of adventure, but with a spirit of courage to carry forward with tremendous strides the great unfinished task of America.  That task still lies before us.

	We can face that task with fear, because we are disquieted by the quality of our national leadership.  Or, we can face it with high courage.  It is the difference between a job and a crusade.

	If I am elected, I pledge to you--to all of you, all over this land--that I shall regard the presidency of the United States, not as the highest "job" in the land, but as a call to the leadership of the greatest crusade in the world.  That leadership will be made up of outstanding men and women from local communities throughout the nation.  With such a joining of forces, our crusade can serve America and the free world in the cause of peace.

	I ask you to join that crusade--for your future. 
AGRICULTURE--GENERALALLIES/ALLIANCESCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEFREE MARKET ECONOMIESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALGOVERNMENT WASTEINFLATIONNATO (NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION)ORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALWORLD WAR II     = < < < <
 < < < < < < < <	  	  	  	  	  	  	 f 	 V 	 M 	 $ 	  e: