

	I am grateful for this opportunity of meeting with you in this great farming region.  I am grateful because of the clear knowledge, gained in my early years and confirmed many times over by what I have seen in the world, that man draws his essential strength from the land.  There man lives close to the Creator's handiwork and there spiritual values in full measure enrich life.

	What we are seeing here today is proof that a highly industrialized nation can retain its love of the land.  We are seeing, too, that today's farmer has the science, skill and determination to assure our nation a productive future.

	I have come to this heartwarming grassroots scene to outline one major part of a sound farm program.  But I come here with no idea that the farmer is interested solely in his own affairs.  I come to you as one citizen to another--each of us equally concerned with the future of our United States.

	The supreme question before all of us today is that of peace.  It is the question that grips the hearts of parents in every home.  It is the question:  What is going to happen to our boys?  Will our boys be here to help us carry on?  Or, will they be called to fight on some distant battlefield?

	I know how terrifying and haunting is the thought of war to every father, mother and young person in America.  But none of us must ever abandon the hope and the conviction that we can lift from our country the threat of war.  We owe it to ourselves and our children to give them the chance to remain here on these fertile, peaceful lands, to establish families of their own--and not to be sacrificed to stupid blunders in world politics. 

	For myself, no matter what my future private or official status, I shall never cease working for a real, a lasting peace.

	But, to achieve that peace we first must have sound plans for it. We must have leadership which inspires confidence.  As I have said before and will say many times again, there is just one sure guide toward peace:  A strong, secure, solvent United States that can and will cooperate effectively with other friendly nations to establish and maintain peace and freedom.

	Building that kind of a United States is our first job.  And a productive, prosperous agriculture is a foundation stone of that structure.

	Now, in discussing one phase of a farm program with you, I am not going to pretend to be a farmer.  My farm activities belonged to the day of the Percheron and the mule; the walking plow and the wheat binder; the traveling thresher and husking corn by hand.  Things have changed.

	But, I still get up with the chickens! 

	From those early experiences I gained an enduring belief that independence is something to be prized fiercely as man's most precious possession--and that cooperation between free men is the force that solves problems too great for the individual.  I learned in my home and on the land that independence is faith in yourself.  I also learned that cooperation is faith in our fellow man.  The farmers I knew in those days expressed this creed in the words:  "I want to be my own boss."  When a man's barn burned down, the neighbors gathered to help him rebuild it.  So they lived both in independence and in cooperation.

	I know that since those simple, self-sufficient days farming has undergone an amazing revolution.  In the fields where I once shocked wheat behind a horse-drawn binder, the harvest is now a one-man job with a self-propelled combine.

	But to me, the most significant fact of the revolution on the land is that the essential character of our agriculture has not changed.  The family farm is still the mainstay.  The farmer still wants to be his own boss.

	And I'm for that.

	We all know that this huge modern agriculture of ours has problems.  One of them is the hard economic fact that we sometimes produce more than we can sell at fair prices on the domestic and foreign markets.  And I don't have to tell you that unprofitable prices not only threaten the security of our farms but also sap the prosperity and strength of our nation.

	It's a fact, too, that our farm economy is especially vulnerable to the forces of changing world conditions and to inflation and deflation.  You know what it means to have your hold on your land and your home threatened by these forces.

	These are serious problems.  But they can be solved by people who are independent, people who carry on the spirit of cooperation.

	As a foundation for the security of our agriculture and the nation we must get our entire economy on a sound basis.  We must achieve a prosperity that is not based on expenditures for war.

	During the past thirty years, we have fashioned special plans for the protection of agriculture.  Many sincere men--dirt farmers, farm organization leaders, and legislators-- put much thought into programs to assure farmers of reasonable stability of prices.  These programs were brought into being by Congress on a nonpartisan basis.  They have been improved from time to time on a nonpartisan basis.  Most of these agricultural laws are based on the sound principle that the government should aid farmers to aid themselves.  Farmers themselves were supposed to have much to say about the management of these programs.

	But what happened?  Do you have a voice that carries weight with the Washington agricultural autocrats?

	Or should I say "Agricrats?"

	Do they listen to you?  Do they welcome your farm organization leaders in their councils?

	You know they don't.

	You've seen them grow cynical and arrogant.  They've just been in power too long--far too long.  Systematically they have tried to use the vast powers of the federal government to make the farmer a political captive.

	You don't have to look far for evidence.  The case is now perfectly clear in the grain storage hoax of 1948.  It is a story of perversion of government responsibilities and powers--a story of a giant federal farm agency, backed by the people's dollars, deliberately driving down the price of grain to instill fear in the minds of farmers.

	It is a story of a government agency spreading panic--using press, radio and speeches to paint a picture--a false picture--of the lack of storage space for grain.

	You were told at Dexter, Iowa, on September 18, 1948, that the 80th Congress had prevented the administration from providing storage bins for farmers.  You were further told that this would make it impossible for many of you to get price support loans.

	The facts are now well known--and here they are:

	1.   The 80th Congress did NOT prevent the Commodity Credit Corporation from furnishing storage to farmers for their grain.

	2.   There was no shortage of storage space.

	3.   Contrary to the accusation, the Commodity Credit Corporation never has furnished storage to farmers.  It hadn't before and it hasn't since.

	4.   The Commodity Credit Corporation was selling its own grain bins as surplus at the very moment the Democrat candidate accused the Republicans of having "stuck a pitchfork in the farmer's back."
	
	Now, who actually stuck that pitchfork in your back?  It was none other than the Democrat administration itself!

	And now the agricrats are trying to set the stage for a repeat performance.  This time they are conducting a nationwide, farm-by-farm so-called "educational" campaign to "explain" the well-known commodity loans to farmers.  But the fact is that much of this propaganda campaign is designed to make you think these loans have a Democrat price tag.

	However, these all-wise bureaucrats have plans far more sinister than these schemes to influence your vote with government money.  Fear is being broadcast by the administration and its phony front organizations.  They are trying to scare you into voting, not as your conscience dictates, but as they want you to vote.  They are telling you, "The Republicans will pull the rug out from under you."

	I have an answer to the false propaganda now gushing out of Washington and Chicago.
	
	That answer is--bunk!  Just bunk!

	If you want to know where I stand on this question, I will tell you right now.

	I pledge you that the Republican party is going forward with positive, aggressive, farmer-run farm programs.

	The first thing we intend to do is to take the emphasis off Washington.  The American farmer has had enough of government by long distance.

	Next, there's going to be a spring housecleaning of the unscrupulous leadership that would use farm programs for political purposes.  There will be no more of this business of using federal power to extort the farmers' vote.

	And here and now, without any "ifs" or "buts," I say to you that I stand behind--and the Republican party stands behind--the price support laws now on the books.  This includes the amendment to the basic Farm Act, passed by votes of both parties in Congress, to continue through 1954 the price supports on basic commodities at 90% of parity.

	These price supports are only fair to the farmer to underwrite the exceptional risk he is now taking.  They are a moral and legal commitment which must be upheld.

	We now have at least two years in which to plan ahead.  We must use this valuable time to figure out sound means and methods of maintaining and expanding, both security and opportunities in agriculture.  We must mobilize all of the brains in agriculture--farmers, our farm organization leaders, your farm-wise legislators, your agricultural specialists and research workers--to join with us to build and improve our long range farm policies and programs.

	Our goal will be sound, farmer-run programs that safeguard agriculture--but do not regiment you, do not put the federal government in charge of your farms.  We must, by using good old-fashioned horse sense, figure out sound methods of maintaining agriculture's freedom to shift patterns of production without losing the basic protections to which agriculture is entitled.  We must realize that no formula developed at any particular time is infallible.  Conditions change.  What counts is being prepared to do the right thing at the right time.

	I firmly believe that agriculture is entitled to a fair, full share of the national income and it must be a policy of government to help agriculture achieve this goal in ways that minimize government control and protect farmers' independence.  All I know of farmers convinces me that they would rather earn their fair share than to have it as a government handout. And a fair share is not merely 90% of parity--but full parity.

	But it takes more than price supports to build a farm program.  The administration, tired and incompetent, is trying to distract your attention from its many fumbles, failures and deceptions.  The administration wants you to forget its neglect of research and education at the expense of political monstrosities such as the Brannan Plan; its great potato fiasco which cost hundreds of millions; the grain storage scandals; and the immorality of using federal resources to influence your vote. 

	The future of an independent, dynamic agriculture depends on cleaning up the mess in Washington and getting farm programs back on a non-political, cooperative basis.  We must not let programs devised for farmers be turned against farmers.

	I certainly don't believe farming is going to stand still.  I see an expanding future for American agriculture--and I'm sure you folks do too.  With our growing population, our expanding industry, and our leadership in the free world, our farms will have a tremendous job to do.  And to serve that future, working together as friends and neighbors, we can do much to improve and strengthen our farm programs.

	First, they must be cleansed of politics.  An effective way to do this is found in the Republican platform:  the establishment of a bi-partisan agricultural commission with power to review the policies and administration of our farm programs.  The Republicans will establish such a commission, and will see that it is made up of bonafide farmers and farm leaders.  That is a pledge!

	Second, the programs must be transformed into genuinely farmer-run operations, with maximum responsibility decentralized to states, counties and districts.

	Third, these programs must be better adapted to regional, state and local conditions.

	Fourth, we must find sound methods of obtaining greater protection for our diversified farms, our producers of perishable foods.  They yield the rich variety of meat, milk, eggs, fruits and vegetables that support our nutritious national diet.  As provided in the Republican platform, the nonperishable crops so important to the diversified farmer--crops such as oats, barley, rye and soybeans--should be given the same protection as available to the major cash crops.

	The Democrat planners have made the diversified farmer the forgotten man of agriculture.  They keep saying, "There is no way of protecting perishables except through the Brannan Plan."  But we can and will find a sound way to do the job without indulging in the moral bankruptcy of the Brannan Plan.

	We must realize, too, that the economic programs I have discussed are but one part of our farm program.  We will be equally concerned with conservation and wise use of our soil, water and forest resources.  We must give high priority to the expansion of farm research--particularly research that is the key to wider markets--better packaging, preservation and more efficient distribution of farm products.  We must always be concerned with strengthening farmer cooperatives, which have done so much to build this progressive farming area; with up-to-date farm to market roads; with developing rural electrification and telephone service.  We must also be concerned with our human resources.  We must see to it that every farm child has the best educational opportunities.  We must be concerned with all the things that aid in building a sound America by building a sound American agriculture.  These things I will discuss later.

	I give you now this positive assurance.  The Republican Party will use all the power it legitimately can use to see that American farmers obtain their full share of the income produced by a stable, prosperous country.  We will do this, no matter what changes the future may bring, in ways that protect the independence of the farmer and all other citizens.  We will do it in cooperation with farm people themselves, without seeking to make them fearful and without seeking to make them the tools of a political party.

	We will set about this great task in faith, not fear--faith in America and our agricultural community, faith that we can meet the challenge of changing times, faith that nothing is impossible for a determined united people.

	It is that faith, rooted in deep religious convictions, which in every generation has moved America boldly forward.  It is by that faith that today's Americans will build a more just, a more humane and a more securely prosperous land.  It is by that same faith that America will work unceasingly in the service of peace and freedom throughout the world. 
AGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALAGRICULTURE--GENERALAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGES     d< 0< *< &< <
 < 	< < ; ; ; ; ;	  	 t  Y  E    e: