

	Reverend Higgins, Mr. Rohgan, and my friends: I realize I am competing against a bit of Texas breeze, so if I don't speak loud enough, anyone is privileged to yell "louder", but please don't say funnier, because I am out of wisecracks--fresh out.  I shall do my best.

	I am enjoying this day in Texas.  Why shouldn't I?  It is my birthday and I was born in this state.  Now, you Texas people have been making it a very happy birthday.  I have looked forward to visiting Waco here in the heart of the Brazos Valley.  Your city represents an old and proud Texas culture.  Here is the site of Baylor University, organized more than one-hundred years ago at Independence, Texas.  Now, I like the name of that town, Independence.  But Texas, that is.  I believe in the independence of Texans, and that is really why I am here today.  I don't think there are any captive people in the Brazos Valley.

	You must realize how heartening it is for me to know that multiplied thousands of Texans this year are showing their independence of party labels and of the machine politics of the big city bosses.  I am grateful for the support of your Texas leaders who put principle above political expediency.  Such men include Price Daniels, your distinguished Baylor alumnus.  He introduced me at Houston this morning.

	Incidentally, I hope some day to come back here to Waco as an ex- university president to view the priceless collection of Browning works at that university.  I must tell you that that is one thing every university president in the land has heard about.  And I am equally proud and grateful for the support of the private citizens of this great state, whose only desire is to have a national government in which they can have confidence.

	I hope you will pardon a word that is more personal.  I had made a mental note when I came to your city to call upon a close relative of one of my very fine friends at Columbia University.  I find that campaign schedules are not only inflexible; they are crowded.  So I must take this means of sending my greetings to a lady I have never met, Mrs. A.P. McLendon, of your city.  In these personal greetings, I have a particular word for the Connally Air Force Base and for Fort Hood.  At the latter place, I understand, is now stationed the old Third Division led by Maurice Rose, one of the great heroes of World War II and who lost his life in that conflict.  But to those men of both the Connally Air Force Base and Fort Hood, let me bring a particular message.  I find that all over this country they are finding new things to say about me that I never heard of until this campaign started.

	One of them is that I want to cut the pay of soldiers and airmen and sailors, that I want to reduce their allowances.  Well, now, I think far too much of the service that those uniformed men or their predecessors have been performing over the past forty years--I have known in the services--to be guilty of any such things, and I hope that their faith in me is a little bit too strong to be destroyed by the poisonous propaganda of someone who is doing this for political purposes only.

	Now, I should like to talk for a little while about something that is very dear to the hearts of everybody who lives in an agricultural region, whether or not he is himself engaged in farming.  Flying from Houston to Waco this morning, I looked down upon one of the most important agricultural areas of our country.  Many of these farms, I noticed, were small farms; one-family farms, in all likelihood.  Between here and Lubbock, our next stop, I know I will see larger farms, places where the labor of several families plus all the mechanical help they can get is necessary to keep them going.  

	Two thoughts immediately come to mind.  First, Texas has a tremendous stake in the farm program of the national government.  Second, the vastness of this state and the variety of its soil and water resources call for a farm program that fits your different needs.  These points fit perfectly into my own conception of a sound and sensible national farm policy.  It is in the national interest for the government to encourage and assist Texas farmers and stock raisers in every practicable way, and the closer to home this program can be kept, the more workable it is going to be.  I am convinced and have long been convinced that the farmer must have his fair share of the national income.  Otherwise, we cannot be prosperous in America.  We cannot be adequately fed or clothed unless the basic essentials of our economy are produced by America's farmers and unless they are prosperous.

	Prices for farm products are affected by supply and demand, and here the weather plays its part; by inflation and deflation; and by world economic conditions, since many of our farm products, like cotton, are exported in large amounts to the foreign markets.  I realize that over-production can cut the market and run prices down to disastrous levels and that drought conditions can disrupt the economy of a whole area.  These are some of the reasons why a farm program, national in its scope, is necessary.  There is no doubt about that. 

	We have come a long way in the past thirty years toward the building of a national farm program which helped assure to the farmer a reasonable year-in and year-out return for his investment in land and equipment, for his labor in producing his crops.  Our farm program is the result of a national conviction that such a program is good for the farmer, good for the consumer, good for labor and good for America.  Both political parties have long realized this.  I have heard it claimed that the farm program is the sole and exclusive idea of the present administration.  This is not true.  The administration's idea of a farm program is the Brannan Plan.  Both parties in Congress rejected that monstrosity.  Now the administration is trying to make us forget that it ever had such a plan at all.  It is trying to make you believe that it alone fostered and developed the present farm program and that it alone can keep it going.  They say that if I am elected instead of a hand-picked candidate of the Brannan Planners, I will pull the rug out from under the farmers of America.  I have said it before, and I say it again: that is pure, unadulterated bunk.

	The farm program must be continued; it must be improved.  I said at the National Plowing Contest last month--and I have said it many times since--that I am in full accord with the present law providing price support on basic crops.  I think farmers deserve their fair share of the national income, that they would rather earn their full share than have it as a government handout, and that a fair share is not merely ninety percent of parity; it is full parity.

	The keystone of our national farm policy must be local participation, not only in carrying out the rules coming from Washington, but in making the policies upon which those rules are based.  You can't run a farm in Texas from a swivel chair in Washington.  Our farm policies ought to begin, as well as end, out where the plowing and the planting are actually done.  It should be a unified program, one in which the left hand knows what the right hand is doing.  I would like to see in every county all federal farm agencies under the same roof, so the farmer can make one trip to see everybody.

	When I talk about this difference between local advice, local counsel, local authority and responsibility as opposed to the present administration plan, I am talking about the basic irreconcilable difference between the two systems.

	Along with the expansion and improvement of the farm program, I would like to strengthen it by cutting waste.  Recently, I said that unless there is a change, Washington will be telling the housewife how to wash her dishes. I was merely trying to point out the absurdity of the situation in Washington.  But look at what I found out: the Department of Agriculture, now being run by the author of the Brannan Plan, has already prepared a thirty-two-page booklet on the subject of dishwashing.  Now, someone whose salary is paid by the taxpayers' money made a remarkable discovery and put it right in the booklet.  He says dishes should be washed in a dishpan; not just any dishpan either.  The Department of Agriculture says you will want a pan large enough to accommodate your dishes.  But it must also fit into your sink, if that is where you use it.  The title of the booklet is "Tools for Food Preparation and Dishwashing."  It can be bought from the Superintendent of Documents in Washington for ten cents.  If you are having any trouble with your dishwashing, ladies, why not take advantage of the bargain?

	Another booklet you can get from Washington along the same line is called, "How to Choose and Use Dried Prunes."  It also costs only a dime.  And that is also the price of another such volume entitled, "Housecleaning Management and Methods."  Now, this one points out that water, especially warm water, is a good cleansing agent.  Now, I don't necessarily disagree with the man who made that startling discovery.  Water is a good cleansing agent and if there is any place on earth where the best cleansing agent ought to be used freely, it is in Washington.  Just to make sure, we might put in a little disinfectant.

	Now, of course, my friends, these things are silly.  Of course.  But they are symbols of something that isn't silly and that isn't funny.  They are a symbol of the shameful wasting of tax funds that is going on in our federal government.  I prefer to leave the washing of dishes and the choosing and using of dried prunes to the housewife of America, and to choose and use the manpower and money of the Department of Agriculture upon the somewhat broader subjects of soil conservation and price supports.

	I think a better program can be evolved in ways I have told you about, and I think we can put a better program on a better basis.  What we need in Washington is men who understand that a farm contains two parts.  The Department of Agriculture is one part, but the much bigger part is made up of the free and independent farmers of America.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not come before you to engage in any contest in the making of promises--promises from Washington.  In fact, the party in power has already used up, in the last twenty years, all the political promises it is possible to make.  Most of them have become very greatly shopworn, and some of them were never made with any intention of keeping them.

	I am no politician, I never was, I am not now, but I am in this crusade, with millions of Americans, to get certain things.  They are summed up in one phrase: good government, in all its parts, for bad government.  Now, good government, in my mind, will first be honest government.  It will be a government as to which you won't have to read in your papers about the relief of nine of our important tax collectors for malfeasance in office.  It will be a government as to which you can get the best men from all walks of life everywhere to do our job for us.

	Next, it will be a frugal government.  It will not have forgotten those old copybook maxims that thrift and economy are just as important to us as making more money.  It isn't a silly saying that a penny saved is a penny earned.  The only thing silly about it is that the administration has made a penny worthless for saving.  It will be a government made up of men who will exhaust every resource of mind and soul--and of national resources, material and spiritual--to seek and establish and sustain peace--the greatest need of our time.

	So, in lieu of the promises that politicians love to make, I as one American, honored to meet such a great throng of Americans as this, make instead a pledge: I pledge that, if you people want to place upon these crusaders with whom I am joined the responsibility for directing the destinies of our country during the next four years, we would have one single ambition.  That ambition would be this: that after four years, all principal members of such a government would be able to come back again, to meet with this very crowd, to stand on this platform, and know that you people could say, one to the other:

	"That group was fair; that group was just; they did not try to play one part of the United States against another.  They viewed every problem in the light of what was good for 155 million American citizens.  Moreover, that government was friendly.  It remembered that it was our servant.  We put it there--we, the people.  We didn't put it there to be our masters.  That government performed its functions with the wisdom, the understanding, and the friendliness with which God endowed it."

	Now, that is the kind of ambition they would have.

	Let me close this morning by thanking each of you who has come out here, taking an hour out of his busy day, to give me a chance to say hello.  I know you will allow me to make special mention of the band and my gratefulness for their courtesy in playing the song they did as I came before you.

	It has been a great honor and a great time for me.  I thank each of you.  Good-bye.
AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY PERSONNELAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     t4 @4 :4 64 ,4
 4 4 4 4 4 	4 	4 3	 [ 	 6 	 &   e: