

	In forty-eight hours, the people will choose the next president.

	They will decide between war in Asia and peace for America, between jobs for our workers and favors for the special interests, between four more years of code words and a real attack on crime, between a candidate who hides in the White House and a candidate who has been among the people.

	Tuesday will be a day of reckoning and judgment.

	And each citizen will decide in his own way.

	Those who labor for a living may care more about the economy than any other issue. The young are still stirred most by the unending outrage of Vietnam. A housewife may look at the ballot and think of last week's grocery bill. The old may see their loneliness aggravated by poverty.

	For every group, there is an issue and a problem they seek to resolve by their vote.

	This is as it should be. People should test their leadership by its immediate impact on their individual lives.

	Yet this cannot be the only test. For we are not electing a set of programs, but a president of the United States. And a candidate should be tested above all else by his view of presidential leadership and his vision for the nation.

	This is an issue that encompasses and transcends all others. It includes the rises still unseen but certain to come in the next four years, as well as the questions that have been so intensely debated in recent months.

	Therefore, I would like to talk with you today, in the closing hours of this campaign, not just about the policies I propose, but about the kind of president I intend to be.

	First, I intend to be a people's president.

	I intend to fight for rank-and-file Americans against powerful predators of special privilege, both in government and in the private economy.

	Government has become so vast and impersonal that its interests diverge more and more from the interests of ordinary citizens. What may save an administration's face or feed its sense of honor, or give it more authority does not necessarily serve or fulfill or enrich the people.

	Unfortunately, my opponent, who likes to call himself a conservative, has lost sight of this conservative truth.

	He believes in trickle-down power as much as trickle-down economics. And both of those are wrong.

	The right course is for a president to champion all the American people rather than the privileged few, no matter how entrenched they are or how far their influence reaches. It is time for a president who will bring the government back to the people.

	Second, I intend to conduct an open presidency.

	We must end the manipulation and concealment which characterize my opponent's misuse of the White House.

	In a democratic nation, no one likes to say that his inspiration came from secret arrangements behind closed doors. But in a sense, that is how my candidacy began twenty-two months ago.

	I am here today as the Democratic nominee in large part because during four administrations of both parties, a terrible war has been charted behind closed doors.

	I want those doors opened, and I want that war closed. And I make this pledge above all others: that war will be closed, and those doors will be opened.

	And unlike Mr. Nixon, I will hold regular and frequent press conferences as president.

	I will abolish the office of White House director of communications, which my opponent created to censor news and views, not only from inside the White House, but from anywhere in the executive branch.

	That office is the first permanent propaganda ministry in the history of this country. It is a dangerous precedent. I plan to make it the fading memory of a mistaken past.

	I will also end the insidious practice of hiding facts, not to protect national security, but to preserve the prestige of those who have failed the nation. The truth belongs to the people, and it is stolen property only when it is concealed from them.

	But I am not satisfied that any administration, whatever its intentions, can fully police itself to prevent official lies and distortions.

	Therefore, I will work closely with editors, news directors, and reporters to develop new and effective checks on government misinformation.

	Third, I intend to conduct a presidency of personal responsibility.

	As a first step, I will drastically reduce the sprawling, largely unsupervised White House staff. It has become a dangerous and arrogant bureaucracy. It has doubled since Mr. Nixon took office.

	Without this increase in size in the last four years, there would not have been idle hands around for the Watergate burgling and burglary, and the unprecedented political espionage conceived and conducted by the Nixon White House.

	Nor, as chief executive, will I permit a presidential aide to become involved with a government agency on behalf of ITT or any other corporation.

	There will be no more White House indifference to scandal in high places. I will appoint officials of honor, ability, and character, regardless of party. And I will remove any official guilty of misfeasance or malfeasance, regardless of politics.

	It has been said recently that people will accept corruption and even criminal activity in the political process because they expect nothing better. That is tragic, if it is true. But if the next president demands integrity in every part of government, then so will citizens demand and expect a government that corrects evils instead of committing them.

	But cutting the White House staff and setting a standard of honesty in public service are just the first steps toward a presidency of personal responsibility. The president must not only exert personal supervision over his most important subordinates, he must also have personal contact with rank-and-file Americans.

	I find my opponent's conduct of the presidency cold and aloof. He deals too much with the power brokers and too little with the people.

	As president, I will go to the country several times a year for town meetings in school auditoriums, factories, and neighborhoods. I will listen as well as speak, and hopefully, I will learn what the people are thinking and feeling.

	There will be no more White House indifference to the poor and oppressed among us; to the women who are seeking a more fulfilling role in society, to the young who are in a hurry for change, and to the black or brown or red who can wait no longer for change. And the White House will not be deaf to the plight of blue-collar workers who find that the system created to serve them exhausts them, bores them, uses them up, and exploits them. No citizen of this country should have to suffer in silence; no single voice can always be heeded. But every voice must be heard. As president, I will hear the voices of dissent and discontent and the needs a president will never know if he hides in the White House.

	The president is a person, and the presidency is a personal as well as a political institution. The president is personally responsible for those he chooses to serve with him, and for the choice of the voices and views that influence him.

	It is wrong for a president to listen just to oil barons and billionaires and the executives of big business. My opponent prefers to go to John Connolly's ranch to talk with those who can pay $1,000 for dinner. I will go to the workers on the assembly line at General Motors and the machinists who work at McDonnell-Douglas.

	Fourth, I intend to conduct a constitutional presidency.

	I will share the deliberations of my administration with both the Congress and the country.

	Neither sound decision making nor the strength of our society is well served when a president relies almost entirely on a handful of generals, bureaucrats, and staff aides to resolve great questions about our economy, our environment, and even our fate.

	That is wrong. Yet that is the pattern of my opponent's presidency.

	The Constitution says that the executive and legislative branches shall be equal partners. But we are now deep into a long-developing constitutional crisis which threatens us with a government of executive supremacy--or what in old-fashioned terms was called one-man rule. We have seen our democracy diminished by a war that was undeclared, and an invasion of Cambodia that was ordered without the consent of the Congress--indeed, without even consulting the leadership of the Senate and the House.

	At the same time, we have seen our courts demeaned, not so much by the contempt of a few defendants, but by the misconduct of those who are sworn to defend the Constitution, which makes the judiciary the third equal branch of government. Instead, this administration has made the Supreme Court a play thing of partisanship. They have tried to reshape the meaning of the Constitution to fit a strategy of politics. My opponent even attempted to appoint to the Supreme Court a man whose most famous public remark was a racial slur.

	Now we must return to the constitutional system of shared authority and lively checks and balances. We must restore respect for the place and power of the courts and the Congress.

	We must make the Cabinet the reality of executive government, instead of its shadow.

	Executive privilege should never be invoked to escape executive responsibility. I believe that the officials who are responsible for policy should be responsive to the representatives of the people, who have a right to review that policy.

	And I believe in a presidency of shared authority in an even more fundamental sense. The president of the United States should take the country into his confidence at an early stage on domestic issues and, to the maximum practical extent on international initiatives as well.

	My opponent breaks into prime television time only to tell the nation what has already been decided.

	As president, I will speak regularly to the country about major questions, so citizens as well as the government can think seriously and react before decisions are made.

	Instead of ruling like a Roman emperor, I offer a candid presidency sensitive to our constitutional system and to the concerns of our people.

	It is the only real and abiding way to make democracy work.

	Fifth, I intend to be a president who puts his primary emphasis on our problems here at home, not on power politics abroad.

	I believe the president has fateful responsibilities in our own country and around the world. But we need a better balance between the blind isolationism of the 1930s and the costly over-commitments and indiscriminate interventionism of the 1960s.

	We must end the tragic and immoral war in Southeast Asia. Then we must pull our own country together and put our own house in order.

	We cannot do so with a president who proudly proclaims that he spends 80 percent of his time on foreign affairs. We need a president who cares more about a father who is out of work in St. Louis than about a corrupt dictator in Saigon who should have been out of power years ago.

	The oldest con game in history is for a head of state to avoid the difficulties of his own land by diverting public attention to grand alliances and exaggerated dangers in other lands.

	This has worsened during the last four years. I will not let it continue for four more years.

	As president, I will give America a defense second to none. I will keep this country strong in military power, but I will not tolerate waste in the Pentagon any more than I will in any other branch of the government. I want to make America strong not only militarily, but in the quality of life. I want the jobless employed, the homeless housed, the hungry fed, and the sick treated.

	It will not be easy. But I will fight as Franklin Roosevelt fought--and Harry Truman and Lyndon Johnson and John Kennedy. And we will prevail. We will enact national health insurance. We will reform taxes. We will provide a job for every man and woman in this country who is able to work. We will declare all-out war on crime and drugs. We will halt the contamination of our environment. We will end the neglect of the old and the handicapped. With the support of the people and the commitment of the presidency, we will bring the American deed closer to the American creed.

	Finally, I intend to be an innovative and forward-looking president.

	For a generation and more, the government has sought to meet our needs by multiplying its bureaucracy.

	Washington has taken too much in taxes from Main Street, and Main Street has received too little in return.

	It is not necessary to centralize power in order to solve our problems. At other times in our history, government has given people the tools, and they have finished the task.

	We must be as innovative as our forebears were when they passed the Homestead Act and the Land Grant College Act under Abraham Lincoln--or the Rural Electrification Act and the TVA under President Roosevelt--or the Peace Corps under John Kennedy.

	The first of these, for instance, used public resources not to subsidize huge government contractors like Lockheed but to open the opportunity on the frontier for ordinary citizens to earn their own way.

	The Land Grant College Act created institutions to educate the sons and daughters of the people that were closer to people than to the bureaucracies in Washington.

	And rural electric cooperatives owned and operated by farmers may teach us important lessons about rebuilding our neglected urban neighborhoods.

	As president, I will seek innovations to meet the challenges of the 1970s--whether to cut property taxes, or to improve schools, or to achieve full employment through new and novel arrangements with the private sector.

	In short, we must make fresh starts on how government works--because government is not working today.

	My opponent uncritically clings to bloated bureaucracies, both civilian and military. And at the same time, he opposes vital advances because he says they would further enlarge the bureaucracy.

	I believe we must cut out the deadwood of government, decentralize our system, and in this way face up to the problems of the present and the possibilities of the future.

	So it is the presidency which must be renewed. And that is what I propose to do in the next four years.

	A president must ask the country to do what is right, not what is easy; to be concerned, not comfortable; to be compassionate, not complacent. Moral leadership does not tell people something they do not know; it asks them to look into their own hearts for the truth that is already there.

	For twenty-two months, I have traveled this land in quest of the presidency and in search of a vision for America.

	I have looked into the eyes of people from Maine to California. I have listened to them and tried to sense what is in their hearts.

	And this is what I have learned.

	The people want an open presidency, an open government, and open politics.

	They want to cherish this country, to take pride in what it does, to honor what it represents.

	They want a president who demands the best of us so we can glow with a new love for America--and America can lift a new light before the world.

	That is what I have seen among you.

	That is why I am confident that we will win, not only a victory in November, but a renewal of the presidency and a rebirth for our nation in the years ahead.

	Then our children and their children after them will love America--not merely because they were born here, but because of the great and good land that you and I together have made it.

	Thank you and God bless you.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--SEPARATION OF POWERSGOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES--WHITE HOUSE STAFFOPEN GOVERNMENTWAR POWERSWATERGATE     = = = = =
 = = = = {= y= y= n=	  	  	 i 	 I 	 " 	  	 	 e: