

	About a month ago, I signed a paper in which I formally accepted the nomination of the liberal party for the presidency.  Tonight, I am pleased to come before you personally to tell you how proud I am to have it.  I asked for your endorsement openly.  I accept it openly.

	If I appear to be making an issue of this, it is because New York state this year has witnessed the spectacle of a Republican candidate for president who lacks the courage either to accept or reject the endorsement of the conservative party.  He simply begged the conservatives to run a blank space for president so they could conduct a backdoor romance on election day.

	I felt no need for any such hanky-panky with the liberal party.  I am here to declare my affection in full public view and to join our names on the ballot in legal wedlock.  Frankly, I don't think I could leave you standing at the church door even if I wanted to.  Everyone knows we've been going steady for years.  

	This is not the kind of shotgun wedding that Strom Thurmond arranged between Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew.  Ours was love at first sight--from the fight over civil rights and recognition of the independent state of Israel in the forties, through the ugly darkness of the Joe McCarthy period in the fifties, and on through the struggles to handcuff the bomb and rebuild our cities and reconcile our people in the sixties.

	I have come here today to set before you my views on the issues of this campaign, on the conduct and the candidates of this campaign, and on what in my judgment it means to be a Liberal today, because you have a right to know what I will do if I am president, and so do all the American people.

	The greatest torment of our time is the war in Vietnam.  All three presidential candidates say they want peace.

	But my Republican opponent has remained silent on how to achieve it.  The other day he dropped a sly hint that he might be able to accept peace terms that the present Administration could not.  But he did not say what those terms might be.  What are they, Mr. Nixon?  I again challenge you to debate, to tell the people exactly what you would do about Vietnam if you were president--and to tell them now.

	You of the liberal party, and I have spelled out our views.  Your liberal party plank proposes a further peace initiative by the United States through a cessation of bombing in North Vietnam as "a prelude to productive negotiations. "May I pay my respects to your choice of words.  A "prelude" is the opening passage of a greater work--a greater work of peace in Southeast Asia.

	I have spelled out how I would stop the bombing as a step toward peace--a risk fully within our national interest--and I have laid down my proposals for a cease-fire, for de-Americanization of the war and for free elections in South Vietnam with all factions participating.  

	That's what I've said I'll do--and that's what I will do--if I am president.

	Second, beyond Vietnam lies the quest for peace and disarmament.  I believe the next four years may well determine whether or not the world can be saved from nuclear holocaust.  And I believe this is a cause for Liberals... who dare--not for conservatives, who don't.

	Nuclear war is almost beyond the human mind.  We have come to live with its threat as a nightmare, horrible, unwanted, but somehow unreal.  Terrible, yes... but what man, we ask, would unleash it?

	Then we hear General LeMay, a candidate for the vice presidency of the United States, console us with the remark that after only twenty years the rats are flourishing on Bikini Atol, and only the land crabs are still slightly "hot."  That could be the epitaph of Manhattan Island.

	Nuclear War can happen in our times, if we let it.  We can prevent it, if we will.  If I am president, America will take the lead in negotiating a halt to the nuclear arms race before it halts humanity.

	We have labored hard to write a nonproliferation treaty to stop nuclear weapons from spreading around the world.  That treaty is now before the Senate.  Richard Nixon has refused to help ratify it.  I call upon the Senate to ratify it--and to ratify it now--before the fateful tide in the affairs of men turns and leaves us stranded.

	I urge you to make your voices heard.  I urge you to act tonight to save mankind tomorrow.

	Third, American Liberals are today challenged to show Americans how to live together at peace, how to rule themselves by reason and compassion, not by fear and not by violence.

	On this issue the three candidates clearly do not agree.  George Corley Wallace simply does not want peace and reconciliation.  He generates division and disunity.  He tries to catch votes by playing on fear and hate.  And I say he is playing a dangerous game--a game that could tear this country to pieces.

	Richard Nixon cloaks that same appeal, but he invokes it.  And that, too, is a dangerous, and a tricky, game.

	I do not intend to preside over a nation that slams the door in the face of millions of men and women and children who dwell in misery in black Chicago and white Appalachia, in Spanish Harlem and Mexican California and Western Indian settlements.

	Neither do I intend to preside over a nation torn to pieces by violent extremists, be they black or white, left or right.  I believe that violence is intolerable but so is injustice.  I believe the remedy for violence is justice and not repression.  And I deeply believe that we must be one nation or none.  Violence is not the way of liberalism.  Violence is the way of the demagogue and the dictator--whether of the right or the left.  Violence is the method of intolerance--whether of the young rebel of the old reactionary.

	Never was the way of liberalism--of reason, debate, mutual respect--more needed than today.  The way of liberalism is not to deny manhood to the young, but to welcome them as a challenging and creative force.  It is not to deny bread to the poor, but to bring them into our affluent economy as productive and rewarded men and women.  It is not to deny freedom to the races, but to welcome them as equals into the family of man.

	Finally, the line is clearly drawn among the three candidates on a long list of other domestic issues--social security, education, housing, Medicare, economic growth, and prosperity.  George Corley Wallace has said little about these issues this year, but for twenty-five years he has opposed everything Liberals have fought for.  And so has Richard Milhous Nixon.  And you know it.  And you know too that you can trust the Democratic party on these issues--because its record on them goes back to Franklin D. Roosevelt.

	I will not belabor this audience with those issues--you know them too well.  Indeed, you invented most of them.

	Rather, I would talk with you a moment further about the conduct and the candidates in this campaign.  Some of you may share with me this year a feeling that we're watching a rerun of an old movie.   Remember when Joe McCarthy vilified Adlai Stevenson openly while Richard Nixon carried on a campaign of insinuation and innuendo?

	Well, this year George Corley Wallace is playing to Americans' darkest fears--and the same Richard Nixon is around again, saying one thing in the North and something else in the South.  He's muttering about social justice in the North but reading the crime news to Southern audiences.

	Mr. Nixon's pollsters and managers have convinced him that his $20 million dollar campaign will win the election if only he plays it safe, says nothing, dodges the hard issues, and sends secret messages to all the special interests. 

	He is taking the American people for granted.

	I say the American people cannot and should not be taken for granted.

	We are told by a respected columnist that Mr. Nixon has changed, that he can be counted on to make responsible appointments if he is elected president.

	Well, he has already made his first appointment--Spiro T. Agnew.

	In the last five years three great American leaders have been assassinated, and one of them was our president and another was running for president.  In the last fifty years one president out of three has not completed his term in office.

	The most important selection a president makes is the man he picks for his vice president.  For there is one chance in three that that man will become president.  

	Before the Republican Convention, Mr. Nixon talked about picking all sorts of responsible Republicans, such as Mayor John Lindsay.

	But when the chips were down, he yielded to Strom Thurmond and picked Spiro Agnew.

	During this campaign he can be counted on to suggest the names of other responsible men he will appoint to cabinet posts if he is elected president.

	But if he were president he would appoint the same kind of men that held him captive at the Convention--and there isn't a Liberal among them--and you know it.

	In a few short weeks Spiro Agnew has managed to insult Americans of Polish and Japanese descent and then to apologize--to call me "soft on communism" and then to apologize--to say that Nixon had a "plan" to end the war in Vietnam and then to explain there wasn't any such plan--now they clamped the lid on him.

	But who would stand guard if he were president?

	Listen to what Mr. Nixon said about Mr. Agnew  "I was deeply impressed by his tremendous brain power, great courage, and unprejudiced legal mind.  He has vigor, imagination, and above all he acts.  Under pressure he is one of the best poised and controlled."

	Now listen to what the Washington Post said of Mr. Agnew:  "Nixon's decision to name Agnew as his running mate may come to be regarded as perhaps the most eccentric political appointment since the Roman emperor Caligula named his horse a consul."

	And I say:  President Agnew, and President LeMay, it could happen, and so before we hear any more talk about the new Nixon's responsible appointments, let columnists carefully consider where President Agnew might lead us.

	In this campaign, I have never had to drag Ed Muskie kicking and screaming back into the mainstream of my own campaign--or into the twentieth century.  And, to borrow the language of Madison Avenue, no other presidential candidate can make that claim.

	You know Ed Muskie.  You know his liberal voting record in the Senate.  You have watched the maturity, the judgment, the wisdom, the candor and dignity with which he has conducted his campaign this fall.  And you know that if he should become your president, you could trust him with that great office.  And if the American people don't know it, I want you to go out and tell them. 

	Let's not kid ourselves.  We're in the fight of our lives this year, you and I.  But we've stood together before in a lot of battles that the faint of heart called hopeless.  And we stand together again.

	What sustains us, what leads us, is the liberal faith,  For we know that the heart of liberalism lies in an awareness of the difficulties of man's condition and the complexities of men's choices... in the tolerance of dissent and diverse opinions in the never-ending fight for free debate in the determination to create conditions to release human energies and promote human fulfillment in the willingness to try out new ideas, hold fast to old ideals, and defend against the demagogues the land we love.

	We know that free society can remain free even when confronting enemies abroad and torn by dissent at home.  We know that we can give men everywhere a glimpse of hope and peace even in our darkest hours.

	Never has a time put heavier burdens on liberalism.  In our foreign policy, I suggest, to be a Liberal today means at a minimum to work for peace in Vietnam and for sanity in nuclear policy.  At home, I suggest, to be a Liberal today means not only rejecting but actively resisting the extremism of both right and left, the extremism that threatens to tear this country to pieces.

	And in this campaign, I suggest, to be a liberal means not only to vote for but to work for candidates who appeal to reason and not to fear, for candidates you can trust. 

	We can win this election; we will win this election if we truly care what happens to this nation. 

	So let's get to work.
CIVIL DISORDERNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)VIETNAM WARLIBERALISMRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     0 0 0 0 0
 0 0 0 ~0 v0 t0 U0 J0	 p 	 b 	 3  (   e: