

	Ladies and gentlemen: At the end of the campaign, it is fitting that I should be introduced to you here, tonight, by Senator Lodge.  He was one of the very first seriously to suggest to me that I might undertake this great crusade upon which so many of us are now engaged.  If on occasion I have singled out Senator Lodge to say how much I will need his leadership in the Senate, it is because I consider him a man of courage and conviction, a vigorous opponent of the menace of Godless Communism, and because I have observed him in action on the field of battle.  Our crusade will really begin--not end--on Election Day.  For it to be fully effective, we need in Washington liberal and experienced members of Congress like Senator Lodge. I sincerely hope you will vote to return Senator Henry Cabot Lodge to the United States Senate.

	I want also to express my admiration for the fine ticket for state and Congressional offices which our party has selected here in Massachusetts.  My friend Chris Herter has broad experience and a warm concern for people which fit him to be a great governor of your great state.

	I stand before you, tonight, in the solemn knowledge that--by this hour of the morrow--you may have summoned me to serve as president of the United States.

	This knowledge would fill any man with awe and wonder.  It is truly sobering to a man who enlisted in your service as a youth more than forty years ago.

	In the passing of those decades, there came a time of trial when you
charged me to help guard the most precious possessions of our land. You entrusted to my care--on one great battlefront--the fate of our youth and the defense of our liberty.

	No longer a soldier, now in a role often strange and new, I yet come before you dedicated to precisely those same values:  the securing of our peace, our honor and our freedom.

	This is no ordinary election eve.  The common custom, I know, is to talk, this night, in the lusty language of a booming rally.

	I shall not talk that way tonight.

	I face this occasion--this moment--with the conviction that this is not just another election, not just another clash of political personalities or political parties.  This is a troubled and decisive moment in the history of man's long march from darkness toward light.

	I shall speak of the truth that--I believe--makes worthy nations strong and keeps brave peoples free.

	How fabulous these forty years have been!  How crowded is our memory of their great events.

	For free peoples everywhere, these have been years of both trial and triumph.  They have witnessed the birth of brave, free nations--and the enslavement of gallant, old nations.  They have been years of noble wisdom and cringing folly, years of amazing heroism and appalling treason.

	Has any other age proclaimed its lessons in such violent contrast, with such dramatic vividness?

	Again and again, we find that we need but a single word to evoke the sharp memory of great moments.  The host of anxious and challenging hours comes quickly to mind: Verdun, Mukden, Brenner Pass, Berchtesgaden, Munich, Danzig, Pearl Harbor.

	The heroic hours are summoned to mind with equal ease:  the Argonne, Wake Island, Alamein, Anzio, Okinawa, the Normandy beaches, the Remagen Bridge.

	Other hours of these forty years bring troubled, bewildering memories-- memories of our faltering and failings in the quest for peace and world understanding:  Versailles and its peace conference, London and its economic conference, Moscow, Yalta, Potsdam.

	All these words and their memories compel us to wonder:  Is our age cursed to live under some inexorable law that decrees--whatever soldiers win, statesmen must surrender?  Is there some wicked historical education demanding that whatever we gain in blood must be balanced by what we lose in ink?

	I was taught no such laws or precepts as a boy.  As a man, I have learned to accept no such black belief.

	The lessons I have learned--in these four decades of service--are of much different nature.  These forty years have taken me from a small white frame house in the little town of Abilene, Kansas. They have taken me to the bloody battlefield of war on the continents, to proud palaces of monarchs and prime ministers, to the humble homes of men and women who became my friends in distant
foreign lands.

	What have these years taught me?

	I shall tell you simply.  They have taught me the meaning of five words.  These words are: peace, evil, unity, faith, hope.

	I speak now, first, of peace.

	I have learned that peace is the dearest treasure in the sight of free men.  I have learned this the stern way: from the sight of war.

	I learned this truth from the sight--close, sometimes frightening, ever moving--the sight of the scars of war upon men and upon cities and upon whole nations.  I learned it from the charred bones that came out of the crematoriums of Dachau and Buchenwald. I learned it from the faces of worn and weary French peasants--weeping openly with joy and relief as our armies rolled past, driving the enemy from their soil.  I learned this truth from the horror of the life revealed to us by refugees fleeing enslaved nations of Eastern Europe--telling of heroic peoples crucified between the thieving forces of Nazism and Communism.

	Because I have learned that peace is the dearest treasure of free men, I have dedicated myself to one supreme cause: to strive to keep war from ever again wounding the bodies and scarring the spirit of America's youth.

	In pursuit of this cause, I have dared to offer my services in the highest office of our nation.  So noble a cause dictates a readiness to serve that knows no limits.

	Holding such a conviction, I fail to see anything remarkable in planning a visit to the angriest battle area of the world.

	If I am summoned to your service, I shall, despite the anguished wails of political partisans, go to Korea.

	Now and ever, mine is the credo of Jefferson:  "Peace is my passion."

	I speak, now, of evil--the organized evil challenging free men in their quest of peace.

	I have learned to know this evil well.  I know its voice and its face and its force.

	What I know I have not learned in academic seminars or diplomatic briefings.  I know this evil from those years when I shared in the heavy burden of decision in the free world's fight against the Nazi tyranny then threatening us all.  Day of battle after day of battle, night of worry upon night of worry, I--like many others--had to search out and to gauge the strengths and the weaknesses of an enemy profoundly like this enemy we face today.  Both these enemies have shown us the same guile--the same savagery--the same contempt for human life--the same detestation of human freedom--the same enslavement of the weak--the same driving lust to conquer the globe--the same hatred of man's divine mark as a creature made in the image of God.

	Both these enemies--so strikingly alike--have taught me one lesson.  It is this:  to vacillate, to hesitate, to plan aloud about "what it will be necessary to concede"--this is surely to feed the tyrants' fierce appetite for conquest.

	I know, too, another--a most neglected--truth about this evil. It is the truth that the enemy we face is above all, not a political nor a military enemy, but a moral enemy.  He is challenging not merely our security or our fortune--but our very definition of life itself.

	This fact--this alone--explains why our salvation demands much more than clever compromise or neat negotiation.

	You can pay the ransom for the body--but never of the soul.

	This evil that we face denies all dignity to man.  It defines him as an organic accident upon the earth's surface--a creature of the same forces that rust iron and ripen corn.  It robs him of spiritual meaning or spiritual destiny.

	This--repeat--is a moral menace that we face.  It is more than the sheer power of armies.  It is more than the mere product of poverty.

	The menace of Godless Communism does not stalk us merely as a new version of old Tsarist ambition.  It was no ghost of Peter the Great that pushed Jan Masaryk through a window to his death in Prague--or that broke the gallant heart of Cardinal Mindszenty.

	The final source of this menace is nothing so simple as material need.  Poverty must be fought by free men for its own evil--and that fight needs no other purpose.  In the United States, we must have a social program so effective that no doctrine of political desperation can ever take root.  But Communism does not breed in slums alone.  The most notorious Communist agents of our day were not standing in breadlines when they made their traitorous decision to serve the Soviet Union.  They came, all too often, from places free from the suffering, the hardships, and the injustices of life.

	We must, then, know this menace for what it is.  We must be ready for it in whatever arena it challenges us.  We must be armed with guns, but we must understand that the development of more powerful and more horrible weapons--necessary as they are in our kind of world today--will not, and cannot, of themselves, bring peace.  We must be armed also with international compacts and sound trade policies and firm currency.  But above all, we must be armed with
devotion to the morality of freedom.

	This morality speaks in those great words: unity and faith.

	Unity is a complex and exacting principle.  It dictates both many things we must cast away, and many things to which we must hold fast.

	This unity casts away all divisive propaganda and divisive prejudice.  It demands cleansing our hearts of even the faintest stains of prejudice or bigotry.  It refuses to exploit special slanted appeals to particular groups or blocs.

	This unity demands of all groups and classes a selfless dedication to the supreme good of all the people.  It demands a government firmly dedicated to guarding the well-being and the security of the least privileged.  It demands a people gladly accepting their responsibility in the community of nations--a responsibility which every nation must bear according to its resources.

	These are the values to which we must hold fast.

	And this unity, to endure, needs the life-giving fire of faith.

	What is this faith?

	To learn this faith, I did not have to be called to lead great armies in battle.  I had no need to cross the oceans or to visit the palaces and parliaments and peoples of other continents.

	This faith was placed in the hearts of all of us when we were young.  It has healed us in times of hurt, comforted us in times of danger, and humbled us in times of triumph.

	This is the faith teaching us all that we are children of God.  It teaches us the divine origin of each man's dignity.  It teaches us the sublime meaning of our brotherhood under His fatherhood.

	This faith teaches us that our ideals of democracy and freedom are much more than sentimental moods, much more than romantic notions. They are not tender inventions of poets.  They are eternal laws of the human spirit.

	If this be our faith, where, then, lies the hope of which I have spoken:  the hope that this faith, bravely held, can proudly prevail?

	This hope lies in the greatness and the genius of America.

	And where do they reside?

	They are to be found where they have ever been found.

	Many years ago, a wise philosopher came to this country seeking the answer to this same question: Wherein lie the greatness and genius of America?

	This was his answer:

	"I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her commodious harbors and her ample rivers--and it was not there."

	"I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her fertile fields and boundless forests--and it was not there.

	"I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her rich mines and her vast world commerce--and it was not there."

	"I sought for the greatness and genius of American her democratic Congress and her matchless Constitution--and it was not there."

	"Not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits flame with righteousness did I understand the secret of her genius and power."

	"America is great because America is good--and if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great."

	This, I do believe, is the truth that must guide us, must warn us, must hearten us.

	This is the truth that tells us freedom does not fight only along the line of the bloody 38th Parallel--but along the lines that everywhere, through all the world, divide good and evil, truth and falsehood, conscience and compromise.

	If we fight these battles nobly, we can ensure that no evil power on earth can prevail against us.  We can defend the freedom that has blessed us.  We can win the peace that has escaped us.

	This is my faith.  These are the lessons of my life.  These are the simple thoughts and precepts that govern my being and rule my purpose.

	If, then, your decision of the morrow is to summon me to serve, dedication to this unity, this faith, this I hope shall be my life.

	I shall live this life with a fervent prayer for God's direction and compassion, that I may humbly help our people to live in honor, in freedom, and in peace.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDEMOCRACYRELIGION AND PHILOSOPHYWORLD WAR IICOMMUNISMMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES     4 4 {4 w4 m4
 _4 Z4 U4 O4 B4 @4 )4 4	 l 	 K 	 B 	 +     e: