
	Thank you very, very much. I want to thank all of you who have come here, the people, the thousands who are behind us, and the people way back to the arch beyond, I hope you can hear what is going on.

	Thank you for being here.

	I want to thank your dynamic mayor for his support. I want to thank Al Shatler for the three-dollar bill. I wish I could take it with me all across America.

	It won't spend any better anywhere else than it will here, folks. I want to thank your brilliant governor, Roy Romer, who has been my friend and supporter.

	I want to thank some people who are not up here with us today, but I want to mention them. One was with me in California last night, your Senator Tim Wirth, one of my national co-chairs. I want to thank him.

	And I want to thank Polly Bacca and Dick Bond, who were my co-chairs in the primary here in the tough going, and I want to thank your former mayor, Federico Pea, who is helping me also with our campaign among Latino voters throughout the United States.

	Ladies and gentlemen, you are here today because you know how much is at stake in this election. We must go beyond the failed policies of the last four years and the last twelve years.

	Four years ago George Bush said we would be better off today than we would when he was elected. Average annual income in Colorado is down by over $2,000. The number of families in poverty is up by 200,000. The number of children in poverty has increased by 60 percent. Hospital costs have increased by 152 percent. And high school graduates are down.

	Are you better off than you were four years ago?

	This President promised us 15 million new jobs. He is over 14 million short. And get this, this administration, which hates the government, has actually presided over a period when there has been a decline in employment in the private sector, and now for the first time in American history, there are more people going to work in government offices every day than in factories throughout the United States.

	For more than ten years, most Americans, literally two-thirds of our people, have worked harder for less money. We have gone from first to thirteenth in the world in wages. We have quadrupled the national deficit, and at the same time, unbelievably, somehow managed to reduce the amount of money we are investing in education and infrastructure and economic growth and high technology in research and development.

	No one else could have figured out how to do that, but trickle-down brought it to us. The president says that there are great differences between him and me, and boy is he right about that.

	He said, read my lips, four years ago, and signed the second biggest tax increase in history.

	Then he said, read my lips again, a couple of weeks ago. And just a couple of hours later his press secretary said, that's not a commitment. After 800 days without an economic plan, as President of the United States, he offers one--which was nothing more than a warmed-over version of trickle-down economics.

	And in this week's Time magazine--listen to this--in this week's Time magazine, an administration official is quoted anonymously as saying, well, it doesn't matter what's in our plan because he doesn't plan to follow through on it anyway.

	That's what they say about their own plan. My fellow Americans, we are better than that, and we can do better than that, and with your help, we will do better than that.

	I have done my best for nearly a year now to offer the American people a new approach, one that goes beyond trickle-down economics without going back to tax-and-spend economics; one that says we have to invest in our people and their jobs and their education and their health care.

	We have to cooperate--government, business, labor, and education--we have to compete, so that we can win in the world economy. Let's do what works, for a change, and abandon what has plainly failed.

	I want to have an investment program for this country which, yes, asks the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans to pay a little more in taxes, but uses that money to say, if you want to get it back, you can get it back, but no more across-the-board tax cuts. You can get it back if you'll invest in American factories and in starting small businesses and in putting the American people back to work, a real investment plan for the United States of America.

	I want a new partnership between government and business and labor in this country, to develop the best ideas we have and turn them into jobs here in America. That is why--that is why, two days ago, in northern California and San Jose, twenty-one--twenty-one--chief executives of high technology companies, two-thirds of them Republican, in an unprecedented break with party, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket, because we have a technology policy for the twenty-first century.

	That is what we ought to do with those defense cuts--put the American people back to work.

	Their energy policy puts our country at risk. Their energy policy is cheap oil and nuclear power and hope nothing bad happens. We have a different idea. We believe we ought to have a new energy policy that will improve the environment, increase employment, and make America more secure.

	Our energy policy is, use more natural gas, use more renewable resources, use more alternative fuels, and get the same levels of energy conservation that our competitors do.

	You have the National Renewable Energy Lab here, in Golden, Colorado. It has been allowed to die on the vine under Reagan and Bush. It will flourish like a flower in the desert under Clinton and Gore.

	Their idea of cutting the $400 billion deficit is to give a $100,000 tax cut to millionaires and $50 to the middle class and make it up by charging older people on Medicare $400 more a year, and charging three million students $2,000 more for their student loans, and kicking a million people off their disability benefits.

	My idea for the deficit is to cut inessential spending, reduce by attrition federal employment by 100,000 and give it to the cities to put 100,000 police officers on the streets in the next five years.

	Bring health care costs in line with inflation by finally becoming the last advanced nation in the world to control health costs and provide basic health care to all Americans. We must do it.

	Their idea of education reform is to get off the hook as quickly as possible. So they say, well, the only thing we have to do is just to let people take their tax dollars to private schools. Now wait a minute, let me say, I went to a private university. I went to a Catholic school for two years when I was in grade school. I think they have an important role in our society.

	But their approach assumes that the public schools can't be fixed; that the private schools are perfect; and that there's nothing wrong with taking limited public dollars and putting them into private schools.

	Now, let me ask you to consider this. Governor Romer and I have been working on this for years. We have been all across this country. I went to a school in the city of Chicago with the highest murder rate in Illinois in the neighborhood, a junior high school where there was a dress code where the kids had to ask to get in; where there were 75 fathers volunteering in the school every week, 150 mothers; where the dropout rate was nonexistent; there were no drugs, no weapons, no violence, and the school was in the top ten in the state in test scores every year.

	Our schools can be fixed. That's the first thing. They can be better. The second thing I want to tell you is, we already spend a smaller percentage of our income in kindergarten-through-twelfth-grade education than nine or ten other industrialized countries. We do not need to divert limited resources from that.

	What we need to do is to make a commitment to real excellence, and to real reform, and to roll up our sleeves and do the hard work. As president, I will not lecture the rest of the American people. I will join the battle to give you a real education presidency, and lift the education standards of this country.

	What does that mean? Among other things it means this. It means every young person who does not go on to a four-year college should have access, at least, to two years of apprenticeship training so they can get good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

	It means every adult in the work force should be given the opportunity to learn to read in the next five years, and then the opportunity for lifetime, permanent retraining so they don't have declining earnings year-in and year-out, but they are lifted up.

	It means we should open the doors of college education to all Americans without regard to their income.

	Consider this: what if we had, instead of the present student loan program, a national service trust, and any American could borrow the money for a college education, and pay it back, either as a percentage of their income after they go to work, or even better, by rebuilding America here at home, by working for two years, as teachers, police officers, in housing programs, with the elderly, with people with disabilities, with the children.

	We could solve the problems of America with the brightest and best of our people, and educate a whole new generation of America. That would be the best money we ever spent. If you give Al Gore and Bill Clinton a chance, we'll give you that kind of national trust program.

	They say that they are for responsibility, empowerment, and family values. That's what they say. Well, their idea of that was to stage a Republican convention in which one of their speakers called for a religious war; another one said that those of us who disagree with them are not real Americans; they adopted a platform calling for a constitutional amendment to ban all abortions, while the President and the Vice President and the First Lady were giving interviews saying they wanted choice for their families and a constitutional ban for everybody else.

	Let me tell you what--and the President vetoed the family leave bill after saying he'd give family leave, and he's about to veto it again.

	Now, let me tell you what my idea is. I believe in personal responsibility, empowerment, and family values. And here's my agenda.

	First of all, let's join the ranks of the seventy-two countries in the world that give working people a little time off when there's a baby born or a sick parent. Let's have the family leave bill.

	You know, I can't understand it. I can't understand it when Mr. Bush says that we're not as smart as the Germans or the Japanese or all the European countries or all the other advanced countries. We just can't figure out how to control health costs and provide health care for everybody. I don't agree with that.

	He says we can't even do what seventy-two other countries do and provide family leave. I think we're better than that. I think we can, and we will, if you will give us the chance to serve.

	If we value work, empowerment, and family values, and personal responsibility, let's change the welfare system. Let's make it a second chance, not a way of life.

	Let's invest more in education and child support and medical coverage for children, and then require people to take jobs and give them public-service employment if the jobs aren't available. Let's make independence and support for families compatible; instead of just throwing rocks at people who are poor, let's lift them up and make them independent. We can do that.

	Let's have a tougher national child support system so you can't cross the state line and get out of supporting your children. That would support family values.

	And let us recognize that a lot of young people who get in trouble today get in trouble because they didn't have the kind of family support they needed, and didn't have the community support they needed. And before we send them off to prison when they get in trouble, or just ignore them, let's let the first-time nonviolent offenders do their time in community-based settings where they can get discipline and education and treatment and do community service work.

	That would reflect family values. And it would make our society safer and stronger.

	Let's recognize, in short, my fellow Americans, that we can be pro-growth and pro-environment; we can be pro-business and pro-labor; we can make government work again by making it more aggressive and leaner and more effective at the same time. And we can be pro-family and pro-choice.

	Let's bring this country together again.

	I have always thought of Colorado as being a state for the future. I have always thought that Colorado was a state of people who were clear-headed, who wanted us to face our problems and not deny them.

	How long can we go on denying that most people are working harder for less?

	How long can we go on denying that our health care system is fundamentally broken? It's great for those who can access it, but we waste phenomenal amounts of money.

	How long can we go on with a president who doesn't even want to talk about problems like homelessness and dysfunctional families and the AIDS epidemic, which has now infected over 1 million Americans with the HIV virus.

	How long can we go on--how long can we go on pretending--pretending--that we are competitive in areas where we are not? I'm telling you, the reason those high-tech companies endorsed Bill Clinton and Al Gore is not that they agree with me on everything. I don't have all the answers. They just want someone who will get up every day and go to work and pay attention to the problems, seize the opportunity, and move this country forward again. And that is a commitment that I make to you.

	If you think of Colorado as a place of the future, if you want to preserve all of the beauty that brought you here, many of you from other states, many of you from my home state, if you want a place where people will be rewarded for their efforts, and where every man and woman, every boy and girl, can live up to the fullest of their God-given potential, then I ask you to join in this crusade to change this country.

	We've got forty-seven days to wage a battle between hope and fear, between new ideas and things that have failed, between the courage to seize the future, and the proven, comfortable, but wrong path we're on now.

	You have so many gifted leaders that your state has produced. I hope by the way you will add to their number in the Senate by sending Ben Nighthorse Campbell.

	But I ask you to commit yourself to forty-seven days of effort to claim your country's legacy; to hold up a future that will open up brightly before all of you.

	I look out on this crowd, and I see at least half of you are quite a bit younger than I am. You've got more of our future facing you than I do. You have everything on the line in this election.

	You cannot permit yourself to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents because we did not have the courage to face the challenges of our lifetimes.

	Stay with us, work with us, lift this country up. And we'll win a great victory on November 3rd.

	Thank you, and God bless you all.

CHILDRENECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION--SOCIAL PROBLEMSEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESFAMILIESFAMILY LEAVE POLICYTAXATION--GENERALWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     < < < < <
 v< q< l< f< ^< \< R<	  	  	  	  	  	 V 	 ? 	 7 	 $ 	  e: