

	[Missing text] It is a great emotional burden to put on a young man who has risked his life, and in some cases may have lost an arm or a leg or been injured in some way or other. We should lean over backwards to be understanding and considerate of these young GIs coming back from Vietnam. I want to say, as one who has criticized our involvement in this war for ten years, I am going to lean over backwards to see that the GIs who participated in that war are treated much better than they have been treated so far by this government.

	Q: Senator, as you probably know, I believe it was Sargent Shriver about four years ago received one of the highest awards of the AFL-CIO in Washington. He received the Murray-Green award for his work in mental retardation, presented to him by George Meany. Do you think that having Sargent Shriver on the ticket will encourage labor's support?

	A: I hope so. I would like to have President Meany's support. I don't want a feud with President Meany or with any other labor leader. I didn't invite the difficulty we are in now and I am very hopeful that Sargent Shriver's position on the ticket and also the glowing recognition on the part of the labor people of this country that Richard Nixon is really a disastrous choice, that the combination will give us the overwhelming support of the laboring people of this country. I really don't understand how any working man or woman interested in their own welfare can support Richard Nixon. Here is a man who has added two million people to the unemployment rolls; I think probably four million have gone on welfare under the Nixon administration that were not there when he came into office.

	They talk about me dividing the country between workers and welfare recipients. That is what Nixon has done. I want to reduce the welfare rolls by putting people back to work. But you have to do more than preach sermons about the work ethic. You have to take steps to provide the jobs. Nixon has reduced the value of the dollar to 85 cents. The same dollar that was worth 100 cents three and a half years ago, and that means that you have to work 15 percent harder to compete in international markets than we did three and a half years ago, and this supposed fiscal conservative--remember how they condemned the Democrats for the deficit?--has rung up a $40 billion federal deficit last year and there is going to be a cumulative deficit of over $100 billion during his first four years in office. That is also his last four years in office, incidentally. If there is anybody here who can tell me any logic in a working person supporting Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew in 1972 in preference to Sargent Shriver and George McGovern, I would like to know what that explanation is.

	Q: Senator, I understand that Illinois this year is going to be one of the key states in the election, and we do have a true friend of labor up in Chicago by the name of Mayor Richard Daley.

	A: Right.

	Q: I understand that you have a meeting with him tomorrow, and do you think that you can make your peace with him so that we can come up with that victory you are talking about?

	A: Basically there is no problem between Mayor Daley and me. He is not going to be here tomorrow because of some personal difficulty that developed in his family, but he called me in Lordstown, Ohio today to tell me that he was 100 percent behind the McGovern-Shriver ticket and that he wanted me to come to his office and visit with him when I was in Chicago a week from tomorrow. I am coming back to Illinois a week from tomorrow to talk to the National Convention of the American Legion, and at that time I am going to meet with the mayor, but he will be unable to be with us here in Springfield tomorrow. But there is no doubt that we will be working together for a Democratic victory in this state from here on out.

	Q: Senator, in the September issue of Atlantic, Elizabeth Drew mentioned the fact that the people in the $12,000 bracket do not have tax equality--could you comment on that?

	A: The present tax laws and tax code does discriminate against the middle-income person. I don't think that there is any doubt about it. That is where the load has been shifted over the years as more and more loopholes have been added to the benefit of those at the top of the income scale. Now the very poor who pay little or no tax of course are left out of the tax responsibility, but what is objectionable to me is the fact that nearly 40 percent--I think that 38 percent of the corporations in this country in 1971--paid no federal income taxes at all. I can cite actual cases of individuals who had incomes in excess of $1 million a year who paid less than a 5 percent rate.

	Now a working man and woman are taxed 14 percent on the first $1,000 they make and it goes up from there on out, but because of all these concessions that have been written into the tax code, it is a fact that the high-income people in this country are not paying their fair share of the load, and the man that gets hit the hardest is the taxpayer in the bracket between $8,000 and $20,000. That is where the tax bite is most severe. I might tell you, if it is any consolation to you, that I paid one-third of my income in federal taxes last year. I don't object to that. I don't think it was unfair, but I paid one-third of what I earned in the Senate in income taxes, and this included speaking fees and other things last year. But I know many people who earned 15 or 20 times what I earned who didn't pay as much taxes as I did. It isn't my tax I object to--it is the tax that they are not paying, and that means that when these high-income corporations and individuals get by and go through the loopholes, your taxes have to be higher as a consequence. Now what I am proposing, and we are going to have a detailed tax plan before the end of this month, is that we close off enough of the loopholes so that we don't discourage business expansion, but close off enough of the loopholes in the tax laws so that the high-income earners in this country and the high-income individuals begin paying their fair share of the load--and I think that when that happens, everybody is going to be happier about his own part of the tax burden. It might even permit some property tax reduction through federal revenue-sharing if we can close some of these loopholes at the time.

	Q: Senator, I am international vice president of the American Federation of Government Employees, and when the war ends, there will be about 250,000 federal workers because there won't be any need for them. How would you treat them?

	A: Well, I think it is not only those employees who are dependent on war activities for employment but many thousands of others, such as defense workers and defense suppliers. The war in one way or another probably affects the jobs of many people other than those directly in government employment. So that makes it necessary in all probability to map out a range of public investment that will put people back to work. 

	I suggested an immediate federal investment of $10 billion in job-creating enterprises. I don't mean public service employment entirely--although part of it would be public service employment. We do need more people working on the crime problem. We do need more in child development centers. We need more people working on the drug problem. More working on the protection of our environment, in recreational services, in city services of all kinds. I saw a statement in the press a year ago in which Mayor Daley said that if they had the budget to do it, the city of Chicago alone needs 80,000 more public service employees. But he said it was going to take some revenue-sharing or federal support to make that possible. So there is plenty of public service employment opportunities if we begun diverting funds to this purpose.
BUDGET DEFICITECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANENDORSEMENTS--POLITICAL LEADERSGOVERNMENT EMPLOYEESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALTAX REFORM         
    } u s X N	  	 r 	 U 	 6 	 " 	 
 e: