
	Coming here today to this park that bears his name, I am reminded that a great general was born here--Douglas MacArthur.

	And I am reminded too, that from this platform just four years ago another great general spoke here--Dwight Eisenhower.

	The address delivered on that September day in 1952 has, I think, some historic importance. The two generals had joined in political combat at Chicago only a few weeks before. General Eisenhower had emerged in triumph. It was generally assumed that the Old Guard had at last been routed, and General Eisenhower came here in the flush of that famous victory--the first Republican candidate in history to undertake an invasion of Democratic Arkansas.

	Well, as I have reason to gratefully remember, his visit to Little Rock was not a success. You heard him out, and then gave me your voice. I am here today to thank you--and to remind you that you will have another chance in November.

	It is pertinent, however, to recall today what General Eisenhower said four years ago--and perhaps even more to the point to recall what he did not say.

	Here in Arkansas he did not dwell upon the history of the Republican party, which had given him its nomination, nor upon his party's record during its years of power--thus demonstrating that even a general recognizes discretion as the better part of valor.

	On that fine, fall day in 1952, Mr. Eisenhower invited the people of Arkansas to join what he called his Great Crusade. But he gave no clear idea where it was headed. The record of that day's remarks is full of resounding generalities. But in it I can find only one specific pledge. The general promised "a government that will report to the American people on...[the President's] stewardship in the face of any kind of wickedness existing in the government."

	Yet when the Secretary of the Air Force, Mr. Talbott, was found using the influence of his high office to promote his private interests, this conspicuous lapse in the stewardship of the Eisenhower Administration was reported to the people by the press, not the President. And when it become necessary to usher Mr. Talbott out of office, he was decorated for his services!

	This is only one example of departure from that "hound's tooth" morality of which the Republican candidate talked so much four years ago. There are others. But, taking them all together, I suggest that they do not make up the most serious indictment of this administration. This lies in another direction. As we look back now across those last four years, the issues which have emerged most clearly are not honesty, but rather, a lack of candor and a lack of vision.

	And yet it is not of the administration's failure to tell us about the realities of the world in which we live, it is not of the hucksters' merchandising of complacency, it is not of telling us that all is well when it isn't, it is not of empty, threadbare slogans like "Peace, Prosperity and Progress" that I want to speak so much just now.

	A distinguished historian wrote the other day: "The failure of the Eisenhower administration is due much less to outbreaking wickedness than to a curious detachment from reality."

	Woodrow Wilson put it this way: he said that the Republicans who dominated the government at that time "believed that the only people who could understand government, and therefore the only people who were qualified to conduct it, were the men who had the biggest financial stake in the commercial and industrial enterprises of the country." Wilson went on to say: "The government of the United States at present is a foster child of the special interests." Woodrow Wilson's words are as applicable today as they were in 1913. The memos have changed since his day. The special interests they represent have not.

	Indeed, a major concern of all Americans is whether the government of this nation is to be dominated by a single interest, whether its first concern is to be for the captains of industry or for the privates in democracy's ranks. This was the major concern of thoughtful observers the last time the Republicans were in office in the boom-and-bust period of Coolidge and Hoover.

	This issue is being brought into even sharper focus today as Vice President Nixon goes forth to preach the Republican gospel as Mr. Eisenhower's spokesman. For Mr. Nixon speaks for that branch of the Republican party which the country rejected for twenty years.

	Four years ago, the voters could reasonably believe that Mr. Eisenhower's personal crusade would alter traditional Republican policies and, indeed, remake the Republican party in his own image. Today, the record makes it clear that this has not been done--and circumstances make it certain that it will not be done in the four years ahead.

	It was not, as some sought to suggest, the habit of the past that sustained your faith in the Democratic party in 1952. It was rather your vision of the future. It is true that Southerners have long memories, and many bitter things to remember. But it is also true that the South is caught up today in a rushing pattern of change that makes this in many ways the most exciting and the most promising region in our country.

	It has been more than fifty years since Henry Grady proclaimed his vision of a New South--a South in which industry would come into balance with agriculture, and the region would no longer exist as a conquered province to be exploited by outside capital. Today, all around us, we see Grady's dream beginning to come true. The shackles of a one-crop economy are broken now.

	But there remains much to be done before the South can take its rightful place alongside more favored regions of our country.

	I know that measures aimed at industrial development of the state lie at the very heart of Governor Faubus's program for Arkansas. But I say that this is also a matter of proper, yes, urgent concern for all Americans; and that the federal government--the agency of our national welfare--must play its appointed role in this development.

	The Arkansas River flows through the last great undeveloped river basin in the United States. Its potential for navigation and hydroelectric power are beyond realization by private enterprise or by the several states along its course. Comprehensive plans for the development of the state's three great river systems--the Arkansas, the White, and the Red--have been on the books of the Engineers since the early twenties, and their practicality has been demonstrated by the start that was made in the years after World War II.

	When the Democrats were in power, the conservation and development of our natural resources was treated as a matter of current boards, if they survived at all. The projects that have been built are monuments to the hard and persistent work of your representatives in Congress, of men like John McClellan and Bill Fulbright and the members of your House delegation. But they have succeeded only when the climate was right--that is, when your senators and congressmen had the sympathetic support of a Democratic administration instead of determined Republican opposition.

	And let it be noted that President Eisenhower has followed his predecessors. His administration has opposed the Arkansas River projects; and the appropriation to take the Dardanello Dam beyond the planning stage was obtained only because a Democratic Congress overrode his recommendations.

	This is what I mean by lack of vision. They just don't see that today's investment in the development of this river valley would pay off tomorrow. This government must be returned to hands of those who can see, in the increased economic well-being of Arkansas, the creating of great new productive facilities and great new markets for the nation as a whole.

	The new South needs more than resource development. The region's economic health also requires federal policies that create a climate in which new industries can flourish. One basic requirement is adequate protection against the tendency of old, established corporations to kill off new competition. But the small businessman commands little sympathy is this Republican big business administration. Neither, unfortunately, does the farmer. And the result of this lack of representation is written in the records of your own commodity markets. When General Eisenhower spoke here four years ago, cotton was much higher; your cattle were worth $10 a hundred more. And I am told the average price of a milk cow is down from $254 in 1952 to $135 in 1956. When the general invited you to join his crusade, your new broiler industry was thriving. Today, prices are well below the break-even point.

	That's the record--and I say it deserves something more concrete than President Eisenhower's statement in Iowa last week: "Golly, we're doing all we can for the farmers."

	It is, I say, a responsibility of the federal government to create a climate in which every region of the nation may flourish--to work in partnership with the states in the pursuit of the common goal. This is not a passive role, it is an active one, for change is the order of the day for the New South and for the New America. Change has brought great opportunities, and it will bring more. Yes, and change also brings grave problems, and these too are the concern of the national community, acting through the national government.

	There is today a critical division of national opinion regarding recognition of the common rights of American citizens of different racial origins. This division is reflected in the Democratic party--necessarily reflected because, unlike our opposition, ours is a national party, which has its roots in every section of the country.

	I find reason for great encouragement in the fact that the Democratic party has risen above this division. Here is the promise, the assurance that the nation too will rise above this division. The Supreme Court of the United States has determined unanimously that the Constitution does not permit segregation in the schools. As you know, for I have made my position clear on this from the start, I believe that decision to be right. Some of you feel strongly to the contrary. But what is most important is that we agree that once the Supreme Court has decided this constitutional question, we accept that decision as law-abiding citizens.

	Our common goal is the orderly accomplishment of the result decreed by the Court. I said long ago and I stand now squarely on the plain statement, adopted in the Democratic platform, that "we reject all proposals for the use of force to interfere with the orderly determination of these matters by the Court." The Court's decree provides for the ways and means of putting into effect the principle it sets forth. I am confident that this decision will be carried out in the manner prescribed by the courts. I have repeatedly expressed the belief, however, that the office of the presidency should be used to bring together those of opposing views in this matter--to the end of creating a climate for peaceful acceptance of this decision.

	Sometimes it is comforting in times of stress to look around us and measure where we are against where we have been. To do that in the South today is to see heartening signs of progress on all fronts. There is reason to take great pride in what has been done, and reason for great hope for the future that stretches immediately ahead.

	And you have reason, I am confident, to anticipate having once again in Washington an administration that represents the South--men and women in the executive branch who fully understand this region's special problems and are determined that they shall be resolved. That, by definition, is a Democratic administration.

	I have taken my text today from Woodrow Wilson, and I should like, in closing, to turn again to that great Virginian. Here are the words he used over forty years ago, to describe the Republican administrations that preceded his: "The idea of the presidents we have recently had has been that they were presidents of a National Board of Trustees. That is not my idea. I want to be president of the people of the United States."

	Well, it's not my idea, either. I, too, ask to be president of the people of the United States because I think, I know, that it is imperative that we return this government to those who live under it.
AFRICAN AMERICANSAGRICULTURE--GENERALBROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONCIVIL RIGHTSEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSREGIONALISM--SOUTHSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWATER RESOURCES     1 1 1 1 1
 1 1 }1 r1 j1 h1 h1 ^1	  	  	  	  	  	  	 j 	 M 	 8 	 & 	  e: