

	My very good friends--and I am sure you will allow me to call you my very good friends because otherwise you would not turn out here at this hour of the evening to give me a chance to bring you a word of greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts that are on my mind as we enter these last few crucial days of this political campaign.

	Now, let us take a hasty review of what has happened in the past few months.  You remember, as this campaign started, we were promised in very splendidly flowing language that we would have a campaign from the opposition that was going to educate and elevate the American people.  Now, that was a very noble motive and all of us welcomed it with great pleasure, because if we were going to have a political contest that for once would be kept right down to the record and that would deal with the problems of the day in a logical and educational manner so the people could make up their minds calmly and logically and then cast their secret vote, that looked like a wonderful prospect.

	But what happened?  The opposition suddenly discovered if they were going to educate the people, the textbook they would have to use would be the record of the past seven years.  As a matter of fact, the drum major of the whole works said, "Yes, of course, this candidate must run on the record."  So we began to look over the record, and so did they.

	The first thing they found was:  What is the record in progress toward peace?  Now, in the seven years, it is a rather sorry sort of record.  I suppose it is best summed up in these words, and in this fact:  That over the past seven years, free governments, free nations, have lost human souls to the Communists at the rate of one-hundred million per year.  That includes, of course, our ancient friend China, all of eastern Europe.  And then on top of all that kind of disaster, we find ourselves in war in Korea.  They have spent more money at home not only than any other government in history, but as a matter of fact, in the seven years, our total expenditures have equaled our prior expenditures during the duration of the country.

	They have also spent beyond our capacity to pay, and that has cheapened your money.  It has made your money so cheap that at this moment, if you go over to the grocery store to buy a package of groceries, what you paid ten dollars for in 1939 you now pay twenty-four dollars and fifty cents.

	They have had subversion and disloyalty in government, and they have said, "Oh, these are not red agents; these are Red Herrings."  They have had dishonesty in government; and we thought at least when the political campaign started, they would be rather cautious about this.  But what did your morning paper show?  That the biggest five-percent deal of all time is in the papers.  A man stood to make several hundred thousand dollars on a nine-million-dollar deal.  Not bad goings for them.

	You know when they say, "You never had it so good," I wonder sometimes whether they are not talking about the pinks and dishonest people in government.  They are the ones who never had it so good.  Now, they have gotten into this place of power by using a whole list of worn-out political promises they never intended to keep.  They have promised heaven and they haven't delivered it.  Most of those old, shopworn promises they never intended to keep.  They just put them back on the dusty shelves and let them lie there.

	Now they have gotten to the point where they don't even try to make promises.  What do they say about the Korean War?  Well, the Korean War came.  There it is.  We just have to endure it.  What do they say about this cheap money, this inflation?  They say, well, there is not much to do about it because the Kremlin dictates our budget, not 155 million free-born American citizens.  What does the Kremlin who dictates our budget say about all these difficult problems?  My honorable opponent says Communism is not too important in government.  And then they excuse crookedness by saying there are always some crooks around.  There may be some crooks around, but honest men try to search them out and put them in jail.  They haven't even tried to do that.

	My friends, when someone comes along as I did and acknowledges that the Korean War is a tough proposition with all sorts of difficulties in the way of a successful solution and proposes, as I did, that might lead to the saving of at least some American lives--might lead to keep out of some American homes the terrible grief of getting one of those telegrams saying, "We regret to report that your son fell in action"--then they call that grandstanding.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, there are among you here a great many of my old comrades in arms--people who served with me in different continents--people who are at least experienced in the ways of war.  Those veterans know that they trust the command when some big brass hat or some VIP comes down to see how they live, how they fight, and what are the conditions of their grub and their quarters and their tents.  Have they got enough ammunition?  Is it cold?  Have they got winter clothing?  If the bosses come down and find out how those men are fighting and living and working, then they say, "We trust that kind of a command."

	So I propose to go over to Korea and see how our lads are doing and whether the Koreans can't do some of the fighting.  One of the big reasons for doing this, my friends, is because the Koreans themselves say, "We want to man those front lines."  In fact, their ambassador said in a speech in this country, "Give us guns; save your sons."  They are a proud people.  They covet the honor of defending their own front lines, as we would if someone was trying to attack this sacred soil of ours.

	But we said we couldn't go any faster.  Bosh!  I read a letter last night on a television show form General Van Fleet.  A lot of soldiers know him here.  He went into war as a colonel leading an assault regiment into France.  Eleven months later, he was commanding a corps because he was a doughboy's fighting general.  Then we sent him to Greece, and there he armed and lead and taught those people until they could repel the Communist invaders from Bulgaria and Yugoslavia, and they drove them back.  Because of his experience, we sent him to Korea.  He said in that letter that we could do this much faster if we had stronger and better support.  These people can fight like fury if we give them a chance to train and if we organize and equip them.

	I agree that the self-respect of freedom is involved in this war.  I agree that this is a great collective people who believe in collective security, and they have got to stand together.  But when the natives of a particular land say, "We want to defend our front lines," why shouldn't we help them?  That is what I propose to find out.  Why can't we help them more?  So I am called a grandstander.  Ladies and gentlemen, if that is grandstanding, I will be one.

	The purpose of my associates and I in this great campaign--there are millions of us and we are on the march and growing every day--is to substitute good leadership in Washington for the kind of fumbling, stumbling and failing government that you have had.

	I want to point this out, my friends:  government is men and women--that is what it is.  It is men and women filling particular posts down in Washington that are laid out by our Constitution and our laws so that those people may best serve the interests of 155 million people.  That is all it is.  Therefore, what we have to do is to get the best men and women down in Washington.  Then, we will have good government.  We want the people out of this crowd that all of you agree are people of prestige, whose character and standing in this community are your proof that there will not be any tax stealing in Washington.  They will be your guarantee that there will be no luxury, no extravagance, no waste in purchasing--that your tax money will be treated with frugality and there will be generosity only in the outpouring of efforts to serve the American people.  There is where generosity will come, in the way that leaders in government give themselves to the service of 155 million people.  When it comes to the tax money and the material interests of our country, they will be frugal.

	Ladies and gentlemen, all of these people of whom I am speaking--that we intend to concentrate on mobilizing for your service in Washington--are humble men and women.  They know they are not perfect, but they are God-fearing and dedicated men and women.  You send them there and I pledge you this:  You will have honest, intelligent and tireless efforts to bring peace in the world and to find the swiftest possible resolution of this terrible Korean situation.  You will find a determination to eliminate useless expenditure in government, and so eventually to cut down those costs to the point where your taxes can come down.

	When that can happen, then your dollar will continue to be worth a dollar, instead of going down and down through the hole of inflation that they cut in your pocket.  That is what this campaign is about.

	Ladies and gentlemen, within three or four days now, you are going into that secret polling place.  There is just one thing for you to vote: your conscience and your own understanding of those problems and of the kind of people you want in government.  I have no other plea to make, no other pledge to make except that the men and women I am talking about will really want to work with and for people, and not just work people.

	Now, my friends, this meeting culminates a long and splendid day in this great metropolitan center.  I have been through miles of streets and I have been in some places where they said, "You shouldn't go there, it is foolish.  You can't get a corporal's guard out to see you."  I have been greeted as Americans greet another of their kind who is just trying to be an honest, simple sort of citizen, and that is all.

	Now, on this trip, my Mamie could not come along because they have had her working today.  She asked me, though, to present her greetings to everybody I met and had a chance to speak to and to extend her regrets that she could not be present.  For the honor of your presence, here, I thank every single one of you sincerely, and I hope I will see you again. 
COMMUNISMFOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSKOREAN WAR     |) H) B) >) 4)
 &) !) ) ) ) 
) ( (	 T 	 K 	 ' 	 
 e: