

	Thank you. Thank you very, very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to be back in Iowa again. When I say things like, George Bush, squeal like a pig under a gate, people know what I'm talking about here. When I say I'm happier than a hog in slop, nobody thinks I'm being crude.

	And when I tell you I'm going to give you your country back, I hope you can believe me.

	You know, I always love coming to Iowa, I always have. I'm proud to be here with the kind of people that you put up and the kind of people you're going to elect. I'm going to have to ask you, please, please elect Elaine Baxter and Jean Lloyd Jones. We need them in Congress and we've got a lot of work to do.

	You know, I kind of like Jean's speeches. If I were Grassley, I'd be careful what bills I introduced from now on.

	You want to know the saddest thing about--I mean, I'm going to give her her next line for that speech. She said Charles Grassley introduced four different times a bill to declare a day to remind us about osteoporosis, and he did it in four different years. You know what the really sad thing is? George Bush vetoed a bill this year to do something about osteoporosis, and that's the difference. They talk about it, but they never do anything about it. You name it, whatever it is.

	They're out there making these arguments this year that we just ought to vote for him because what he says sounds right. Reminds me about that sign on the old country road: George Jones, veterinarian, taxidermist. Either way, you get your dog back.

	They really don't know the difference, but we do.

	I tell you what. I love these signs out here. There's a sign out there that says, Real Men Eat Broccoli. Hillary's a Babe. I like that one. I'm Not Tired and I'm Not Lazy, I'm Just Bushed. Family Values Equals Family Leave. Pork Producers for Clinton.

	There's a lot of good signs out here. You know, a woman stopped me on the way up here and she said, I have not voted in twenty years, but I don't like what's happening to my country and I'm going to vote for you and Al Gore this time, my first vote in twenty years.

	I want to thank all the veterans' leaders who are here who met me up there--look at them standing there, who are going to vote for us and our ticket this year.

	And I want to say a special word about this ERA because, you know, Pat Robertson wrote a letter about this. You know Pat Robertson. He also wrote the Republican platform.

	And old Pat--you know, Pat Robertson and Pat Buchanan and Jerry Falwell basically wrote the Republican platform, spent the first two nights up there in Houston running against my wife. I wanted to send Bush a letter and suggest that he just go on and file for first lady if that's what he felt the election was about.

	But I can tell you one thing. If he thinks he can win an argument with her, he's got another think coming. I've been trying for twenty years.

	Anyway, old Pat Robertson sent a letter around, you know, about the time he was writing the Republican platform and said that everybody who's for that ERA was trying to break up families, destroy children and practice witchcraft. And that's about the way they think. They've gotten away with calling names so long, they've forgotten what it's like to have to contest over real issues.

	And I want to talk to you today about some real issues in rural America and the rest of America. Before I do, I've got to say one thing, though. You know, Tom Harkin was too delicate to mention it, but I think this is where he declared for president a year ago. And he liked to beat my brains out a time or two in that race.

	But you know something? I want to read you something that your senator said. I like to make fun of, you know, Tom gets up here and tells these stories. Every time you hear him talk, you're convinced he was born in a log cabin he built himself.

	But anyway I want to read this to you. Now, this is no joke--listen to this. After the New Hampshire primary, Tom Harkin said--and I quote: "Success or failure in politics or life isn't tested by whether you stumble a little on your way to your goal--everyone does. The test is, do you get up? The test is, how do you get up?"

	Well, my friends, when this primary process was over and I had somehow managed to survive, the thing that I admired the most I think was the way Tom Harkin got up.

	He got up fighting for agriculture and jobs and health care and research in new areas of high technology to solve problems and create high-wage jobs, just like he fought to pass the Americans with Disabilities Act.

	More than any other participant in the primary process, as soon as he was no longer in it, he remembered his pledge to do what he could to get George Bush out of the White House and he campaigned for me all across this country. He said over and over and over again: I got into this race, not just to win an election.

	And as we come down to the last thirty-seven days of what has been a long and hard-fought campaign, I feel better knowing that I'm going to have Tom Harkin fighting with me all the way to the White House and beyond November to change this country and make it a better place.

	Make no mistake about it, this election is about whether we as a nation are really going to start fighting again, are really going to have the courage to change again. It's about whether we'll do less talk about our problems and make more progress towards solving them. It's about whether we're going to step up to the bat as generations before us have always done and make tomorrow better than today.

	Last night in Washington, D.C., I attended a dinner for the Congressional Black Caucus, and I went over to shake hands with Magic Johnson, a man I admire very much,--who said he resigned from the Presidential AIDS Commission because the President had dropped the ball. My fellow Americans, I may not make every decision right, I'll sure make some mistakes, but if you elect me on November 3rd, I will not drop the ball.

	Mr. Bush and Mr. Quayle have given us a program that promises no change, a program that is a rehash of the same failed trickle-down economics of the last twelve years. It's even hard to know whether they mean that or not, because in Time magazine just a few days ago a top administration official was quoted as saying, "It doesn't much matter what's in our plan because we don't plan to follow through on it anyway."

	We are tired of four years of cynical manipulation at election time of our feelings, of rhetoric that divides us and diverts our attention. The time has come to fight for real change for you and for all the people of this country.

	One of the things that I have learned as I've gone across this great land of ours, which now has 150 different racial and ethnic groups in it, as I've taken my bus trips to the red clay of south Georgia, where I met a seventy-seven-year-old woman who's going to vote for the first time in her life for our ticket, or through inner-city areas in Cleveland, Ohio, and East St. Louis, or way up to the Pacific Northwest, I have learned that we're all still pretty much the same. We're a lot more like one another than we think we are. Almost all of us get up every day and go to work and do our best; we want our parents to be cared for in their old age; we want our children to have a brighter future. We don't want anybody to give us anything, but we want partners to help lift us up, to give us a change to make the most of our own lives. I hear it everywhere I go.

	And, you know, this country has been around for more than 200 years because every time we had to make fundamental change somehow we found the courage and wisdom, and maybe a little grace from God, to do it. But we did. When we became one nation from thirteen colonies--that's something we take for granted now, but if you go back and read history, our written Constitution and the fact that we came together is a miracle. When we stayed together during the Civil War and Abraham Lincoln gave his life for the Union, we take it for granted now--but he was elected with only 39 percent of the vote. When we came out of the Depression and World War II, we take it for granted now, but we forget that when Roosevelt was elected president, one in four Americans were out of work. And in my little state more than half the people were below the poverty line. We forget that when Winston Churchill fought alone in World War II, Britain didn't even win a battle for two years.

	We take for granted all these things that have happened in our country's history, but they weren't foreordained; they happened because the American people, every time the chips were down, had the courage to change. And that is what we are being called upon to do again today in this election.

	We did not become the greatest country in human history because we listened to people who told us that things could get worse. We listened to people who told us that things could get worse. We listened to people who told us that things could be better. I'm telling you, my running mate, Al Gore--by the way, let me ask you something.

	Next time you hear Bush say this election's about trust, say, well, you and Clinton have only made one decision in common, and his was Al Gore. I think he did a better job.

	But anyway the other day Al and I were on the stump together and Gore gave a little line that I thought was good, so I'm going to repeat it now. He said, you know, here we are in America where jobs are down and the deficit is up, where incomes are down and poverty is up, where productivity is down and all of our problems are up, and he said, you know, everything in America that ought to be up is down and everything that ought to be down is up--they've got it upside down, and we're going to turn it right side up.

	You know, he went on to say that at these Republican rallies when they chant out drearily "Four more years!" it sounds more like a threat than a promise.

	I have to tell you, you know, that Bush has spent a lot of time telling everybody I come from a small rural state. I rest my case.

	I went to Maine and Vermont and New Hampshire yesterday and I'm in Iowa today and I'm on my way to South Dakota. I think there's a lot to be said for small rural states and the values we have and the things we do.

	We know that farmers and ranchers and small business people in little communities have done a lot to build this country, to feed America and the world. And unlike Mr. Bush we want your sacrifices, your values and your commitments to be acknowledged by your government not just at election time but every day. The President, you know, has discovered rural America now just in the last few weeks. He didn't understand how we needed to sell pork to Russia but he was sure glad to throw a little pork around right here before the election.

	I came here to tell you that in my administration farm families will be able to make a profit again selling pork and beef and corn and soybeans here and around the world.

	And for all of his last-minute moves, Mr. Bush can't deny what we all know: most Americans on the farm and in the factory and in businesses are working harder today for less money than they were making 10 years ago. That is a fact that he cannot deny.

	I got into this race for president because I wanted to see our country get moving again. I think it's time for a change away from trickle-down economics, not the change he accuses us of. We're not the tax-and-spend crowd. It's time for a new direction, to invest in our country again, in our jobs, in our incomes, in our farms, and in our futures. It's time to educate and train our people and to do that instead of just talking about it.

	It's time to face the deficit by cutting inessential spending, reducing defense where we can and asking the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share because their taxes have gone down while the middle-class people's taxes have gone up.

	And it's time to say that we want the promise of America to be felt everywhere in America, not just in the places that are doing well, but in the rural areas and the inner cities, too. Everywhere in America where people are willing to work hard and play by the rules, they ought to have a chance to find their just reward.

	My own state, like yours, was nearly devastated during the Reagan-Bush years of trickle-down. It started on the farms and it spread to the small towns and it spread to our cities. Our farmers and bankers and small business people had to sit down and make some tough decisions. We weren't getting any help from the national government and we knew it, but we decided to do what we could together.

	So I cleared away the hurdles to direct access in my office, and I went to work to change our farm foreclosure laws in the eighties, to increase farm loans, to start a new program for first-time farmers because the average farmer is nearly sixty years old today, to try to restart small businesses and little factories in rural areas, and to put new investment into places that had been long forgotten, investments in roads and bridges and water and waste water and sewer systems and community development, investments in recreational opportunities even in our tiny towns, and commitments to bring health care services back to people in rural areas, in our schools and in public health networks.

	I tried to respond to the problems that people were having when their incomes were dropping like a rock and there was no national response for a decade.

	Our folks were tough and smart, just like you are. They didn't ask for anything in the way of a handout, but they did want a hand up. And I did my best to give it to them in Arkansas.

	Our farm income has rebounded more than the national average, jobs are up in rural areas. Mr. Bush won't tell you this when he flies around dumping on my record. He'd probably rather fly around and do it than debate me doing it. I reckon that's why I can't find him.

	But our state ranked first in the country last year in job growth. We had more private-sector jobs created in Arkansas since George Bush became president than the entire country. In fact, there's been a reduction in private-sector employment in America. The only increase we've had in employment's in the government that he claims to hate so much.

	We've maintained the second-lowest tax burden in the country and we've started to move forward again. It wasn't a miracle. It was just progress through hard work and partnerships, through a caring heart and a clear head on the part of a lot of people.

	And that is what I want you to embrace today. Mr. Bush will not change with the times, but I will. I want to put government back on the side of ordinary people, whether they work on farms or ranches or in businesses or factories. I believe that together we can build something to be proud of. I'm a builder, not a wrecker.

	I am sick and tired of the Washington blame game and the finger pointing and the paralysis. I think it's time we got up off our duffs and went to work to bring this country back and make something of it again.

	And I'll tell you something else. We ought to start with a commitment to rural America, where people have proved year in and year out that they will work for everything they get. I think we can do better than corn and soybean prices going down, I think we can do better than declining farm incomes and better than a farm bill that has been mismanaged by people who never wanted to see it work.

	I think we can cut the mountain of red tape and regulation and paperwork and overemphasis on more and more credit that is at the heart of the farm policies of the Bush administration.

	You know, these guys say they hate big government. The Heritage Foundation, a conservative foundation, says that government regulation and paperwork has gone up more under George Bush than any president for twenty years. Give me a chance to cut it for the farmers of America, and I will.

	I believe we can make the 1990 farm bill work if we had somebody who cared enough to manage it properly and understood what its provisions were supposed to do and understood how it was supposed to promote decent supply management and reasonable incomes and a vigorous opportunity to export, but you're not going to get it out of this administration.

	He's had his chance to put the government on his side, and he didn't. Give me a chance and I will.

	You just look. Mr. Bush drones on and on about how he's an outward-looking president and he believes in free markets, he believes in exports. But look at his record on agricultural issues. He promised to expand farm exports, but when opportunities come, he just sort of hems and haws about them.

	Look at this. We had a chance to sell 30,000 metric tons of pork to Russia, but George Bush sat on the deal for eight months, waiting to turn it into politics.

	We had a chance to sell massive amounts of grain to Russia, grain from Iowa, rice from Arkansas, but he would have had to extend credits. That's what they're there for. He sat on it and diddled around with it, and finally, other countries got the sale and our farmers got the shaft. I think we can do better, and I will.

	He also seems to think that trade is a one-way street. Last year alone, trade barriers cost our oilseed producers $2 billion. Now, there's nothing wrong with the law. The law today gives George Bush the weapons he needs to level the playing field, but he always puts them in mothballs.

	In Georgia, I was told a sad tale of how the administration would not protect the American consumers from peanuts that were tainted. In Michigan, we find over and over again how George Bush's Commerce Department reversed a decision of established law that led to the destruction of the American market or a major part of it for multipurpose vehicles.

	We have a law. I am for expanded trade, folks. I believe in more sales. And if we're going to sell more, we've got to buy more, but it is a two-way street. The American people deserve the chance to have their products sold around the world, too, on terms that are fair to everybody.

	The European Community, on the flimsiest of excuses, is keeping our pork out. No amount of pork barrel the president spreads around in the last fifty days of this election can remove from him the responsibility to challenge the Europeans on that issue, to challenge the Japanese on the $10 billion worth of trade barriers that still exist, to say we want more trade and we'll buy more from you, but give us a fair shot, give us a fair break. We're working hard and we expect to be treated in way that really, really represents fair trade as well as free trade.

	Look at the export enhancement program. A few days ago, the President goes up to South Dakota to tell the wheat farmers that in all of his majesty, he's going to let them take advantage of the export enhancement program.

	Now, keep in mind, Congress authorized that program a long time ago. And keep in mind, Mr. Bush let the best time to use the export enhancement program pass, right? You know that, don't you? He didn't use the program when it was best for the markets and best for the farmers. He held it back and let the farmers suffer and let the markets go until it was best for him, to keep his job right here before the election.

	I won't give you election-year farm politics. I'll give you a farm policy that'll be there year in and year out, day in and day out. What's best for you, not what's best for me.

	You know, the other day, there leaked out a memo from the Bush campaign from Clayton Yeutter who used to be the Secretary of Agriculture and was head of the Republican Committee, and the memo said, "I just can't believe all those farmers aren't grateful for all that money we gave them." That's what the letter said, it said, "I just can't believe it."

	I'll tell you why. Because farmers are smart. They understand markets and production cycles, they understand calendars and months, and they know when you're opening the door for them as opposed to opening the door for you. And that deal in South Dakota was the President using a program that a month earlier he recommended eliminating, to open the door for his own reelection, not for the welfare of the farmers of this country. And you know it and so do the other farmers in America.

	There is no policy in this country to add to the value of farm products, and we have to do better. We have to do more to add to the value of our farm products and sell value-added farm products around the world, and use more here at home.

	I believe that so far, George Bush has made the wrong choice on ethanol, and let me tell you why. Instead of standing for energy security and higher corn prices and more jobs for states like ours, he stood for the big oil companies and for more methanol, most of which is produced in Middle East.

	I believe we can find a way to deal with the environmental objections which have been raised to ethanol usage. After all, there are states, like Colorado, which are already using significant amounts of ethanol in their fuel. And if you'll give me a chance to serve, I'll bring the EPA and the Agriculture Department and all the people together. We will do the research we need to hammer out the difficulties here. We'll resolve it and we'll use ethanol as a part of our nation's energy security future.

	We'll do the same with biotechnology. Look at the things we could do with farm products: biodegradable plastics, soybean-based inks, industrial oils, lubricants, bio-fuels. We can drive up incomes and profits for decades to come in states like yours and mine and create businesses that will stay in smaller communities if we have a little vision and we have the kind of the research and development and technology spreading we need.

	That's what a national government ought to be doing. That's what our competitors are doing. Give Bill Clinton and Al Gore a chance, and we'll do it, too.

	There's something else I want to say that goes beyond the farm issue. I tried to offer this country an overall plan to change America, a plan that's been endorsed by eight Nobel Prize-winning economists, a plan that was endorsed by the heads of twenty-one fast-growing high-tech companies in California; two-thirds of the executives were Republicans. It won the endorsement of 400 business leaders in Chicago last week; over a third of them were Republicans. It won the endorsement of Admiral William Crowe, who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush but who wants his country to face the problems before it.

	We have got to use this election to say we're going to depart from trickle-down economics, to go back to invest and educate and face our problems.

	I just want to say two other things about two other issues that are very important to me. One is health care.

	We will never get control of our government deficit, restore health to our manufacturing sector, stability to our small business sector or security to our farmers until we finally, finally join the ranks of every other advanced country in the world to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all of our people.

	A fine doctor in this state, Dr. Steve Gleason, has worked with many other physicians and health care providers here to help me develop a national health care strategy. I announced it last week before the Merck Drug Company up in New Jersey, one of the most profitable companies in America, but they kept drug prices in line with inflation for three years now - and everybody else ought to do the same thing.

	My plan reserves your right to pick our doctor, to use your hospital; it preserves the private medical system. But it controls heath care costs for all Americans, not just those who get Medicare and Medicaid - but for all Americans. And it says we are going to have a basic package of health care that everybody gets--no more two-tiered health systems. And it cleans up tens of billions of dollars in unnecessary money we're now wasting on insurance and administration and government regulation and puts that into covering people who don't have health insurance.

	It sets up a framework within which we can give our elderly people the chance to have a long-term care plan that doesn't require them to spend themselves into poverty and to go into a nursing home. They can get something more and different from that at an earlier point.

	And it will save hundreds of billions of dollars for the public and the private sector between now and the end of the decade. I'm telling you if you brought health care costs in line with inflation it would save more money for new jobs and new investment than the investment tax credit or the capital gains tax or anything you could do to the tax code. Bringing health costs into line with inflation will not only make it possible for people to secure their own lives, it will revitalize the economy.

	And let me say one thing to the farmers in the audience. Under our plan we're going to let the farmers and the small business people of this country have access to buy into big pools of health insurance so they can get the same cost opportunities that people who work for big companies get today.

	The last thing I want to say to you is that no president can promise you any economic opportunity that you are not prepared to seize. Iowa knows as well as any state in the country the importance, the surpassing importance, of education. It is time we had an education president who is worthy of that title.

	I want to acknowledge the presence in the crowd today before I close the president of the National Education Association, Keith Geiger from Michigan--raise your hand there.

	I offer the American people a plan for lifetime learning, teach everybody with a job to read in the next five years, give every adult a chance to get a high school education. Every young person who doesn't go to a four-year college, give them two years of further apprenticeship training so they can get good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

	Open the doors of college education to all Americans--don't run people off because they cannot afford it.

	Think of this. I want the American people to have access to a national trust fund out of which any person can borrow the money to finance a college education, and then pay it back either as a small percentage of their income at tax time, so they can't beat the bill, or, even better, by working for a couple of years before or after they go to college at work we need done--being teachers, police officers, nurses, working in rural health programs, working in housing programs, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities, working with children. We could solve the problems of America and educate a whole generation of Americans--and I say it's time we did it.

	My fellow Americans, I need your support in Iowa in the next thirty days. I need for you to call your friends and neighbors in other states and say vote for Bill Clinton. Give us a chance to change the country.

	When Harry Truman made that trip here that Tom Harkin talked about, he said something that I want to say to you. This is my charge to you, as I close--and listen to Harry Truman's words. "You have another chance. I'm not asking you to vote for me; I'm asking you to vote for yourselves, to exercise your God-given right to control this country."

	When Harry Truman made that speech he carried Iowa, Iowa carried him to the White House, and he kept his promise to use the government to help all the people. With your help, another son of the heartland will return to the White House in January. With your help, your prayers, and your effort. It's our country, folks; take it back. we're better than this, we can do better than this--and we will in November and in January with your help.

	Thank you and God bless you all.
AIDSARKANSASEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--PRIVATE ENTERPRISEENERGY--ALTERNATIVE SOURCESEQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENTFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEREGULATION/DEREGULATIONAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     n n n n n
 n n n n n n en [n	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	 b 	 G  0   e: