

	Thank you very much. I'm honored to be here, and it's good to be in California again. So many issues we must confront as a nation are confronted here first. California is always on the front line of our political debates, and on the leading edge of reform. It's fitting that a presidential debate be held here, and I look forward to tomorrow's exchange of ideas with my opponent.

	This is the home of Ronald Reagan and the tax cut revolution. Jack Kemp and I intend to bring that revolution to the entire nation by reducing taxes 15 percent across-the-board. It's been more than a decade since Americans have had a cut in their federal taxes, and we are going to give them one.

	We are also going to unleash this economy so we remain the most competitive, productive nation in the world. That's why our economic plan includes cutting the capital gains tax rate in half--a measure that will give an enormous boost to the spirit of enterprise here in California and across America.

	Let me mention two issues that I know are of special interest to this audience. I have fought to ensure that the benefits of government regulation must clearly outweigh their costs. And I have also fought to put an end to runaway frivolous lawsuits--baseless litigation aimed at our country's most dynamic businesses, which only serve to enrich trial lawyers. In both these cases, Bill Clinton opposed my efforts. But when I am in the White House, we will have real regulatory reform and return common sense back to our courtrooms.

	The future of the legal system is on the agenda here in California this year, in the form of Proposition 211. This initiative would circumvent efforts at the federal level to restore balance and fairness to the litigation system. It would also cast a shadow over California's economic comeback, and have no apparent beneficiaries other than a handful of trial lawyers. Proposition 211 would be a step in the wrong direction. It should be defeated.

	California is also leading America in rethinking quotas. The law is a place where all citizens, of every background, must stand as equals. We must not discriminate by race. And for that reason, we must not count by race. This is why I strongly support the California Civil Rights Initiative.

	One hundred years ago, dissenting against the unjust Supreme Court decision that affirmed segregation, Justice John Harlan wrote that the law regards man as man, and takes no account for his color. That was the spirit and promise of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which I was proud to vote for. Guaranteeing equal access to opportunity, not equal results, was the motivating principle behind the Civil Rights Act. In fact, one of its most prominent advocates, my friend the late Senator Hubert Humphrey, promised to "eat the pages" of the bill if it contained "any language which provides that an employer will have to hire on the basis of percentage or quota relating to color." No doubt if Hubert were alive today, he'd be suffering from an acute case of indigestion.

	The overwhelming majority of Americans and Californians believe, as I do, that we should promote equal opportunity for all, without regard to race or gender. But asides and other preferences serve only to pit American against American, group against group. Our goal must always be equal justice before the law, not discrimination. The real focus should be on helping citizens who are economically disadvantaged, and CCRI does not bar that approach.

	And California and other states are being forced to deal with the cost of illegal immigration. If America cannot control its borders, it cannot control its destiny. Legal immigration is an American tradition, and a contribution to our society. But illegal immigration is a crime, and a drain on scarce public resources. This White House has done everything it could to blur the distinction between legal and illegal immigration by creating more loopholes for those who reach our borders unlawfully. And the California taxpayer is left to foot the bill. We must honor legal immigration by ending the flood of illegal immigration.

	I could give an entire speech on any one of these topics. But I want to concentrate today on something different--not on a specific issue, but on the larger importance of this election.

	When you run for the presidency, you measure yourself against the giants who have held that office. You pledge in your heart to be worthy of their standards. And you pray that nothing you do will betray them.

	You think of a leader like Dwight Eisenhower and the character he brought to the presidency. How on the day before D-Day, with the war in the balance, he wrote a statement to be released if the invasion failed. "If any blame or fault attaches to this attempt," it said, "it is mine alone."

	You think of John F. Kennedy, taking responsibility for the Bay of Pigs disaster, telling a hostile press conference, "I am the responsible officer of government."

	You think of Gerald Ford, who told us our long national nightmare was over. And Americans trusted him to make it true. He was able to restore the tarnished image of the presidency, with just the example of his integrity

	These leaders, Democrat and Republican, endowed the office they held with honor. And they left it more respected than they found it.

	I raise this history with a reason. There are some who say that the presidential election we hold in twenty-one days will not matter. They think that the stakes are low and the differences are slight. But they are wrong. They are wrong because tax relief is not trivial, and the drug war is not expendable, and education reform is not optional. But they are wrong, most of all, because this election will help determine the nature and integrity and dignity of the presidency itself. Can it be trusted? Should it be respected? The stakes are this high. The differences run this deep.

	In his acceptance speech four years ago, Bill Clinton stated, that responsibility starts at the top. When he took office, he promised, in his words, "the most ethical administration in the history of the Republic." He criticized the "corrupt, do-nothing values of the eighties" and pledged a superior ethical standard.

	But we have seen something very different--though not heavily reported by the mainstream media. We have seen more than thirty Clinton officials investigated, fired, or forced to resign due to ethical improprieties. We have seen four independent counsels at work, three investigating members of the Cabinet, and one looking at the President himself.

	We have seen the FBI tricked into handing over more than 900 confidential, personal files to the White House, into the hands of the director of the office of personnel security--a former bar bouncer who had worked in Bill Clinton's campaign.

	We have seen the discovery of a six-month gap in the White House log used to control access to FBI background files--raising questions about who in the Clinton White House was looking at those files, and why.

	We have seen the Justice Department abused to investigate innocent workers at the White House Travel Office, as a cover for putting political friends in charge of it.

	We have seen attempts to conceal subpoenaed Travel Office records from Congressional committees.

	We have seen the resignation of a member of the Cabinet for taking illegal gifts. We have seen marine helicopters used for a staff golf outing.

	We have seen the President abuse the principle of executive privilege to suppress an FBI report critical of his failed drug war.

	We have seen similar stonewalling on the composition of the health care task force, and on billing records.

	We have seen the President dangle the prospect of a pardon for a convicted felon who may be able to implicate him. This is not a tough call. Before the election he should shut the door on this improper interference in an ongoing investigation. He should clearly promise there will be no pardons in legal cases that personally concern him.

	And now we see new charges that this administration has allowed a wealthy Indonesian family to buy presidential access, and play a role in foreign policy, in exchange for contributions to the Democratic National Committee.

	No administration has been more self-righteous. But few administrations have been more self-serving. No administration has shown more arrogance. But few have displayed more ethical failures.

	Among members of this administration there is a growing gap--an integrity gap--between the low standards they have adopted and the high honor that they hold. A gap between their swagger and their public scandals. A gap between what the presidency itself has been, and what it has lately and sadly become.

	I have never questioned anyone's private character, and I will not start now. People are not perfect, and public service does not require them to be. But there is a difference between private character and public ethics, because public ethics is a public trust. When it is violated, the damage is done to our nation, our institutions and our idealism. Confronting it--directly and forcefully--is not a personal attack, it is a public duty.

	The problems of the Clinton administration have become a pattern. A habit of half-truths. An atmosphere of evasion.

	And what bothers us most is not just the wrongdoing but the excuse-making. In every case this administration has refused to take responsibility for the mistakes it has made and the harm it has caused. The goal is always to conceal ethical failure, not confront it. We hear, not apologies, but alibis. The buck stops nowhere.

	Sometimes this seems like an epidemic in America. No one will take responsibility for their actions. But a President of the United States should be different. He should say things like, "The fault is mine alone." He should say, "I am the responsible officer of government." He should stand up and call his actions by their proper name.

	The Clinton administration thinks it is bigger than these basic rules of openness and honesty and ethics--the rules by which we live our lives and raise our children. It expects a blanket pardon for all its failures, because it thinks its intentions are good. It wants our forgiveness without the inconvenience of admitting it is wrong.

	And what is the result?

	The Clinton administration has made our nation more cynical. Many Americans are understandably less interested and involved in politics, and less hopeful about changing things for the better. These endless violations of public trust have fed our skepticism, which has spilled over into public policy.

	The examples are familiar. Four years ago candidate Clinton promised a middle class tax cut, but President Clinton delivered a massive middle class tax increase. It was a shameless violation of the public trust.

	Candidate Clinton in 1992 claimed that President Bush, and I quote, "hasn't fought a real war on... drugs. I will." Yet President Clinton immediately gutted the drug war and barely mentioned it in any public statements in three years.

	And we have seen a United States President talk about an end to the "era of big government," only a short time after he proposed to nationalize one seventh of the economy in a health care plan, the biggest government power grab in memory. He says these things apparently without embarrassment, without shame, as though his record were meaningless. We have never seen a President cover so much ideological territory in so short a time

	So what have we learned? We have learned, through hard experience, that the promises we hear from Bill Clinton in a campaign have little or no relation to his conduct in office. We have learned that the conservative rhetoric he adopts is intended to mask, not reveal, his true intentions. And everything we have learned tells us that four more years of Bill Clinton will mean four more years of discarded pledges and shaded truths.

	There is a straight line from indifference to ethical standards in the ...[missing text]...to endless revision and constant appeal. Every principle is reduced to a tactic, to be changed as circumstances require. Every promise is a posture, temporary and flexible.

	Call this the character issue if you wish. But it makes a difference to every American, because every vote should be an act of trust. These things matter to our citizens, who can only make informed choices in an election when there is some connection between rhetoric and reality, between words and actions, between promise and performance.

	With this President, that connection was broken long ago. So I want to put a challenge squarely to the American people. If the polls are believed, some voters seem ready to support Bill Clinton, even though they believe he is unethical. Even though they agree with everything I've said today.

	I want to ask these voters to step back and consider for a moment. We cannot say that we want integrity in public life and then reward its absence. A President who has betrayed your trust has not won your vote. It is that simple. To say otherwise is to send a message that public integrity is meaningless.

	In addition to this challenge, allow me to make a pledge.

	My pledge is a new administration equal to the honor of your support. An administration that is an extension of my values and a reflection of your own.

	My word is my bond. That is my promise to the American people. It is a promise I made to myself long ago. I firmly believe that character is destiny--for a man or woman, for an administration, or for a nation.

	Like many of you, I've only been to the White House as a visitor. And when you visit, you can't help but feel the pride of that place. You walk the corridors where Lincoln paced. You see the room where Roosevelt and Truman directed a world war. And on the walls you see the portraits of the presidents, both heroes and footnotes.

	History has forgiven those men many faults and failures. But there is one thing history will not forgive: to hold that office and leave it diminished.

	I am not a perfect messenger, but I know that office once embodied high standards and high ideals. I am not a perfect man, but I deeply believe a president can play this role in our nation again.

	Together, we can renew the honor of an honorable institution. Together, we can return integrity, responsibility and trust to the White House. And this is just one principled vote away.

		Thank you very much, and God bless America.
CAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSIMMIGRATIONLITIGATION REFORMQUOTASREGULATION/DEREGULATIONGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONS     L: : : : :
 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9	  	  	  	  	 f 	 [ 	 J 	 D  - e: