

	Congressman Meader and ladies and gentlemen:  This crowd is proof to me that preconceptions are nearly always wrong.  All day long as I have traveled across this beautiful state, friends from Michigan have come to me and said, "This is a wonderful thing but of course it will be truly inspiring when you visit the Rock."  Now, I have had a picture in my mind of going to some lonely rock.  I sort of pictured it in the middle of a river or a lake or something.  And there, rather in silent communion with the past, I would pay my respects to those great men who founded this wonderful Republican Party.  Instead, look what I found:  something so much more worthwhile, something so much more nearly the heart of America; great crowds of intelligent Americans paying their own respects in their way to the Rock and to the idea that has brought us, since 1854, to this meeting here today, under institutions that have preserved our right to meet here.  You know, there are many places in the world today where if we attempted to meet like this with the purpose of ousting from our capital the reigning administration you would all be headed for salt mines tomorrow morning and I would be shot.  Instead of that, freedom--largely kept alive by the Americans in this great party of ours--has still assured our right to meet in peaceful assembly, discuss what we please, and reach such conclusions as we please.

	I want to read to you a message that was handed to me just an hour or so ago before I got off my train:  This man says:  "I saw the national administration make promises and break them.  I call for an end to words.  I call for a new start for all of us who are fed up with this double-talk and this political pressuring that comes out of Washington."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, I know many among you could tell me who wrote that message, but I venture that the great majority would not know that that message, while it seems so apt today, was written in 1854 by the first Governor of Michigan, Kingsley Bingham.  He wrote that about the time that this group of patriots were meeting under your two great oak trees by the Rock and founding the Republican Party.  Today we have got that same job.

	Now, as this man wrote his purpose, so today we write our purpose and that is what makes this great effort a crusade.  We are determined that the values that have brought America to this point, to this very minute where you and I are meeting here as free men and women, shall be preserved.  That means, first of all, that we must enjoy a safe and respected position abroad.  That safe position abroad is going to be brought about first by our spiritual, intellectual, material strength here at home.  A free America must be the cornerstone of any free structure in the world.  There can be no security which means collective security for the free world unless America is solvent, prosperous, able to carry its load, and above all, able to give dynamic, forward leadership to a weary, worn and almost defeated world.  That is our task.

	Now, if we are going to keep that solvent and prosperous America, what must we do?  At home we must see that expenditure programs are kept within our means.  We are told that these are times of great prosperity; yet when we are carrying the heaviest taxes ever imposed upon the American people we cannot--we must not--still run in to debt.

	The Labor Department reported that for the year 1950 the average city family went $400 in debt in order to pay for its necessaries, its clothing, its food, its shelter, sending the children to school and so on.  Just exactly as the government is not living within its means, by doing that it so cheapens our money that we can't live within our means.  Where are we all headed unless we restore to the national program, the national activity, the old virtues of thrift and economy that those men knew so well who met right up there on the corner beside that Rock.  Unless we do that, we cannot preserve the kind of America that is necessary to bring us peace in the world.

	If we continue to carry taxes that are of such size that they destroy your incentive to work, again we are not going to preserve a great American tradition.  We are not going to unleash those forces that have brought our country to this point because--let no one fool you--no political party, not even ours, is responsible for the great growth of America.  It is the individual brains, initiative, energy, of millions of people that have brought this country to where it is today and the virtue of the Republican Party is that they have faith in those virtues and those qualities of our people and they are not trying to harness them from Washington.  They are trying to make it possible for you to earn as you please and to save something out of your pay for yourselves, your families, the future education of your children, and for your own declining years.  Regardless of all the governmental floors that we place under the individual citizen in the way of social programs--and the Republican Party has, time and again, insisted upon support of those programs--every free-born American wants to do something for himself.  The Republican Party insists you shall have that right.  And you shall make it a practical right.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the final promise of this kind that the Republican Party makes you is that it wants to give you an honest government; honest in all its parts.  Only recently a lady wrote a letter to me and said, "General, I should like to vote for you, but first I want your promise that more of my tax money will actually get to Washington."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, when a hard-working American citizen feels it necessary to exact from a prospective federal official a promise just to exercise ordinary woodshed honesty, it is time for a change. 

	Once--and I hope I am not trespassing upon your time--great Virginian, Carter Glass, went to a university where they were going to give him an honorary degree.  The orator of the day got up and extolled the honesty of Carter Glass.  He talked about this man with his long years in public service and always he remained honest.  It was for this reason, apparently, that they were giving him the honorary degree.  Carter Glass got up and said, "In all conscience, as a good American, I should decline this degree.  When it becomes necessary for a great American university to honor one of her citizens because as a public servant he has been honest, we are lost.  We have got a right to expect honesty from a public servant."  And with that I agree.  That is exactly what the Republican Party promises.

	Altogether, ladies and gentlemen, as I have merely pointed up these few brief things that we need to do now, you can see what I mean when I say this is a crusade.  You can see, therefore, why I feel justified in appealing to the young, the first voters whose president in this country came over and greeted me just a few minutes ago.  Young people of the United States will properly resent being led into a voting booth where they believe there is not an ideal, a moral purpose to be served.  The Republican Party offers them idealism and moral purpose today.  We feel we have the right, therefore, to lay this program before them and say, "You can support it just exactly as your older brothers supported this country in time of war and defended her against her enemies.  Today you can restore so much to this nation that you, in turn, will be doing your patriotic duty and we shall always remember you for your accomplishments.

	Through the coming years, it is not enough that you should rarely find and eliminate dishonesty in government.  It is up to you to keep it out.  Keep in the federal government and in your state government the kind of people who will never let corruption enter.  Men who are themselves and women who are themselves incorruptible are not going to let cheap little people, too small for their jobs and too big for their britches, get into those places.

	I say let us go forward together.  You saw here on the platform, the Michigan team that I need.  I hope you will send them there with resounding majorities.  But you are the combat troops.  You are the people who will do the job.  You are the people who will vote, who should see that every member of your family votes, bring your friends in to vote for decency, cleanliness, honor and integrity--the kind of government that will bring you prestige and finally peace abroad and will bring you solvency, security and happiness at home.  That, my friend, is the crusade that it is my honor to lead.  

	I thank you from the bottom of my heart--each one of you--for the honor you have paid me in coming out today.  To my party on this platform, to my wife and myself, you have given an honor that none of us will ever forget.  This is a remarkable day, a remarkable occasion.  Thank you indeed.  
COST OF LIVINGGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSTAXATION--GENERAL     # c# ]# Y# O#
 A# <# 7# 0# (# &# &# #	 < 	 . 	  e: