

	I have been asked to set forth my views with respect to the American merchant marine, and to outline the maritime initiatives that could be expected from a McGovern administration. I am pleased to do so because I believe this to be a matter of considerable importance.

	Throughout its history, this nation has been dependent on a viable merchant marine. From the earliest days when merchant vessels served as the lifeline of the colonies, until today, the American merchant marine has played a vital role in our national life. It is our fourth arm of national defense and continues to be the backbone of our military logistic support. Its vital role in times of war or national emergency has been demonstrated over and over again.

	But our merchant marine also plays important roles during peacetime. A viable U.S. merchant marine is necessary to assure our access to the raw materials upon which our economy is dependent and to transport our products to foreign markets. It is also necessary to assure a continued American voice and vote in world shipping conferences that set ocean transportation rates. This is of obvious importance to our consumers. Our merchant marine is also necessary to assure that American products are carried at rates which do not jeopardize their competitive position in the world marketplace--rates that are not unilaterally set by our foreign competitors.

	Less frequently noted is the important role played by the American merchant marine in our efforts to protect the marine environment. Not only are U.S. vessels built and operated to higher environmental protection standards than prevail internationally, but the existence of an American fleet gives us important leverage for trying to improve standards internationally for protection of the marine environment

	It is for these reasons that, as a senator, I have repeatedly supported efforts to revitalize our American merchant fleet.

	In fairness, I must say that the Nixon administration has given some recognition to the importance of our merchant marine. The Merchant Marine Act of 1970 was a step in the right direction. I supported it. However, in fairness, it must also be noted that the Nixon administration's program has not succeeded. For example, as of June of this year our privately owned merchant fleet had declined to 669 vessels and each month the number of vessels continues to drop. Our ships are carrying only 4% of our own foreign trade tonnage. Seagoing employment continues to decline, resulting in joblessness for thousands of American seamen and tragic economic hardships for their families. Indeed, the Nixon administration seems to have implicitly backed away from its promise of 300 new merchant ships and no longer even talks in those terms. It occasionally mentions ship "equivalents," but equivalent in what terms is not clear -certainly not equivalent in terms of jobs for seamen, national security, or our balance of payments.

	Further, the Nixon administration has had no concerted national plan or goal involving the merchant marine as a part of our total ocean effort. Every component of our ocean effort--naval, maritime, oceanographic, fishing, undersea resource utilization, and marine environment protection--is important to our national life. They should be integral components of a concerted national policy. Unfortunately, today they are not. The lack of a concerted national plan or goal has not only led to an inadequate commitment of resources in some of those areas, but to inconsistent and self-defeating policies with respect to our merchant marine, as I shall note.

	I believe that new maritime initiatives are needed with respect to the following areas:

(1)	Closing Tax Loopholes For Foreign Flag Fleets

	The so-called "flags of convenience" are a great obstacle to revitalizing our fleet. At the beginning of 1971, U.S. companies had, under Liberian and Panamanian flags, over 13 million deadweight tons of tankers. That is nearly double the size of our own tanker fleet and it is growing rapidly. This development has deprived our people of jobs, has damaged our balance of payments, and deprived our treasury of tax revenue.

	The flags of convenience have resulted directly from loopholes in our tax laws. Flags of convenience ships are treated even more loosely than other foreign investments. They pay no income taxes to Liberia or Panama and no income taxes to the United States. Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code contains sections explicitly excluding income from foreign shipping from payment of our taxes. This must be rectified.

	The Merchant Marine Act of 1970 attempts to put the U.S. merchant marine on a par with foreign shipping with respect to the construction of vessels and the wages of crews. But the tax incentives of flags of convenience are too strong. So long as this loophole in our tax laws exists efforts to rebuild the American fleet will be futile. The Nixon administration has ignored this because of the strong opposition of the oil companies who own or control two-thirds of these vessels.


(2)	Cargo For U.S. Flag Vessels

	The Merchant Marine Act of 1970 also ignores the need for cargo for U.S. flag vessels. Without cargos, it is impossible to build and operate ships. On July 26th, 1972, vigorous opposition from the Nixon administration defeated an effort in the Senate to assure that U.S. flag vessels would participate in the carriage of our oil imports. I favored this legislation. It would have resulted in 100,000 new jobs for Americans. It would have improved our national security posture and resulted in a balance of payments benefit estimated at $300 million in 1973 and $5.6 billion in the period of 1975-1985. That legislation would also have resulted in a boost to our effort to protect the marine environment. But the Nixon administration was successful in killing it. Again, the influence of the major oil companies was apparent.

(3)	Government Procurement

	This area requires close examination if our merchant marine is to be revitalized. There is substantial evidence that government procedures and policies with respect to procurement of ocean transportation, and particularly those of the Department of Defense, are having a detrimental impact on our merchant marine. This is another prime example of the lack of a concerted and coordinated national policy to which I referred earlier. Our government's procurement procedures and policies should be reevaluated with a view toward assuring that they are not inimical to the objective of maintaining the long-term maritime capability that we need.

(4)	Countering Foreign Discrimination

	Increasingly, foreign governments, and particularly those of developing countries, have found means of routing cargo to their own merchant fleets, thus damaging our fleet. While I favor free trade and freedom in shipping, the aspirations of these countries and their activities in shipping must be met realistically. To date we have been too slow in responding. Faced with these realities, we must move to assure that U.S. vessels are given a fair opportunity to participate in our trades including the negotiation of bilateral agreements where necessary.

(5)	Labor-Management Stability

	One source of difficulty for our merchant marine has been instability in labor-management relations. Recently, important steps have been taken in this regard, for which all involved should be commended. However, there is still far to go. While this is primarily a matter for the negotiating parties, and I do not favor government interference in collective bargaining. I believe that the government can and should assist in this effort in ways that will be welcomed by the parties.

(6)	American Seamen

	Our nation must recognize that seamen are an important national asset. They play a role that is vital in our national life. They have served us well in war and in peace.

	I believe that the Nixon administration program has been too "hardware" and company oriented, and has given insufficient recognition to the needs of our seamen. The most important role that our government can play is to improve employment opportunities. As I have noted, seagoing employment has declined drastically, and many seamen are unemployed or underemployed. Our maritime program must be consciously geared to producing maritime employment opportunities, as it has not been to date, and this should be taken into account in all maritime decisions. The proposals I have made will, if effectuated, result in thousands of new jobs.

	Also of great importance to our seamen are the Public Health Service hospitals. The Nixon administration has relentlessly moved to phase these hospitals out. I oppose this. I believe that these facilities should be maintained, upgraded and improved. Health delivery systems is one of the greatest problem areas facing our nation today. I think that the PHS hospitals can serve a valuable role in pioneering better health services for all our people. They should be federal demonstration projects for improved hospital management and application of advanced concepts in health science and medical technology.

	Finally, I believe that American seamen should receive more recognition and better treatment by our government, particularly when serving under conditions in combat zones. I have been distressed by reports of government mistreatment or indifference to our seamen under these circumstances, and by policies denying seamen equal privileges with other civilians involved in support of the military in combat zones. I believe that these injustices should be rectified.
FOREIGN TRADE--GENERALOCEAN EXPLORATION/RESOURCESSHIPPING/SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY     & O& I& E& =&
 1& ,& '& & 	& & % %	 O 	 9 	  e: