

	It's a special pleasure to speak at the Comstock Club. It is your policy, I know, to ask those who come before you to speak on a vital issue of the day, and I'm happy to comply.

	I want to talk some about America and what shape we're in inside--the moral and emotional infrastructure, if you will. It seems to me we have prosperity, and we have peace, but we also have unfinished business. At the top of the list is: children.

	Now, my opponent and I are both surrounded by wonderful and intelligent advisors, who give us wonderful and intelligent advice about what issues to stress and what questions to frankly finesse. And the long-standing political clich is that Republicans shouldn't talk too much about issues like children, because the liberals can always outbid us. They can say "I care about children more than you do and to prove it I'm going to promise a new hundred billion dollar children's program."

	But the way I see it, they could only "outbid" us if this were a bidding war, which it's not.

	It's an election. We're choosing a president. We're choosing a future. And I believe the people are about to prove, once again, that they cannot be bought.

	So I've been wanting to talk about children and how to help them, and today I'm going to do just that.

	I bring certain credentials to the subject. Barbara and I have five grown children, and though I miss the warmth and sweetness of their childhood, I'm usually pretty glad they're grown. Now they bring their children over, and they all get in bed with us in the morning and we snuggle and read these books where the animals "pop up." And then when they start to scream and put their fingers in each other's eyes, it's always nice to be able to say, "Jeb, get these kids out of here!"

	I've had some interesting jobs in my life but not one of them was as interesting or demanding or frustrating or confusing or taxing--as you know, that's a word that carries very unpleasant connotations for me--or as difficult as fatherhood. Or parenthood, as they currently say, which is okay by me.

	But being a father, like being a mother, is a great responsibility. You're responsible for their physical and moral and emotional well-being. The federal government can always help with the first; if we keep the economy strong and sound then there will be enough jobs, and money will be coming in and the children will be warm and safe in a home that's free of unneeded anxiety. I think that of all the things we've done the past eight years, that's the great Republican triumph--that there are more jobs, and so more hope, and more happy homes.

	But it is an incomplete triumph.

	I said some time back that I was haunted by the lives being led by the children of our inner cities. You may have seen that in our debate, my opponent, the good governor, said, " Haunted. I don't know what that means."

	I'm sure he doesn't.

	What I mean when I say it is that in this wonderful, bountiful, growing and generous country there are still children who are living lives of utter desolation in the poorest neighborhoods in the cities of our country--and we have yet to find a way to help them.

	And it isn't enough to say, "I'm a Republican and life is imperfect." And it isn't enough to say, "I'm a liberal and we can buy our way out."

	We can't buy our way out. We tried for a quarter century at least, and even when I opposed some programs that seemed, going in, bloated and unrealistic, I'd still watch with a certain amount of hope and think: Will this help?

	And what did we learn? That government more often than not made it worse. That government unwittingly encouraged trends that were harmful to the poor. That government, in taking hard-won money from the middle class and putting it in ill-thought-out programs for the poor, caused more resentment than closeness. That government served the interests of the bureaucracy better than the interests of the needy.

	Government, we must finally admit, isn't the answer. Does that mean there is no answer? No. It just means we have to look in new places for the solution.

	One place we can look is common sense.

	Look around you. Think of the world you live in. You good people have done well in life; you're good citizens, and you take an active interest in the life of the nation, otherwise you wouldn't be here. Like me, most of you are lucky. You've been blessed with, at the very least, a certain amount of material success.

	Think of the children you know. They're not the hollow-eyed children of the ghetto. They live in warm well-lit homes and they have clothes to wear and more good food than they choose to eat. They have $40 jeans and $50 sneakers.

	We've showered our children with material things and still we have a sense of unease. Do they know they're fortunate? Do they know it wasn't always like this for America--or for mankind in general? Do they have a sense of thanks? Of citizenship? Do they realize that perhaps they ought to be thinking of giving something back? Or are they almost cut off by their affluence, removed from the cares and concerns of others?

	These are good questions, pertinent questions.

	I have said that I want a kinder, gentler nation. And perhaps we can begin to get there not by searching, as usual, for an answer to a lack but by matching lack with lack, meeting need with need. What if, for instance, we bring together the needs of our poorest children with the needs of our affluent children? What about bringing together adults who need to feel a part of things, who need to feel they're helping--with children who need attention and guidance? Bringing together the old who need to be reintegrated into the daily life of the country, with the young who need, among other things, perspective. Bringing together all the disparate groups and yearning people to join in a common quest to say yes to America.

	Youth Engaged in Service--or, YES. What can YES do?

	First, what it is. It's a national service foundation which I will begin when I am president. It will serve as a public-private partnership to work with local community and school-based programs to involve teenagers and young adults in volunteer service to meet the needs of their own and of nearby communities. YES will work with existing youth programs, and will put an emphasis on programs that are started in our schools.

	Here's the kind of effort YES would become involved in and help: A program like California's conservation corps. It's a big success, it does great work, it's voluntary, it involves students--and YES could help it be duplicated in other parts of this and other states.

	The best of the existing volunteer programs will be expanded, and new programs will be developed. The end result I hope is that citizen service will become a real and living part of every young American's life. And citizenship and the idea of giving something back will again be recognized as essential elements in a life well lived.

	The Yes to America foundation will be directed by citizens through a volunteer board of directors.

	And guess who's going to be chairman? I am.

	Lee Iacocca once told me that's the only way to make sure exactly what you want to happen is happening.

	The way I see it, YES to America is going to be more like a movement than a program. I hope that involvement in Yes to America will be understood as a patriotic act-- an act that says in and of itself, "I love my country, and I recognize that the immutable fact of a healthy democracy is that my fellow citizens are not just colleagues, not just fellow passengers on a journey, but my brothers and sisters. And we are a family. And families help their own." 

	I've been wondering if we couldn't, in the senior year of high school and perhaps a few years of college, turn some of the YES volunteer work into a course that gives some academic credit. Not as a reward--the work itself is a reward--but to persuade the student to sit down and write about his or her experience helping someone who needs help, and what was learned, what was concluded, what was felt.

	What are some of the things that can be done by those in YES in America? Well, for one thing, children from dysfunctional homes in violent neighborhoods are isolated. Do you know what it would mean to some of these children just to be visited? And read to? Their parents too often isolated in various ways. It will help reinvolve them in life a little just to know that each Tuesday and Thursday afternoon someone is coming over to help.

	Some of the poor don't speak English and can't fill out forms for their children to go to school. Some women need help and advice on what to do about a repeatedly abusive husband. They don't know that there are private organizations that can help.

	This is a beginning. It's something that will be run with expertise and that will grow. Some liberals will sneer; saying a national voluntary effort just won't be as good as a new multibillion dollar program. But they always get nervous when the people are involved and the bureaucrats aren't in charge.

	And, if I may say so, they have a tendency to resist efforts that don't play to this advocacy group and that interest group.

	Well, they have their concerns and I have mine and I'm concerned about children.

	I want our affluent to help our poor. And I want our young to help our elderly by involving them in the needs of Americans. I want the young men and women of our tree lined suburbs to get on a bus, or the subway, or the metro, and go into the cities where the want is.

	And I want this movement to become part of people's lives. The Peace Corps, which has its place and is a very fine effort, takes volunteers out of their lives and puts them in another place, another country. I want this sense of involvement and altruism to be local, personal, and integrated into our young people's lives.

	YES for America will not solve every problem. And like every human initiative it will surely have its inadequacies. But it's a good strong start.

	More is needed. We need to as a society finally, once and for all, come down hard on crime. For nothing hurts the lives of the poor and strains the ties of community more than violent crime. How can we reach the neediest children when they live in a no man's land? We've got to bring peace to the inner cities.

	And it's not enough to say crime will always be with us. We've got to do better. It's not enough to talk; we've got to do. And even as we must be kinder to the innocent, we must be firmer with the guilty. The consensus is already there--the people are united on this. All they need is leadership. I mean to lead.

	That means a renewed effort on drugs, and you know how I feel. More important, I know how you feel. Drugs and crime are partners in a dance of death, and the poor pay the piper.

	All our efforts require the sometimes hard decisions it will take to institutionalize our current prosperity. A firmness on taxes, a resolve on wasteful spending, and the courage to take the heat when tensions result.

	But just because the problems of our time are big doesn't mean they're intractable. It's true that a major cause of so much pain among the poor, the cause of generations of self-destructive behavior in a family, is the failure of love. And it's true that it's a vicious circle, that those who have been abused abuse and those who have not been loved find it hard to love successfully.

	But knowing that shouldn't stop us. You can't legislate love, but you can encourage compassion. You can encourage involvement.

	This week the space shuttle soared in triumph; two years ago it exploded in a million pieces. Families too explode, and so do communities, but like machines they can be put back together again.

	I have spoken, in the past, of "a thousand points of light." Said it the other night in the debates. The good governor said he didn't understand what I meant, which again I do not doubt, although at the time I admit he was in good company.

	But I was using the phrase as shorthand for the fact that we are a nation of communities, of thousands of business and professional and religious and ethnic and regional communities--and in this diversity and pluralism is our salvation. That's where America will be saved--in our communities, which are spread like stars, like a thousand points of light in a broad and peaceful sky.

	In a national movement such as YES to America I am saying "Add your light to the sum of light." Give to those who cross your path and enter your life.

	Love your country, and make your love real by a new engagement in the lives of your countrymen.

	That is what I ask of you. And what can you ask of me? A president cannot flick a switch and cure a problem. But a president can focus attention; a president can point, and say, "There, there is the problem, and it won't go away, and we must do something."

	I mean to point. Not with alarm but soon, I hope, with pride.

	A president must lead. And that is what I intend to do.

	I thank you for inviting me, for giving me a platform for my views, and I hope I can return.

	Thank you.

CRIME--GENERALFAMILIESMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESPOVERTYCHILDRENVOLUNTEERISM     *4 3 3 3 3
 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3	 G 	 9 	 1 	      e: