

	Thank you very much. I want to thank Jay Rockefeller for those wonderful words of introduction and welcome. He comes from a very distinguished and well-known family, but of all of the members of that family he is very easily the favorite of the McGoverns and of the people of West Virginia. And the reason he is our favorite is that he has given his life and his great talent and his energy not to the selfish betterment of himself, but he gives himself and his energies to making life better for all of us and that is what public service ought to be all about. And so I accept that invitation to come back to the Governor's Mansion next year, and I want to extend an invitation to Sharon and Jay Rockefeller to visit us in the White House next year, and also on this platform we have a member of the Congress who comes from a state many, many miles from West Virginia but who has fought as hard as anyone in the Congress for the coal miners, the workers, the ordinary people of this country--he is a very distinguished Congressman, and I would like to ask him to stand and take a bow--Congressman Phil Burton of California. 

	Now Congressman Hechler was with us a few minutes ago and no one in the state of West Virginia has a better friend than Congressman Ken Hechler, but he has a perfect voting record in never having missed a roll call vote in all of the years that he has been in the United States Congress and he left us a few minutes ago in order to keep that voting record intact, but I am very proud of the fact that Congressman Hechler was the first member of the House of Representatives to publicly endorse my candidacy while I was still trying to get the nomination for President--and he did that when I stood at 4 percent in the public opinion polls. I think that is some measure of his courage.

	So I am glad to be in Congressman Hechler's district here in Logan County, I am glad to be in a state that has produced two of the best known members of Congress--Senator Bob Byrd and Jennings Randolph--and those are two men that I have come to know and appreciate for their character and the hard work that they invest on behalf of the constituents of their state. So it is good to be here in West Virginia and I want to say that while Jay Rockefeller is right that we do have an uphill fight, we were given a good slogan last night in Huntington, West Virginia by one of our supporters who said from here on out his battle cry is going to be "All the way with George and Jay." And as we came to the stage today--one of the men stopped me and said, "George, if you want to win this election, get more like Harry Truman and start giving them hell." I do want to win this election but I remember what Harry Truman said when the press asked him if it was true that he gave the Republicans hell. He said: "No, I never gave them hell at any time--all I did was to tell them the truth about it and they thought it was hell."

	And that is all we want to do in Logan today. We didn't come here to raise hell, we came here to tell the truth. I don't think you are going to see Richard Nixon in Logan County--he sneaks out every now and again in a helicopter and stops in someplace for a few minutes, but he is sitting there in the White House smugly on top of his Gallup Poll thinking that everything is safe and sound and that all he has to do is print these slogans around the country, "Reelect the President". He doesn't even tell us what his name is--he just says "Reelect the President." And if my name was Nixon, I would keep it a secret too. Because this is the man who has broken more promises in three and a half years in office than any other president in the history of the United States. 

	He campaigned four years ago all across this country on a pledge that if he was elected he was going to do whatever was necessary to create five million more jobs here in the United States. And he talks about the work ethic and every person in West Virginia takes pride in hard, honest work and there is no state in the Union where that is more true. But it is an insult to the people of this country who cannot find jobs to talk about them in the kind of cold and scoffing terms that the President has in recent days. Now the truth is that they are giving us five million new jobs and taking away the jobs of two million people who were working when they came into office--and in the final weeks of this campaign with six or seven million men and women who want very badly to work walking the streets looking for jobs that are not there. Now there is no excuse for that. 

	If we have a president with the vision of a Harry Truman or a Franklin Roosevelt or a John Kennedy--if we had the philosophy of those men, which is the philosophy of the Democratic party, we would see to it that either by stimulating private industry or by direct public service employment to do the kinds of things this country so desperately needs, we would see to it that there was a good job for every man and woman in this country who wants to work. And that is a pledge that I make as pledge number one as far as the domestic agenda of this country is concerned. There is nothing that is any more wasteful, nothing that is any more radical, nothing that is any more destructive than to create the kinds of conditions where seven or eight or nine million people cannot find work because of the mistaken policies of their government. So let us recognize, as we think about this decision we are going to have to make on November 7th, that this is a promise that the President did not keep; this is a promise on which he failed and it is time on November 7th to give a new leadership in this country a chance to put people back to work.

	Now the second pledge that the President made in 1968 that we ought to keep in mind when we think about the great sacrifices that the young men and the families of this state have made to the war in Southeast Asia is that the President pledged to us that if he won that election, once it was over, he was going to unveil a secret plan to bring the war to an end. Well as far as I am concerned, if he has any such plan it is still his secret. In the four years that he has been in office another 20,000 young Americans have died in that war; another 100,000 have been injured; some $70 billion of money has been expended; tens of thousands of innocent people killed on the other side, and I submit to you that there is no settlement of this war that we could get now that we couldn't have had on just as good terms four years ago when Mr. Nixon first came into office on a pledge to end this war. So I want to repeat here this morning something that I have said a thousand times in every part of this country and I say it as a combat pilot who flew a bomber in World War II and who knows something about the tragedy of war, that if I become the president of this country I don't have any secret plan to end the war. I have a public plan and that is to commit to you on my honor that within ninety days of the inauguration we will have every American prisoner home, every American soldier home, and this war put behind us once and for all.

And keep in mind that we did not run into trouble in this conflict because of the lack of bravery of our soldiers. We never sent a better fighting force abroad than we sent abroad--the best-trained, the best-equipped, the best-educated fighting men that this country has ever sent into combat. But we sent them to do an impossible task which is to try to prop up a politically corrupt political machine in Saigon that has never had the confidence and respect of its own people. And that is the reason we ought to disengage from this conflict. And that is the reason that never again should we send the young men of this country to try and prop up a corrupt dictatorship of that kind that does not have the respect of its own people.

Now we have some other unfinished business right here at home--right here in Logan County, West Virginia, and all across this country. We have, first and foremost, the responsibility of seeing to it that every man and woman who works--whether it is in a mine or a mill or a shop--works under conditions that are as healthful, as safe and as clean as we can possibly make them, and that is an obligation that we owe to the working people of this country. It is a moral outrage as Mr. Rockefeller, the next governor of West Virginia told us a while ago, that this administration has neglected the enforcement of the Mine, Safety and Health Act. They have not provided adequate inspectors; they have not taken that legislation seriously; they have not taken seriously the thousands of men across this country who are afflicted with Black Lung and Brown Lung; they have not taken seriously the importance of dealing with the safety, health and well-being of the miners, the factory workers and all of those who labor in this community and in the country. I would like to recommend here today that we shift the enforcement of the Mine, Safety and Health Act out of the Department of the Interior and put it in the Department of Labor under a Secretary of Labor whose selection is from the ranks of labor. And then I would like to recommend that we provide at least 8,000 federal inspectors to see that this act is properly carried out. 

I am releasing here today a statement that is too long to read to this audience, but which I hope all of you will come to study and come to appreciate it is called "The Agenda for Human Concerns in Appalachia". It recommends the improvement of working conditions for all of the people of Appalachia; it recommends better health standards, better education, better diets. It recommends that we put an end to the strip mining that is destroying much of this beautiful state. And we--it insists that a job be available for every one of those men now engaged in strip mining. I am for deep mining. I am pro-deep mining, not only because it is the most stable and secure way of getting the coal that this country needs, but because it is a method that can give us the fuel that we need without destroying the land, without destroying the countryside, and without destroying the environment which after all sustains life itself.

So these are some of the reasons why I come to West Virginia today. If you want to know much of the program that I am going to give top priority to after next January, look at the bills that Richard Nixon has vetoed. Look at the Education Bill which he vetoed which deprives the children of this state a better education and which raises the property tax of every person who owns his own home or his own shop. Every time that President Nixon has struck down one of these bills for elementary and secondary education, he has raised the property taxes on everybody in the state of West Virginia and at the same time he deprives us of good quality education of the kind we want for our children. So that is a bill that we won't veto in a McGovern administration.

And instead of fighting against better retirement income for our older people as President Nixon has done, we will have a leadership in this country who will fight for a better life for the older people of our country. And instead of vetoing one of the finest pieces of legislation ever passed by the United States Congress--The Child Development Act--a common sense proposal to provide family-related daycare programs for our children and the children of working mothers, instead of vetoing legislation of that kind like President Nixon did, we will have a leadership that gets behind legislation to strengthen the families and the children of this country that, after all, represent the future of this country--the United States.

So keep these matters in mind in the days and weeks ahead and the important decision on November 7th--do what you can to see that Jay Rockefeller becomes the next Governor of this state; make sure that Congressman Ken Hechler goes back to Congress with an even bigger margin than he had before; continue to uphold the efforts of Senator Byrd and Senator Randolph and then please don't look at the public opinion polls--look in your own interest--look in your own hearts and minds and vote Richard Nixon out of office and elect George McGovern the next president of the United States. 

Thank you very much.
CHILD CARECOAL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESEDUCATION--GENERALENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONOCCUPATIONAL SAFETYPROPERTY TAXRETIREMENTUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVIETNAM WAR     i1 51 /1 +1 #1
 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0	  	  	 s 	 a 	 I 	 6 	 * 	   	  e: