

	Thank you, Senator Moss. Thank you once again for your generous, kind, and flattering introduction. But most of all, thank you for your service to this nation and to this state, to the people of this troubled world.

	Mrs. Moss, my good friend, Governor and Mrs. Rampton, President Brown, President Tanner, and might I say at this place that as we left the church offices, Mrs. Humphrey and I in just folksy fashion waved when we went by the apartment of President David O. McKay and he was there to give us a kind wave back. Our prayers and thoughts go to the President and Mrs. McKay, very gracious and wonderful people, truly great leaders in this country.

	I am somewhat overwhelmed today, not only because of this great assemblage and this historic, beautiful tabernacle, but because all my life, I have been wanting to be close to the Tabernacle Choir and am I ever close to it today. And isn't it beautiful? Isn't their music the voice of America, the voice of this country?

	I have had heard the Star Spangled Banner many times, but I have never heard it like I heard it today. And I don't believe I have ever heard anybody else sing the second verse. But it is simply beautiful. So I come to you today with heart full of emotion and appreciation. I know that I am in an honored place and on hallowed ground, and I hope that I can speak to you about matters that pertain to our country and our world in a thoughtful and sober and, I trust, helpful manner. 

	Today I want to share with you my thoughts on the progress of a great campaign, and every campaign in American is important. I want to share with you my thoughts on the issues raised and even the issues avoided, and the things which we, the American people, must consider in the five weeks remaining before election date. We live today as we know, in a time of political crisis that is literally world-wide. It is not only our experience. There is ferment and change throughout this planet. But I think it is well for us to have this in perspective and to remember past times and political crisis in this country. History students know that George Washington, when urged to take a third term, did not do so because of the personal abuse that he had suffered, abuse calling him a "mean, deceitful stepfather of his country."

	Then there was the whiskey rebellion, and Washington raised an army of 13,000 men, larger than his army during the War of Independence, to put down that rebellion.

	During the War of 1912, violent, protesting groups blocked the streets and interrupted state governments. A congressman who voted for that war was brutally kicked and beaten by a street mob.

	There have been other times of crisis. The anti-draft riots of 1861; the violence and death that came with the populist revolution; the conflict that tore this country before and during World War I; then the worldwide economic, political and social crisis of the 1930s.

	Many of you lived through that crisis. You know the story well and possibly only too well as demagogues sought scapegoats in our country and dictators sought to enslave their own people and imperil the peace of the world. We had demagogues in America promising simple solutions. But in our own fashion, in our own quiet way, we chose another way, the way of free men. We turned to the ballot box and we elected a great President, Franklin D. Roosevelt.

	His was not the way of repression and violence, as some had advocated, but the way of freedom and orderly change. His is the way of making the Constitution a living instrument for the living people and for generations yet unborn. His answer to the great crisis of our economy was not fear--you remember--but faith. Not hate, but hope. And not bullets but ballots, and not empty promises, but jobs and bread.

	Now, what is the nature of today's crisis, because we surely have one. In America, it is a crisis of democratic institutions, it is a crisis of our faith as a free people, a crisis of our faith in each other.

	When I started this campaign, I stated that even if it cost me my political life, I would make no compact with extremism, and I repeat that pledge to you now.

	When I hear this choir singing "This is my country," there is no room in this country for the men of violence and extremism that would tear it to shreds. Rather, there is room for millions and millions yet unborn, for those who can stand up and say I love America and all that it means.

	No election, even winning the Presidency, is worth the price of compromising away our basic beliefs and principles. The danger to democracy today is not merely in apathy, but more so in the clash of the extremes, the handful, bitter and violent, disciplined, extremes. And let us be clear, the extremes of the left and the right, while they would have you believe they stand on different ground, they meet on common ground.

	They both seek to destroy that vast majority. As I refer to them sometimes, that great silent majority of Americans, the moderate middle that is the very life line and the very backbone of this republic. And they seek to destroy with it our democracy. They both seek to embitter the tolerant and the generous heart of America. They both seek to bring violent confrontation. They both seek to settle matters not by reason but by conflict, not by mind but by muscle.

	So let's get it straight here and all in this great assemblage, there are people today who make their basic appeal to the more evil and baser instincts of man--to fear, to racial prejudice, to escapism, to the darker side of the human character. And they are dangerous. And there are others in our society--and they are not these fresh-faced young idealists that we love so much. But there are those who are preaching the same doctrine of disorder and anarchy and they are using totalitarian tactics of the street, the very tactics that brought dictatorship to Europe, that brought Hitler to power.

	And there are those who preach even guerrilla warfare, black and white. And you and I know that that cannot be condoned and it must be stopped.

	And there are those who would destroy homes and businesses and lives in their supposed zeal to correct injustices. And you and I know that they must be stopped also.

	They are of no one race, they are of no one ideology, but they all share a basic disdain, yes, a hatred for the democratic processes of democracy itself. They say they propose to "tear this society down and build a new one on its ashes." And I quote them.

	They try to shout down presidential candidates and they say they will disrupt the polling places on election day. They even threaten to break up the inaugural ceremonies next January 20th.

	In the meantime, they promise in their language, 50, 100, 200 more Chicagos.

	Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Americans, no democracy can, nor should any democracy stand for it. We have no reason to.

	Now, this campaign will decide whether the extremists will succeed, whether the voices of hate and prejudice and division will drive out the voices and the forces of opportunity, progress, order and justice. This I believe is the great question before America, and it goes far beyond party--shall we, in this time of crisis--and there is a crisis--move forward toward one society? This is my America, or justice and opportunity. Or shall we become a fractured society, cleft into two or more parts, hostile, filled with antagonists and embittered?

	This is much more than traditional campaign oratory, because the extremists say they believe they can succeed. They think we are afraid. They think they can terrify us into doing nothing or standing aside while they work their evil will. And in their success, they see the end of our democratic society as we have known it and they proudly proclaim it so.

	Now, when confronted with conflict, different people will react in different ways. The way of the extremists is to react with repression and with violence. The way of people who believe in democracy is to act with peaceful reform and firmness.

	Now, I repeat, reform is not just enough. There must be a will, a sense of strength, a firmness. We can be resolute without being belligerent. We can be firm without being bellicose. We can be strong without being arrogant and we can be right without being tyrannical.

	I will say that this is the way we must choose. Our political instincts are good. And the institutions that we fashioned throughout the years have created and improved with political representation and they are decent ones. Our democracy grows like a child. We are a pluralistic nation, many people with a common purpose, a phrase which means we have absorbed millions of immigrants and they have become Americans. Now, we are confronted with a statistical prediction that thirty-two years from now, there will be 300 million Americans in the year 2000. And with that almost many more urban problems of housing and poverty and traffic, education and government. The shift from the nation of farms to one of cities has come quickly and it brings a tidal wave of problems and difficulties. And it has brought crises in education and training and planning, and most importantly, in individual human identity. People want to be individuals, not statistics. They want to be known for their personality, not for their code number. They cry out for some way for identification.

	Things have changed? Listen. Was it really true that when Jefferson was inaugurated, he got on a horse in front of his boarding house and rode to the capitol, took the oath, was greeted by a small crowd of admirers and got on his horse again and rode back to his boarding house? That is what history says. It is a far cry from the inaugurals of today.

	Was it really true that when Abraham Lincoln walked the corridors of the White House in an old night shirt and a pair of scuffed carpet slippers, mourning the casualties, or sat in the White House war room where the newfangled magnetic telegraph ticked out occasional news of battle--was it really true that we were a nation of a few more than just 30 million?

	Can it be that there are enough fearful and doubting people today who have lost their American faith, that say that a nation of more than 200 million, with fabulous wealth and technology, beyond the dreams of man, confronted with poverty long neglected, with protests and demonstrations, cannot do what is right?

	Do they really fear to do what is necessary to bring the depressed minorities of black American, Spanish-speaking Americans, and those of small minorities, black or white, into the full and faithful dream of America?

	I don't believe so. I think Americans know better.

	We are concerned, of course--troubled. But we are not afraid, and that is the important thing. And it is, I say, therefore a time for faith, faith in the heritage of this nation, faith in its basic goodness and its strength, faith in principles, faith in American purpose. Faith--what a beautiful word. Faith in the belief so dramatically sustained by history that through the ages an increasing purpose runs in our national life and that our minds and faith are opened and widened by the passage of the suns. My campaign and my presidency, my fellow Americans, should the people grant it, shall be based on that faith in the essential character of the American people.

	And it shall be based on the premise that new means for new times of individual participation and expression can be found in this country, so that every one can be a participant in the processes of democracy as well as its benefits. It shall be based on the faith that man can change whatever is wrong in his environment to positive, creative orderly action. And it shall be based on the belief that the leadership of this nation owes it to the people to speak out and to do what is right regardless of any temporary public opinion polls or national moods.

	I refuse to try to outguess what is the prevailing wind of public opinion. I have been told that I should tread lightly on the issue of equal opportunity and human rights. I have been told to tread lightly on the issue concerning the necessity of our federal government to undertake broad new initiatives to try to rescue our cities before they rot from within, to renew the hopes and the lives of those left out of our society, to bring peace to our neighborhoods, to our nation, and to the human family. I have been told all of this is too far out, that America's mood is more conservative, that it wants to be left alone.

	Well, I say that America is better than the polls indicate or the commentators tell us.

	I say this nation is not sick. It is going through growing pains. It has not lost its way, it is searching for a better way. And if America is not better than the polls indicate, then I say to you that it is our duty to try to make it better, to lead this nation.

		And we can't do it by banner slogans such as the misuse of the terms even so important as law and order by some few people who mean something else entirely. Of course, law and order must prevail. Senator Moss said from this platform it was my duty to provide law and order to a city of over half a million people and I did it. The issue is what and how. What kind of law shall prevail and how to keep order? In our democracy, we believe in the kind of law that will allow every human being the fullest opportunity to live and grow and develop his God-given rights, and talents.

		In our democracy, we believe we must use wisdom and effort to separate the guilty from the innocent. We must never apply the primitive rule of guilt by association, guilt by religion, age, color, or any other form of association. We have to be more meticulously careful because of our dedication to human rights and human dignity. And in our democracy, the primary jurisdiction for maintaining order rests with state and local authorities to protect the rights of people and not with the federal government. The President can and must by word, deed, and conduct, inspire our nation to respect for the law, to obey the law.

		But let me say from this platform, in our frenzy for law and order, we do not want to have a powerful federal government end up with a powerful national police force that can threaten all of the rights of our people.

		It is sad and it is ironic to hear two presidential candidates who have for many years proclaimed states rights claim that they will use presidential power to police the streets of our cities. One of these candidates, and this is most ironic, was the governor of a state with the highest murder rate in the nation. He could not maintain order in his own state where he had all the power. Now, he promises to maintain order in every city and every state where he will not have the power.

		And it is ironic, too, to hear the loud cries for law enforcement come from the spokesman of a party that has consistently fought every effort to secure the needed federal funds for cities that are prostrate, that are hopelessly trying to find funds. And even this year, that party voted to reduce funds to combat crime.

		I know that a city mayor has a very limited tax base. And law and order, like freedom and peace, are not cheap. They have to be paid for. And if they have to be paid for by a constant increase of the property tax, then home ownership becomes undesirable and the tax becomes confiscatory. Therefore, these funds that I speak of are needed from your federal treasury to strengthen the law enforcement agencies, to improve police training, to provide for modern equipment, to recruit more personnel, and to pay them for the job that they are doing.

		Ladies and gentlemen, law and order can be yours and mine if we are willing to back the police, pay them, train them, recruit them, and give them the opportunity to preserve the order of our communities.

		Yes, I think this nation deserves better of its leaders and their appeals, I tell you, if put into action would only lead this nation to a spiral of repression and ultimately to the terrible exhaustion of mind and spirit. But the reform we need so much will be impossible unless we are able to distinguish democratic dissent from dangerous disorder.

		Now, my ears echo with the voices of dissent. Yet I stand before you for firmness above all. I believe in the right to be different, the right to dissent, not for some but for everyone. America in a sense is built on dissent, as the settlers of this valley surely know. Dissent is the dynamo of democracy, in Utah as in all America. When the people of the nation can move their heads in one direction only, up and down, they must soon bow them down forever.

		The working of our political democracy rests upon four great rights--freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom to vote, freedom of conscience. And from the exercise of these great rights flows the power of reform and firmness. When a group of hecklers, no matter how righteous they believe their cause to be, when they shout down a speaker, whoever that speaker may be, they are denying the right to freedom of speech and they injure democracy.

		If they break up a meeting they are denying others the freedom of assembly and they weaken democracy. And when they threaten to sit in the voting booths on election day, taunting the police to take them out, they are denying that great freedom to vote. And when violent, bigoted men desecrate cemeteries, burn churches, temples or synagogues, freedom of conscience is not only threatened, but it is destroyed. The tyranny of the majority in the form of government is oppressive. But the tyranny of a minority in the form of mob action and violence is equally oppressive. And I say that it is time for Americans to speak up and say a plague on both your houses; we condemn both.

		The formula is rather simple and yet profound: dissent, yes; disorder, no. Disorder is not dissent; indeed, disorder, especially organized disorder, is the enemy of dissent. Destruction is not debate; indeed, the violence of destruction can only silence the vitality of a debate. A free society can tolerate neither a police state nor mob rule. And if it makes the wrong decisions, this society can be dangerously close to getting both.

		Founders of our two great parties, Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, Abraham Lincoln, were men who governed the troubled times, but they brought creation out of their chaos because they governed in the fundamental faith of the goodness and the greatness of the American people. In the challenge of the problems of their day, they saw the chance for progress. And today, no less than then, out of our problems, we must find a chance for progress.

		Can we stand for less than they fought and struggled to achieve? The spirit of a free people must be continually reborn. It must be like a fresh spring giving forth new water. This is our challenge and this is our opportunity in 1968. Either we begin slipping backward into a great division of our people and a widening spiral of fear or we continue moving forward into a new day of justice and order. And once we make this choice, I don't see how we can change it.

		Which way? Separation or community? Apartheid or democracy? A society of order and liberty or a society of fear and oppression? I appeal therefore to the silent majority of Americans to speak their belief in the decency of our democracy, to go to the polls this November in the spirit of faith in this republic, not of fear, in the spirit of hope, not of hate; in the spirit of our fathers who crossed oceans, mountains, and deserts, who overcame all the obstacles to build a land of liberty and justice for all that we sang today--"This Is My Country".

		We have faced grave crises before, as I have noted in my remarks. And we have transformed the chaos of yesterday into a new creation. I believe that the American people can do so again and I am in this campaign to call them to this task.

		So I say let us have a campaign of faith, not a campaign of fear and despair, but a campaign of hope and promise. Let us have a campaign of faith in our own character and faith in our country's increasing purpose--faith in our principles. That beautiful hymn that you heard here today, "Come, Come, Ye Saints, All Is Well"; come, come, ye Americans, there is a great reservoir of goodness and strength in this land that waits to be called.

		So let us have faith here and reassert it. Let us once again pledge that that American dream and promise can be a reality. Faith in America, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. This is my country.

		Thank you.
CIVIL DISORDERCIVIL RIGHTSCRIME--GENERALFREEDOM OF SPEECHHISTORY--UNITED STATESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONTERRORISM (DOMESTIC)URBAN AFFAIRS/AIDPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONS     NR 