

	Last Tuesday evening, I addressed the American people on what I believe remains the central issue in this campaign: the continuation of the war in Vietnam four years after Mr. Nixon pledged to bring us peace.

	As I spoke that night, two dramas were unfolding in distant parts of the world--one a mystery, the other a tragedy.

	The mystery is played out in Paris and in Washington as Mr. Nixon's representatives cross the globe and fuel the speculation that peace is near.

	But the tragedy is played out in Southeast Asia as American bombers--even as I spoke Tuesday night and as we meet here tonight--continue their remorseless pounding of the land and people of that distant corner of the world.

	As long as that tragedy continues, we will not be silenced by the mystery. We will not stop speaking about this war until it ends.

	Like all Americans, I want desperately to believe that peace in fact is at hand. But we have been led too often to the apparent edge of peace, only to find there the continuation of war. We have been told too often that peace is within our reach to celebrate another round of rumors.

	After a decade of chronic war, the American people will no longer be satisfied with promises of peace. They demand the reality of peace, and nothing less will do.

	Since my address Tuesday night, Mr. Nixon's "surrogates" have been unusually busy responding in often hysterical terms to what I said.

	What they have been saying makes little sense, but I ask you tonight to consider what they are not saying.

	Not one has argued that my plan will not work. Not one has claimed my program would fail to achieve the goals I would set as our first priorities in Southeast Asia--to end the fighting, to end the dying, and to bring our prisoners home within ninety days of my inauguration. They are not saying that because they know it can be done.

	And not one of those Republican spokesmen has told us when Mr. Nixon is going to end this war. They have not told us because after four years of broken promises, Mr. Nixon's own apologists are not certain he can bring us peace.

	In May of 1969, Mr. Nixon's chief foreign strategist, Mr. Kissinger, told a meeting in his office, "Give us six months. If we have not ended the war then, you can come back and tear down the White House fence."

	Three months later; Secretary Laird told the American people, "I think we've certainly turned the corner toward peace in Vietnam."

	In September 1969, Mr. Nixon promised the American people--and I quote--"We will end the war before the end of 1970." 

	Four months into 1970, he went on television to report--and I quote him again--"We finally have in sight the just peace we are seeking."

	A few weeks later, he announced the invasion of Cambodia--"a move," he said, "that will shorten the war."

	In May of last year, Ambassador Bunker speculated that the chances for peace would improve after the South Vietnamese elections. In the summer the Administration speculated they would improve with the China trip, and in October Senator Scott speculated that the war would be over by the middle of this summer.

	I say tonight, as Richard Nixon said four years ago: "Those who had a chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance."

	I say tonight, as Richard Nixon said four years ago: "If in November this war is not over, after all the power that has been at their disposal, then ... the American people will be justified to elect new leadership."

	There is one other thing that Mr. Nixon said soon after he took office and I believe we must hold him to it.

	"I do not ask unlimited patience," he told us, "from a people whose hopes for peace have too often been raised and cruelly dashed over the past four years ... In my campaign for the presidency," he continued, "I pledged to end this war ... If I fail to do so, I expect the American people to hold me accountable for that failure."

	If we do not hold this president accountable for his own actions in Vietnam, what hope is there of ever having a president who will honor his commitments to the American people?

	I believe it is time to hold Mr. Nixon accountable.


	We must hold him accountable for 20,000 Americans who have died in this war since he was elected on a solemn pledge of peace. For those men, Mr. Nixon's secret plan for peace will remain a secret forever. 

	We must hold Mr. Nixon accountable for the 110,000 Americans who have returned from that combat with battered bodies and shattered dreams since he took office.

	We must hold Mr. Nixon accountable for adding four long years to the agonizing captivity of our prisoners in Southeast Asia; and for bringing home loneliness and uncertainty rather than husbands and fathers to 550 more American families of new prisoners and new missing men.

	We must hold Mr. Nixon accountable for the hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese civilians--most of them in the South--who have been killed or maimed, and the millions who have been sent wandering across the face of Asia by the bombing he continues even as I speak.

	We must hold Mr. Nixon accountable for intensifying the war in Laos and for spreading the war to Cambodia--a nation at peace when Mr. Nixon took office. Today, we have made refugees of nearly one out of every three Laotians and one of every four Cambodians, and the Communists now control almost three-fourths of the territory in that previously neutral nation.

	And we must hold Mr. Nixon accountable for the more than $60 billion he has spent on this war since the day he took office.  If on January 1, 1969, Richard Nixon had decided to spend that money, not to prosecute the Vietnamese war, but to clean up the American environment, then according to the Administration's  own estimates, we could by now have cleaned up all our dirty rivers and cleansed the air we breathe.

	There is only one way the American people can hold a president accountable. They can say with their votes at the end of his term: "Enough!"

	Enough of a war we have already rejected in two presidential elections.

	Enough of corners turned and light spotted at the end of tunnels and decisive military actions that produce only the talk of peace and the acts of war.

	Enough napalm that chars bodies and scars hopes, enough anti-personnel bombs that serve no other function but to tear human flesh, enough saturation bombings that have left more than twenty million craters in the soil of Southeast Asia.

	We can end this war.  We can bring peace to Southeast Asia. We can bring freedom to our prisoners.

	But the false hopes and dashed expectations of a hundred past initiatives have left a legacy of skepticism and disbelief among our people.  We have begun to doubt whether we will ever escape the grip of that consuming conflict.

	In that nationwide TV address on Tuesday, I set forth to the American people the specific steps I will take as president to end this tragic war and secure the prompt release of our prisoners. The American people have a right to ask why this plan will succeed where others have failed. It will succeed because it represents a fundamental break in the historical chain that has kept us locked in Vietnam. No longer will we be chasing a military victory that can never come; instead we will stand committed to peace. No longer will we be seeking to preserve a corrupt regime in Saigon or to impose our own political solution on the Vietnamese people; instead we will let them decide their own destiny at last.

	It will succeed because prisoners are released at the end of a war. A half million soldiers and seven million tons of bombs have not secured the freedom of our prisoners. As long as those bombs continue to fall, as long as we send arms to the South Vietnamese and send our proxies into battle, as long as we follow Mr. Nixon's course in Vietnam, there will be no hope for our prisoners. When we end the bombing, when we withdraw our forces and stop fueling the war with our military supplies, our involvement in this war will be over. There will be no reason for the other side to continue holding our men and the strongest reason for sending them home.

	It will succeed because the negotiating position of the other side has been clear on the release of our prisoners. Once we set a firm date for the end of our involvement, they have said they will release our prisoners as we withdraw our soldiers. As we withdraw some of our soldiers, they have said they will release some of our prisoners. We will have evidence of whether they are honoring their commitment while we are still in the process of honoring ours.

	Finally, it will succeed because it has succeeded before.

	The people of France were trapped in Vietnam before us. In 1954, they chose a new Premier, Pierre Mendes-France, whose highest commitment was to achieve peace in Indochina.

	His program was similar to mine. And within five weeks the war was over; within three months every French prisoner had been returned.

	We remain in Vietnam, we are now told, to preserve our honor. But how can there be honor in persisting in a mistake? What is truly honorable is to stop compounding that mistake and start binding up the wounds it has created.

	How can there be honor in doing with our machines what we are unwilling to do with our men? What is truly honorable is to use our resources to rebuild the ravaged lands of Southeast Asia.

	How can there be honor in destroying a nation in order to save it? What is truly honorable is to finally bring peace to a people who have known only a generation of war.

	And perhaps that is the most fundamental difference of all between Richard Nixon and myself. For while he says there will be no peace without honor for America, I say there can be no honor for America until there is peace.

	Thank you and God bless you.
PEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPOWS/MIASVIETNAM WAR     ?' ' ' ' &
 & & & & & & & &	 < 	  	  e: