                

	The Bible is a good place to start a talk and it is from the Bible that I am going to start this one.  In the book of Ecclesiastes, there is a chapter called "A Season for Everything."  In that chapter there is a sentence, "A time to keep and a time to cast away."  That is a good text for this political campaign. 

	You have been hearing, as I have, that you better watch out for the Republican Party, because that party and its candidates are out to take something good away from the American people.

	Well I know that you know better than that.  I know you know more about America than that.  For the implication of that assertion by the Democrats is that everything good we've got has come to us from the generous hands and handouts of the present administration.

	That's not my idea of America and I know it's not your idea either.  What is the source of our share of the good things of life?  It is our own hard work, our brains, our creative imaginations, and the great bounty of nature. Governments do not create.  Governments only give what they have taken away--taken away from the people.  Nowhere has this strange idea come from that government is the great provider?  It comes from men who have little faith in the people, and small vision of what the people can do.  They say we must have more and more government management of the people's affairs, because the people are less and less able to manage their own affairs.  Now that is just one totally irreconcilable difference between the Democrat Party and the Republican Party.  The Democrat Party looks down at the people; the Republican Party looks ahead with the people.

	Now, what is the weapon by which this lack of faith in the people is enforced?  The weapon is fear--and fear, under the present national administration has become a national policy.  Fear, for such an administration, serves several purposes.  It makes every job and every problem look like an impossible job and problem.  It is no coincidence that under Democrat administration 16 out of the last twenty years have been officially labeled "emergency."

	Then fear serves a second purpose.  It weakens the confidence of the people in themselves.  The administration answer to every newly created doubt is to create a new federal agency or bureau.

	The third thing that fear does is to divert attention from the administration's failures.  A frightened people are not likely to ask too many questions.  And too many questions are just what this administration itself is frightened of.

	I reject the whole doctrine of fear, and the fearful, fumbling policies that are based on it.  I have seen too much of what Americans can do to doubt that America can still be a land of great miracles.  This is a time to keep and a time to cast away.  One of the first things we will cast away is fear.

	Some other things are going to be cast away too--their outcasting is long overdue.

	We are going to cast out the incompetent, the irresponsible and the wasteful.  We will not try to make two inefficient bureaus grow where one grew before.  We will see to it that every bureau does a full, efficient job for the people.  Does anyone doubt that we can find able, patriot Americans to do that job?  You know the answer.

	We are going to cast out the crooks and their cronies.  What has been the record of this administration when conditions of bad judgment, loose associations, wretched morals, and disloyalty have appeared in our government?  You know that record.  It is first ignored, then denied, and finally excused.  And when, under pressure, a clean-up job looked called for, then what happened?  One fumbling plan followed another and things remained what they were--only more so.

	And when it comes to casting out the crooks and their cronies, I can promise you that we won't wait for Congressional prodding and investigations.  The prodding this time will start from the top.  And when we are through, the experts in shady and shoddy government operations, will be on their way back to the shadowy haunts, the sub-cellars of American politics from whence they came.

	We will do this because it is the right, the American thing to do. We will do it because the loss of men of faith in their government leads finally to loss of faith in each other.  Yet faith in each other is the principle which holds our society together; it is the very core of the stuff we live by.

	A government in which the people can have faith will restore the people's faith in government, and strengthen their faith in each other.

	Here is something else we are going to cast out--governmental domination of the people it is supposed to serve.  When I talk about this you may get the idea that I am trying to be philosophical or highbrow, but believe me, this thing affects the lives of every one of us.  Like the rest of the things we will cast out, this too is a product of fear and lack of faith in the people.  This idea that government is the people's master is widespread in our world.  It is called by many names, but it always leads to the same destination.  It puts the gears of progress in reverse and carries society back to the days when the king was government and government was the final goal and the only power.

	We have a lot of bureaucrats who are wizards with words.  They try to tell us that they are not trying to rule the people at all.  They have tried to sell us on the idea that when you and I get something from the government, we are actually getting something for nothing.  That is a very seductive idea.  But I can tell you from first hand observation in many lands what happens when people begin to live by that idea.  They first enjoy; then they tolerate; and finally they pay.  The price they pay is their liberty.  And then when it is too late, they discover that they never did get anything for nothing.  They had been paying all along.

	In this country we are already paying part of the price for too much government in too many of our affairs.  One purpose of this campaign is to make it unmistakably clear how high the price already is.

	Part of that price is inflation.  Today, thanks to inflation, there are more dollars lying around and probably more of them in our pockets than ever before.  And the funny thing about it is that those dollars look exactly as dollars have always looked.  But your wife, when she goes shopping to the corner store, knows better.  You and I know better.  That dollar in your pocket is not a dollar, it is 52 cents.  That is part of the price we are paying for this false doctrine.  Don't you agree with me that it is too high a price?

	Or let's take a look--a jaundiced look, I should say, at our taxes.  Let's suppose you are the head of a home and you have an income of $3,500.  You pay one-quarter of that income in taxes.  One day in every four you don't work for yourself or your family--you work for the federal, state and local governments.  Now don't tell me you like that!

	Now of course those money magicians tell you that the rich pay the taxes.  The fact is that the rich couldn't pay the costs of our federal government.  If you took every dollar of every American income above $10,00 a year--if you put 100% income tax on every one of those incomes--how much would you get?  The amount collected would not run the present federal government more than about two and one half months.

	Who pays the taxes to run the government for the rest of the year?  The people in the lower incomes must pay.  Of course, they don't know how much they pay, because many of the taxes are hidden.  Somebody figured out that the number of taxes on one gallon of gasoline in one of our states was 192.  When your wife buys a loaf of bread, she pays 151 taxes.  When you buy an automobile, you pay 206 taxes.  You may not know it--and I am sure your wife won't like the fact that I told you--but there are 150 different taxes on every woman's new hat.

	We know that there is a double toll exacted from the American people by high prices and high taxes.  That toll robs you of your savings, destroys your plans for security.  It casts a shadow of poverty over your old age, and makes you helpless in the face of misfortune.

	What more does this double toll of high prices and high taxes promise for the future?  It promises that if reckless government policies continue, our only support for the future will be a handout from the government.  And we can't be too sure that the government will have anything left to hand out.  That is the high road to slavery; it is the end of individual liberty.  It is the bag of worthless paper at the end of the Fair Deal rainbow.

	I don't believe the American people will like it when they find that they are left holding that bag.  We propose to cast out of Washington both the philosophy and the policies which are emptying that bag.

	So these are some of the things we will cast away--incompetents, fumblers, moss-backs, cronies, crooks and the disloyal in the executive department, the policies and philosophy of the super-state together with all the economic wizards who are promoting that alien doctrine; the threat to our peace and our security by a stumbling foreign policy.  Above all we would cast out the ghastly shadow of fear from the minds and souls of the American people.

	I propose we start the job now and keep at it until it's done.

	And now to turn to the other part of our text.  What will we keep?

	What will be substitute for what we have cast away?

	First we will restore and keep the public service at the high level of honor and distinction to which it is entitled.  The first step is to call to the high offices of government the best men and women--the ablest, the wisest, the most honest and reliable in the land.  Those men and women will be held responsible for getting as their subordinates others who will carry to the farthest reaches of the public service, the highest and most inspiring ideals.  I know something of picking top men and women for top jobs.

	In that undertaking, we can be sure of the wholehearted support of most of our present federal civil servants.  Today they are looking for something in government more than mere monetary reward.  They want to have pride in the service they are in.  I want to make those men and women proud of the fact that they are serving their country wherever and whatever their posts may be.

	Then we will have not only efficiency in government; not only the beginning of the end of waste and irresponsible spending; then we will also have what Theodore Roosevelt called "militant honesty." 

	In the field of public policy on the home front I want to check the trend to the super-state.  All over the world there has swept a wave of Socialism and Communism.  The state has submerged the citizen all the way from mild guardianship to cruel and ruthless mastery.  In the last 20 years that dangerous tide has reached America.  We have vested a number of new responsibilities in government which can safely be left there.  These I propose to maintain.  I have already made it clear what they are.  But I shall not permit the cult of the super-state to remain in control of our federal policies.  Once more I want the bright light of individual responsibility, of opportunity and of personal initiative to guide this country.

	Next, I want to see maintained the Constitutional relationship between the federal and the state governments.  My oath of office would demand that.  My convictions would require it.   The federal government did not create the states in this republic.  The states created the federal government.  The creation should not supersede the creator.

	For if the states lose their meaning, our entire system of government loses its meaning.  And the next step is the rise of the centralized, national state in which the seeds of autocracy can take root and grow.  That happened in Germany after Bismarck, and we all know the tragic end.  It must not happen here.

	I will with the cooperation of Congress strive to turn this tide.  I shall seek and need the cooperation of Congress--always the cooperation of Congress. The next administration will not be a one-man show.

	We will see that the legitimate rights of the states and local communities are respected.  We will not only stop the taking over of the tax sources of the state, but seek reasonably to return them.  And we will not reach into the states and take from them their powers and their responsibilities to serve their citizens.  Where the federal government can and should help, it will help.  But it will regard itself in matters of state and local responsibility as a friend and not as a master.

	Finally, we will replace fear with hope and faith.  We have lived in the unhealthy atmosphere of fear for far too long.

	In the tradition in which I was trained, and in which I passed most of my life, we were taught to waste no time in fear.  In all life as well as in war, moments are precious.  The minutes we spend in panic may be the decisive measure between defeat and victory.

	To yield to fear is not an American habit.

	When we were a small nation, we were surrounded by great and threatening powers.  But our leaders in those days did not sow seeds of fears.  They called for valor, not faintheartedness; for faith, not despair.  These were not men who sought votes by inciting panic.

	A profound responsibility rests upon American leadership once more to cast our fear and inspire once again a feeling of courage and confidence and faith.  To that end I pledge myself and the Republican Party.  Let us turn our eyes again to the light.
GOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALINFLATIONTAXATION--GENERAL     76 6 5 5 5
 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5	 R 	 5 	 