

	Thank you very much.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!  We want Humphrey

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  May I just say that if you think you want Humphrey, I want you to know how much I want you. 

	Congressman Fred Rooney, and without a doubt one of the bright lights of the Congress of the United States and will undoubtedly be re-elected in this district.  And my good friend Joseph Clark who deserves your vote for re-election--and the obviously very much respected and much loved Dr. Raymond Haupert, the president of Moravian College--and my fellow Americans:  You have honored me--I welcome you my fellow Americans.  You have honored me today as few people could be honored by this wonderful turnout.  We have, as you know, outside of this great auditorium, literally hundreds of people that could not get in.  I consider this a very are tribute, and I want to, in my remarks, be worthy of this support and this respect.

	First may I thank the Freedom High school band--and the Liberty High band--and the Bethlehem Catholic High band--and them may I thank all of you.  These people are wonderful.

	Dr. Haupert, you have built this great college into one of the fine liberal arts academic institutions of our country, and I am well aware that Moravian College has a great history of educational excellence--and I want to salute the president of a great university or a great college that has been able to do so much with frankly so little to build such a great institution of learning as this college.  

	Now, my friends, I gather that there are a few politically-minded people here today.  I have seen a few signs around here, and I thought we would just sort of test the temperature.  All those who want George Wallace for president, please stand--do you want George Wallace for president?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Do you want Richard Nixon?  

	VOICES:  No!  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now we are just sort of taking a poll.  Do you want Humphrey and Muskie?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you, thank you.  You know everybody else is taking a public opinion poll.  I thought I would take one, and frankly, I accept the results of the election.  Thank you very much.

	Let's get down to some of the serious business.  We are in the final week of a great campaign that decides the course of this nation.  We are in the final week of a period when the American people are going to make up their minds as to whom they want for president, for Congress, for the Senate, for a host of offices.  First of all, I think we should  be eternally grateful that we have this opportunity of political participation.  Secondly, I would hope that every one in this audience would feel a special obligation to see to it, regardless of how anyone may vote, regardless of his or her preference, that we had a great turnout of the electorate, so that on election day the voice of the American people, the judgment of all of the people, may be fully registered.  No one can safely predict what the outcome of anything will be in these days.  We have our feelings, we have our sensitivity about it, but one thing I would like to be able to say today from this platform is that here in the great state of Pennsylvania, this Keystone state--   that there will be an outstanding example, the best example in the nation, of voter participation in this great decision of the people for their president, their vice president, their state officers, their United States Senator, their congressmen and their legislative representatives.  We have so much to care for, my friends, so much to take car of, and so much to think about for the tomorrows.  We are gong to make a decision not only about what happened yesterday or even today, but what kind of an America will we live in the years to come, an America in which the next twenty years there will be over 100 million more of our fellow citizens.  Where will they live and under what conditions; what kind of opportunities, if any, will they have?

	We have to ask ourselves today, in sober reflection, will we live in a world in which the arms race continues to spiral, in which the level of danger continues to grow, or will we be able to exercise man's ability to reason with one another and to roll back this tide of the arms race, to lower the level of danger?  Will we be able to build institutions of international cooperation which will minimize the possibilities of violence and war?  Will we be able to bring peace into Southeast Asia, a part of the world that has been troubled with violence for over twenty-five years?

	Every person in this room, regardless of whether he is Republican or Democratic or independent or whatever party I think has a deep and abiding interest in this country.  We may see it differently.  I am sure that our perspective is somewhat different, and I would like to share with you some of my thought about where we are, and where we can go.

	We live at a time of restless ferment, and there are many reasons for it.  This is the twenty-third year of the nuclear age when nuclear weaponry has been hanging over our heads with the constant threat of nuclear holocaust.  Is it any wonder that there is a feeling of frustration and anxiety?  We are living at a time when our country has gone through more scientific and technological change in the last twenty-five years than in the preceding 200.  We are living at a time when we have changed from a relatively rural economy into a highly urban economy, when sharecropping of the South has broken up in a large sense and poured its people, frequently poorly educated with little or no opportunities, into the great industrial centers of the North; all of these things have added to the anguish and the ferment and the restlessness and, at times, the despair of our people.

	Some people keep reporting how sick this American society is.  I say to you, my friends, that this American society is growing up.  It is beginning to recognize its responsibilities.  America hasn't lost its way.  America is wrestling, trying, seeking to find its conscience and we are going to decide in this election and elections yet to come if we have a conscience, if we have a sense of compassion, if we have a belief in fair play, if we really believe in opportunity, and if we really believe that every person that bears the title American citizen should have every other right and every opportunity that every other American has regardless of race, creed or color.

	I am convinced--I am convinced that most people want our fellow Americans to have a chance.  I believe that there is a basic goodness in this country.  I believe there is a quality of character in the American people ,that if called forth, will do what is right.  I believe that there is a basic greatness in the American people, but it needs to be rallied, it needs to be called upon.  And I seek the presidency of the United States for one reason and only one reason, to be able to call forth what I believe is that goodness, that sense of decency to be able to challenge and call forth that sense of greatness which I believe is here.  And if we can do it together, there is no problem that is too big for us, there is nothing that we cannot do.

	Now, in all of this, my friends, we must think of the economy in which we live, we must think in terms of the educational system that we have,  we must think in terms of our relationships with each other.

	Now we have differences politically, very strong differences at times, and I hope that in the moments that are mine, that I might be able to share a few of some of the differences between myself and my Republican opponent.  I do not indulge in whether or not the man is a good man or not.  I assume that men who run for high public office are decent.  I assume that they are good men and there is no need of my standing in moral judgment, because who is there who can say that he is without stain, that he is without stain himself?  But there is a difference of political attitude and there surely is a difference of political philosophy.  Let me give you an example.  The other night Mr. Nixon appeared on Face the Nation, I might add the first time he has appeared on a national televised news show of that kind for two years.  On the same day I made my eighteenth appearance on Meet the Press.  I have been willing to share my views.  

	But, my friends, what bothered me was not the fact that he hadn't appeared for two years to go through the cross examination of the capable and able reporters that we have--but let me tell you what bothered me.  He said at the time that he was talking about costs of programs, when he was asked as to what the cost of his rearmament program would be, he immediately turned the question and he said that one of the things that "I would abolish in order to make a saving for this budget of ours would be the Job Corps."  And he mentioned it as a specific.

	Now I want to take a moment about that, because the two men who are here on this platform, Congressman Rooney and Senator Clark, helped make the Job Corps possible.  I was its original author when I was in the Senate of the United States. 

	What was the purpose of the Job Corps?  First of all, let me be very frank with you.  Every young man who goes into the Job Corps is one that was a dropout out of school, one that couldn't, for some reason or other, stay with it, didn't feel that he was up to it, was left out, pushed out or for some sort of reason was an unhappy, despairing young man.  These were not the select, these were not people who have had a fine education, that came from fine homes.  These were not middle class, upper income people.  These are the children of the poor and frequently the sons of the slums, and they went into the Job Corps, some 200,000 of them.  And just before I came here I called to get the figures.  We have now over 200,000 young men and women training in the Job Corps, 173,000 have completed their training, 32,000 are still in training.  That is 173,000 young men and women who never had a chance of any of you in this audience have had--none of them ever had that chance.

	One-hundred-seventy-three thousand, if you please, these are Americans, and they are entitled to a break.  They are entitled to as much of an opportunity as a graduate of Harvard University or Moravian College, and they have been given that chance--and of that 73,000, all of whom were without jobs, all of whom were problems unto themselves in their communities, today 120,000 of them are working at jobs, good jobs, with an average pay of the most recent figures of $1.70 per hour.  Another, may I say--$1.70 an hour.

	Ladies and gentlemen, these were boys that came from the streets.  Now, what did Mr. Nixon say?  He said, "do away with it", and as he was saying it, a United States Olympic champion by the name of George Foreman from Brooklyn was receiving high honors. 

	George Foreman, a heavyweight boxing champion, United States of America Olympic gold medal winner, at that very hour Richard Nixon was saying do away with the Job Corps, this young man stood up and said, "I am here representing the United States of America receiving this gold medal because I got my chance in the Job Corps." 

	Dr. Haupert, my friends here at this great college, I am not at all familiar with all the details, but I venture to say that this institution of higher learning has received some federal assistance under some loan or grant program.  May I say that we are going to have to double the amount of college classroom space in this country in the next twenty-five years, and we are not going to be able to do it with just local resources.  It is going to require a total effort of our country if we are going to provide educational opportunity.  54 percent of the American families today have a son or daughter in college.  Twenty-five years ago, less than 20 percent did.  Education has no longer become the special privilege of an elite.  It has become the right, the right of every citizen of this country, and under the Humphrey-Muskie administration, education will be the right of every from age four through college. 

	Now let's take again a look at some of the differences, let's take a look at some of the differences.  Mr. Nixon was vice president, Mr. Nixon was United States senator, Mr. Nixon was a member of the House of Representatives.  My public career is a mayor of the great city of Minneapolis, sixteen years in the United States Senate, four of those years the majority whip of the Senate, an now in my fourth years as vice president.  Our careers, public life, have been somewhat similar.  Mr. Nixon had his votes on federal aid to education.  We voted on federal aid to education year after year in the Congress of the United States, and it was killed on either race or religion, and Mr. Nixon never once in his public career cast a single vote for any form of federal aid to education, elementary, secondary, or higher. 

	But the man that is speaking to you, the man that is speaking to you--cast his first vote in the Senate in February, 1949 for federal aid to education.  I am one of the co-authors with Senator Clark of the National Defense Education Act.  I am one of the authors of the National Defense Education Act.  I am the author of the Federal Aid to School Construction Act.

	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference between these candidates and these parties.  One said there will be no help.  One said we can't afford it.  But the same man says that we can afford to pour in billions more into weapons that we do not need, but the other man says we must invest in education.  The Democratic candidate says with Thomas Jefferson that you cannot be both free and ignorant, you have to take your choice, and we have come down four square on the side of freedom which means that you must have an educated citizenry, and I believe that every dollar that we invest in it will come back a hundredfold to the advancement of our country. 

	Let us take another area, another area that we move now from the young.  Let us move n over to our senior citizens, our elderly.

	For years we have been talking about the poverty of our elderly which, by the way, is the largest poverty group in America.  We have been talking about their needs for social security and for Medicare.  The first bill that Hubert Humphrey introduced in the Congress of the United States, the very first bill, was a bill to provide hospital and nursing home care under the terms of social security for persons aged sixty-five and over.  I introduced that bill in May 1949, and I was privileged to be in Independence, Missouri, in 1965 to see the President of the United States sign that bill and see it to become law. 

	Senator Clark voted for it and worked for it, and let me tell you, my friends, what it has been.  Seven million people last year, 7 million senior citizens received the best in hospital care, medical care, and nursing home care under the terms of the Medicare legislation.  Twenty-two million people are eligible for it.  It has been a godsend to the elderly.  It has been a great help to the families of those who have--who have parents that they might otherwise have to take care of.  It works.  And what did Mr. Nixon say of it?  First of all, he said it wouldn't work, and secondly he said that it would be a bureaucratic tangle.  Ladies and gentlemen, he opposed it as late as 1962, and now he comes out at this late hour just before the election and says that he thinks it is all right.  I don't buy it.  "Ye shall know them by their deeds, not by their words."

	Now, let us take one other little matter.  Mr. Nixon says let's take a look at the economy, and may I take a look at the economy?  We had--the former vice president has said that he would like to see America once again do what it was doing, continue on the course that it had in the 1950s.  Well, ladies and gentlemen, if America does that, this country is going to be in dire trouble, because in the 1950s we had three job-killing recessions, and they affected Bethlehem and Allentown and Easton.  They affected every one of these communities.  We had unemployment at the rate of 7 percent.  Two million or more unemployed.  And may I say, my dear friends, that the family income for the family of four in this country went up about 9 percent, and here we are in these last eight years, here we are in these last eight years since 1961, since John Kennedy came to this place and spoke, and let's see what happened, we have ninety-two consecutive weeks of economic expansion, 92 consecutive weeks of economic expansion, 10 million new jobs, 32 percent increase in real income after taxes and after the cost of living, twelve million people that have come out of poverty, a billion people that have been trained that were unskilled this past year.

	I submit to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the record of the two administrations speaks for itself.  One was recession, and one is prosperity, and I think the American people want to continue that. 

	Now, my friends, now, my friends, I hear the word "war."  Let me say that it was in 1954, 1954 that this nation made its commitment, not with President Kennedy, not with President Johnson.   May I say that it was in 1954 that Richard Nixon said when the French were a colonial power in Indo-China, that we should send American men and American forces to rescue a colonial nation. 

	Is it any wonder--is it any wonder that he doesn't want to debate me--and, ladies and gentlemen, here is a man that has had broad public experience.  Here is a man that has been on the public platform hundreds of times.  I want to know what it is about this campaign that keeps Mr. Nixon, first, away from public television, except for the one time.  Secondly, I want to know why it is that Mr. Nixon is unwilling to take the platform and stand before an audience as I am and debate the issues and debate it in a public way. 

	Ladies and gentlemen--ladies and gentlemen, let me say that--may I say that it was this same--it was this same Republican candidate who said in 1964 that it was not only the privilege of a candidate for president to debate the issues, it was the duty--his duty.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I reserved time a week and a half ago on a Sunday night, that was paid for, and asked Mr. Nixon and the third-party candidate to appear with me.  Mr. Nixon refused to do so, and I think I know why, and I think I know why--because his record cannot stand exposure, that is why. 

	Because I would want to ask him some questions.  I want to ask him, "Why, Mr. Nixon, did you call the Peace Corps, the Peace Corps"--which I was privileged to author, which President Kennedy was privileged to sponsor, which I was privileged to author, which was my program--I want to know, Mr. Nixon, "why did you call it a haven for draft dodgers when you knew it was not the truth?"  And it is an insult to our young Americans. 

	Just this last Friday night the former vice president, the Republican nominee, praised the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.  In his speech of Friday, after he had called for vast new military expenditures on Thursday, and after he got the flap back through the inconsistency and the inaccuracy of his remarks, Mr. Nixon then said that he thought the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was a contribution to peace.  But what did he call it when we were trying to pass it?  I was privileged, along with the Senator here, Senator Clark, to be a co-sponsor of the resolution to it.  I was one of those that, early in my career, helped establish the Disarmament Subcommittee of the Senate, was the author of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency of this government, and was the chief sponsor of the Nuclear Test Ban Resolution.  What did he call it?  He called it a "cruel hoax" and "catastrophic nonsense".  Thank God that President Kennedy didn't listen to him and we were able to negotiate that treaty.  

	But let us be more up-to-date.  We have a treaty that was pending before the Senate that took several years to negotiate as a building block to the structure of peace, a treaty to prohibit the spread of nuclear weapons and nuclear weapons technology, an important treaty for the life and the safety of this nation and the world.  Eighty nations signed it, ladies and gentlemen.  It took several years to negotiate it.  A year ago this past April I was sent to Europe to six nations to help negotiate one of the three articles, and that treaty has been proclaimed in the United Nations as the most single important treaty for peace since World War II.  That treaty required a two-thirds vote of the United States Senate for its ratification.  I appealed to Mr. Nixon to join me in a bipartisan display of unity to call upon the members of the Senate, Republican and Democrat, alike, to ratify that treaty, to halt this spread of nuclear weaponry, and Mr. Nixon said in a sly and cunning way, he said, "I am for the treaty."  

	VOICES:  Boo!  Boo!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  He said--all right, Mr. Nixon said, Mr. Nixon said, "I am for the treaty but not, not now."

	Ladies and gentlemen, he now says he is for the treaty, but he would like to wait until January.  Well, what is it that makes a treaty better in January than one made in October, I want to know? 

	No, Mr. Nixon--no, Mr. Nixon, you can't sell that kind of shoddy goods to the American people.  You are playing loose and free with America's destiny and with mankind.  That treaty is a great building block of peace.

	Now finally, my friends, let me talk to you about the trust that our people need to have in one another.  How are we going to do any of these things today that we want to do?  Whether you are a Nixon person or a Wallace one or a Democrat, a Humphrey-Muskie one, how are you going to do any of the things that you would like to do unless this country can bind up its wounds, unless we can heal the division that is obviously in our ranks, and the only reason I even spend time to mention the third-party candidate is because he plays upon the anguish and the bitterness and the prejudice and,, indeed, the hatred that exists regrettably in the hearts of some of our people.  It is most unfortunate, and I must say to Mr. Nixon that I expect better of you, sir.  You should be challenging this, and you should be rallying this nation into a one great American family.  You should be joining me and asking people regardless of their race, color or creed that they have every opportunity, every equal opportunity, North or South, black or white. 

	But does he do it--but does he do it?  No indeed, he doesn't.  

	Ladies and gentlemen, in the South he says we are going too fast.  In the North he says, "Well, maybe we are doing all right."

	There aren't two speeches for this country, ladies and gentlemen, on human rights.  Human rights are not divisible.  Human rights are not subject to arithmetical proportion or portions.  There is only one kind of a human right, and that is the full and equal right of every human being to share in every opportunity in this country. 

	So I call upon this audience, regardless of your political persuasion, to try to help us in these years ahead, to build a confidence in this country, a trust in one another.  We must be neighbors, not enemies.  We must be friends, not strangers.  We are going to have to learn to live together in America or we are going to tear this country apart.

	The hope, Lincoln said once, of America is the last best hope of earth.  But that hope, my friends, as he put it, can't be half slave and half free, and it can't be two societies, separate and unequal.  It must be an American society in which more and more people come into its benefits, in which more and more people are in its participation, and I am proud to be a part of a government that has seen fit, if you please, to pass great legislation, that benefited the peoples of this land, civil rights legislation, voting rights legislation, equal opportunity in housing legislation, so that people could have a chance, and training for the untrained--Project Head Start for the little ones, Job Corps for those that were the dropouts, Project Upward Bound for those that seek a better day.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you as a representative of a political party that may have made some mistakes, but it cares about people, it cares about people.  

	And ultimately, the test of a government and a society is not its wealth nor even its strength.  Its test is its justice.  That is its ultimate test, its justice, and we must ask ourselves again and again, are we just and do we do that which is just?

	A man down here in front of me said its taxes, and he reminded me of something I forgot, and I am proud to reply to him.  May  I say that under this administration and under the Kennedy administration taxes in the federal government have been reduced three times and they are today 14 percent lower than they were under the Republican administration.  

	But I don't think that is the most important issue.  I think the most important issue is where are we going, what kind of a world are we going to live in, what kind of an America are we going to have?  And I stand before you to tell you that we can have the kind of an America that we will to have.  We have the means, we have the resources.  What we now need to have is the conviction and the commitment, the commitment to rebuild our cities, the commitment to help our despairing and our deprived to have their chance, the commitment to help little ones in this nation of ours to have decent health, the commitment to train the untrained and hire the jobless, the commitment, if you please, not to move to the left, not to move to the right, not even to stand in the center, but to stand high and tall and look straight ahead to a better day for America.  

	Thank you very much.  
CIVIL RIGHTSDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALECONOMY, RECESSIONARYEDUCATION, HIGHERJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMEDICARENUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGPOVERTYRACE RELATIONSSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYVIETNAM WARVOTER TURNOUT     Qg g g g g
 f f f f f f f f	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	 _ 	 K 	 D 	 6 	 ' 	  	  e: