

	How many of you watched the debate Sunday night? 

	How many of you liked what you saw?

	How many of you think I won the debate?

	How many of you think we're going to win in November?

	That debate Sunday night was long overdue.  Those 90 minutes were some of the best 90 minutes of this entire campaign.

	The American people finally had the chance to look beyond the slogans and the symbols, the photo opportunities and the flag-waving, and get down to the real issues of this election--issues that matter to average Americans.

	That boy in Houston whose father can't let him play sports because he doesn't have health insurance, and he is afraid he can't pay the medical bills if his son gets hurt.

	That young woman in my state who begged me to find her help in kicking her drug habit.

	Those senior citizens in Pennsylvania who depend on their Social
Security checks to live and don't want Mr. Bush raiding the Social Security trust funds again.

	And parents here in New Jersey who ought to be able to take their children to the beach without wondering if it will be covered with sewage and surgical wastes.

	Mainstream Americans who work hard, pay their taxes, fight our nation' s wars, and pay our nation's bills. And they have a right to be full shareholders in the American dream.

	This summer, one of the hottest in many, many years, a lot of families put their children in the car, packed some sandwiches and drove to the beach.  Only when they got there this year, the beach was closed.  They could see the ocean and watch the waves, but the sign said they couldn't go swimming.  97 degrees and a broiling sun, and those beaches were closed.  Closed because of medical wastes and pollution.  So they sat in their cars and ate their sandwiches and drove home.  You can imagine how those families felt, particularly, when George Bush showed up on the New Jersey shore for the first time anyone could remember, and he told the people of New Jersey he was an environmentalist.

	My friends, calling George Bush an environmentalist is like calling Dan Quayle a statesman, because George Bush has been part of an administration whose environmental policies have been hazardous to our health.

	How can we forget James Watt--a man who never saw an open field he didn't want to pave, or a forest he didn't want to cut down, but a man who, according to Mr. Bush, had "an excellent record"?

	How can we forget Anne Gorsuch, she was the head of the EPA for a while, who would rather bring polluters to lunch than to justice?

	Or Rita Lavelle, who went to jail for lying about what she did to the environment?

	Because when this administration blocked regulations to reduce the amount of lead in the air--lead that is very dangerous to small children--that wasn't Rita Lavelle, that was George Bush.

	When this administration blocked a major plan to control toxic wastes--a plan that had taken the EPA four years to design, that wasn't James Watt, that was George Bush.

	George Bush and his managers may think they can fool the American people, but they didn't fool the League of Conservation Voters.  It's one of America's most respected environmental organizations.  This year they endorsed me and gave George Bush a "D" on the environment.  When you get a "D," my friends, you don't get promoted.

	I am grateful as well for the support of the Clean Water Action, Friends of the Earth and Environmental Action.

	My friends, I'm running for Presidency because I want an environment where our children can drink the water on a hot summer's day without being poisoned by pollutants.

	Where we can take our youngsters to the beach, or the mountains, or catch some fish in a local pond.

	Where we don't have to worry that our health will be affected or the investment in our homes will be wiped out by a toxic waste dump down the street.

	And you have to talk to these people to understand what it means to go through the agony of not knowing what's happening to you, your home or your children.

	Mr. Bush's administration has had eight years to clean up toxic wastes.  They've started the clean up on only 137 sites on the National Priorities list out of a total of 1200.  They've completed thirty-six.  That performance doesn't get a "D," that record gets an "F."  

	My friends, next January, we're going to finally start doing something about toxic waste in this country.  And people like Frank Lautenberg and Jim Florio--two of the original sponsors of the Superfund program--are going to have a strong partner in the White House.

	Because, in a Dukakis administration, we're going to clean up toxic waste sites quickly, completely, and permanently, and we're going to make the polluter pay.

	In a Dukakis administration, cleanup will be completed or well under way at every single one of the nearly 1,200 Superfund sites on the National Priorities List by December, 1996.  That's a commitment.

	I'm not just talking to you; I've had experience as the Governor of my state.  In my state, we've found that most of the businesses that are responsible for pollution want to cooperate.  And, if they do, we will help them.  But for the foot-draggers and the chronic polluters, I have just one message: you better vote for Mr. Bush, because, if I'm elected, the game is over--no more of the sweetheart deals and delayed cleanups and half-baked compromises that we've seen over the past seven and a half years.

	And we're going to collect every dime we can of the more than $700 million owed in cleanup costs that haven't been paid by the polluters.  We're going to put that money to work cleaning up toxic waste dumps in New Jersey and around this country.

	I know leadership can make a difference because I've seen it work.  In 1983, my state passed the first state Superfund law in the country.  In five years we've cleaned up almost 300 sites, and we're hard at work on another 400--with the polluters paying over 80 percent of the costs.

	Finally, let me say a word about my favorite harbor--another place George Bush just visited this year for the first time.  You know, Boston Harbor is the oldest harbor in America, it was settled way back in 1630; and people started throwing things into it more than a century before the Boston Tea Party.  Today, my friends, we're cleaning it up.  And in the course of that cleanup we've had to fight Mr. Bush and the administration he belongs to every inch of the way.

	They vetoed the Clean Water Act twice and cut funding clean-up projects.  The EPA took forever to approve our cleanup plan.  And Mr. Bush's Regulatory Task Force tried to allow corporate polluters to continue to dump chemicals into Boston Harbor and other harbors and rivers and lakes across the country.

	In spite of all these roadblocks, we're moving ahead with the largest water clean-up project anywhere in America.  We've mobilized our people.  It is going to cost us somewhere between 4 and 5 billion dollars.  And we're getting virtually no help from Mr. Bush and the administration.  We've created a brand new agency to do the job.  We're bringing that old harbor back to life, the way we've brought old cities and towns back to life.  We'll meet the 1991 deadline that prohibits ocean dumping.  So, beginning in January, you're going to have an ally in the White House and not an adversary in the battle against pollution.

	In just forty days, the American people will have a choice.

	If you're satisfied with oceans you can't swim in, air you have trouble breathing, toxic waste dumps that threaten your health, then vote for Mr. Bush.  But if you think we can do better, if you think we can make our water and the world cleaner and safer and healthier, then you want Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen in the White House.

	With new leadership in the White House, we can take charge of our future again.  We can create the kind of environment we want for ourselves and for our children.

	Because the best America isn't behind us, my friends.  The best America is yet to come.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONTOXIC WASTEWATER POLLUTION          
        	 2  