
	Today, I want to tell you what I think about the conservation and full development of our natural resources.

	This is not a Montana issue, nor even a Northwest issue. It is a national issue of the highest importance. I talked about it at length the other day in West Virginia. And certainly it is an issue that clearly draws the line between the Democratic and Republican parties. The issue can be put very simply. The Democratic party believes that our natural resources belong to all the people and it believes in conserving and developing them to the utmost and for the benefit of all the people. The Republican party isn't so sure about conservation and strongly favors development for private profit.

	I think Great Falls is a good place to talk about this subject. We meet today at a place where Lewis and Clark paused a century and a half ago while exploring the natural resources of the great West. We meet outdoors and in the great outdoors, where men know the value of the gifts of land and river, lakes and trees, that they have received.

	When the first explorers traveled the broad face of America, they found a dense wilderness, rich and beautiful beyond imaging. In that early beginning, America was covered with a blanket of trees. The soil, not yet broken by the plow, possessed a capacity to produce that was unheard of in the older parts of the world. The east was drained by mighty rivers, and beneath the topsoil lay mineral riches unimaginable.

	All this had been put here in this blessed land for men to use as wisely as they might. Swiftly, men cut down the trees, ploughed the soil, damned the rivers, and mined the minerals. Some of this was right and necessary, something that had to be done if we were to civilize that land and ourselves.

	Some was sheer waste. Some was ruthless exploitation by greedy men. And all of it wrought a change in the face of America.

	Congress became alarmed at the swiftness of the change and determined to preserve a part of the original loveliness and richness for our children and our children's children. Congress set aside millions of acres of national forests and national parks.

	Its first watchword was conservation--we had to conserve, to save, these public lands.

	More recently, we have learned how to use them wisely. The parks are to be used by the public for recreation. The forests, too, are to be used by the public for recreation, but they also may be used--under supervision--for selective logging, dam building, mineral prospecting, and grazing. And for some fifty years, ever since Theodore Roosevelt and Gifford Pinchot took the lead in establishing the policy, both political parties have worked together to hammer out a bipartisan policy for the national parks and forests that would at once conserve them and use them wisely.

	That policy has been scrapped by the present administration. It was the intent of Congress that all the people should benefit from the use of the national forests. It was decidedly not their intent that the public lands should be invaded by, and given away to selfish private interests. But that's precisely what the Eisenhower administration has been doing.

	They gave a private mining company the right to cut the people's timber in the Rogue River National Forest in Oregon--and under such peculiar circumstances that the assay samples got dumped into Rogue River.

	A Republican congressman introduced a bill which would have given the big lumber companies special privileges in the national forests--a bill which your great Congressman, Lee Metcalf, correctly called a bill to permit "big lumbermen to trade stumps for trees."

	A Republican congressman introduced a bill which would have given a few big-spread cattlemen--and no one else--what amounted to perpetual rights to graze their stock in the national forests. And though the bill was defeated, President Eisenhower nominated this same congressman to be Assistant Secretary of Interior in charge of public land--which sounded like setting the fox to guard the hen house.

	They gave the oil and gas interests about five times as many leases to explore and exploit the wildlife refuges as had been granted in the preceding three decades.

	They got rid of the career conservation men in the Fish and Wildlife Service and replaced them with patronage appointees. It is no wonder that Ira Gabrielson, the respected conservationist who was for years head of the Service, told a Congressional Committee, "After spending most of my lifetime in an organization that was completely career service, I see it all of a sudden turned into something political." And Mr. Gabrielson--he is a lifelong Republican--added, "I have told some of my friends sometimes that this administration and its action on conservation matters come nearer making a Democrat out of me than anything that Roosevelt and Truman could do in all the years I worked for them."

	I think that not only Mr. Gabrielson feels that way. I think that the Eisenhower administration has made a lot of other new Democrats in the last three years.

	Nor has the administration shown more regard for the Indians, who are its wards, than for the public domain. Their treaties have been scrapped, they have been coerced, not consulted, about their future, they are losing their lands at the rate of over 500,000 acres a year, and right here in Great Falls you have Hill 57, a miserable home for landless Indians that is a disgrace in a nation that calls itself rich. May I point out that, in connection with the termination of government responsibility for Indian's affairs, the Republican platform this year speaks only of consultation while the Democratic platform proposes to obtain their consent.

	But in no other area has the Eisenhower administration shown its true colors more clearly than in its water policy. America's water policy has and should rest firmly on first principles--the rivers belong to the people and should be developed fully for the benefit of all the people. And this means developed to their utmost--for their hydroelectric power, for flood control, navigation, irrigation, and recreation. Water runs downhill. Water is just as wet and life-giving to farmers' crops after it has fallen through a turbine and twirled a hydroelectric generator as it was before. The water which flows as snow-melt out of a mountain forest can be caught behind a dam and put through generators for power, then recaptured and stored to prevent floods, then diverted to irrigate arid fields, then used to establish a navigable channel and carry off municipal wastes farther downstream--all the same water. And this is all that multiple-purpose development means.

	Under Franklin Roosevelt, the program of putting the people's property to the service of the people went forward as never before--and today in the great Northwest and down in the Valley of the Tennessee and in other parts of this broad land you can see the results--new industries and fertile farms where once was wasteland, rows of houses standing safe where floodwaters raged, homes and factories and farms and vacation lands that make America a richer and a better place for all of us to live. And all of it a result of fifty years of sound river policy.

	But now suddenly the Eisenhower administration has scrapped this policy. Of course, the Republicans don't talk out loud these days the way they talked in 1935, when a Republican congressman called TVA a step toward "Russianizing the United States." Nowadays, and especially in election years, the Republicans pretend they are in favor of public power programs. In fact, in an election year, the Republicans pretend they are in favor of developing our resources for all the people. That's what they say this year. But look what they've done for the last four years.

	They have taken the Hells Canyon damsite, the last great damsite on the North American continent, and handed it over to a private power company.

	They have crippled reclamation and the Southwest Power Administration.

	They tried to give away Niagara's power to five private corporations, and today all along the St. Lawrence the battle is hot.

	They have endangered the Central Valley development in California.

	In Georgia they have refused to sell power to cooperatives--even though the attorney general himself has warned that such refusal is illegal.

	Only Congress has saved the REA from the administration.

	The President himself call TVA "creeping socialism," and personally ordered the signing of the odious Dixon-Yates contract, a backdoor deal to carve up TVA.

	The Department of Interior invited the admitted lobbyist of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company into Washington to help rewrite the federal regulations for transmission lines over public lands.

	The Assistant Secretary of the Interior testified before a Congressional Committee that TVA is "a Federal socialistic monopoly."

	The Under Secretary of the Interior said that he was "sick and tired" of listening to the "political hogwash of socialists who want to federalize the nation's electric power industry."

	The Chairman of the Federal Power Commission is a former representative of private utility companies.

	The Assistant Secretary of the Interior, in charge of power as a Congressman, voted four out of six times against public power programs.

	And the Secretary of the Interior himself summed it all up frankly when he said that "we're here in the saddle as an administration representing business and industry."

	And all this, I suppose, is what we might have expected from an administration dominated by a single interest--big business.

	The administration says it favors something called "partnership" between government and private power in waterpower development. But it turns out that one partner--the private company--takes the profit while the other partner--you, the people--pays the bills.

	Back in my hometown, Chicago, some years ago, we had a city planner who, when Chicago was young, drew up blueprints that helped make Chicago the great city it is today. That man was Dan Burnham, and his favorite saying was, "Make no little plans." I say to you we need that kind of bold planning, that kind of imagination and vision in the United States today.

	A high dam at Hells Canyon built by the Federal government means cheaper phosphate fertilizer for the farmers, cheaper power in the farmhouse, in the factory, and in city homes; it means life-giving irrigation for arid lands; it means flood control, new industry, new homes, new towns, an expanding economy in the Great Northwest. Yet a while back former Secretary of the Interior McKay referred to High Hells Canyon as a "white elephant."

	Well, not many years ago other Republicans referred to Grand Coulee as a "white elephant," in precisely those words. But today Grand Coulee has spread its bounty over millions of acres--has made the desert bloom, the factories arise, the cities grow, the farms light up. When Grand Coulee was proposed, a private power company wanted to dam the Columbia with little dams, and waste forever the power of the mighty river. A Republican congressman said there wasn't any sense in building Grand Coulee Dam because "there was no one in the Grand Coulee area to sell power to except rattlesnakes, coyotes and rabbits. Everyone knows that there is no market for power in the Northwest." And the press agents for the private power lobby of that day used all the arguments we hear today. They said Grand Coulee was too expensive, an unfair burden on the U.S. Treasury; but today Grand Coulee is ahead of schedule in paying back the U.S. Treasury power investment in the future of the Northwest. They said Grand Coulee was a wild dream of woolly-headed professors; but today, is one of the wonders of the world. And, of course, they said it was socialistic.

	But thousands of veterans have settled on land Grand Coulee made fertile; it has lightened the labors and brightened the lives of thousands of farmers; and it has provided employment for thousands of men and women who work in the industries created by its power, industries that wouldn't be there if Democrats hadn't had the vision to use what God gave us to make something better out there than coyotes and rattlesnakes. And, you know, I have a feeling that all those people just wouldn't give up what they've got to prove to the Republicans how anti-socialistic they are!

	I want to stop this erosion of our resources by the Eisenhower administration.

	 I want to get on with the full development of our resources for the benefit of the people all over this great country.

	The Eisenhower administration acts as if this generation of Americans were the last. I want a government that will honor its obligations to generations yet unborn.

	This land, these rivers, these forests and mountains--they were not put there for us to despoil. They were put here for us to use wisely, and to leave in better state for our children and our children's children.

	This issue means a great deal to us alive today, but it will mean far more to our descendants. We are shaping a federal conservation policy--or a federal giveaway policy--today that will mold our children's lives. Theodore Roosevelt said, "Of all the questions which can come before this nation, short of the actual preservation of its existence in a great war, there is none which compares in importance with the great central task of leaving this land even a better land for our descendants than it is for us."

	I believe that. I think we all believe that. But we have to do more than believe it. We have to fight for it, just as we have to fight everlastingly for every good cause.

	It is a good cause. And we have stout allies. Two of them are your Senators from Montana, my friends, Mike Mansfield and Jim Murray. Lee Metcalf is another--and I hope you'll send him back to Washington this year to help us win this fight. Leroy Anderson is another, a farmer who knows the farmer's problems and understands the need to conserve and develop our land as well--and I hope you'll send him to Washington to help us, too. Arnold Olsen is another, a hard-hitting fighter for the people's resources, and I hope you elect him governor this year.

	We have other allies too--more, than we sometimes think. I am proud indeed that I have the support of men and women around the country who have gathered together under the banner "Conservationists for Stevenson-Kefauver." These people are not politicians. Some vote Democratic, some vote Republican, some pride themselves on their independence--but they share one passion: a deep concern for the people's natural resources. Ordinarily they stay out of politics. But this year, they're in, many of them for the first time. And I think I need say no more about the Eisenhower Administration than that it has driven the conservationists of America into the political arena--and on the Democratic side.


ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION--PUBLIC LANDSNATIVE AMERICANSSOCIALISMTIMBER INDUSTRY/RESOURCESELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTWATER RESOURCES     ; ; ; ; ;
 ; ; ; ; ; ; ; v;	  	  	  	  	   y  U  ,   e: