

	Well, the campaign is drawing to a close. Tomorrow the politicians will at last fall silent--and the people will speak.

	You have had to endure quite a lot of political talk already--and not all of it has been honest talk. There is no reason why political talk shouldn't be honest. After all, politics is the means by which a democracy solves its problems. Nothing is more essential than responsible politics to the successful working of a free state. One thing Estes Kefauver and I have tried to do in this campaign is to practice responsible politics--to talk sense to the American people. We have not tried to kid you, to fool you, or to deceive you.

	But it seems to me that the effort to kid the people, to fool the people, to deceive the people has been the essence of the Republican campaign. I think you here in Minnesota know what I mean, since you have to suffer more than your share of Republican deceit. I don't know whether it is a compliment or an insult that so much should have been concentrated in Minnesota. Secretary Benson came to Minnesota and said that farm prices would rise--and they promptly fell. They have fallen 3 percent in Minnesota in the last month. And President Eisenhower came to Minnesota and said that the price-adjustment period was over--and a few days later, the Department of Agriculture reported the forth straight monthly decline in farm prices. And Vice President Nixon came to Minneapolis and said--and I quote--"There will be no war in the Middle East." And you know what happened then.

	When the Republican leaders say these things, you can draw only one of two possible conclusions. Either they don't know any better--in which case they shouldn't be in responsible office. Or they do know better--and have decided not to tell you the truth--and in this case there is even less argument for them.

	I have an awful feeling that some Republican leaders just don't care much about the truth. On the national level, of course, they are overflowing with the pretense of virtue. Even the Vice President has put away his switchblade and now assumes the aspect of an Eagle Scout. But, down at the grassroots, the Republicans haven't changed. I understand that in your neighbor state of South Dakota, they have been conducting an especially dirty smear campaign against Democratic candidates. I know that the people of South Dakota are too decent and intelligent to be taken in by such tactics--tactics which are not only dishonest and irresponsible but which, if sustained, might permanently damage the fabric of mutual trust on which democracy depends.

	While I'm on this subject, I understand that there have been mumblings and rumblings from another neighboring state of yours--Wisconsin. A certain senator from that state seems to have taken on a new lease on life. Here is what he said a few days ago. "Some of you may be surprised," he said, "but I also think it's important beyond words that we elect Alex Riley to the Senate. If we control the senate, I think you'll get some more McCarthyism because I'll be Chairman of a Senate Committee again." I must say that I can't think of a better argument for voting against Alexander Wiley--and for voting against every other Republican senatorial candidate in the country.

	And yet, while all this goes on, the President continues to act as if he had a monopoly on all the virtue in the country. How do you reconcile the fact that the President holds forth in the pulpit while his choirboys sneak around back alleys with sandbags? The answer must be clear. The answer is that the President doesn't know what's going on--and doesn't care enough to find out. The answer is that the President doesn't run the store. When Mr. Eisenhower doesn't run the store at home, it's bad enough. You know what it has meant for the farmers. The Eisenhower policy has been to throw the American farmer onto the mercy of the market, the weather, and the processors--and four more years of this kind of farm relief will relieve the farmer of everything he has.

	But when he doesn't run the store in foreign affairs, it is disastrous. Presidential negligence on questions of peace and war may plunge the whole world into the horror of hydrogen war. And negligence is precisely what we have been getting.

	Let us remember President Eisenhower's role in the making of our Middle Eastern policy. In February of this year, the Eisenhower administration started to send a shipload of tanks to Saudi Arabia. This was at the time that we were declining to send arms to Israel. When protest mounted, the administration first embargoed the shipment. And while it was trying to decide what to do, where was the President of the United States? On February 17th, he played golf. On February 18th, he shot quail. On February 22nd, when the ban was finally removed, the President shot 18 holes of golf.

	If the confusion over the Saudi Arabian tanks proved anything, it proved the need for some firm direction of our Middle Eastern policy. But did we get it? Toward the end of March, as the situation grew worse, Prime Minister Eden sent the President an urgent message about the Middle East. But some days later, the President, when asked about it in a press conference, said, "I can't recall how long it has been since I have had a letter from the Prime Minister."

	On April 9th the White House announced: "The President and the Secretary of State regard the situation (in the Middle East) with the utmost seriousness." On the same day, the President began a golfing vacation in Georgia. When Egypt took over the Suez Canal in July, the President was at Gettysburg; on August 4th, when the New York Times called the Suez impasse the "gravest challenge to the West since Berlin and Korea," the President played golf. On August 11th, when Britain rejected Communist proposals for the Suez Conference, the President played golf. As the crisis mounted toward the end of August, the press reported that the President, now at Pebble Beach, California, "golfed happily at one of America's toughest and most beautiful courses."

	Now no one begrudges the President his recreation, but peace is a full-time job.

	Obviously something has gone out of our foreign policy in these Republican years--consistency, boldness, magnanimity--some instinct for leadership in a world that begs for rescue from anarchy and disintegration.

	Even the seizure of the Suez Canal by Nasser caught us by surprise, for our Secretary of State--whose erratic treatment of Egypt had precipitated this seizure--was out of the country and President was on holiday. And now we hear that the President of the United States first learned of the British and French ultimatum in the Middle East from newspaper reports.

	Even when we have been forewarned, we have still failed to act. Our government knew about the impending arms deal between Egypt and the Communists a full mouth before President Eisenhower met with the Russian leaders at Geneva. Yet our President made no protest of this action, which gave the Russians the foothold in the Middle East which the Czars vainly sought for three centuries. If there had been less hearts and flowers and more firm talk at Geneva, the Communists would never have dared to arm Egypt, and the tragic war that is raging in the Middle East today could have been avoided.

	The last four years have presented America and the Free World great opportunities to exploit weakness in the Communist ranks and advance the cause of peace. But this administration has failed to take advantage of them. 

	The death of Stalin caught us off guard.

	The uprisings in East Berlin caught us off guard.

	The uprisings of Poznan caught us off guard.

	The most recent revolts in Poland and Hungary obviously caught us off guard.

	When there was a danger of the Communists taking over Greece and Turkey, our government responded with the Truman Doctrine.

	When the Russians threatened our position in Berlin, President Truman reacted with the dramatic Berlin airlift.

	And when Communist aggression in Korea challenged the principle of collective security, President Truman led the Free World in halting Red aggression in its tracks. His response was immediate, it was decisive, and it was courageous. President Truman knew that the United States cannot survive the world of today without friends and allies. He treated our allies with courtesy and respect. And when the United States gave its word, that word was kept.

	But in the last four years, we have treated our allies and our would-be allies as junior partners. We have bullied them and threatened them. And what is worse, we have deceived them. The result is that we have lost our closest and best friends, and what friends have we won? Russia? Egypt? Of course not. The keystone of our American foreign policy has been our cooperation with the great Western democracies of Great Britain and France, and now that foundation of the Free World strength is crumbling.

	What we have had in the last four years is a rigid policy for foreign affairs and a flexible policy for farm prices. I say it's time for a change.

	This has been a critical week for America. Our foreign policy has collapsed in the Middle East. Our Western Alliance with Britain and France, upon which our peace and security has largely depended, has been shaken to its foundations. With the West divided, Russian tanks are now crushing freedom in Hungary, and there is war in the world--in a very dangerous place.

	The Eisenhower Administration's policy in the Middle East commenced in 1953 with the presentation of the pistol to the dictator of Egypt and has ended in the Egyptian seizure of the Suez Canal, Russian Communist penetration in the Middle East for the first time, bad blood between America and her oldest friends, Britain and France, and finally, war itself.

	This is the harvest of the errors of the Eisenhower-Dulles policy, which have been pointed our time and again, step by step.

	After the war Stalin, at the peak of his power, tried to break into the Middle East, but was stopped cold in Iran and again in Greece and Turkey by a brave and courageous President--Harry Truman. Now, thanks to our incredible backing and pulling, the Egyptians, instead of embracing us, have turned to Russia, and Soviet influence is spreading through the Middle East and exploiting the new Arab nationalism. Meanwhile, our democratic friend, Israel, has lashed out in desperation.

	Russian influence in the Middle East is sinister enough, but more alarming is the fact that there has now opened up a fateful split between the United States on the one hand and England and France, our oldest and strongest allies, on the other. While we deplore the use of force by Britain and France in Egypt, we dare not overlook that the preservation of our security, the preservation of NATO, indeed the preservation of the United Nations itself, will depend on reestablishing the basis of mutual confidence between us.

	And America reached the summit of foolishness when Mr. Nixon hailed the collapse of our alliance as "a declaration of independence that has had an electrifying effect throughout the world."

	The separation of the United States from its Democratic allies may delight Mr. Nixon. And it also certainly delights the Russians who have been trying to do just that for many years. But it is a deadly threat to our future security.

	Moreover, with the Atlantic Alliance divided and incapable of firm and united action, the Red Army has rolled back into Hungary to crush the rebellion. Fumbling and uncertain, the Eisenhower Administration even delayed the efforts of other nations to help the people of Hungary in the United Nations.

	Early yesterday morning I sent President Eisenhower a telegram urging that we call upon the United Nations Peace Observation Commission for possible help to Hungary and other satellites struggling for their freedom. The commission would send teams of United Nations observers into those parts where their presence might help the situation. I am gratified that the Eisenhower Administration has embodied this suggestion in the resolution which it submitted Sunday afternoon.

	It is ironical that Marshall Zhukov is directing the Red Army's efforts to crush freedom in Hungary--the same Marshal Zhukov of whom President Eisenhower said last year that he was "intensely devoted to the idea of promoting good relations between the United States and the Soviet Union." That was at the Geneva Conference, which Mr. Eisenhower ended by assuring us that the Russian leaders "desired" peace as much as we did.

	For years the Eisenhower Administration has been assuring us periodically that all is well, that we have the Communists on the run, that America is master of the situation, that our prestige was never higher, and that there was nothing that another slogan, another brink, another trip by Mr. Dulles, or another smile by Mr. Eisenhower couldn't cure.

	We have had enough of this nonsense. For three years we have been entreating, confidence in America has been declining, and now our world policy is in ruins.

	While everyone respects Mr. Dulles for his heroic efforts, and everyone, especially old friends like myself, lament his illness at this critical period and earnestly hope for his speedy recovery, let us face the fact that in the future we must have more candor and realism.

	It is clear that the events in Eastern Europe and the Middle East are symptoms of a vast new upheaval in the balance of world power. This upheaval is a challenge contest. We are losing because our friends and allies no longer trust our leadership. And we are losing because our foreign policy is rigid and stale.

	Reestablishing the solidarity of the West is our most urgent business. The United States, as it has been said so well, is the one great power that can take and lead to save the world from this creeping anarchy and disintegration. Mr. Dulles obviously can't do it. Mr. Nixon applauds the collapse of alliance. President Eisenhower appears to be isolated, uninformed, and interested only intermittently.

	But we must get on with the job before our margin of time runs out. And there may not be much left.

	When we think of the Hungarians and Poles sacrificing their lives to gain their country's freedom, we must prize more than ever our own good fortune in being able to choose our government freely at the polls. The ballot is only a scrap of paper--but it is still the most powerful weapon on earth. It is the shield and the sword of the free. It is your children's insurance policy. It is our key to the future. The ballot, like all our other rights and liberties, was won in hard struggle. John Adams said in 1777, "posterity. You will never know how much it cost the present generation to preserve your freedom. I hope you will make good use of it. If you do not, I shall repent in Heaven that I ever took half the pains to preserve it."

	I do not think we have forgotten what freedom cost those men. An American election is a reaffirmation of our freedom. It is proof anew of our enduring trust in the wisdom of the people.

	And when we vote tomorrow--and vote Democratic--it will be our vote of confidence in the wisdom--not of one man or one group of men--but of all the people.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--LEISURE/SPORTSEASTERN EUROPEEGYPT--SUEZ CANALHUNGARY--SOVIET INVASIONSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS SALES--ARAB NATIONSMIDDLE EAST     = < < < <
 < < < < < < < <	  	  	  	 x 	 j 	 Y 	 A 	 &   e: