

	Men and women of our Armed Services overseas: I am grateful to the Secretary of Defense and to the Armed Forces Radio Service for this chance to speak to you.

	My campaign for the presidency has this in common with yours: Now that I have been drafted, I am fighting to win.

	Two world wars have dragged our two generations, yours and mine, through the bloodiest years of the Christian era. Many of you are now fighting in Korea and many more are standing guard in Europe to prevent a third world war. When Captain James Jabara of Wichita, Air Force ace on leave from Korea, was asked why we are fighting there, his answer was; "So we won't have to fight in Wichita." I think the captain hit the nail on the head. It is almost as simple and certainly as important as that.

	None of us have the gift of prophecy. In these tense days none of us can be sure what to expect from one moment to the next. But I want to make one thing very definite: I don't expect a third world war, and I reject the notion that a third world war is inevitable. That is familiar Communist talk. And I hope that regardless of the dire prophecies of our political adversaries, neither I nor any Democratic candidates will give such foolish confirmation to Soviet propaganda during this campaign in the United States.

	What we know, and you who serve in Korea know better than the rest of us is that the enemy is implacable, sullen, determined, and dangerous. Communism has already enveloped and enslaved many hapless millions throughout the world. It has drawn people to serve under false gods; and--as you in Korea well know--it has imbued them with the devil's own fury.

	The grimmest knowledge of all is the certainty of the enemy's relentless ambition to rule our lives--as he already rules the lives of millions in Europe and Asia. But we know, too, that he is not superhuman. He can be stopped, punished and beaten back. You have already gone far to restrain his limitless ambitions. In your continued strength and success rests the aspirations of all people for a peaceful world. If we should now falter and fail, then all our hopes for decent lives would be drowned in another brutalizing war of God knows what extent and duration and at what dread cost to all that is most dear to us. But we need not falter and we shall not fail.

	And if war is not inevitable, neither is peace inevitable.

	I am an optimist because I believe Americans will make good use of the time your efforts in Korea and in Europe are winning for us. People often ask: Is time working for us or against us? It seems to me a silly question. Time works for the fellow who makes the best use of his time. And America can make better use of time than our adversaries. We must--or we will lose this struggle.

	You have heard it said, as I have, that the Korean war is a "useless" war. Nothing seems to me more mischievous than this idea which has been so extensively used for political purposes in this country. Had we not resisted aggression in Korea, then we would not only have lost Korea, but we would have invited the Soviet Union to pursue aggression elsewhere. The line had to be drawn somewhere and, the earlier it was drawn, the better the chance and the greater the hope of averting general war. The logic of not fighting in Korea, as Captain Jabara put it, is to fight in Wichita. No one knew this better than President Truman when he made his courageous decision in the summer of 1950 to stand up to the Communists.

	You have probably heard too that America has gained nothing in the last year of the Korean war--that we are right where we started when we sat down with the Communist negotiators more than a year ago. I sometimes wonder how shortsighted some people can get, especially in campaign years. We have gained a year's time. And we have used that year to accomplish three significant and quite possibly decisive victories.

	1.	We have enormously expanded our defense production. T-47s are rolling off the lines in large numbers and the new and better T-48s are coming along fast. F-86s--the masters of the Russian MIG--are being produced much faster, and newer models are going into production. Production of all the other essential and complicated gear of modern warfare is rising. Rapid progress is being made in perfecting guided missiles and other weapons that a year or two ago were only paper projects.

	I will not say that we have yet won the battle for production, but we are well on our way to winning it. The victory is already affecting the Kremlin's calculations and strategy. Stalin respects and fears the strength of the free world, which is largely the productive power of America.

	2.	In the past year the strength of our Allies has grown mightily. Alongside you in Korea there are now ten fire-hardened and battle-tested ROK divisions. More divisions can and will be organized.

	In Indochina, where until recently, our French Allies were fighting almost alone, there are now well over 100,000 native Indo-Chinese fighting men. Many more units are to be formed. Their American military advisers say that the Indo-Chinese are good fighting men, skilled in the kind of jungle tactics used by the Communist guerrillas.

	Our Western European allies now have 2,500,000 men serving in their armed forces. In Southern Europe the Greeks and the Turks and the Yugoslavs are fierce and formidable Allies. You have seen Greek and Turkish units in action in Korea. You know their worth in battle.

	All these figures represent big improvements over a year ago. These forces need more and better equipment. They need more training. They need better organization. But these things are all doable and they are being done. There are no more easy pickings in the Far East or in Europe and the Kremlin likes to gamble only on sure things. And now that you have fought the enemy to a standstill in Korea, the only sure thing is that a new act of aggression anywhere would be very risky indeed.

	This growing strength of our Allies has great significance for you. What you all want to know is when you will climb on board the transport that will bring you home. The only honest answer to that is that when our Allies become strong enough for their initial defense, most of you can come home. And the only way to speed that day is to speed the arming of our friends.

	3.	We have won another important victory during the past year. We have done what many doubters of democracy thought a democracy could not do. We have yielded neither to the hotheads who wanted to extend the war nor to the weak-kneed who wanted to quit when they found that the going was tough. The Republican leaders, impatient and torn by conflicting counsels, have wavered between recklessness and weakness.

	I trust that the Democratic party will not try to win votes by encouraging the cruel illusion that there is any easy solution to this struggle. There isn't any magic by which the hammer and sickle of world Communism can be beaten into a plowshare of peace. Most Americans know that nothing less than discipline, restraint, and concentration by all of us on the objectives of survival and triumph is sufficient in this fateful hour of history. Nothing less can ensure the safety of the America we know and want our children to know.

	The third victory--the victory over timidity on the one hand and recklessness, on the other--has won for us the respect which men of sober strength always enjoy. And such respect is a powerful deterrent to aggression.

	These are no mean accomplishments for a year's time. I think they fully justify my faith that world war is not inevitable. I think they justify the hope that by persevering in this difficult and sometimes exasperating path we can win our way to a peaceful world. It is a goal worth the price, heavy as it is. At any rate, there are no safe alternatives. To plunge the world into greater war or to capitulate on hopelessness is no solution.

	If I could make one rule for both parties in this campaign, it would be that no candidate for high office would weaken our perseverance in this struggle by indulging in promises that are easy to make and impossible to keep. We are living in a cruel and dangerous world--a world in which the wise man keeps his rifle clean, his guard up, and tries to think as straight as he can shoot. And, as much as we need straight shooting, we need straight thinking even more.

	I shall not try to win your vote by an "all this and heaven too" campaign. Moreover I could not, because you who are overseas know the score better than many here at home. The party that comes to power in November is going to have to ask the American people to put away childish things and do manful things. There are no shortcuts to national security. There are only shortcuts to defeat. The Democratic party has had to deal with this world problem and deal with its responsibility for many years. Because we have faith in the people, we dare to tell them the facts and ask them to work hard, and to make the sacrifices that are necessary to back you up, because that is the only way to get you back home. So long as you are asked to do the unusual so long must we put aside politics as usual, profits as usual, strikes as usual, and pleasure as usual.

	This is the basic message which I hope to bring to the American people before the November election. Perhaps it isn't good politics. I don't know yet whether one man can win an election with hard, distasteful truths, but this is the only way I want to win it. Seekers after high office owe it to their own sense of self-respect as Americans, they owe it to the American people, and they owe it to you who are serving overseas, to say in this 1952 campaign what they ask of the people, not just what they promise them. This, I believe, is the only kind of political honesty which fits the savage circumstances of our time.

	There are a few things I am going to ask of the American people.

	First, I ask that everyone register and vote. More than a million of you who are serving overseas are eligible. There are reactionary politicians in this country who hope that many of you and many of your fellow citizens at home will not vote. And the reason is not hard to find. Every victory for reaction in our country and every setback to progress has been caused by the voters who wouldn't bother to vote.

	Reaction at home threatens what we all want most: peace and prosperity. Not peace or prosperity--but peace and prosperity. It has to be both or neither, because without enduring peace there can be no enduring prosperity. Conversely, there can be no enduring peace without a healthy, strong, productive United States on which the stability of the whole world depends. A change to a rampaging reactionary Republican domestic policy means therefore not only disaster at home but disaster abroad.

	The Republican theme song in this campaign is that "it is time for a change." You are going to hear that tune over and over from now to November. Now I am not against change; it is always time for a change for the better. The Democratic party is not against change; the changes brought during this past twenty years of progress under Democratic administrations is the best proof of that. I hope the Democratic party will always lead the way to constructive change.

	I hope you will vote and participate in the great decisions of the America you serve so far away. The Department of Defense has issued a pamphlet which tells you how to register and vote. It may be a little complicated but it is worth your trouble.

	Almost every state has tried to make it easy for you. The pamphlet is called "Voting Information, 1952." And there is someone in each of your units who will be glad to give you any help you need.

	The second thing I ask is that you measure all candidates for high office--not just the presidential candidates, but the vice presidential candidates and the candidates for the Senate and the House of Representatives--against the bitterly difficult issues of our time and decide whether they measure up. Ask yourselves which party has the best balanced team and is most likely to give you the kind of government you think the country needs.

	I hope you won't forget that the man in the White House cannot make laws. He can suggest, he can urge, he can even plead, but laws are made by the men in the House of Representatives and the Senate. Their greatness can make him great; their smallness can bring his best efforts to naught. It is something like baseball. The pitcher who doesn't get support is not likely to win many ball games.

	What kind of support do you think the Old Guard Republicans in the Congress will give, and what kind of a change do you think they want? Their batting average is one of almost total opposition to every forward step America has taken. The truth is that they are frightened men, frightened by progress, and they want to march backwards into a comfortable and safely Republican past that no longer exists and cannot be disinterred.

	I must say that it frightens me to think that such men might influence the fate of the nation. At home and abroad they are the champions of a "Little America" huddled behind its ocean barriers and hoping to stem the riptides of history by damning the Democrats.

	And so I also ask you to ask yourselves this very serious question: What kind of America do you want to find when you come back? Is it an America of boom-and-bust? An America where free men are intimidated by smear and slander? An America which has no faith in itself and its future? Or is it an America which has solved the problems of depression and provides abundant opportunities for useful, contented, and peaceful lives? Is it an America that is making steady progress toward equal rights, equal justice and equal opportunity for education and employment? I am sure that that is the kind of America you want to find.

	Perhaps we can afford the "Little America" policy of the little frightened men. Perhaps we don't need strong friends and good neighbors. Perhaps Stalin is not really up to any mischief. Perhaps if we had let him take Korea, that is all he would have wanted--just as Hitler had only one last territorial demand--only one, that is, before he was ready to launch the bloodiest war in history. Perhaps we can all relax and go to the ball game--all of us, that is, except you.

	The Democratic party doesn't think so. The Democratic party thinks that that would be playing Russian roulette with all our futures. The Democratic party is not afraid to ask the American people to do the hard jobs that have got to be done to back you up, for we have unlimited faith in the wisdom and the backbone of an informed people.

	My time is up. I thank you for listening to a solemn speech. But these are solemn times. Whether I win or lose the election may not be important, but how best we can win peace and prosperity for America is all-important. You are doing your share and I am going to do mine as best I can.
ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMKOREAN WARMILITARY PREPAREDNESSSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)VOTER REGISTRATION     ; ; }; y; q;
 d; _; Z; O; G; E; E; :;	 e 	 U 	 L 	 B 	 - 	  e: