

	In San Diego, we had one of the biggest crowds in the history of that town.  We went to Seattle.  We had the largest audience rally downtown in the history of that city.  Last night in Chicago, we had the largest Torchlight Parade in the history of Chicago.  This morning, we broke all records in Louisville.  Now look at us here in Baltimore!  We're on our way!

	So the question is: Are we going to carry Maryland?  Are we going to win this election?

	These pollsters and these slick magazines are telling you that the election is over, that your vote doesn't count.  Well, I've got a little news for them:  Polls don't vote, unless they've got names like Mikulski.  People vote, and people are going to elect a people's president.

	I come to you this evening with about five days to go to ask for your help, not for me but all of us, for the future of this country and for our children.

	You and I know there are high stakes and deep differences.  This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals.  This election is about the future of our country and the direction in which we must go.

	You have to watch these Republicans.  Nothing tells us more that they're in trouble than that they keep trying to steal our heroes.  First it's Franklin Roosevelt, and then it's Eleanor Roosevelt, and then it's Harry Truman.  They even tried to steal Hubert Humphrey from me the other day.

	For a long time, Mr. Reagan was going all over this country telling us what a good friend he was of John F. Kennedy.  Well, in 1960, it turns out I was chairman of Minnesotans for Kennedy.  He was chairman of an outfit called Democrats for Nixon.  He said, "Whenever the government helps people, you're walking down the road toward dictatorship."

	Then when the truth was known, he dropped Kennedy's name, and now he only mentions Harry Truman's.  Does he think we forgot?

	The first thing he did as president was to go into the Oval Office and take down Harry Truman's picture and replace it with that great Republican Calvin Coolidge.  I'm here in Baltimore to make a pledge that the first day I'm president, I'm going to go into that Oval Office, I'm going to take down Calvin Coolidge's picture, and I'm going to put up Harry Truman where he belongs.

	Just yesterday, the president blamed the Democrats for all the troubles of the American cities.  He said the Democrats had used government for handouts that only made things worse.

	Well, I have this to say to the president:  You don't know what you're talking about.  Come with me to Baltimore.  Come with me to Inner Harbor and see a living example of what can be done with a president who is committed to the cities, with state leadership and local leadership, working with free enterprise, to rebuild a city.

	All over this country, we see what's happened.  Twenty-five years ago, you would come to Baltimore to see a city that was going downhill.  Now the world comes to Baltimore to see a great city on the move, building its future and providing a life for its people.

	This harbor, this magnificent area, now has created twenty-five thousand new jobs, $6 million in new revenues.  It's an example of what happens when you have a president who's committed to rebuilding our older cities.

	The fact of it is that most old cities like Baltimore could not possibly have done it on their own.  To build this community required some federal seed money, the state and local government working together creatively, in harness with the local business community.

	When you do that, it works, but without federal leadership, it couldn't have been done.  Most Americans live in our cities.  This president does not understand, will not understand, the role of a president leading his government toward a better life for all of our Americans.  Nothing symbolizes it more than this Inner Harbor.

	When it comes to American cities, Mr. Reagan and his crowd give hypocrisy a bad name.  He recently visited a school in the inner city of Washington, but he didn't say that he cut educational help and school lunches for the children in that school.

	He went up to Buffalo and stood outside of a new senior citizens high- rise, rejoiced in what he was doing for senior citizens, and forgot to mention that if he'd had his way, it wouldn't have been built at all.

	He likes to preach to us about the work ethic.  But he doesn't brag about cutting funds to train people.  Just yesterday he vetoed a program that would have provided thousands of jobs for young Americans in cleaning up our environment.  What he says and what he does are two different things.

	Then, as you know, he came to Baltimore, and he posed before Christopher Columbus.  He looked out at the Baltimore Harbor, and he said, "We need to get this harbor dredged."  And as he was doing it, on the same day, his administration was busy cutting the funds necessary to dredge the harbor.

	The point is, and I think the American people see it, the president has learned most of what he knows in Hollywood.  To him, it's all what it looks like on the camera, what it looks like on TV commercials.  He doesn't care what it's actually like or what the facts are.  You can't have that kind of leadership and build our future.

	Let's elect a president who knows what's going on and says it like it is.

	I have to get to Buffalo yet tonight, because I'm going to stand out in front of that high-rise and give the same story about Mr. Reagan tonight.

	Tonight I ask you to join me as I build America's future.  I want an America where our economy grows, where we bring down these national debts and where the best jobs and the future are here for America's people and for our children.

	In removing these massive national debts, the question is:  Who will pay?  Mr. Reagan's spending millions of dollars on television to tell you that he's going to protect the average American for the first time in his life.

	The last time around, what did they do?  They gave $60,000 in tax relief if you made $200,000 a year or more.  If you were Mr. Reagan's former employer, General Electric, you earned $6.5 billion these last three years, didn't owe a penny in federal income tax, and were entitled to $280 million in tax rebates.

	But if you're the average working American making $30,000 a year or less, all taxes considered, you either got no relief or your taxes actually went up.

	Cutting through all these figures, I'll tell you this:  When it was revealed that the vice president of the United States, one of the wealthiest men in America, pays a lower percentage on his federal income taxes than the janitor who cleans his office, something's rotten and needs to be changed in this country.

	Now, if Mr. Reagan's re-elected, they're going to raise your taxes.  What they're proposing, what they're studying, is one of three things:  a national sales tax, a so-called value-added tax, or a flat tax.

	It's all the same thing.  It means that people of middle and moderate income are going to get socked with the whole burden, and these wealthy Americans, these corporations, and these loophole users are going to run free in this country.

	I think they ought to join the rest of us in paying for the cost of American society.

	Today is Halloween, and stop to think what a Republican Halloween will be like.  When they come to your door and shout, "Trick or treat!" remember, they're describing the Republican tax package.

	It will be treats for the very wealthy and the corporations, and it will be tricks for everyone else.

	I want an America that respects the obligation of one generation to the other.  I know what my parents did for me, and you know what your parents did for you.  They gave us everything they had.  Most of them lived on modest income.  There was no way of getting rich.  They weren't on the make.  They were good people, good parents, good citizens, and wonderful Americans.  They did what we've asked every American to do.

	In the lives of all of us, if we're lucky, the time will come when our working years are over.  The time will come when we must retire.  For most Americans, the hope to live those years with dignity and some sense of security depends entirely on Social Security and Medicare.  That is the most important domestic program of our time, because it is a reflection of the basic value of a people that remember and honor their fathers and their mothers.

	This administration, after having tried to gut Social Security and weaken Medicare, is once again promising to protect the very programs they tried to destroy.

	The first time, it was their fault.  If you believe them this time, it's your fault.  I'll guarantee you that if they're re-elected, they're going to do everything they can to go after and to ruin Medicare.  If you'll elect me, I won't have a bit of it.  I'm going to stand there and defend those programs for our seniors.

	I want an America where the president understands that we must support and defend our air, and our land, and our water, and our public health.  I'll guarantee you, when I'm president, there will be no James Watts in Washington, no Ann Gorsuches.  We will protect our country.

	I want an America of justice.  This great city of Baltimore was founded by people who fled Europe to seek religious freedom.  They knew that the worst thing that you could do to a religious people is to let politicians and government stick their noses into the religious lives of the American people.

	Because of their wisdom, we are the most religious people on earth.  This president wants to ignore history and use government where it doesn't belong.

	I want a president who works for justice.  They have removed justice from the Justice Department.  They want Ed Meese as attorney general.  Now they've got their sights on the Supreme Court, that institution that has supported justice in this country all of these years.  If you give Mr. Reagan four more years, Jerry Falwell may get five more justices of the Supreme Court, and we don't want it.

	I want an America which stands for human rights around this world again.  Let us speak for the values of the American people with a clear voice and a sound trumpet.  Let's stand for democracy and liberty in Poland, in El Salvador, in South Africa, in the Philippines, wherever human beings are being discriminated against.

	Let's stop this illegal war in Nicaragua.  Let us not only strengthen the Marine Corps.  Let's strengthen the Peace Corps and send our young again around the world.  Let this nation again stand for the principle of caring and compassion.

	These last several months, every day we pick up the paper and read about starving human beings in Africa in Ethiopia.  Here we are, in this land of agricultural abundance, where last year we paid $31 billion to people not to produce food.  Why can't we turn around and see that this is a blessing and a miracle that we have in America?

	And why can't we use our ships and our planes tomorrow to airlift food to the hungry in Africa, and stand before the world as a caring and a just society?

	I want America strong to stand up to her adversaries, but I also understand that we must use our strength for purposes that serve our needs.  One is we must be strong to keep the peace.  We must use our strength to control these god-awful weapons before they destroy us all.

	This administration stands condemned for pursuing policies that have given us the most costly, dangerous arms race since the atomic era began.  Not only that, they want to extend the arms race now into the heavens and to spend a trillion dollars on Star Wars, which would delegate the commencement of a war to computers and make the world much more dangerous.  I'll have none of it.  I intend to use our power to control those weapons.

	Finally, we need a president who brings us back together again.  Today we have a president who likes to describe America as a shining city on the hill.  He's referring to perhaps the most famous sermon in American history, given by Reverend Winthrop over three-hundred years ago to the Puritans as they entered Boston Harbor.

	I don't know if Mr. Reagan has read that whole sermon, but in it, Reverend Winthrop said words that speak to us today, on the eve of this crucial election.  He said:

	     To become a city on the hill, we must strengthen, preserve
	     and comfort one another.  We must bear one another's burdens. 
	     We must look not only on our own things but also on the things
	     of our brethren.  We must rejoice together, mourn together,
	     labor and suffer together.  We must be knit together by a bond
	     of love.

	The most crucial indictment of this administration is that if you're old, you're supposed to be on your own, as they see it.  If you're unemployed, too bad.  If you're young and you need an education and can't get it, tough luck.  If you're black or brown or a woman and you're discriminated against, you should have thought about it.  If you're handicapped or if you're hungry or homeless, you're on your own.

	That isn't the way America is supposed to be.  When Americans are in trouble, they should never be alone.  That's what it means to be an American.

	We've got just a few days to go.  The crowds are getting bigger.  The American people see what's going on.  They see what's at stake.  The election is close, and now, all over this country, thoughtful people are making their decisions.

	On Sunday, I was endorsed by the New York Times.  On Monday, I was endorsed by the Washington Post.  On Tuesday, the Chicago Tribune endorsed my opponent, but let me give you the reasons they gave.  The Chicago Tribune said, "We endorse Reagan."  Then they said, "Mr. Reagan's policies threaten to bankrupt America and severely damage the free world economy."

	Then they add, "Mr. Reagan's ignorance about the Soviet Union and his air-headed rhetoric on the issue of foreign policy and arms control have reached the limits of tolerance and have become an embarrassment to the United States and a danger to world peace."

	And on that basis, they endorsed him.

	Even the people endorsing Reagan are embarrassed about it.  We can win this.  Something's moving!  I can feel it!  We're on our way!  Let's go get it!

	Thank you very, very much.

BUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONENDORSEMENTS--PRINT MEDIAFOREIGN AID--AFRICAHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHUNGER (WORLD)INCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMEDICARENUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATESOCIAL SECURITYURBAN RENEWAL     h9 49 .9 *9 "9
 9 9 9 9 8 8 8 8	 	  	  	  	  	  	 v 	 n 	 : 	  	  e: