

	How many of you saw the debate last Sunday?

	How many of you liked what you saw?

	How many of you think that I won?

	How many of you think that we're going to win in November?

	In less than six weeks, we will elect a new President.

	And over the past several weeks, I've proposed a plan to open the door of college opportunity to every youngster in this country who's qualified to do college work; a plan to provide health insurance for every working family in America; and yesterday I talked about what we can do to protect our citizens from the dangers of toxic waste.

	What does George Bush have to offer America's working families?  He has a new idea for a savings account in which the tax on the interest isn't due until you withdraw the money.

	Friends, that's a great idea.  And it was a great idea when it was invented--forty-seven years ago.  Here's George Bush's new idea:  it's a United States savings bond.

	The only difference is, that with savings bonds you aren't limited to $1000 a year--and you don't have to wait five years to withdraw the money.  And you know the best thing about a United States savings bond?  You can save for the future, you can invest in America--and you can do it with a Democratic Administration in the White House.

	Today, I want to talk about an issue that's important, not only to families here in West Texas, but to the future of our country.  It's rural America.  And whether Mr. Bush is aware of it or not, rural America is hurting.

	You know, in Washington, D.C., the parks are filled with great monuments to America's past.  But rural America today is filled with monuments of a different kind.  Monuments to the neglect and indifference and incompetence of Mr. Bush and his friends.

	Farms and ranches abandoned, or foreclosed.  Banks and hospitals shut down.  Storefronts boarded up.  Communities fighting to survive.

	Mr. Bush doesn't see the pain in rural America.

	He doesn't see the quarter of a million family farmers who have lost their land since he became vice president.  He doesn't see the worst wave of bank closings since the Great Depression; the 24 rural hospitals that have shut down in Texas alone; the bus and rail and air services that have been cut back because more than a million people have pulled up stakes and left rural America in the last year alone.

	My friends, Mr. Bush's farm policy can be summed up in five words:  the fewer farmers the better.  And his rural development policy can be summed up in two words:  tough luck.

	In eight years, the Republicans have run up more debt than all the previous Administrations from George Washington to Jimmy Carter combined; they drove the value of the dollar sky-high.  That was great for the foreign bankers who bought our bonds.  But it was a disaster for American farmers and workers and for our rural communities.

	The Republicans put America on the auction block.  They've been selling off our farms and businesses and banks and real estate to the Japanese and the Saudis and the Germans and others.

	Who is responsible for the selling of America?  Should we blame those foreign investors for knowing a bargain when they see one?  I for one sure don't blame our farmers or workers.  I blame Mr. Bush and the Republicans.  They're the ones holding the fire sales.

	Is that George Bush's idea of a "kinder and gentler America?"  Foreclosing on American farmers?  Letting our small towns die?

	It's time to replace policies that favor the few with those that help everybody.  To understand that every farmer and every rancher counts.

	To take the "for sale" signs down in rural America, and take charge of our economic future again.

	Our farmers deserve a fair price for their product--and they're not getting one.  In a Dukakis-Bentsen Administration they're going to get a price they can live on and a future they can count on.

	Last Sunday, George Bush said he was against supply management.  But we already have it!  That's what "set asides" and the conservation reserve program are all about.

	Mr. Bush says we Democrats want "mandatory" production controls.  He doesn't seem to understand that his Administration has idled more farmland than any in history and driven farm prices so low our farmers have had no choice but to participate in farm programs.  If that's not mandatory, I don't know what is.

	And Mr. Bush says he's against grain embargoes, but he just asked the granddaddy of the grain embargo, Mr. Brzezinski, to be a key advisor in his campaign.

	Well, I'm not going to embargo grain.  I'm not going to hire Mr. Brzezinski.  And I'm not going to abandon America's farmers and ranchers in a market that is neither free nor fair.  We can do better.  And we will do better.

	And we're going to start by investing in rural development.

	First, we need the rural health care initiative that Senator Bentsen proposed in Hale Center just two weeks ago--to keep hospitals open and to get more doctors and nurses into rural America.

	Second, we need the Star schools program that Congress approved this year and that will use advanced communications to help small-town students get a better education.

	Third, we need a Fund to Rebuild America with $100 million set aside to invest in rural America; to help small businesses get the financing they need to create new jobs and to save old ones; and to bring the industries of the future to the rural towns and counties of this country that are hurting and hurting badly.

	Finally, we're going to create a President's Council on Rural Development.  I want to bring together farmers and ranchers, rural business people, teachers and doctors and nurses; governors and cabinet members; to give rural America a voice in Washington and make sure Washington works for rural America.

	You know, many years ago, another Republican Administration thought that we could get by while neglecting rural America.  And it led us straight into the Great Depression.  That depression began in rural America.

	We needed new leadership and we elected a new president.  A Democrat.  A Governor.  From the Northeast.  His name was Franklin Roosevelt.  He had a running mate from Texas.  He had a strong partner in the Congress by the name of Sam Rayburn.

	Together, they met the toughest challenges our nation has faced.  Together, they helped lift our economy from its knees.  They met a lot of challenges.  And for rural America, one literally shines out.

	By the 1920s most Americans had electric power.  Not rural Americans.  The big utilities refused to supply them.  Not profitable enough they said.  The Republicans agreed.  And the utilities refused to let the farmers pay for the lines.  They called it socialism.  The Republicans agreed.

	Franklin Roosevelt knew better.  He knew that electric power would help make rural America prosperous.  And he had faith in America's farmers.  Through cooperatives.  With low-interest loans.

	FDR asked Sam Rayburn to lead the fight for the bill because he was determined "to make the farmers ... know that they are not the forgotten people."

	Roosevelt and Rayburn won.  They beat the Republicans and the utilities and their lobbyists.

	Hundreds of thousands of farmers formed cooperatives.  Your parents and grandparents signed up their neighbors.  With their own hands, rural Americans dug the holes, set the poles, and strung the wires.

	All over America the lights came on.

	Mr. Bush talks about a thousand points of light.  Franklin Roosevelt and Sam Rayburn helped rural America turn on millions of lights.

	Today, rural America, and all of America, face new challenges.  Tough challenges.  But we can and we will meet those challenges.

	Like Franklin Roosevelt and Sam Rayburn, I believe that we are one people.  Urban and rural.  North and south.  East and west.  And that if we are to grow at all, we must grow together.

	And together, with your help, we're going to prove the truth of something I said at the close of the debate Sunday night.  We're going to prove that the best America isn't behind us; the best America is yet to come.

AGRICULTURE--FARM FORECLOSURESAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSEMBARGOES/SANCTIONS (FOOD)--AGAINST THE SOVIET UNIONINVESTMENT, FOREIGNAGRICULTURE--GENERALRURAL DEVELOPMENT              
 }  x  s  m  h  f  f  [ 	  	  	 l 	 8  %   e: