

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Thank you.

	VOICES: We want Humphrey

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Thank you. Thank you. By the way, if you think you want Humphrey, let me tell you, Humphrey wants you.

	Governor, thank you for your welcome once again. Thank you, Senator, all the members of the congressional delegation that are here with us today. I am particularly honored to be in the area, the congressional district of Earle Cabell and Graham Purcell, nice to see my old friend, Henry Gonzales, who is always here with me, always helping me, and, Henry, you know what they say--they say, "Siempre con Humphrey." Is that all right? Arriba, okay?

	And I am very honored once again to have the privilege of being in the company of, and having the generous support of, Jim Wright, the great congressman over in Fort Worth.

	We are so happy with Bob Poage and Olin Teague, with Ray Roberts and the others who have all been working with us, and may I just take a moment to thank the band, that wonderful band, that just played the Minnesota rouser, the Bishop College band. I want to tell them something. I wish that band had been up in Minnesota last weekend, because the Dallas Cowboys took the Minnesota Vikings, you took the Minnesota Vikings 20 to 7. Now listen, you owe me something. Having defeated us on the football field, I want you to defeat the Republicans by the same score.

	Well, we have much to talk about here today. By the way, Texas has been mighty good to me today, we have had a great turnout of people. I agree with Ralph Yarborough, this is one of the finest and one of the largest airport rallies that I have ever seen, and besides that it is one with great enthusiasm.

	That is just another Democrat coming in wanting to get in on the meeting here. There are quite a few of them coming in. Those are some that the Republicans drove away a while ago. They are former Republicans and now they decided to fly safely and they are going Democratic all the way.

	Ladies and gentlemen, we have got a great fight on our hands. I remember when there was once a Democrat who was called the Happy Warrior, and I want you to know that from here on out that for these two weeks that are left in this campaign, that we are going to carry out a campaign of vigor, of vitality, of enthusiasm, of spirit that is going to sweep away these Republican cobwebs, and we are going to send Mr. Nixon back to his law practice up in New York. 

	All over America, all over this country, people are rallying to our banner. I wish you could have been with me just yesterday in New York City, last week up in Connecticut, out in Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Michigan, Ohio; wherever we have been, the crowds get a little bigger, the enthusiasm is a little more, the attention is a little better, the polls get a little better, but let me tell you-- let me tell you the best Pole of them all. He is a fellow by the name of Ed Muskie, my running mate.

	You know, the Republican candidate has made two decisions that you ought to be interested in. The first decision that he made was who would be his running mate--and may I say that is the most vital decision that any man makes when he seeks the office of presidency, and he decided to take on a man as his running mate who I believe does not compare with the quality of the man that is on the Democratic ticket.

	The second decision of the Republican candidate was that he just wasn't going to talk. He was going to have parades, he was going to have parties, he was going to have sort of setup interviews. Whenever the crowd got a little loud, he would go inside. Whenever the crowd inside was a little small, he would come outside--but he won't talk, he won't talk on the issues. I have had to call him Richard the Silent because he just won't talk.

	I will say this: that Mr. Nixon has been mighty good for the balloon business. There never has been quite so many balloons. He has floated more balloons and fewer ideas than any candidate in modern history.

	He has had more parades and fewer programs than any candidate in modern history. And he has had more television time and more advertising than any candidate in modern history. But I will tell you what is going to happen to him: he is going to have too few votes on November the 5th.

	I am going to depend on you to see that this comes through.

	Let me mention just a few things to you. First of all, I want my good friend Congressman Cabell to know that as a former fellow mayor I am very, very much pleased with his accomplishments in Congress, for the wonderful things that he has been able to do here during his service as mayor and as congressman for this great city of Dallas. He was able to start the rebuilding of the city, to make it one of the most modern cities in America. You have here transportation facilities, first-class highways and expressways, your airport, and your plans for an even more modern one are the product, are the product of what I want to see of the future, the product of cooperation, of partnership between a federal government that wants to work with you and a local government that wants to be a partner with the federal government.

	Now, I know--I know that this costs money, and I know this is a sort of thing that the Republican candidates can blink at. But I want to remind you of something, there is a great program here that is authorized, that is going to mean jobs, that is going to mean new prosperity for this area, that is going to mean growth, it is going to mean more private enterprise, it is going to mean more private business, and I refer to the Trinity River development project.

	Now back in 1962, the governor of this state, Governor John Connelly, seeking then the governorship of the state of Texas, came to this city and he said that he was for the Trinity River development project. He stood squarely for it. His Republican opponent, he didn't know. He was like the present Republican nominee: He was kind of for it but, and it ended up he was against it. And how did we find out about it? The governor, Governor Connelly, then candidate, was able to debate his Republican opponent, and out of that debate came the truth, and out of that debate came the election of Governor Connelly of Texas, and out of that debate, my friends, came a good Democratic victory.

	So I have been trying to get Mr. Nixon to debate me. I would like to find out what he thinks about some of these projects. I would like to smoke him out. I would like to get him out from under the sagebrush. I would like to get him out from behind the shadows of these hills. I would like Mr. Nixon to come out and say what he is for. I know he wants to get elected, but I want to know if he is for the people. I want to know if he is for this Trinity River project. I want to know if he is for the development of our cities. I want to know if he is for these job training programs. I want to know where Mr. Nixon stands. I know where he sits, but I want to know where he stands.

	I want to know, for example--I want to know if Mr. Nixon is going to be the kind of a president that would encourage our aircraft industry. Here is Dallas, the center of finance. Here is Dallas, the center of the aircraft industry. Here is Dallas, a center of the electronics industry. I want to know whether or not we are going to have a president that is going to encourage commercial aviation, help build new airports, help in safety, help develop the kind of a great commercial transport system that America needs in modern aircraft. Why doesn't Mr. Nixon speak out? What he does, he says he is cool. He is confident. He is ahead. He thinks he has got it wrapped up. He thinks you folks are going to let him sneak in the back door of the White House. I don't think so, do you?

	VOICES: No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: He thinks the White House is for sale. He thinks that, if you please, with a big advertising budget, you can buy it. You know what I think? I think, with the people, you can earn it, and I want the people to help me. I want you to help. I need your help, but frankly, I think you need the help of the Democratic party and the Democratic leadership. That is the way we built this country. We have invested in it. We haven't had a country that grew what it is today through trickle-down economics. We have had a country that has grown from the people. The strength of this country is in its people--it is in the education of that child, it is in the training of that man that needs a job, it is in bringing from the slums and from the areas of poverty people who can stand on their own feet. It is in better education, it is in better health, it is in rebuilding our cities.

	The Democratic party thinks of the tomorrows. The Democratic party and its leadership is thinking about how we are going to educate people who have not had an education, how we are going to give better training to people who need a job, how we are going to rebuild their cities, how we are going to conserve our water, how we are going to take care of our land, how we are going to take care of our people. That is the difference between the Democratic arty and the Republican party.

	Let me--

	VOICES: Sock it to 'em.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: I am going to sock it to 'em. 

	And I want you to sock it to 'em with your ballot on November 5th. That is what we call the "Tuesday punch", not the "Sunday punch". Give it to them.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't come to you with fiction, I come with fact. Many of the young people here may not remember it, but in the 1950s, when Republican leadership was in charge, this country was plagued with recession, this country was plagued with unemployment, the profits were down, the jobs were down, the income was down, the needs of America went unmet, and that is a fact. With the coming into the presidency of John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson, this country has been on the move, and I want to keep it on the move.

	We have not--we have not forgotten our promises. We have kept our promises. We have performed. The elderly, who needed Medicare-- they got it from Democrats, not Republicans. The young people who needed a better chance in education and higher education and elementary education and secondary education--they got their help--not from the Republicans, but from the Democrats. And let's not forget it.

	And the handicapped--I was in Fort Worth--as I went to the platform, children, crippled, mentally retarded, physically handicapped--did the Republican party care? 

	VOICES: No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Not On your life. My dear friends, it is not even something to shout about: it is something to cry about. Here is the great rich nation--the first time that an administration cared about the emotionally disturbed, about the mentally retarded--one out of every 400 babies born in this land mentally retarded--was when the Johnson-Humphrey administration put into law programs to aid mothers and fathers and the blessed little ones who never had a chance to live. We care, the Democratic party. We care.

	And our record for the needy--a government must have a conscience, a government must not only be strong and prudent, but it must be wise and compassionate, and we have seen something happen in America, my friends, that is a great reawakening. We have seen it Happen--we have seen people, the children of the slums, that have known poverty come into their own. Ten million Americans, ladies and gentlemen, 10 million Americans that only seven years ago were on relief, poverty stricken, hopeless, despairing, and angry, bitter, 10 million of them today are self-sustaining, tax- producing, revenue-producing, taxpaying American citizens, black and white along, standing free.

	I want to remind this audience that the greatest treasures of America are yet to be discovered, and we intend to discover them.

	Bob Gibson, the great pitcher of the St. Louis Cardinals, has a book entitled, "From the Ghettos to Glory." A son of the poorest of the poor, a gentleman that would grace any home, a man, if you please, of not only great athletic ability but a great mind and great character; out of the poor have come some of the great people of this land, and may I say those great human resources are there yet to be found, and we are doing something about it with Project Headstart, with Job Corps, with Vista, with a hundred and one different programs. Some will, some won't, but they help people.

	And finally may I say that, that every time you help someone else, you help yourself. Every time that you help someone stand on his own feet, it means that is someone that you don't have to hold up.

	Mr. Businessman, every investment that we make in job training, in job placement, in health centers, every investment we make in education, elementary, secondary, community college, higher education, comes back a hundredfold in dividends.

	America is a richer and better country today because we cared about the little people.

	Mr. Nixon talks about the forgotten people. He ought to know, He forgot them. His party forgot them. I want you to know that we Remember the people, and I am proud to carry on in the tradition of great Democratic leaders to build on what we have already constructed, to seek peace in this world and to seek peace here at home, to see to it, to see to it, our neighborhoods are safe and not merely go around and put bumper stickers on cars that say "Support your police." That is not enough. If you want equal protection of the law, if you want equal rights of the law, if you want law enforcement, then, like peace and freedom itself, it is not cheap. You pay for it with better police, with better equipment, with better training, with better salaries, and with local enforcement, and with trust amongst the people--with trust among the people.

	My dear friends, I ask you now to give me your help. I ask you to not only give me your hand, I ask you to give me your confidence, I ask you to put your trust in the democratic leadership, and I ask every American out here, Spanish surname, black, white, whatever your background, I ask you above all to live as neighbors, not as enemies, to live as community, not in animosity, I ask you to live in t rust of one another, because the dream of this country is still a dream that can come true, and I believe in this dream. I believe in it with all the conviction of my heart, that this can be one nation, it must be, and it can be one nation under God and indivisible, it must be, and it must be liberty and it must have justice but it must have liberty and justice for all. That is what we stand for in this nation.

	Thank you. 
AEROSPACE INDUSTRYDISABLED PERSONSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNPOVERTYPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     r: >: 8: 4: ,:
  : : : : : 	: 9 9	 z 	 h 	 X 	 : 	 3 	  e: