

	I want to talk to you today about history--some personal, and some more broad.

	First, the personal. I have to tell you that I feel very comfortable speaking to a group of businessmen and women--particularly small businessmen, because I was one myself.

	I got my start taking a risk, building a business, and watching it grow. It wasn't always easy, or successful, but ultimately we employed about 425 people. And I take great pride in the company, Zapata Offshore Drilling.

	I must say, I think that building a business, meeting a payroll, and understanding what small business men and women are up against every day are good preparation for being president. I wish we had more people in government who understood those things.

	To continue for a moment with personal history: a few days before the convention this past summer, I went fishing for a few days up in the mountains near Cody, Wyoming. Now, any of you who fish know that it's an opportunity to be alone and quiet and reflective. As a sport, it's an intensely individual one.

	That's why I'd be surprised if many of you in this room haven't ever tried it--because you're the latest in a long line of independent Americans who've taken the initiative: waded out into that rushing stream, where sometimes you don't know how deep it's going to be, or whether you'll even catch anything.

	With a little bit of technique and a lot of gut instinct you cast out a line--and sure enough, over time, the fish have been out there. You've netted some wonderful gains for yourselves, the people working with you, and for America's economy.

	My point, of course, is that it's that kind of initiative--often undertaken in the face of uncertainty--that has built our country, from our earliest days to this most recent economic recovery. In fact, the heroes of our great economic expansion in the last six years have not been the Fortune 500 giants, with all due respect, but our entrepreneurs. Small businesses, those with fewer than 500 employees, compose 99 percent of all U.S. businesses and employ over half of our nation's workers. Over 60 percent of the 17.8 million new jobs we've created in this recovery have been in small businesses--and over one-third of those have been in businesses employing fewer than twenty people.

	Think about it. Small business is the engine of the American economy--one of the greatest job-creating machines anywhere.

	Some people just don't understand that. Some people--including my opponent--are all too ready to saddle small business with new requirements, new paperwork, and new taxes.

	That may not kill the goose that laid the golden egg, but it will require the goose to hire an assistant just to fill out the new forms.

	Just think what some of these regulatory schemes mean to small businesses with six or seven employees. They have to hire an eighth, or maybe a ninth person, just to deal with federal paperwork. Well, that's not what I mean when I talk about creating productive jobs for every American citizen.

	To come back to my analogy about fishing--don't think only about the fisherman or even the fish, but about the stream. It's part of a natural order that's balanced, interlinked, and enormously beneficial. When you clog the stream with junk, when you pour new poison into the water, when you restrict the freedom of the fish, you upset the natural order. The stream will not be as productive.

	If there is one accomplishment of which I am most proud in these last eight years, it is that President Reagan and I have restored the health of that natural system. The stream is running faster, the water's a little cleaner, and the fish are bigger than ever.

	That brings me to the broader history I wanted to talk about. Let's look at the record of these last eight years.

	Start with economic growth. Real GNP has increased by over 20 percent since we took office. Take interest rates. You're not going to go out and start a business if you can't afford, or can't get, the capital to go do it. On the day we took office, the prime rate was 21.5 percent. Today, it's less than half that. Take inflation. Again, you know the story, but some people seem to forget. Thirteen and a half percent in 1980. Just over four percent today.

	You ask small businessmen around this country--as I have--what they want and need. They don't want handouts, or special programs. They want a climate in which a sound business can grow.

	Let's talk about the climate we've created. Business taxes today are at their lowest since 1941, and individual tax rates for small business owners are at their lowest since 1931.

	Deregulation has unleashed a flood of new ideas and new opportunities. Thousands of new firms have sprung up across the land in transportation, communications, and financial services.

	We've tried to lighten the heavy hand of government. The fact is that not all small businesses succeed--that's what risk is all about. Many fail in the first year. New businesses are often fragile things--easily smothered by bureaucrats who don't understand or by the load of paperwork they tend to require.

	We've tried to lighten that load. Executive Order 12291 and the Regularity Flexibility Act require government agencies to study the impact of their regulations on small business and the economy, and consider less burdensome alternatives. We've tried to be a friend to small business.

	The results speak for themselves: Five million new businesses have been started since we took office--making an increase of over 40 percent in the number of firms out there slugging it out every day in America.

	Overall, for the most recent data we have, small business earnings were up 9.9 percent last year. In the last five years, the increase has never been less than nine percent.

	I'm proud to say that, as Chairman of the Task Force on Regulatory Reform, I headed up the effort to clear out some of the regulatory underbrush that had been getting in the way of small business.

	Now, my opponent has been quite critical of that task force. But perhaps he should ask the small businessmen and women of this country--the job creators of America--whether they'd rather have more regulation or less.

	I hope you'll give him that answer in November.

	It all comes down to a matter of attitude. Perhaps the great Winston Churchill said it best. The last speech of his long career, one that spanned sixty-five years, was devoted to the question of business and its role in the economy.

	"Some academics on the left," Churchill said, pointing his cane like a rifle, "see private enterprise as a tiger--a predatory animal to be shot." Then, pumping his hands, he said, "Some bureaucratic types on the left see private enterprise as a cow to be milked."

	"But we, and the decent, hard-working people of this country know that private enterprise is the sturdy horse that pulls the cart of democracy."

	A question of attitude. It is here that I think my opponent fails. Frankly, since he's never been in business, I don't think he understands the full effect of his own anti-business scheme.

	A question of attitude. In his first campaign for governor, my opponent promised never to raise taxes. Once elected, he pushed through a package of tax increases that added up to the largest tax increase in Massachusetts history.

	This year, faced with a huge budget deficit--which he's been borrowing in the short-term credit market lately to cover--he raised all sorts of taxes: the income tax, the sales tax, and one that might be of special interest to this audience.

	He cut back the law which allowed small business income taxes on sub-chapter-S companies to be taxed directly to the owners and their families. According to an article in the Boston Business Journal, the effect of this was to double taxes on businesses of under thirty-five people in Massachusetts.

	That maneuver is not surprising in that it fits with the pattern my opponent has used in every fiscal crisis: raise taxes. State taxes per capita have risen faster in Massachusetts than in all but one other state--and the reason is not just greater wealth or more businesses. State taxes per $1,000 of income are up, too.

	The reason, of course, is the other side of the ledger. Per capita spending since he came back to office is up by almost 50 percent. The median for all 50 states is 28 percent. And, in the exact same time period, federal spending is up 19.2 percent--far less than half the increase in Massachusetts spending.

	Businesses have been voting with their feet. At a time when the U.S. has gained 1.6 million manufacturing jobs, Massachusetts has lost 38,000.

	Let met put it another way: if Pennsylvania had created jobs at the same rate as Massachusetts did under my opponent--and this is all jobs, not just manufacturing--there would be 184,000 fewer people in Pennsylvania with jobs today.

	Here's the most telling statistic of all for what a Dukakis administration might mean for small business. In the first six months of this year, the number of business bankruptcies nationally was down by 23.5 percent compared to the same period last year. In the exact same period, the number of business bankruptcies was up by 23.7 percent in Massachusetts.

	A question of attitude. Let me tell you what my attitude about small business is.

	I believe that the best policy is to unleash the most powerful force on earth: the power of individual workers, individual entrepreneurs, and individual dreamers. Why do I believe this? Because it works.

	As the world's largest economy, we have been the leaders in the movement toward economic freedom. So my first principle is, let's not reverse course with a tax increase and big dose of central government planning.

	That's exactly what my opponent wants to do.

	First, he clearly wants to raise taxes. Why else would he call our 1981 tax cuts--the one that cut individual income taxes by 25 percent across the board--"one of the worst bills Congress could ever have passed"?

	Last week, I asked my opponent an explicit question. He hasn't answered. And so I repeat the question: Does he plan to repeal the 1981 tax cuts? Does he or doesn't he, only the stealth candidate knows for sure. But the American people have a right to know.

	Next, he wants to set up, with $500 million of taxpayer's money, a big pork-barrel "Fund to Rebuild America." And I can just see the dollar signs flashing in those Democratic congressman's eyes--that fund will be billions as soon as they get their hands on it.

	Why should the government be picking business winners and losers--based on the strength of a company's lobbyist or PR man? My approach is totally different.

	I believe we can attract individual investors, as we have done very successfully in this recovery, by reestablishing a capital gains tax differential. When this was done last time, the result was an explosion of new jobs--one million in the electronics industry alone.

	A recent study done by the Small Business Administration showed who the investors were--not fat cats or speculators, but individuals taking a risk for the longer haul. Eighty-nine percent of the investments were for more than a year. Eighty percent for more than three years.

	Let me read you a few quotes about cutting the capital gains tax:

	One: "The tax on capital gains directly affects... the ease or difficulty experienced by new ventures in obtaining capital, and thereby the strength and potential for growth of the economy."

	That was from President John F. Kennedy, of Massachusetts.

	Two: "The capital gains differential is a weapon--a powerful weapon in the battle to be competitive." And "That bill [cutting the capital gains tax] did more for the economy of my state than anything I did as a Congressman."

	Those quotes were from Senator Paul Tsongas--of Massachusetts.

	Three: "I think it's preposterous. I can't imagine anything worse. Cutting the capital gains tax is about the last thing I would do."

	That was from Governor Michael Dukakis--of Massachusetts.

	Now you tell me: who is outside the mainstream?

	Here's what I think. West Germany and Japan don't tax long-term capital gains. Nor do the fast-growing economies of the Pacific Rim. I think we should cut the capital gains rate to reestablish that differential and create jobs.

	I don't mean to imply that government has no role in helping small business address the problems it faces. Take liability insurance. In our litigation-happy society, high insurance rates and outrageous awards threaten to put some companies out of business. They add cost to U.S. products and threaten American jobs.

	I have some proposals on tort reform:

	We should expand the use of binding arbitration and other means to encourage early resolution of disputes.

	We should restore fault as the standard required for somebody to get damages.

	-- And we should eliminate the so-called "deep pocket" syndrome, wherein a company barely involved can be forced to pay 100 percent of a plaintiff's claim.

	The point is: insurance costs are soaring. Let's get them under control.

	I mentioned competitiveness, and we've certainly heard a lot of talk about that subject in this campaign. If there's one thing that won't make American business more competitive it's mandated benefits--the kind my opponent favors.

	A recent study showed that the full cost to business of the mandated benefits proposed by my opponent would be $48 billion. With a price tag like that, perhaps it's no wonder that most of our European competitors are dropping the kind of mandates the other party now proposes.

	The best way to enhance American competitiveness is to concentrate on skills. We live in a very mobile society. Every year, one in every five workers leaves his or her job. David Birch, the small business expert at MIT, says "We need to build secure bridges over which workers can safely traverse from one job or occupation to the next."

	There are two ways to do this: education and training. I know that your chamber has been an active partner in improving area high schools. That should be a national crusade. I'd like to see every business that has the wherewithal adopt a school in their community. I'd like to see businessmen and women speak in the schools more; and build links like you have done with local students.

	Government, of course, has a key role in education--with principal responsibility at the local and state levels. But I would encourage the federal government to expand Head Start, to reward excellence in the schools, to promote magnet schools, and to make it easier to save for college with college savings bonds. Education would be a top priority in a Bush administration.

	Many people in this room participated in the Private Industry Councils set up under the Job Training Partnership Act. The JTPA worked--it has helped almost three million young people and adult workers find new jobs since 1983. And unlike CETA, those are productive, private sector jobs. Now our opponents have been going around bashing the JTPA; but next time they come to Pennsylvania, you ask them what they propose as an alternative. And if it's a return to CETA, I hope you'll say "No thanks."

	I have several other proposals, too: Make permanent the research and development tax credit, encourage employee stock ownership plans and employee ownership ideas; reinvigorate the Small Business Administration.

	But I really do believe it comes back to a question of attitude. Our approach, our philosophy, has helped create the longest peacetime expansion in American history. It has made Americans at every income level better off.

	That's tough news for my opponent to swallow. He doesn't like it much. So lately, as the campaign heats up, he's pursued a strategy of dividing Americans. He's begun a calculated strategy of emphasizing differences between rich and poor, between one region of the country and another.

	I understand the motivation--he won't win unless he convinces the electorate that everything is bad in America--but I am dismayed by this "divide and conquer" strategy.

	In the last eight years, our strategy has been to give economic power to all Americans. To create a booming economy that creates jobs for all--good jobs at good wages.

	We are not finished with that task. But it is not one that will be completed by some Americans and not others, by government without the people. We won't make this country stronger by emphasizing our differences, by convincing ourselves that America is in bad shape, or by turning back to policies that didn't work.

	We will build a better America by unleashing America's most potent forces, its secret weapon: the idea of opportunity. That idea is alive in this country today, and I won't let it die. I'll work with you to make sure it is spread to every corner of this land.

	Americans are eager to follow the dream into the next decade, and into the next century. And I'm eager to help keep the dream alive.

	Thank you very much.

CAPITAL GAINS TAXINSURANCE/INSURANCE INDUSTRYJOB GROWTH/CREATIONJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMASSACHUSETTSREGULATION/DEREGULATIONTAXATION--GENERALBUSINESS, SMALLENTREPRENEURSHIP     C C C C C
 C C C {C oC mC GC =C	  	  	 ~ 	 k 	 T 	 G 	 0     e: