

	Thank you. Thank you very much. Governor Engler, I thank you very much, and I thank all of you for being here. I want to thank you for the invitation and for agreeing to come at a later time. You said you took a dive in the U.S.S. Michigan. The last dive I took was in Chico, California. And the first call I got was from a trial lawyer.

	So in any event--it's always an honor for me to be in Michigan, because I spent a part of my youth in Michigan, in Battle Creek--Fort Custer at the time--sort of in the rehab process, and the hospitalization process.

	In fact, I discovered a letter--we had all these archivists working and I discovered a letter about a month ago written to my father on July 20th--or December 27th, 1947. It was a very short letter and what it said was, whether or not your son will make it or not is questionable, but we will do all we can and we will keep you informed.

	Now, I say that to the fainthearted who think I haven't had a tough call or time or two before. It's going to be better if it comes the hard way and it's going to come the hard way for the reasons that John Engler stated and, I think, the reasons I will state here in just a moment. And it is an honor to be here.

	And I've had this honor a couple of other times to speak to this group. It's a very prestigious group and I thank you for listening. And let me say at the outset to those who may--the Clinton supporters or Democrats or Independents or whatever--just--there are always one or two who just come to the wrong meeting, don't let--let me just say to everybody--this is a battle for the future, about ideas, about agendas, not about Bob Dole or--or President Clinton.

	We'll have our opportunities in the next couple of weeks to have a debate in Hartford and then one in San Diego, and the pundits are saying, if Bob Dole shows up, he's the winner. And I plan on showing up.

	So, that's over. We'll go on to the next thing. I am here to talk about the stakes of this year's election, and today I want to focus on my plan to balance the budget, cut taxes, and abolish the IRS as we know it.

	And for those who doubt my resolve, let me say that I intend to keep talking about this plan and how it will benefit American families virtually nonstop from now until election day.

	In every state I visit, every talk show I am on, every rally I address, I will be saying that the American people know how to spend their money better than the government.

	I will be saying that the American people haven't had a tax cut for ten years, and it's time they got one.

	I will be saying that taxes are too high so long as American families spend more on taxes than on food, clothing, and shelter combined, as they do now.

	I will be saying that high taxes not only squeeze growth out of our economy, they squeeze time out of our families, robbing the hours that parents could spend with each other and with their children, and that's a price we should not have to pay.

	I will be saying that this economy is not good enough, and not on the right track, so long as, in two-earner families across America, one spouse works full-time for the family while the other works full-time for the government.

	Jack Kemp and I will not be satisfied until if both spouses work, it is because they want to work, not because they are forced to by high taxes. We will not be satisfied until we lift the burden of excessive government off the backs of America's families, entrepreneurs, and businesses and get this economy moving again, creating growth, opportunity, and greater security for every family and worker in this land.

	Our nation's history shows that the greatest force for economic growth, for lifting the poor from poverty, for opening opportunities for productive, fulfilling lives for all, is the force of a free people--free to go where God and their dreams guide them.

	That is what built America into the most prosperous, generous nation on earth. And that is what my program is all about--trusting the people--not the government, the people--and giving them back more of the resources they need to get the job done.

	The choice in this election is between two distinct visions of government and of America's future.

	Our opponents--and they are our opponents, not our enemies--have a vision that places government at the center of our lives and economic growth on the back burner. President Clinton says the era of big government is over. Yet for nearly four years now he has been doing everything in his power to make sure the government stays big and gets bigger.

	All his plans, all his proposals, all his ideas and policies are premised on a single notion: that the size and scope of government has no limits. He may have mastered the language of limited government, but his actions have persistently demonstrated a belief that government has all the answers.

	Of course, you will never hear him during this campaign boast about what he has tried to do to balloon the size of the federal government. His pollsters won't let him.

	In politics, I believe actions speak louder than words, so permit me to take a moment to review a record that this president would rather have us forget.

	When he took office, Bill Clinton inherited an economy that was well on the road to recovery. GDP has been growing at a brisk 4.3 percent in the last quarter of 1992. That was the economy Bill Clinton called the worst since the Great Depression.

	And what was his plan to address this "problem"? As his first major economic policy proposal, Bill Clinton called for a $1 billion "stimulus package" of pork barrel government spending: a casino in Connecticut, an "art ark" in San Francisco, a bike path in Oregon, carousel renovations in Rhode Island, a shopping center in Indiana, an Alpine slide in Puerto Rico, an indoor baseball field in Alabama. All of it at taxpayer expense.

	Only someone who believes that government is the engine of America economic growth could believe that such a hodgepodge of federal spending was the formula to help American families.

	Fortunately, those fanciful notions of activist meddling and expansive government were overwhelmingly rejected by the American people. Even a Congress controlled by the Democrats couldn't push through Bill Clinton's big spending plans, no matter how hard they tried.

	Unfortunately, even a united Republican minority was not enough to turn back Bill Clinton's next major economic policy proposal--a $265 billion tax increase with higher taxes on senior citizens, entrepreneurs, small business owners and anyone who drives a car or truck.

	Here was another insight into Bill Clinton's economic philosophy. His first proposal was a huge government spending plan; his second proposal was the largest tax increase in American history. That's the Clinton economic strategy: try to spend and tax America to prosperity. That is always the liberal strategy.

	Bill Clinton's third major act was to attempt to impose a government takeover of the greatest health care system on earth. It was the kind of massive expansion of the federal government that America had not seen in three decades. Bill Clinton's nationalized health care plan would have resulted in $1.5 trillion in new federal spending and imposed a total of seventeen new taxes on American workers to pay for it.

	It would have created fifty brand-new federal bureaucracies, a myriad of new laws and federal penalties, introduced price controls, and put one-seventh of the U.S. economy under [missing text]--it would have dwarfed almost every other program and have become the third largest entitlement program after Social Security and Medicare.

	That's the real Clinton "wish list," the true agenda of this president when it's not an election year: a massive pork barrel spending program. The biggest tax hike in history. The biggest single government power-grab in history.

	Some say that Bill Clinton will take any position, say anything as a matter of political convenience. But the record of his first term shows a very different story. This is a man with a commitment to a very specific view of government.

	He was committed to advancing a wasteful and indefensible spending program even in the face of relentless criticism. He vigorously pushed through the largest tax increase in history, even though he knew the burden it would place on American families. For eighteen long months he fought a losing battle to impose a form of socialized medicine on the finest health care system in the world.

	These are not the actions of a finger-in-the-wind politician. These are the actions of an old-style, dyed-in-the-wool, big-spending liberal committed to a government that spends and spends and taxes and taxes. These are the actions of someone who, once the spotlight of the campaign has been turned off, will take every opportunity to increase the size of government, even as he decreases the size of your wallet.

	Since the Republican landslide of 1994, President Clinton has been trying to recast his agenda, taking credit for Republican ideas. But the clearest indication of where the President's heart and mind really are comes from the first two years of his administration, when his party controlled both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue--the White House and the Congress. In politics, you cannot run from your record, and his record is clear--a record of liberalism run rampant.

	While saying the era of big government is over, since entering office in 1993, Bill Clinton has proposed 484 new spending initiatives. The price tag? Over $2 trillion. Not $2 billion. Not even $200 billion. Two trillion dollars. Even in Washington, that's a mind-boggling sum.

	Had Republicans in Congress not said no, these initiatives would have cost every American family over $4,000 a year for every year Bill Clinton has sat in the White House. Already this year, President Clinton has floated enough initiatives to increase the size of government by 20 percent--one-fifth. If that's the end of big government, I'd hate to see the beginning.

	How is he going to pay for all this? Since he's never offered a list of specific spending cuts, that leads to only one conclusion: Bill Clinton will have to raise taxes again on the American people. He's done it before. He will do it again. Promise a tax cut during the campaign, unleash a tax increase once in office.

	In fact, some of the plans may already be leaking out. Just last week, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt ran yet another tax hike up the flagpole--endorsing a federal sales tax on outdoor equipment. He called it, "a great win-win situation for everyone." Sure, unless you camp, ride a bike, take pictures, or feed the birds. Backpacks, canteens, mountain bikes, hiking boots, skis, scuba gear, binoculars, even birdseed would be hit with a 5 percent tax. Americans who use cameras, film, and other photographic equipment would also pay special new taxes to Washington.

	The list goes on and on. There would be a new tax on sport-utility vehicles. I don't have to tell you here in Detroit what that means. That's a tax on some of your most popular lines--the Ford Explorer, the Chevy Blazer and the Jeep Cherokee.

	But that's the way it is with this administration. They tax you when you work, they tax you when you save. They tax you when you take some time off with the family. If they get their way, you won't even be able to escape the IRS when you're hiking in the wilderness. Well, I say it's time to put the shoe on the other foot and to tell the big taxers to take a hike.

	The Clinton campaign's rapid response team is quick. Only this time they had to respond to their own administration, protesting that the tax ideas weren't official White House policy. But the truth is, Bruce Babbitt's real mistake was to let the tax-cat out of the bag before Election Day. They have a spend-and-tax agenda. They just don't want to let the American people in on their secret.

	What has Bill Clinton's economic philosophy given us? Thanks to his actions--the tax hikes, the spending, the regulations--America today is experiencing the slowest economic recovery in a century--not in a decade, not in a generation, but in a century. Mr. Clinton says that he's satisfied with an economy that is just sputtering along, and I'm saying we can do better.

	Just the other day, Mr. Clinton's own Department of Commerce reported that the U.S. goods and services trade deficit in July reached a four-year high of $11.7 billion, an incredible 43 percent jump from the previous month. That represents another slice out of U.S. economic growth, which is a disaster for American workers and their families.

	The merchandise trade deficit--which the administration reported was $17.5 in July--is so bad, this year it may even break Mr. Clinton's record-setting deficit last year of $175 billion. After four years under this administration, this deficit will total $650 billion. It's a frightening measure of how far behind Bill Clinton's failed policies have set the American economy.

	Jumps in the trade deficit like this mean fewer manufacturing jobs and ultimately lower wages for American workers, especially in states like Michigan, Ohio, and other centers of manufacturing.

	There are other signs that explain why so many Americans feel anxious about today's economy, even though the White House assures us it is the strongest in thirty years. Last month we learned that the number of bankruptcies during the past year topped the one-million mark for the first time ever, a 27 percent increase over 1992. This is a grim statistic that tells us America's small businesses find it harder and harder to operate in Bill Clinton's economy.

	Productivity gains under Bill Clinton have all but come to a halt. Under his presidency, productivity has increased at a sparse 0.3 percent per year. The year before he took office, productivity increased at a 3.6 percent rate. Slowing productivity leads to stagnant wages. According to a recent study by the Economic Policy Institute, more than six out of ten Americans have seen their real wages decline over the past six years.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not satisfied with an economy distinguished by record bankruptcies, low productivity, and stagnant wages. I don't believe President Clinton has an answer to these problems. In fact, he's not even asking the right questions.

	When you look at everything he's promised, everything he's talked about, everything he's hinted at, it seems that Bill Clinton has a million little plans for how government can tell us to run our lives.

	Jack Kemp and I have one big plan--to give you back more of your hard-earned money and more of your freedom. Because you and your family can run your own lives better than any government bureaucracy ever can, and ever will.

	Jack Kemp and I believe that America today stands on the threshold of a breathtaking future. How do we grasp these opportunities? How do we release the potential bottled up in this economy?

	Here's how. It's all in this book Trusting the People, which should be arriving in your bookstores today. We believe that the American people deserve straight plain speaking from us. They should be able to hold what we propose up to the light, turn it around, study it from all angles, ask questions, and see for themselves how it all adds up.

	You've heard a lot about my plan in the media. And you've also heard some criticism, most of it from people who have never even read the plan. Here is the plan. I'll start with the provisions that have brought the most criticism and created the most excitement: my plan to reduce taxes on working Americans and unleash the creative potential of the American economy.

	The steps are simple and straightforward: a 15-percent tax cut, a $500-per-child tax credit, capital-gains tax rates cut in half, elimination of capital-gains taxes for virtually all homeowners, a repeal of Bill Clinton's tax hike on senior citizens, expanded individual retirement accounts.

	All these measures are based on one simple belief: money belongs to the people who earn it, not to the government that taxes it. People should not have to apologize for wanting to keep more of their earnings; government should apologize for taking so much away.

	As a percentage of gross domestic product, federal taxes are now at their highest level in U.S. history. The government is taking more out of our economy than ever before. Families today are working longer and harder, but taking home less. It now takes two incomes to make ends meet for most families, when one used to be enough. The bottom line: under our plan, a family of four making $30,000 will save $1,261 on their federal tax bill.

	To some people, that doesn't sound like a lot of money. But this is designed for Main Street, not Wall Street.

	Clinton believes government can do a better job spending that money. I believe that money is better spent by parents raising children and trying to pay the bills. They can use their extra money to educate their children, perhaps buy them a computer. Or they can take the $1,261 to make car or mortgage payments, maybe even take a well-deserved vacation. But whatever you do with it, you know how to spend it better than the government does, and we say you should keep it.

	But my plan doesn't stop there. I'll rein in regulators and insist they stop telling entrepreneurs how to run their businesses. Government should not impose regulations unless the benefits outweigh the costs.

	I'll slow down the trial lawyers--still the best friends of the Clinton administration--by putting an end to frivolous lawsuits and capping runaway punitive damage awards.

	And perhaps most important, I will create opportunity scholarships that will allow more low- and middle-income families to choose better schools for their children. Wealthy parents already have this choice, as do those with power and privilege such as the President and the Vice President. I want to give it to all parents. I want to take control of our schools away from special interest groups like the National Educational Association, and return those schools to the parents and teachers.

	All that will happen in phase one. In phase two, I will replace the current tax code with a flatter, simpler system. Why do we need a federal tax code running tens of thousands of pages? Why do we need some 480 different tax forms, and another 280 forms explaining the first 480 forms? The answer is, we don't. And in a Dole-Kemp administration, we won't.

	Critics have said, you can't cut taxes and balance the budget. What they're really saying is, they can't. My economic growth plan will balance the budget by the year 2002 and lock it in with a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.

	This brings us to the essential difference between my view of government and President Clinton's. I have a plan to balance the budget by the year 2002. He has a plan he claims balances the budget by the year 2002. But he wants to see the federal government spend almost $400 billion more than I do over the next six years. I want to take that $400 billion and return it to the American taxpayers.

	Two plans, two visions of government. Bill Clinton wants government to grow larger. I want the private sector to grow larger. He wants families to pinch their pennies so government can spend more of their money. I want government to pinch its pennies so families won't have to.

	How can it be done? It's easy.

	This plan comes with the most detailed accounting of how to cut taxes and balance the budget of any presidential campaign in history. Let me explain.

	Paying for our plan in full begins with taking the savings obtained in the balanced budget and creating more economic growth, and we have factored in a very conservative estimate of how government shouldn't own and shouldn't give away. Most important, our plan protects vital programs such as Medicare, Social Security, and defense. Take those out of the equation--and, of course, interest on the national debt--and it comes down to saving only five cents on each remaining dollar of federal sending. Five cents.

	Now, let me ask each of you here at the Detroit Economic Club. Is there one businessperson in this audience, is there one CEO in America who doesn't think he or she could slow down rising costs by saving five cents on the dollar? Why is it that the CEO of our country--I mean the President--throws up his hands and says it can't be done?

	I reject the words "It can't be done." And because it can be done, you'll be sending less of your tax dollars to Washington when Jack Kemp and I are elected. With today's pro-growth Republican Congress and a line-item veto, cutting taxes and balancing the budget is merely a question of presidential will. If you have it, you can do it. I have it. I will do it.

	When I say it can be done, you don't have to take my word for it. In yesterday's USA Today, more than a hundred prominent economists endorsed my program. Four of them have won the Nobel Prize in economics.

	One of those Nobel Prize winners who helped develop our plan, Gary Becher of the University of Chicago, said that our approach is "Economics 101." In other words, it's not impossible, it's not even very complicated, it's elementary economics. And if the economists in the White House can't figure it out, I know 100 economists who would be glad to give them some tutoring. Yes, my economic plan has been endorsed by Nobel Prize winners, but the real winners will be the American people when it's passed.

	The fact is, cutting taxes while balancing the budget is not just theoretically possible, it's happening right now. Governors are doing it in states across this country.

	Of course, one of the best examples is right here in Michigan, under your indomitable Republican governor, John Engler. When John Engler came into office in 1991, he inherited a $1.8 billion deficit. But he didn't raise taxes. He cut them--twenty-one times. Count them: twenty-one tax cuts. He cut burdensome regulations. He enacted liability reforms. He increased school choice and empowered parents. And he cut excessive spending. Not all spending; funds for education were actually increased.

	The result: Michigan now has a $1 billion surplus and a growing economy that has created half a million new jobs and boosted personal income by almost 26 percent--the fastest growth rate in America.

	So when Bill Clinton says that cutting taxes and balancing the budget can't be done, what he really means is that he doesn't want to do it. It can be done. It's being done in the states right now. And when Jack Kemp and I get to the White House in January 1997, we're going to do it for the whole nation.

	Almost 100 years ago, a group of men here in Detroit began to experiment with the new technology of the automobile. They had names like Ford, Chrysler, and Durant, and today the monuments to their daring and their dreams are driving the highways of the world.

	Today we would call men and women like them entrepreneurs. And like today's entrepreneurs, some started out in what were the garages of their day--stables, sheds, or machine shops.

	I want to open the way to the Fords, Chryslers, and Durants of this generation and the next to be just as successful, to transform the world just as dramatically.

	Some already have, but many more are just starting out today, and they deserve the opportunities that our plan will open up to every American.

	And while they're working to make their dreams a reality, every mother struggling to balance the family budget, to pay for the extra pair of pants for her son or dress for her daughter, to make the mortgage, or maybe to start her own business, deserves the freedom that lower taxes will bring as well.

	That's why Jack Kemp and I are campaigning on this economic program. That's the kind of family-friendly, growing, entrepreneurial America we see. Join us in this campaign. Work with us. Give us your votes and your support so that together we can build a better America for the next century.
BUDGET, BALANCEDBUSINESS BANKRUPTCIESCAPITAL GAINS TAXCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINCOME TAXPRODUCTIVITYSALES TAXTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERAL