

	[Missing text]...but he can't say anything, and two--he'll finish up in two debates. All he can say is Bob Dole is against everything, and he's for everything.

	And I want to say one word to something else, because I know a lot of people have retired here. Don't let Bill Clinton scare you. That's all they have. They don't have any agenda. They haven't had an idea in four years. They're trying to frighten senior citizens and veterans and everybody in America.

	I want to thank the Debbie Ross Band; Charlie, happy you're here; Jim, Chris. I'm very honored to be here with an outstanding governor, Christie Whitman. She's doing a great job. She kept her word. And what a great day to visit Toms River High School, and what an honor to be at the football field where the Indians play. And we're going to play and play and play until November 5.

	And I felt good last night. I felt good last night when an impartial observer told me I won last night's debate. And Elizabeth generally knows what she's talking about, too, so...[missing text]. In fact, she is so talented Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her. That's how talented she is. I am joined by another member of my family, my daughter, Robin; happy that Robin's here today.

	Now make no mistake about it. This election is between a stealth liberal and a common-sense conservative. That's the difference in this election. Jack Kemp and I are voices of common-sense conservatism, and that's why we will win New Jersey in November, and that's why we'll win across America on November 5.

	And as Governor Whitman said, I would not be standing here today saying we can cut taxes and balance the budget and not touch Medicare and Social Security if I didn't give you my word, and I give you my word. And I keep my word, and I've always kept my word, which you can't say for President Clinton.

	Remember that tax cut he promised you in 1992? Where is that tax cut, Mr. President? Everybody who got that tax cut ought to vote for President Clinton. But nobody got that tax cut. And now he's out there again--as I said last night, would you buy a used election promise from this man? No! You're not going to buy a used car--a used promise.

	Our plan is based on a simple principle, the same principle that Christie Todd Whitman set here in New Jersey. What is it? It's your money. It's your money. It's your money. And you shouldn't have to apologize for wanting to keep more of what you earn. The government ought to apologize for taking too much from you in the first place.

	And our plan starts with a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut, a $500-per-child tax credit, cutting the capital gains rate in half to create more jobs and more opportunities right here and all across America.

	And let me say to the seniors that Bill Clinton is trying to scare you with $45 million or $46 million worth of negative ads. We're going to repeal that Bill Clinton tax hike on senior citizens, on Social Security, because he says if you're a senior citizen and you make $34,000 a year, you're rich and you ought to be taxed more on your benefits. Bob Dole would repeal that tax hike for senior citizens all across America.

	And we're going to provide estate-tax relief. It has always seemed to me that if you work all your life, and the family works, the husband works, the wife works, you finally get a little nest egg and somebody passes on, you shouldn't have to sell half the property to pay the estate tax. We're going to start providing estate-tax relief.

	And I know you have an outstanding school. And I love teachers, as I said last night. But there are some in America-low-income parents and lower-middle-income parents--we believe need a break. And they're called opportunity scholarships.

	They should have the same choices that President Clinton has when he sends his daughter to a private school or a better school. They should have the same choices. The parents should have the same choices because an education is the most important thing you'll have in your lifetime, and it ought to be the best.

	So, we're going to provide opportunity scholarships for low-income parents. We're going to match what New Jersey puts up. We're going to give that money to the parents, and they're going to pick out a school--another public school, maybe the same public school, or a private school, or a religious school, because they want an education for their child. If you want to stop drugs and crime and teen pregnancy, you start with an education; you start in kindergarten all the way through high school. And we are going to get it done in a Dole administration.

	And that's only phase one. In phase two we're going to scrap the current tax code and end the IRS as we know it. And we will have then a fair, flatter, simpler tax for all Americans. In too many two-earner families today, one parent works full-time for the family, but the other has to work full-time for the government just to pay the taxes, and that should not happen in America. If you want to work, okay, but not be forced to work to pay taxes.

	What do you think about Jack Kemp? Pretty good running mate, right?

	Now what does phase one of the Dole-Kemp tax plan really mean for people out here in this audience? Now let me say you're a typical family of four and you make $30,000. You have two children, husband and wife. That's $1,261. Now to many on Wall Street, that's not a lot of money. But this is not a Wall Street tax cut; this is a Main Street tax cut. $1,261, as I said last night--that's four or five months of day care. Maybe it's a personal computer. Maybe you get to take a vacation, like everybody else in America, and take your kids along and spend a week somewhere else. This is real money, and it's your money, it's your money, it's your money. And we haven't had a tax cut in ten years, and you're going to get one next year, when Bob Dole becomes president of the United States. You deserve a tax cut.

	And you know, when Christie Whitman said she would cut your taxes here by 30 percent, and, they said it couldn't be done. Well, she did it anyway, because she had the will and she knew the way. And she did it one year ahead of schedule. She turned the economy around in the state of New Jersey. New Jersey is now a job-creator, not a job-loser, and she put more money back in your paychecks and back in the pockets of your family.

	Now, Bill Clinton says he's opposed--he wants these quote--he talked about "targeted cuts" last night. Well, he talked about that before, but nobody ever hit the target. Nobody ever got the tax cut, Mr. President. So he's opposed to our tax plan. He wants the government to tell you how to spend the money, and I think it's time for the government to start pinching pennies instead of the American taxpayers.

	But all that means that he doesn't want to do it. Just what Jim Florio meant when he said the same thing in New Jersey. I don't know what happened to him, but he's not around any more. And I told the President last night that he'll get the tax cut. Even when he's back in Little Rock, we'll send it to him. He'll get the tax cut.

	I believe the people in this state, regardless of party affiliation, once they understand precisely what we have here--this is not rocket science--this is a tax cut. As I told the President last night, you want to spend 20 percent more in the next six years, I want to spend 14 percent more and give that other 6 percent back to the American people. We believe that's fair.

	And we're not going to touch Medicare. Medicare, Mr. President, that's all you said last night. Medicare, we're not going to touch it. We're going to save it, just as I helped save Social Security in 1983.

	Now, in the last election Bill Clinton said, and I quote: "We're not going to fool with Social Security." As soon as he got in office, he raised taxes on Social Security benefits for senior citizens. Now he's spending millions and millions, as I said, trying to scare senior citizens about what we will do. And I'll promise you this, as I said a moment ago: I will balance the budget, and I will cut taxes, and I will protect Social Security and Medicare. And it can be done, and it will be done in a Dole administration. And ask anybody who's ever worked with me, Republican or Democrat, and they'll tell you that Bob Dole keeps his word.

	So this election, I would say finally, is about choosing an administration you can trust to fight a real war on drugs; a real war on drugs. And I spoke to the young people last night in my closing statement: this is your future. You're going to live most of it in the next century. Many of the rest will be gone, but you'll be here. And if there's going to be a future for Americans, if there's going to be a future for you, and I know more and more experimenting with drugs. You've got to say: "Just don't do it."

	Just don't do it. Just don't do it. And we're going to ask all Americans, all Americans to help us cut teenage drug use in America by half in our first term. With drug use skyrocketing, this administration's record is so bad, all they can do is suppress the whole story, including invoking executive privilege on a memo from the FBI director accusing Mr. Clinton--and I quote--any--quote, "of any true leadership in the war against drugs." Mr. President, let us see the memo. It's not enough to stand there, as you did last night, and say, well, we made mistakes. You made mistakes for forty-four months. You did nothing to slow down drugs coming into this country. It's time we had leadership in the White House to protect young people in America.

DRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG ABUSE--MINORSEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSINHERITANCE TAXMEDICARESENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERAL     & & & & &
 & & & & & k& `&	  	  	  	 P 	 A 	 9 	 * 	  	  e: