

	Governor McKeldin, and my fellow Americans:  For some weeks now I have been engaged in the business of learning to be a politician.  One of my early lessons came in Chicago.  Some of my associates came in to me and said, "General, who would you like to have nominate you?"  I said, "You mean to say I have got a choice?"  And they said, "Yes, your opinion will have some weight."  I said, "Well, how about Governor McKeldin of Maryland?"  And they said, just like he told you, "Well, he is a candidate for president himself."  I said, "Well, that's his problem, not mine.  I can ask who I want.  They can always say no."  So I called him up and asked him and the result was as he told you.  So I have my second introduction by him and you can see, after what he has said and how he said it this morning why I chose him.

	Now it happens today is September 25th.  It is one of the significant days in our history that is not often celebrated.  It is the day that marked the adoption of the Bill of Rights, the first ten amendments to the Constitution.  In that Bill of Rights it specifies what are the rights of human beings as opposed to the power of government, the limits of what government can do to the individual today, and those ten amendments, possibly coupled with the organization our forefathers gave us, is the real genius of American government.  When those rights, any one of them, comes in peril from within or any threat from without, it is time for every loyal American, not just the rich, not just the farmers, not just the workmen, but everybody.  It is time for every loyal American to rise up, take a look, gird himself for battle, and fight off the encroachment.

	Only recently the Supreme Court had to rule, for example, in the steel strike that one individual was allocating to himself the power to take over property.  Now, it makes no difference what that property is.  Until Congress has declared an emergency and delegated the proper power for the saving of this nation to an individual, all of us must observe the Constitution and specifically that Bill of Rights, and that Bill of Rights stood for that one moment in danger, but the Supreme Court beat back the attack because if I could declare today an emergency from the Office of the Chief Executive and say, because of that, I will take over the steel mills or the coal mines, why can't I come down and take over the store that any one of you owns, or I will take over the products of your farm.  I will say, "The products of this county are very important to the nation at this moment," so I just take over your farms and change the crops.  I plant what I want but at least I cover them.  

	What I am getting at, ladies and gentlemen, is that all of these rights that are given to humans are a single bundle.  Endanger one and you can endanger all.  Included in them, you know, is the right of free speech, the right of free worship, all of those rights that we treasure so much which make America what it is.  I don't think that any man in the steel strike or anywhere else was deliberately trying to break down the Constitution of the United States.  But, we have had a government that has been long in power.  It has grown arrogant, complacent.  It has grown to believe that it is all-powerful, not only in wisdom but in its power to execute.  That is the kind of situation that becomes dangerous, and look what it leads to.

	Possibly today the greatest aspiration of all humans everywhere is peace.  Now where has our present administration led us?  Seven years ago we were the mightiest military nation the world has ever seen.  For many decades we have been the most powerful industrial nation.  With 7 percent of the world's population, we produce 50% of the world's industrial products.  The genius of our people, the skill and intelligence of our working men and working women, in all of those things we are unmatched.  In our loyalty to our country we have a strength that is adequate to meet every situation, but when we are misled then all of that strength becomes at least partially wasted; and instead of a growing peace in the world, what do we have?  The Berlin Airlift, the Turkish emergency, the Greek emergency, and finally Korea--a series of blunders leading to a conflict that has cost us 120,000 in casualties.  These things must stop, but this doesn't measure the full extent of this administration's blunders growing out of its incompetence, with men too small for their jobs, and I think it is fair to say too big for their britches and too long in power.

	Ladies and gentlemen, by no means am I here trying to speak just to Republicans.  I appear before you first as an American.  I am trying to talk to everyone who wants to consider these problems seriously and I don't care what label he has had in his political booklet.  He can be Republican, Democrat or Independent.  I want him, and ask him to think seriously of these things.  At home, what has been the result of that same kind of leadership?  A budget and the planned expenditure program that is twelve billion dollars more than that government can take in at the time that they say is the greatest prosperity of our nation, and when they are taxing us more heavily than ever in the world, ever in our history.  Now, ladies and gentlemen, how long can that go on, because they claim that even Korea is only a police action?  Therefore, they must be counting on this kind of an expenditure program for years.  How long can we go on spending 12 percent more than we take in--even more than that?

	I will tell you one result already.  The Department of Labor said last year that the average city family spent $400 more for the necessaries of life than that family took in in wages.  That is what it is doing to the individual.  How many of you think you can get wealthy on that kind of a financial diet?  They may tell you you never had it so good, but you never had so many debts to pay.

	This evening, ladies and gentlemen, there will be 6,000 more Americans alive than there were last evening.  Now, of course, much of that increase is represented in our newborn babies.  Do you realize that for each one of those newborn babies, the first thing we give them as a present is a $1,750 debt hanging around their necks?  It takes now more money to service our public debt than all of the income taxes paid by everybody, every man in the United States who draws a salary of $4,000 or less--all of that income goes just to pay for the interest and servicing of that debt.  Ladies and gentlemen, that is the sort of thing that results from a government of little men too long in power.

	Now, if that were all, you would say, "Well, maybe so; maybe you couldn't do any better; maybe no one could have done better."  But, did you know this:  did you know of the scandals that have come up in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, among the people who collect your taxes--not all of them, remember--the great mass of the public servants of America are a great people dedicated, loyal, but have you read in the headlines how many have been lining their pockets with your money?

	As a matter of fact, one lady wrote to me not long ago and she said, "General, I would like to vote for you but I would like one promise.  I want your promise that all the taxes I pay actually get to Washington."  Ladies and gentlemen, hasn't the United States come to a pretty pass when a burdened, hard-working citizen, taxpayer, has to say to a prospective federal official, "I want to know that my taxes actually get down and are used for what you propose to use it for."  I think it has come to a place where we hang or heads in shame for our federal government. 

	This is my contention and this is the message I am trying to bring to people like you whom I meet all over this country.  This government is not going to lead us more surely to peace; it is not going to reform its great practices at home; they extend too far.  It is not going to give you the kind of government that allows you to hold up your head and which commands respect abroad.  That kind of government cannot be achieved under these conditions.  No face-lifting job will do.  As a matter of fact, I heard one word used in connection with that.  They said all we need is a refreshing.  My reply is: did you ever try to refreshen a bad egg?  What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a clean-up from top to bottom.

	I promise you this--you know there are few promises that an honest man can come around and make any more in the political world because all of the promises have been made and most of them have been unkept--but I do want to promises you this; if you people choose to send to Washington an administration and government made up of the Republican Party sending such men as Mr. Beall and Mr. Hyde down there, and if you want to put me in the president's office and give me the chance to bring down to the Cabinet an executive branch of the finest brains and the finest men we can find all over this country, then all of those people as a body make one promise and I now make it to you.

	First, they will constitute a government of integrity.  They will constitute a government that will perform honestly.  They will not content themselves merely with hunting out the dishonest and punishing them after the offense has occurred.  They will be men of that stripe who are incorruptible themselves and will see that the organizations that they run for you are incorruptible.  In other words, dishonesty will be kept out rather than dug out.  I will tell you this:  if the occasional bad apple does get into that barrel, it isn't going to take three and one-half years finally to get rid of it, as it did this administration to get rid of a thieving internal revenue collector at Boston.

	Here is a specific promise that these people will make, this whole administration, and everyone will be answerable to me that this is true; every policy they consider, every proposal they lay before the people of the United States, everything they try to do will be first measured in this one yardstick--what is good for the United States of America, not just what is good for one section, the seacoast, the mountains, the northwest or the southeast, labor, management, farmers, or industry, the whole thing.  What is good for the United States of America is the certainty that if we can work out what is good for the United States of America it will be good for every single man standing here this morning, every single woman, every single youngster; because if we work and devote ourselves to this great country, it is certain that every American will feel he has had a fair deal, he has been given opportunity, that the disasters of life over which he has no control will have been guarded against.  He will be sure that he can go ahead in the spirit of our pioneering forefathers and carry this United States not what it is now but through this dawning atomic age to a beautiful development that will exceed by far our wildest dreams.

	This new administration promises you honesty, integrity, such wisdom as a cross-section of America's business and agriculture and the professions can muster, and the measure of every project will be what is good for America.

	For the honor you have done me this morning, ladies and gentlemen, in coming out here, I am deeply grateful.  To each of you who will take unto himself the job of deciding between now and November 4th what he must do, and his decision must be between himself, his conscience and his God, but whatever it is if he will study it and then act according to his conscience, my thanks as an American who has served his life in the uniform of his country.

	Thank you very much.  
BILL OF RIGHTSDEBT, NATIONALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTESTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     / . . . .
 . . . . . . . .	  	  	 ~ 	 f 	 I 	 0 e: