

	Governor Barrett, ladies and gentlemen:  First, I should like to express my grateful thanks to each of you.  In coming out this morning to allow me to bring you a word of greeting and to give you a few of the thoughts that I have on my mind as we progress through this political campaign, you do me a great honor.

	I came through here one night just a few weeks ago on the way back from Bosie.  Governor Barrett was with me.  At the last minute we figured out we could stop here. I was delighted and pleased to find a crowd that had come out to say hello.  Unfortunately, I didn't have time to get off and mingle with them and talk to them, but to everyone who came out that evening, I want to thank them, too.

	It is always, of course, a great pleasure to come to the West.  The principal feeling I have is this:  Here is still a great frontier of opportunity.  We have only begun the real development of this great country between the Mississippi and the Pacific Coast.  There is much to be done and it is going to take the resources of this country in terms of brains, engineering ability, and of course, also financial resources, to do this job.  The point I want to make is this:  none of them is done just for the benefit of any locality. It is done for the benefit of the United States.  When you here prosper through the erection of a multiple purpose dam or through some reclamation project or some new scientific development of any kind in the use of your land, the United States is prospering.  The measure by which we ought to weigh every single project or proposal for the enlistment of federal aid is, Is this thing good for the United States?  All of these projects are one day going to be not only good, but vitally necessary.

	Each evening, you know, folks, we have six thousand more Americans than we had the evening before.  Gradually there is going to grow an imbalance in our productive and consumptive processes in this country and we will probably be working as hard as we can just to feed our own people.  Until that time, of course, we have to export many of our surpluses and we need that kind of relationship with foreign countries.  But the time is coming when we will not be exporting food and fiber, and what we are doing now is preparing for that time.  Moreover, through our land reclamation projects, conservation, we are saving our resources for that time.

	Now, because of this kind of a future, the West has always been a forward- looking region.  I want to make a special reference to one point in which they were the first, and I mean in women's suffrage. The reason I bring up the point is that through this campaign I have been making a special appeal to the women of our country.  I have been making this appeal because I feel we are definitely engaged in a crusade.  A crusade must have a spiritual and moral basis.  Since women are the keepers of our homes in addition to all their other duties, theirs has been the responsibility for the influence of the home, paralleled to that in the schools and the church, to keep alive this sense of spiritual values on which our country was founded.  I firmly believe, therefore, that they in their jobs take an unusual interest in making certain that our government is the kind to arouse our pride.  We want to tell our youngsters that there is in Washington a government that is honest, that is straightforward, that is efficient, that has a regard for your tax dollars, and is not there merely to perpetuate itself in power.

	Now, as this worn-out administration comes around and sends its big guns over the country to fire fairly harmless salvos of blanks off the back platform of a campaign train, we hear that they are obsessed with fear. They have become very, very fearful.  Of course, they have always been fearful and that is one reason we are in so much trouble abroad.  But now they have some new fears.  They fear that in this crusade, my associates and I are going to cut the rug out from under all of the agricultural industry of the United States.  Now, they pay no attention to the fact that practically all of our farm programs are bipartisan sponsored and supported.  They pay no attention to the record of our congressmen and senators or of the laws that were passed under past Republican leadership, to the record of the 30th Congress.  They pay no slightest attention to that crusade leaders up and down the land have been pledging throughout this campaign.  They just go around fearing that the ranges are going to dry up, that agriculture is going to stop, and the price supports will be out from under you before you can wink.

	Then they fear, they say, that if the Republicans come into power, there will never be another multiple purpose dam erected in the West.  Now, of course, they forget that Teddy Roosevelt created the Reclamation Bureau, that the first one of the multiple purpose dams, the Hoover Dam was authorized by a Republican Congress in 1928, and that all of these projects have had Republican support and Independent support.  But nevertheless, they fear this very badly.

	Now, one of the things they fear--and I am glad to see there are a lot of service people present this morning--is that I want to cut soldiers' pay.  They fear that I want to lengthen their tour of service.  They fear that I want to eliminate the rotation scheme between hazardous front line service and service in the rear.  Well now, where they worked up that bunch of lies no one knows.  After all, I have been in the service for forty-one years and if there is one gang I do not want down on me, it is my old pals in the service.

	Now actually, of course, these people fear just one thing.  While they say they fear that we will lose all our allies; that we don't understand the need for allies; that we are isolationists, they forget that the greatest leader of all bipartisan men toward collective security was Senator Vandenberg.  They forget that they even called me out of retirement and sent me to Europe for a year and a half to work on this job.  They say that they fear we are so isolationist we are going to try to live alone and we haven't sense enough even to know that we have to import manganese and uranium and tungsten and cobalt.  They fear it very badly.

	Actually, all they fear is that they are going to lose their jobs.  And you know, that is just one fear that I have to share with them.  I fear they are, too.  I fear that they are going to lose the opportunity to keep their long noses in our business.  They come down and say that the local people, the municipalities and states and private enterprise, don't know a single thing about running their business.  When the federal government helps in the building of a dam, they want the states and the localities and any private interests to stay strictly out of it.  They don't want anything to do with it.  They want to sit in Washington and tell us how to do it.  They do the same thing in agriculture through the monstrosity they call the Brannan Plan.  All the way through, they are trying to get into your business.

	Ladies and gentlemen, not long ago in talking about this I said they have done everything but tell the ladies how to wash their dishes.  Now I notice that they pick it up and they say, "Oh, the General is way behind the times.  We don't have to teach them how to wash dishes.  We are now giving them all electric dishwashers through rural electrification."  I am glad of that--I am just delighted.  But I will tell you what:  There is a pamphlet that I read just the other day and the title is, "How to Wash Dishes."  Why are they issuing that?  I want you ladies to get this.  They said this:  The dish pan ought to be big enough to take your dishes, but it shouldn't be too big to go in the sink.

	Of course, I admit that such an example is a bit on the silly side, but it does show what this administration is doing: going around and making all sorts of claims on the one hand and on the other hand doing something entirely opposite.  It is an example of the confusion, the waste, the inefficiency that go on in Washington.  So I think their fears that they will lose their jobs are justified and I think it is because of such reasons that we are growing exceedingly tired of a bungling foreign policy.

	They can say what they please, they can defend it in any way they want to, they can blame soldiers for their mistakes or they can say anything, but this is the fact:  We came out of World War II the mightiest power productively, militarily, and in every form, that this world has seen.  Seven years later, we looked back at the record and what does it show?  We have been losing human beings to Communists over the world at the average rate of one-hundred million a year.  Now, I don't care how you take this record.  That, along with the contention that we are having peace when we have the mess in Korea--with a loss of 120,000 men killed, wounded and missing, is not a good record.  If it is, then I don't know what the words mean and my dictionary must be renewed.

	While we have that record of failure abroad, we have wild spending at home.  I am not going to take up your time with a lot of examples.  I saw one in a report that rather amused me.  There was only twenty-two thousand bucks involved in that.  To a Washington bureaucrat--well, you wouldn't stoop over to pick that up apparently.  But this twenty-two dollars went for a lemonade machine for Indo-China.  Lemonade for them and a headache for us!  Duplication:  Right here in the state where fifty percent of your lands are owned by the federal government, what happens?  You have two bureaus trying to run them, and altogether you have fifty-nine different federal agencies sticking their fingers into the manipulation, handling and administering of that land.  And then they say there is no Washington mess!  Some of them have admitted it.  Of course they have had to.

	Now, of course, along with this we have deficits in our budget which make our money go down and our prices go up, and we are caught in the double squeeze of high taxes and high prices.  If we are not tired of those things, I think we soon will be.

	If all of those things, though, were necessary, there is one thing that is not necessary:  subversion and dishonesty in government.  And yet when evidence has been brought forth about these things, what has happened?  We have cries of "red herring, smears."  When a Republican committee in 1947 brought up evidence of malfeasance in office, in the tax collector's office in Boston, they said, "This is just an attempt to smear the Democrats," but three and one-half years later, on that very evidence, they sent the man to the penitentiary.  That has been happening over and over.

	Not long ago a lady wrote me a letter and she said, "General, I would like to vote for you, but before I do I want one promise:  That you will promise that more of our tax money actually gets to Washington".  You know, it is rather amusing to get such a letter, except when you stop to think of it in this way:  Haven't we come to a rather pitiful state when a hard-working taxpayer feels that she must demand from a prospective public servant that he use every bit of influence and all the authority of his office just to make sure that tax money gets to Washington?

	Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have to request honesty.  That is something we can demand, and we should.

	And subversives in government?  Red herring?  I'll bet you that Alger Hiss doesn't think it is a red herring today.  I hope he doesn't.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, that is what this crusade is about.  I don't address myself just to Republicans; I am an American citizen coming before American citizens to talk about these serious things.  We need the kind of government that can excite our pride at home and establish again our prestige abroad--a prestige that will allow us to lead the world more surely toward peace--a peace that can gradually bring about cessation of this terrible thing in Korea, can prevent future Koreas, that will allow us to live in tranquillity and peace at home, and in security, where we won't have to fear so much that next week our boy will get a call to go overseas and have to serve there a year or two years, or whatever, to defend our interests.

	What we need is a government that is honest, efficient, frugal, and effective.  When we get that kind of government, the crusade will have won its first objective--not its final objective.  There is no point merely in throwing out a government; we want to substitute good government.  We want a government that will be friendly, that will be fair, that will be just to everybody, and that every man, woman and child standing in this crowd can feel belongs to you and is working for you and is not just trying to work you.

	And so again, my thanks for coming out to let me tell you how seriously I regard this situation.  Associated with me in this crusade, in the leadership part of it in your state, of course, are Governor Barrett and your Congressman Harrison.  They must be on this team.  It is not a one-man job: to provide honest, efficient, effective government.  We need the whole team.  We need Republicans, Independents, people of no party, first voters, and the enlightened Democrats.  We need everybody, getting behind this chore, getting it done, and then making the four next years in our government those that will see all of us definitely on the road to peace and to prosperity without war.

	Thank you a lot, ladies and gentlemen.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALBIPARTISANSHIPCOMMUNISMGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGOVERNMENT WASTEISOLATIONISMMILITARY PERSONNELMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTRECLAMATION PROJECTSREGIONALISM--WESTTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS