

	Tonight, we are together--business, labor, and government.

	We may disagree on details.  We may fight the good fight around the bargaining table.  But we do not disagree on what we are trying to achieve--what is best for America and for all the American people.  

	We all recognize the great issues this year.  First, there is Vietnam.  I have spoken to the nation on that subject--and about the arms race.

	Last Saturday night, I spoke to all Americans in great detail about the problems of reducing crime and violence in America--of achieving peace at home.

	I have spoken out because I believe you have a right to know.

	You need to know, too, what is going to happen to the American economy--the engine that drives our entire system... that produces the revenue, the jobs, the profits, the unexcelled American standard of living, in fact, the engine that makes everything else possible.  A healthy, expanding economy makes a great difference in our lives.

	For most of us, it makes the difference on the one hand between rising incomes, profits, expanding industry, and on the other, unsold automobiles, sluggish inventories, lower payrolls, or no profits at all.  For some it means the difference between having a job and not having a job... between keeping a family together and seeing it fall apart.  For others it means the difference between sending a youngster to college and wasting his potential for a lifetime.  For our cities, it can mean the difference between reprieve and disaster.

	Now let me give you some straight talk about our economy.  First, the Republican record on the economy is not nearly as good as the Democratic record.  You know that the last time Mr. Nixon held public office, we had three job-killing, profit-killing recessions in eight years.  During the 1960s, we have had steady economic growth--92 straight months.  We more than doubled corporate profits.  Dividends have gone up 66 percent.  And we have brought an increase in real income after taxes for the average family of four of $3000.  Yes, here in Detroit, you know that difference is an increase in automobile sales of more than 40 percent in the last eight years, and an increase in profits half again as much as that.

	Let's look at the key question of employment.  At the end of Mr. Nixon's last term of office, in 1961, nearly seven percent of all Americans who wanted to work didn't have jobs.  In eight years, unemployment had gone up by two million.  Since then, unemployment has gone down by two million, and the Kennedy-Johnson administrations have cut the unemployment rate in half, to the lowest level of unemployment in fifteen years.  At the same time, we have added 10 million more jobs to the economy.

	Mr. Nixon's chief economic adviser tells us that there should be more unemployment, more people out of jobs as the answer to inflation.

	I think creating unemployment is a cry of defeat in the battle against inflation--especially when it is the forerunner of recession.

	There is a better answer--more humane and more efficient answer.

	I have presented a detailed plan for ending inflation while having full employment and vigorous economic growth.  This plan includes: a responsible monetary and fiscal policy; improved match of labor skills to labor needs; new efforts to strengthen free competition; stimulation of increased productivity and reduced costs through tax incentives and increases in investment; and a new, realistic policy on wage-price stability, to be worked out by labor and management together, and aided by a wage-price conference in the executive office of the president.

	We can achieve reasonable price stability, just as we did from 1960 to 1965.  And we can do it without old-fashioned, defeatist, explosive, costly, increases in unemployment or sacrifices in economic growth.

	What else does Mr. Nixon tell us about the economy?  He says he will take people off the welfare rolls and put them on payrolls--something Democrats have been doing for years.  But what has he done about it?--Besides trying to make us believe he can put more people to work and have more unemployment at the same time?

	When Mr. Nixon last held public office, the Republican administration grossly neglected job training.  Not one single new federal program was begun to train or retrain Americans to hold a job.  He had his chance to take people off welfare rolls and put them on payrolls, and he did nothing about it.  And America paid the bill.

	Now look at the Democratic record.  After eight years of the Kennedy-Johnson and Johnson-Humphrey administrations, new programs that we started are in one single year training and retraining over one million Americans.  And they are training Americans to find jobs, keep those jobs, earn living wages for themselves and their families, and pay taxes.  And you know this job retraining helps fight inflation by increasing labor mobility.

	That is what we have done about the problem.  And we're going to do much, much more--until there is not a man or woman in this country who can't find work because he lacks the skills to do the job.

	What about the poverty?

	I say that fighting poverty is just as much an economic necessity as it is a matter of social justice.  In the past eight years we have brought 12 million people up from poverty.  What does that mean?  It means that there are 12 million more Americans supporting their country, not being supported by it, buying cars, taking part in the economic life of this nation.

	The end of poverty means:  men and women with decent jobs at decent wages and no longer being a public charge.

	What have Mr. Nixon and the Republicans done to bring people up from poverty, to lead useful, productive, profitable, lives and to support their country?  Look at the record of the 1950s; no poverty or job training programs.  And what does he propose?  He says that private industry should do something about finding jobs for those Americans who are out of work.  This is just another example of that old adage:  When Mr. Nixon comes out with a good idea, someone else has already done something about it.

	In the last nine months, the National Alliance of Businessmen--a partnership of government and industry, led by the top business leaders of America, including Henry Ford--has obtained pledges from American industry to provide 310,000 new jobs for the hard-core unemployed.

	Think of it--190,000 people put to work in nine months, with firm plans to find jobs for 500,000 Americans within three years.

	Some of you sitting here tonight are taking part in this effort.  It is you who deserve the gratitude of our nation for doing something about this crucial problem facing our country.  You do it not because it is partisan, but because it is right.

	There is much more that we both can do--not through platitudes on cooperation, but through the concrete plans that I have drawn up.  I mean plans like the Urban Development Bank, and my Marshall Plan for the cities.

	Both of these plans need your help, because they are hard-headed efforts to bring government and business together in partnership to solve the problems of our cities.  And there is one other idea that Mr. Nixon has advanced to help our economy.  He wants to see more black capitalism.

	Well, Mr. Nixon, so do I.  I want every American to have a chance to stand on his own two feet, to run the risks of free enterprise, to own his own business, to make a profit if he can, and to contribute to the strength of our economy.

	There is only one difference:  Mr. Nixon is talking about black capitalism, and we Democrats are doing something about it.

	Since last June--that's in the last four months--the Small Business Administration, through Project Own, has doubled the number of loans to black Americans to start their own businesses, and has increased the overall number of loans for anyone who wants to go into business by 12 percent.  We did it with less federal money than last year--by getting private help.

	Howard Samuels of SBA and I put this program together--and I am going to see that it is extended from today's twenty-six target cities to every city in America.

	As I've said, we don't talk--we act.  And we are going to keep on acting, and working, until we help every American who wants to start his own business, who has the talent and the will, to do just that.

	Finally, both you and I are concerned in America about two basic economic goals--both stability and growth.

	Whenever I talk to business and labor leaders, I see growing recognition of the importance of these two goals.

	We must not accept inflation; we cannot tolerate stagnation; and we will not go down the primrose path to government direct controls on wages and prices.  Rather, we must travel a different highway.

	The government must use fiscal and monetary policies to keep our growth steady and sustainable.  It must help to break bottlenecks and strengthen free markets.  It must review all its programs with price stability in mind.

	It must improve productivity and efficiency through training and mobility of workers and stimulate more investment and modernization by business.  And it must work with business and labor toward greater wage-price stability.

	I know I can work with both business and labor.  I believe that much more can be done with active business and labor participation in voluntary and cooperate efforts to fight inflation.

	Before Americans choose their economic managers for the next four years, they should review the issues carefully.  In particular, they will remember the problems they don't have today, as well as those they do.

	The businessman will remember that profits bounced up and down during the fifties, never rising for two successive years.  He will remember that profits have increased on the average each year under the Democrats by more than in eight years combined of Republican administration.

	The American worker will remember the era when he opened each paycheck with the dread that he might find a layoff notice in his envelope.

	The American consumer will recognize the income gains that have provided far greater purchasing power in recent years.

	When American vote on prosperity, I am confident they will give us a clear call for more of it.  I say we can get it.  And we will get it--not just because we are interested in profits or dividends for their own sake, we will get it because we know that the health of our American economy is the one thing on which everything else depends.

	We know that--with a recession or depression--this country will be in more than economic trouble.  It will be headed for social explosion.

	We know that--with a weak economy--our security will be threatened and the festering problems of our cities will get that much worse.

	But if we do what we know we can, we can take this country and build it so strong and free that nobody will be able to tear it down.

	We will make our cities safe and livable places once again.

	We will do something about the transportation crisis in America--getting there is not half the fun.

	We will help make every American a taxpaying, productive citizen. 

	We will make the investments we know we must make in the education and health of our people.  And we will make this a better country for our children after all.

	That's what you want.  That's what I want.

	If you will put your trust in me, that's what we will have. 

BANKING/LOANS/CREDITBUSINESS--MINORITY OWNEDBUSINESS, SMALLJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMONETARY POLICYPOVERTYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALURBAN AFFAIRS/AIDWAGE AND PRICE POLICYECONOMY--GENERAL     . - - - -
 - - - - - - - -	  	  	  	 x 	 a 	 R 	 K 	 6 	 %   e: