
	Thank you, my friends. And thank you Senator Monroney for that heartening introduction. Your references to my past contained a certain amount of exaggeration. I trust that your reference to my future was more precisely accurate.

	Your senator makes it difficult, in a way, for me to say to you the things that I had wanted to say about him.

	I wanted to say that the rest of us throughout this country have a very great and warm affection for this man, who covers with such gentleness of bearing his extraordinary wisdom and fortitude, and that we count Mike Monroney one of the most distinguished, dedicated, and effective fighters for responsible liberalism in America today.

	But since he is here, and because he is also a man who likes to get right to the point, let me only say that I join you in thinking it is mighty important--not just to Oklahoma but to the United States--that Mike Monroney be returned to the Senate this fall.

	You seem to have a habit of picking good senators here in Oklahoma. I know Bob Kerr isn't up for election this year, but he is a long time friend of mine, a man whose advice and counsel I have turned to on many occasions. I do want to say here today how very much his leadership means, not only to all of us in the Democratic party, but to all of us, regardless of party, in the nation.

	And finally, I have had the special pleasure of riding across country today on a highway named for one Oklahoma governor, Roy Turner, whose friendship I have prized over the years, and in company with your Governor, Raymond Gary, who has already won the spurs of leadership in the rising generation of the able, young Democratic statesmen.

	This is the kind of day, with these gentlemen, that makes me mighty proud to be a Democrat--and I sure am proud.

	It is a particular pleasure for me to join you here today at your State Fair. I used to be a governor myself; and of all the privileges of governorship, none pleased me more than my annual chance to take part in the great Illinois State Fair.

	And I am proud that during my administration of the State Fair, we reduced a Republican deficit of three-quarters of a million dollars to barely a quarter. I'm told that under Republican management it's back up there again now. I'm not one of those who share the popular illusion that Republicans have a monopoly on good financial management. And there must be more people who feel the same way, what with the cost of living going up, even the price of bread, and credit getting tighter for the little fellow, all at the same time.

	A state fair is the most American thing I know. If someone from another country asked me where he could get a glimpse of the real America, I would tell them, go to a state fair in one of our farm states. There you will see the real source of American strength: the men and women who work their own farms, run their own shops, think their own thoughts, and build the strength of a great nation from their individual initiative and faith. Here you will see the heart of America.

	In the few minutes we are together this afternoon, I want to talk to you about the people who run their own farms, keep store, work for themselves. These people are an issue in this campaign. Their prosperity, possibly even their existence, is being threatened. They are threatened by what a great man and a great Justice of the Supreme Court once called "the curse of bigness." They are in danger of being swallowed up by big corporations in alliance with big government in a world which has become dangerously indifferent to the fate of the little man.

	This threat of bigness shows itself in many forms. It shows itself in the struggle of the farmer to survive, in the fact that the family farmer of our country has his back to the wall. It shows itself in the tendency for big business to become bigger and for the small businessman to be squeezed out. This force shows itself in the tendency to build an America so massive and so impersonal that the ordinary individual feels dwarfed and powerless in the shadow of business.

	The danger is not new. Business has been on the verge of triumph before. But always when the danger was greatest, a leader appeared who spoke for the ordinary man--the small farmer, the small businessman, the worker.

	Early in our history, the concentrated power of finance threatened our democracy. Then Andrew Jackson appeared to lead a revolt in the people's name. It was Jackson's proud statement that he spoke for "the humble members of society--the farmers, mechanics, laborers."

	Later, when the railroads and the trusts and the banks threatened to blot out all individual initiative, William Jennings Bryan rallied the people in defense of the common man.

	I am proud to say that fifty-six years ago, at the start of this century, my grandfather, as candidate for vice president, was William Jennings Bryan's running mate in the Democratic ticket. They were beaten by McKinley, but then Theodore Roosevelt rose up to strike a blow at what were called the "trusts" in those days.

	Then Woodrow Wilson took the part of the people against privilege. That was the meaning of Wilson's New Freedom.

	And twenty-five years ago, when the little man was threatened again, and Republican rule had given us a high stock market and a low farm market--a great boom and a great bust--a new Democratic administration came into power. The country was again rallied to the defense of the forgotten man by Franklin D. Roosevelt.

	Notice that the people's defenders have been almost all Democrats.

	We face the same threat of bigness today. And in this election, the conflict is fundamentally the same one on which Jackson and Bryan and Wilson and Roosevelt fought: how to preserve the little fellow, the individual, the many, from being engulfed by the big fellow, the few, the massive forces of bigness in this age of bigness.

	And I say to you that today, as always in its history, the Democratic party is the party of the people; it is the party of Joe Smith and Jane Smith.

	We are not against big business. We just do not want to be ruled by it and smothered by it.

	In modern times, big business has become more responsible. It has a respected place in our national community. But big business does not own the United States government, and it is not entitled to run that government to the disregard and neglect of the farmers, the workingmen, the small businessmen, and the other plain people of the land.

	For when big interests capture control of government, then government becomes indifferent to the interests of the people. Such a government does not think of the world in human terms. Such a government thinks in terms of statistics, and of interest rates, mortgages, stocks, bonds, and balance sheets. It thinks less of the people on whom the businesses depend and for whom the government itself exists.

	That is the kind of government we now have in Washington.

	The more I see and hear these Republicans in Washington, the more I'm reminded of the man who knew the price of everything and the value of nothing.

	Of course, I should not be too hard on these Republican leaders. As Will Rogers once said, "The first three years of a Republican administration is the hardest. By the end of that time you get used to living on predictions."

	You people in Oklahoma have some personal knowledge of the indifference of this administration to human concerns, for you have been through that searing human experience, the experience of drought. And you have seen the indifference and the reluctance of drought. And you have seen the indifference and the reluctance of a Republican administration in dealing with this terrible emergency.

	As individuals, the men who head this government are not unkind men. I respect the kindly intention of President Eisenhower and his associates. But those "best brains" he promised to bring to Washington are all of one kind, and I detect little passion for ordinary human beings among them. Indeed, I detect no passion at all.

	Men whose lives have been lived in vast corporations do not see a disaster like the drought as a human problem. They see farms and the livestock only as statistics. As a result, relief is grudging and reluctant, too much red tape--too little real help and always too late. It was typical that this administration should raise the rate of interest on disaster loans.

	An administration which really cared about people would have acted faster in the drought crisis. And an administration which really cared about people would be winning the long-term fight against the Dust Bowl.

	You remember the dust storms, the black blizzards, of the early thirties. You will remember the action taken by the Democratic administration: the broad measures for immediate relief, and then the great programs of conservation and reclamation designed to tie down our top soil and hold the rains in the land where they fall. And you will remember, too, the Republican opposition to these programs, the derision and ridicule they heaped on Franklin Roosevelt, for example, when he proposed the shelterbelt. Well, no one is criticizing this administration for having ideas.

	President Eisenhower did appoint a Cabinet committee to consider the water crisis in our country. The members of the committee were Ezra Benson, Douglas McKay and Charles E. Wilson. And what did these three musketeers of conservation come up with?

	They were mainly concerned with emphasizing the limited responsibilities of the Federal Government and the absence of any truly national problem.

	Water is a problem--a national problem. We need, we must have, a federal water resources policy, with federal leadership and federal investment on a truly cooperative basis with state and local governments. We must develop our water resources for a variety of purposes. We need water for irrigation. We need water for the industrial development on which the future economic growth of your state and of other states will depend. We need water for hydroelectric power. And we need water for recreation, for hunting and fishing and vacations. We need more large reservoirs like Lake Texoma, Grand Lake, Lake Fort Gibson and Tenkiller Ferry. We need to develop watersheds, to build the small dams we have found so useful, and do all we can to tap and enlarge the ground water resources. Yet the Republicans say it is not a "national problem."

	Well, I suspect it would soon become a national problem if General Motors were involved.

	Many of you here today are farmers. You have had a particular reason to feel the neglect and indifference of a big business administration. For three years, the Republican leaders watched farm prices fall with philosophical calm. That is the nice polite way of saying they did nothing until election year came around.

	Then we had another taste of the famous leap-year liberalism of the GOP They seized on the Soil Bank, not to conserve the soil but to conserve the farm vote. The Soil Bank is a Democratic idea and I have long been for it. I hate to see it treated by the Republicans merely as a way of pouring some money into the farm belt before an election. I am sure the farmers don't like that any better than I do.

	And when President Eisenhower vetoed the farm bill this spring "on principle" and then promptly raised support prices, it looked suspiciously like a triumph of political expediency over his economic principles. Yet the President, the other evening, said, "We must never in a spirit of partisan warfare treat the farmers as a kind of political prize to be fought for and captured." And what's more, I'm told he said it with a straight face.

	Well, for my part, I'm happy that I have been able to say to the farmers this year what I said to them four years ago. We have offered the farmers a good program. We mean to stand on it now--and, also next January.

	Here in Oklahoma, you cattlemen have had a particularly rough time. Once again, the Eisenhower administration has gone through the motions of helping the producer. But once again, a big business administration has shown its hand. The help has gone, not to the producer, but to the packer. I have nothing against the packers. They perform a necessary function and they do it well. But at a time when cattlemen are in trouble, and the administration is buying beef to help them out, we can't help comparing the producer and the processor of our essentials.

	Just a few weeks ago one of the biggest packers reported half year profits about three times bigger than those of the same period last year, and last year's profits were six-and-a-half times larger than in the previous year. The earnings of another, in the six months to April for this year. were greater than in any entire year since 1947. The earnings of still another for the same period were up almost two-and-a-half times.

	The spread between the producer and the consumer has everywhere widened. Ten years ago, the producer got 52 cents out of every consumer dollar spent on food; now he gets about 40 cents. I think the American people have a right to know why.

	When the Eisenhower administration came to office, the Federal Trade Commission was planning an investigation of these price spreads in order to give the Congress and the people the facts. But in 1953, the Republican 83rd Congress cut off the Federal Trade Commission appropriation to do this job. I think we should make such as investigation, not in a punitive mood, but as part of a thoughtful and constructive effort to get the facts.

	In this connection, I notice in your papers that there has just been another increase in bread prices here in Oklahoma City, and that Mike Monroney, with his usual vigilance, has been asking some pertinent questions about it. In the last ten years the price of bread has increased, on the average, from about 10 1/2 cents a loaf to about 18 cents. That is an increase of more than seven cents a loaf. And of this seven-cent increase, the wheat farmer has got exactly half a cent.

	Last Saturday at the Plowing Contest at Newton, Iowa, I said I did not believe the American farmers have had a fair deal. And I said that most other Americans do not know what a bad deal the farmer is getting. The Republican leaders in Washington have set the city against the countryside; they have told the farmer that labor is responsible for the high costs of the things he buys. And these Republicans have told the city housewife over and over again that high farm prices are responsible for the high cost of food. This is wrong. Under the Republicans, farm prices have gone down and the housewife's prices have gone up. It is wrong to peddle this kind of misunderstanding between Americans.

	I said at Newton, and say again here today, that I hope Estes Kefauver and I can be ambassadors from the farmers of the country to the men and women in our cities. I hope we can explain to them why the farmers have been in trouble these last four years and why, if America is to prosper, our farms must prosper.

	We Americans are all passengers in the same great ship. We all ride together. When farmers are in trouble, we are all in trouble. When the family farm is in danger, we are all in danger. This will be my message for all Americans.

	Of course the farmers aren't the only ones who have suffered in these days of Republican indifference. Others have had this privilege. Not long ago, one of President Eisenhower's assistants said that the "right to suffer" is "one of the joys of the free economy." The small businessman has been learning how hard life becomes when the farm market dries up. He has also been learning about the tight-money policy. The tight-money policy does not much hurt the large corporation. These corporations have reserves, so that many need not borrow. In any case, their credit is good, so they can always get money. The small businessman is not so fortunate. He must borrow. And as a borrower he is at the end of the line, and lately they have been closing the wicket before he gets to the window.

	In a Democratic administration, small business and Main Street, like the farmers, the workers, the school children, and the aged will all again have a friend.

	The Republican party has a right to respect the big and the powerful, those who are the modern image of the people Alexander Hamilton called "the rich and the well-born." As I say, these people have a right to be represented. To represent them is the historic task of the Republican party. But ours is the party of the people. And because ours is the party of the people, we can never be indifferent to the problems of the people.

	In 1957, the "Sooner State" will be celebrating its fiftieth year in the American union. How young you are, and how old you make me feel.

	A bright future opens up before Oklahoma. You have the men and women, the natural resources, the basis for even greater industrial growth, the pioneering tradition and the American faith to move steadily ahead.

	All America--all the world--stands as on the edge of a new age. We have an opportunity to achieve for ourselves and our children a better society than any nation has ever known. And if we are faithful to our own best ideals, we will use our own good fortune to contribute to the achievement of peace and tranquillity in the world.

	But to do this we must have a united America, a dedicated America, an America which renews its strength from its service in the cause of the people. That is the America which the Democratic party has always sought, for our purpose has always been to enlarge the rights and the opportunities for everyone. We will remain ever loyal to that faith.

	In that faith we will win in November, and then we can move on together to achieve the New America which lies ahead.
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESBUSINESS, CORPORATEBUSINESS, SMALLMONETARY POLICYRECLAMATION PROJECTSWATER RESOURCESAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     F F F F F
 F F F F F F uF jF	  	  	 h 	 U 	 F 	 7 	 #   e: