

	I have come before you tonight to speak of war and of peace.

	These are solemn subjects--as solemn as birth and life and death themselves.  Their very mention brings quick stabs of hope and fear to every heart and every home in our nation.

	Our lives are caught in the vise of a harsh paradox.  As I speak to you at this moment--here in the heartland of America--we all know that, across the great expanse of our country, millions are enjoying peaceful pleasures.  They are relaxing in the comfort of commonplace joys--watching a movie, cheering at a ball game, driving along country roads.  A magic snapshot--capturing at this instant the whole life of this country from sea to sea--would proclaim a people happy and at peace.

	But the truth--the bitter truth that makes this paradox in which we live--is hidden in such a picture.  The truth is that the shadow of war falls across this whole people.

	We are in a cold war now.  Its intensity and complexity at times seem greater even than in a hot war.  For the moment the shooting is confined for America to Korea.

	Tonight--while the life of a nation at peace goes on at home--the casualty lists in Korea grow.  Tonight tens of thousands of American boys know that they will be called to serve in the armed forces before the end of the year.

	This is the shadow that escapes the camera's eye.  This is the shadow that haunts the hopes of all of us.

	I repeat: this is a solemn subject.  I cannot make light of it, so I have come here to state the truth as I know it, plain and unvarnished.

	I can summarize the purpose of all I have to say in a four-word axiom of Jefferson:  "Peace is our passion."  Peace is my passion!

	Senator Taft, Mayor Rich, ladies and gentlemen, for the warmth of your welcome, I thank you from the bottom of my heart.  I am deeply honored.  I am glad tonight to be here in Cincinnati the home of Robert A. Taft and to be introduced by him.  For more years than are given to most men to serve their city, state and nation, Senator Taft has been a leader in sound government.  No one in Congress has more firmly stood for the principles of representative government and for the high ideals of public service.

	Between him and me there have been points of differences in our convictions as to some governmental policies; but, on these important points, we have been most emphatically agreed and are now agreed.  They are:  First, the requirement for rigid economy in government and living within our means.  Secondly, the immediate need for complete change in the political complexion of our federal government which has grown too big and too arrogant.

	I am glad also to share this platform with his colleague in the Senate, the Honorable John W. Bricker; also his brother, the Honorable Charles P. Taft.  I am confident that the people of Ohio will re-elect John Bricker as senator and elect Charles Taft as governor.

	With that and a top to bottom Republican victory in the Congressional contests including such candidates as William Hess and Gordon Sheer of Cincinnati, and for all state officers, our party will be strengthened for the great task ahead.

	You all know that in World War II, I carried special responsibilities in planning and pressing the defeat of the Nazi and Fascist aggressors.  From the first perilous landings in North Africa in the dark autumn of 1942, on to our entry into the ruins of Berlin more than two and a half years later--millions of my uniformed countrymen and I lived through war.  We know its cost, its pain, its waste, its horror.  We know these things not from having read about them or from being told about them.  They and I know from having lived with them.

	It is my prayer that neither you nor your sons, nor I nor my son, may again have to live through long years with these agonies.

	Now let us proceed to look at the facts that form this paradox in which we live.  Let us look at these facts with uncompromising candor.

	The United States possesses superlative physical strength.  This strength comprises much more than our great expanse of land and our bounty in natural resources.  We--who make up only 7 percent of the world's population--produce 50 percent of the world's manufactured goods.  Our steel production is over three times that of the Soviet Union.  In petroleum, aluminum, electric power, our superiority is even greater.  In inventive talent and in the technical skill of our working men and women we are unmatched.

	These are crucial facts--heartening facts.  But they are also facts that give a sharp edge to the question: how well, how wisely have we used our strength?  Have our economic power and capacity been converted into political achievement in the great quest for peace?

	The answer lies in the record of the last seven years.  We--the free world, led by this mighty America--have been losing whole nations to the enemies of freedom.  Around the globe, from Czechoslovakia to China, there has been a succession of disasters.  In the awful mathematics of human souls, the free world has been losing at the rate of 100 million a year--100 million people each year taken captive and put to work for their masters.

	No one, not even the blindest partisan, can call this a proud record.  At times the pitiless pressure of Communism has been checked by brave emergency attempts that rallied men of all parties to make up the deficiencies in our national leadership.  These attempts have produced the economic help of the Marshall Plan and the program of military aid to Greece and Turkey.  Both were enactments of the Republican 80th Congress, the Congress so long vilified by the administration.  These measures have helped to steady both the economic and the nervous systems of our allies.  They could hardly have been expected to do more in the making of our foreign policy.  Dollars and guns are no substitute for brains and willpower.

	It is not hard to find men long on courage and short on brains.  But this is no time for boldness without reflection and purpose.

	It is not hard to find men of fine intellect and faint heart.  But this is no time for men of refined and elaborate indecision. Our need--our most urgent need--is the leadership of men whose strength of mind is matched by their strength of will.  It is men of this stamp who will be brought to Washington to shape and execute our foreign policy when our new administration takes office next January.

	The unhappy record of the last seven years finds its climax in Korea.  Here are the plain facts of that political catastrophe.

	In January of 1950 our Secretary of State declared that America's so-called "defensive perimeter" excluded areas on the Asiatic mainland such as Korea.  He said in part:  "No person can guarantee these areas against military attack.  It must also be clear that such a guarantee is hardly sensible or necessary...it is a mistake...in considering Pacific and Far Eastern problems to become obsessed with military considerations."

	Five months later Communist tanks were rolling over the 38th parallel to assault South Korea.  Twenty-seven months later the United States had suffered 120,000 casualties in a bloody, continuing conflict.  Who made the mistake to which the Secretary of State referred?  I leave the answer to you. 

	Now let me make myself clear--clear beyond the capacity of any clever tongue to twist and distort--proudly salute the gallant American fight in Korea.  It has been in the same heroic spirit, fought with the same bravery and skill, shown by American airmen who--on the other side of the globe--four years ago saved our position in Berlin.

	Moreover, I believe that the decision to fight to hold Korea--like the decision to struggle so bravely to hold Berlin--was an inescapable decision.

	What I deplore in these cases of Berlin and Korea is this: the incompetence of political leaders which made military action necessary.  Our servicemen were summoned to snatch military victory from political defeat.  Democracies cannot afford the luxury of assigning armies of soldiers to go around "picking up" after their statesmen.

	Surely something better can be found.

	Yet all we have been offered is a program of bits and pieces--a plan here, a program there, a loan here, a doctrine there--an endless game of makeshift and make-believe.  It simply isn't good enough.

	A deadly result of this playing by ear has been to frustrate the free world's quest for unity.  I mean this in three quite specific senses.  Here they are:

	We have no single, coherent policy in Asia on which all of our allies agree.  Despite all the conferences, in these seven years of perilous peace, in all the capitals of the Western world, we still--in plain fact--have not agreed among ourselves on what precisely to do in Asia.  Even the unleashing of a war--and the Korean conflict is a war--has not proved sufficient incentive to our statesmen to achieve such unity.

	We have, similarly, failed to use our influence to the fullest to bring about unity in Western Europe.  I mean real and tangible unity--the kind of unity of which Italy's great Prime Minister De Gasperi spoke last week.  This means a unity not of words and forms and gestures--but a unity of currencies, of trade policies, of armies.

	We have lastly, failed to achieve a real unity of spirit with our allies.  The truth is that the spirit of our relationship with them has remained too much that irksome bond which binds debtor and creditor.  Many of our allies are bound to us more by the loans which they have needed, than by a faith which our policies and practices should inspire.

	There is one big block on the road to understanding.  It is the fear among many Europeans that in the struggle between Russia and the United States, they are merely our pawns.  This is a fear we together must seek to remove.

	I do not cite these failures to find partisan pleasure in them.  I cite them with a constructive purpose.  For these failures point to what must be the first, most important goals of a new administration and a new foreign policy.  I stated many of these goals in a recent speech in Philadelphia.  Chief among them in this connection are these: agreement among our interested Western allies on a single policy in Asia, and the realistic pursuit of true unity in Western Europe itself.

	This kind of leadership in the free world can work political wonders.  But it demands, above all else, fidelity to our principles.  And these principles--I have said before and I repeat it once again--do not permit our acquiescing in the perpetual enslavement of any peoples.  These principles demand that we use every political, every economic, every psychological tactic to see that the liberating spirit, in the nations conquered by Communism, shall never perish.

	Thus we shall help each captive people to maintain an outward strain against its Moscow bond.  The lands closed in behind the Iron Curtain will seethe with discontent: their peoples, not servants docile under a Soviet master, but ardent patriots yearning to be free again.  Nothing is so damaging to a tyrant's war machine as the steadfast spirit of an unhappy people.

	Can it be true that an administration spending billions for the economic and military revival of Western Europe thinks it can succeed in the long run without opening opportunities in Eastern Europe?

	This position I stress it to destroy all doubt--it is the farthest thing from an act of war.  It is a fact of morality.  It is a fact of America's enlightened self-interest.  We declare--simply and firmly--that we, the free of the Western World, can never find our salvation in any attempt to stand apart and live completely alone in this world.

	Now the record of our failures and problem to this date is sobering enough in itself.  But consider the smugness with which the administration policy-makers have accepted their failures.  Everybody is out of step but the Democrat administration.

	A Senate preparedness subcommittee, headed by a Democrat, reports that our air forces today have fewer planes than when the Korean war began.  But the administration candidate knows better than the subcommittee.  He said two weeks ago:  "The fight for rearmament is going well."

	Most Americans think our government ought to find a way to hasten the end of the bloody war in Korea.  But last week in San Francisco the administration candidate scolded the American people for their anxiety--lightly telling them that this war is no athletic event, no mere 100-yard dash.

	No American family that has a boy fighting in the mountains of far-off Korea needs any such reminder.

	It takes smugness to try to stifle critics, as the Democrat candidate did last week, with the epigram that, "A wise man does not try to hurry history."  Every American knows the answer to that one; neither a wise man nor a brave man lies down on the tracks of history to wait for the train of the future to run over him.

	I cite these smug evasions not merely because they point out plainly the things against which I am fighting.  I cite them because they suggest what I am fighting for in this campaign.

	The American people need a government that knows enough about arms and armies to work out the most defense at less cost with the least delay.

	It needs a government that recognizes the Korean war as a critical problem demanding solution.

	It needs a government willing to call upon all its members for absolute loyalty without fear that investigation might reveal some of them as disloyal.

	It needs a government that is in a hurry to face its problems, however tough they may be.

	The business at hand, I repeat, is serious and solemn.  We face--to East and to West--plain peril.

	Stalin said--and let us never forget it--through Asia runs "the road to victory in the West."  His legions are well started along that road already.

	A hundred years ago Americans began to see that vital link between East and West.  Since Commodore Matthew Perry set off on his expedition to Japan in 1852, America has been keenly alive to the fate of Asia.  In that same year, Secretary of State William Seward asked:  "Who does not see ... that the Pacific Ocean, its shores, its islands, and the vast regions beyond, will become the chief theater of events in the world's great hereafter."

	A whole century later the Democrat Administration was following a policy perverse enough to deny that plain truth.  The result has been the loss of China.

	On the other side of the world, in Europe, the free world has struggled manfully to hold its own.  There, at least, America did not wait for the dust to settle.

	Yet, after the years I have spent in Europe, I cannot honestly report that we are universally respected even among our friends there.  And this is another tragedy.

	How has this come to pass, that our America should, at the precise moment of its high responsibility, command such low respect?

	There are bitter causes for this failure.

	First:  We must remember that any administration's domestic character is faithfully--and I might say fatefully--mirrored in the image it offers to a foreign people.  A government that does not stir the pride of its own people cannot excite the respect of others.

	Second:  Our loose economic policies have done more than harass our own people with the torments of inflation.  They have also sown confusion abroad.  Huge loans made to aid foreign economies have lost millions of dollars of their true meaning because uncontrolled inflation has wiped a great part of their value.

	Third:  We have allowed our policies to become shadowed by doubt and indecision.  This is a fact of the spirit, and it is not easy to define to those who prefer to be blind to it.  But the Democrat candidate gave us, in his recent San Francisco speech, a dismaying example of this faintness of heart, this curiously defensive way of thinking.  He was speaking of taxes and he said:  "With 85 percent of our budget allocated to defense, it is the Soviet Union which now fixes the level of our defense expenditures and thus our tax rates."  And that's enough of that quote.

	It is true, of course, that the American taxpayer is burdened heavily by Soviet threat.  But what the Democratic nominee confessed was that under the present administration policy the American taxpayer is dancing to the Soviet tune and not getting for his tax dollar a clear, coherent plan to do away with the menace of war.  The telltale wording of that statement reflects the surrender of initiative to the Communists.

	Fourth:  This loss of initiative has sapped unity at home on policy abroad.  How could men of different parties have a chance properly to debate foreign issues when lack of foresight has allowed us to drift between emergencies, leaving us no recourse but hasty action when a new emergency was upon us?  And how could one expect such unity of opinion and purpose when our Congress lacked confidence in our Department of State?

	There can be no effective appeal to the administration or its heirs to correct its own failings and abuses.  When you ask them for a rational explanation of the disaster in China, they tell you, as the Democrat candidate did last week:  Let's talk about India.

	What can be gained by an appeal to men who are so supremely sure that they are right?  Only those who are willing to be taught can learn.  These men have closed their minds to learning a diplomacy of strength.  They are on a revolving wheel that never stops:  the more they talk of "adjustment" and of "compromise," the more they encourage the Soviet Union to keep up aggressive pressure on them; and that very aggressive pressure in turn softens their will to oppose the Soviets.

Where, then, shall America turn?  How may we hope that free men may rule the future-- rather than be ruled by it?

	I have discussed the evils that beset us precisely because they so clearly dictate their own remedy.

	We need a government that will so arouse the pride of Americans as to win respect from other peoples.

	We need a government that can maintain a sound American economy and check the menace of inflation that cheats our own people and our friends abroad.

	We need a government that will establish a foreign policy which is the product of true moral and material values and not the product of blackmail extorted by the Soviet Union.

	We need a government insuring that our Congress, and our Department of State will work, not in bitter conflict and mutual distrust, but with common sense and common purpose.

	We need a government that will substitute candor for guile; that will not exhaust itself trying to hide its mistakes, but will work tirelessly to repair those already committed.

	We need a government with the clearness of mind and the steadiness of will that alone can give pause to the aggressor and, ultimately, peace to the world.

Only a government of this stature can win the peace.  For peace is not the automatic result of military victory, of economic or political victory--not even of moral victory.  Peace is the reward reserved for those who, guided by confidence in themselves and faith in God, will develop their utmost in material and moral strength and devote that strength to this righteous cause of peace.

	If we do this, we will save America from becoming a beleaguered outpost of a weary democratic world.  We will proclaim America to be--what she must ever be--the headquarters of freedom.
ALLIES/ALLIANCESASIACOMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)WESTERN EUROPEWORLD WAR IIKOREAN WAR     FM M M M L
 L L L L L L L L	  	  	  	 w 	 V 	 ? 	 $ 	   
 e: