
	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, six weeks from today we're going to take our country back and give you your future back.

	I'm glad to be here at Michigan State today. One of America's greatest universities. A place with a reputation for a fighting spirit. I showed up here to debate today.

	I received a letter from the Bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates inviting me to come to East Lansing to debate George Bush on September the 22nd, and I'm glad to be here.

	When I got the letter, I didn't complain about the format or question the rules. I welcomed the opportunity to debate the differences between me and Mr. Bush and put them before the American people.

	It's ironic that after weeks of silence the Bush campaign turned down this debate, flat and cold, just a few days before it was to occur.

	This is not a partisan issue. The honorary co-chairman of the commission is a Republican son of Michigan, former president Gerald Ford. One member of the commission, Frank Fahrenkopf, was a leader in three of Mr. Bush's national campaigns. And besides that the commission can't be all bad: look at the site they picked for the first debate.

	Now since Mr. Bush had all those good Republicans on a commission who sponsored the debates four years ago when he did show up, why didn't he show up today? I'll tell you why. He is not ducking this debate because he's a [missing text] past. I don't advocate staying with trickle-down economics and I don't advocate tax-and-spend economics. I advocate what works in the world we're living in. Investment, education, cooperation, and competition, so that we can win again. That's what I advocate.

	We have to create millions of new jobs in America by giving people not across-the-board tax cuts like the Bush administration has done for the wealthy, so that there is no difference between a Maserati and a factory. We need targeted incentives for people so that we can say we'll give you more incentives if you create new jobs through factories and small businesses, but no more tax breaks to move our jobs overseas--tax incentives to build America.

	We need a plan that will control health care costs and provide affordable health care to all Americans. We're the only advanced nation that doesn't do it.

	We are spending 30 percent more of our income on health care than any country on Earth, and every place I go, I see young families who can't get jobs or can't change jobs. I see people who have literally been forced from the work rolls to the welfare rolls because of the illness of their children or their spouses. I see businesses going under because they can't pay their health care costs. I see factories closing here and moving overseas because of the health care costs in the American system.

	I will take on the people who are making a killing out of this system--the insurance companies, the regulators, the paperwork, the drug companies--and provide a basic system that controls these costs.

	We can free up tens of billions of dollars for investment in the private economy and for reducing the deficit and improving our economy over the long run, but only if we control health care costs.

	The next thing I want to say here is, this country has to decide that we can protect the environment and promote the economy, and I think we can.

	We need a new energy policy that doesn't depend on what happens in the Middle East so much and depends more on what happens in the Middle West.

	You think of this here in Michigan. If more of our automobiles burned American natural gas instead of Middle Eastern oil we'd have cleaner air, a stronger economy, and more jobs in America and in Michigan.

	We need, finally, a real education president. You know, on this campus, that the only thing that's gone up by more than health care costs in the last several years is the cost of a college education. What would a real education presidency entail? Well, a lot of things, but let me just mention three. One is, we teach everybody with a job to read and give everybody with a job the chance to be continually reeducated throughout their working lives. That's what our competitors do.

	We would say to young high school graduates in the country--to everyone--if you don't want to go to a four year college, we'll guarantee you at least two years of further training in apprenticeship program so you can get good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

	And we would open the doors of college education to all Americans. Under our plan America would create a national trust fund out of which any person could borrow the money to go to college, no questions asked, no income limits. You can borrow the money.

	But then you would be challenged to pay it back, either as a small percentage of your income after you go to work or, even better, by giving two years of your life to rebuild our country here at home as teachers or police officers, working with children or the elderly, in housing programs, doing the things we need to do.

	You think about it. If every person in the state of Michigan had a college education financed from the National Service Trust and paid it back by working to solve the problems of America, we could solve half of our social problems, rebuild our cities, take care of the elderly, the people with disabilities, give our kids in trouble a better shot at the future, and educate a whole generation of Americans. We would lift the incomes of this country, strengthen the economy. It would be the best money we ever spent, and we will if you give me a chance to do it.

	Mr. Bush says he believes in family values. Well, I do, too. The difference is, I'm interested in your family and your values and your future. That's why I think when people work forty hours a week and they're still trapped in poverty the tax system ought to give them money back and lift them above the poverty line so they can raise their own children.

	That's why I believe people on welfare should be given more opportunities for education and training and support for their children and then required to work. That's why I believe people should not be able to cross the state line and evade their obligation to support their children and honor their child-support payments.

	That's why I believe Mr. Bush made a terrible mistake in vetoing the Family and Medical Leave Act, which over 70 other countries have for people who are working and who need time off for their families.

	My fellow Americans, I come here not just to offer a program to put the American people first, but to challenge you to change, for we will all have to change. One thing no one can promise you to do is to repeal the sweeping changes that are taking place in the world you're living in.

	After the Cold War, you will grow up in a world in which you will be able to raise your children in all probability completely free of the threat of nuclear annihilation. Your children may ask you one day what bomb shelters were, what fallout was, what these things even meant. That is the good news. But the challenge of this time is to make sure that we do not lose the peace. Your nation is not responding to the changes in the world in a way that enables you to make the most of your abilities and to make the most of your future. That is what this election is all about--whether change will be our friend or our enemy. And I urge you to engage the people in this state--the people you know, your friends around the country--in a debate for the next six weeks about that future.

	I have offered a plan that addresses the need for more investment, for more incentive, for more responsibility, for reduction of the deficit and growth of the economy, and it is a good plan. It is something that will put us on the right road. These things will not happen over night, but I'll tell you this, if we don't have the courage to change, they will never happen.

	The great enemy of America's future in this election is the campaign being run by Mr. Bush, a campaign designed to sow fear and uncertainty and doubt, to make the American people look backward when they ought to be looking forward, a campaign that is designed to deny the real consequences in real people's lives of the awful mistakes of the last twelve years of trickle-down economics, which have been worse in the last four years than ever before.

	And every time in our nation's history when we needed to change, we have had the courage to change. We became one nation because George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and the other founding fathers said that we could no longer be thirteen independent colonies with our own money systems, our own armies, our own separate economies. We had to be one nation. There was a crowd then, just like the Bush crowd now that said, oh, things could be worse if you let these people have their way. But the American people said, we can do better. We have a vision of what we ought to become, and we did.

	When Abraham Lincoln was elected president, he said at all costs, we must hold the union together and make the Constitution mean what it says, that all people are equal in the eyes of God, and he literally gave his life to save the union. There were all kinds of people who said, we ought to tear this country apart. It's not worth the effort to make this change. We could do worse. But Lincoln prevailed with the message that we could do better, and we did.

	When Franklin Roosevelt was elected in the teeth of the Great Depression, when 25 percent of our people were unemployed, there were people who said he was a terrible person. He wanted to use the power of the government to help people. What an awful idea that is--just what Bush says about me today. But he lifted the spirits of this country from his wheelchair and he moved us forward by not giving in to our fear, to our uncertainty, and to our doubt, but by saying, we can do better and we did. We did.

	Thirty-two years ago in 1960, we faced a similar choice for our country, much like the one we face today. In the final days of that campaign, the Democratic nominee, John Kennedy, came here to East Lansing to tell the people of Michigan what was at stake in this election. And I would like to close by asking you to think about the words that Kennedy said here thirty-two years ago.

	If we do not maintain our strength as a nation, all those who look to us with confidence and hope for leadership turn in another direction. The place to start is here in the United States. The place to build our prestige in the world is here, in the United States. The place to build strength for freedom is here in the United States.

	If we are on the upward move, if the wave of our vitality and energy as a nation is coming in, if we are providing employment for our people, then the United States is strong. And when the United States is strong, the world is strong. The chance of freedom is strong. Our influence is strong. Our prestige is greater.

	I got into this race for president because I did not want you and your generation, including my daughter, who's a little younger than you are, to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. I am a part of the "we can do better" crowd, and I want you to be too.

	The choice we face is clear. And for forty-two days, I'm going to work as hard as I can in every place in this country, from early morning until late at night. And if you elect me six weeks from now, I will give you my best. We will face the problems. We will embrace the challenges. We will seize the future and we will make your future what it ought to be.

	Thank you and God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you.
EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTS     . . z. v. n.
 c. ^. Y. M. E. C. *.  .	 ] 	 = 	 " e: