

	There is a concise way to illustrate the choice facing the arms and aerospace workers of California.

	Your concern is conversion. And the question is: How do we make a transition from war to peace without disrupting the lives of workers who depend on defense? How can we put your talents to work not on ways to destroy life abroad, but on programs to lift the quality of life in America?

	That is one of the great challenges of our time. It is one that has occupied my attention ever since I entered the United States Senate in 1963. And it is one on which the leadership of the United Auto and Aerospace Workers Union and of the International Association of Machinists have served as a beacon for me and for the country.

	The Nixon administration says it too is concerned about this issue. But consider the priorities set by Mr. Nixon and those around him.

	There are 2.7 million people working for the federal government today.

	And out of all those people, a grand total of thirteen are working on economic conversion from war to peace.

	Mr. Nixon has a White House staff of more than 2,000 people--the largest White House staff in history.

	And out of all those people, not a single one is responsible for plans to keep you employed when peace comes.

	But if we know what they are not doing, we also have some information on what those Republican politicians think is important.

	They hired at least fifty people, at substantial salaries, to sabotage and corrupt our political process. They hired fifty people to conduct some of the shabbiest undercover operations in the history of American politics.

	But only thirteen to work on developing peacetime jobs.

	According to a report in the "Washington Post" yesterday, there is at least one top aide in the White House, Dwight Chapin, who is responsible for receiving information from that undercover network. The Republican team of saboteurs has a contact who is at Mr. Nixon's elbow every single day--someone who has constant access to the President.

	But aerospace workers who are concerned about job security have no contact anywhere in the White House, or even in the executive office building next door.

	And I say that is intolerable.

	The sad truth is that our government today is so obsessed with political advantage, and so obedient to the privileged few, that it has no time to consider your concerns. And with that kind of administration in power, we will never see the blessings of peace and the security of jobs reunited again.

	I propose a different scale of values and a more promising order of business for our country.

	I have said in this campaign that my first economic priority is a job for every man and woman who is able to work. On this issue, the choice is clear, for Mr. Nixon's friend, and the chief architect of his economic policy, has declared that full employment in peacetime is a myth.

	I have also said in this campaign that while I propose substantial cuts in military spending, I would not eliminate a single job in the arms and aerospace industry until there is another job available to take its place.

	That is another issue on which Mr. Nixon and I disagree, for during his term we have seen 1.8 million jobs disappear in defense-related industries--500,000 in aerospace alone. And a big share of those people are still looking for work.

	I am fully convinced that both of those commitments--job security in this industry and a full-employment economy--can be met.

	For despite all the Republican scare tactics you are seeing in 1972, the truth is that in America today we can find more jobs in peace than in war.

	We do not have to send our sons off to fight in order to keep their parents at work. And we do not have to build arms we do not need in order to have a thriving and prosperous economy for American workers.

	Several months ago, I asked a group of distinguished economists to project what would happen if we phased in, over a period of several years, the kind of defense program I have outlined in this campaign. We would adopt a $55 billion military budget by 1975, an amount that is fully adequate to meet our security needs and to fulfill our commitments abroad. And we would apply the savings to domestic needs.

	They concluded that by the time the transition was completed, we would have replaced every single job that was lost and added another 1.5 million new jobs besides. They found that just about any other way we spent the savings would produce more jobs than if we left that money in the military budget.

	The U.S. Department of Labor has reached a similar conclusion. A recent study by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, "Post-Vietnam Economy, 1975," has affirmed that spending on health, on education, and on other civilian needs will create far more jobs than the same money spent on arms.

	What that means in a nutshell is that the father of communism, Karl Marx, was wrong when he said our free economy could not prosper without war.

	And it means that the father of Mr. Nixon's latest economic game plan, John Connolly, was just as wrong when he said the same thing.

	Yet Mr. Nixon's surrogate campaigners are going around the country claiming my program would cost you jobs. They are doing it in speeches, in their television and newspaper propaganda, and in the phony literature that has been circulated in plants here in California.

	I do not want to charge that they are lying. Instead, I suspect that they are just too caught up in their own way of thinking.

	If this administration had managed to pare $32 billion from the budget over a period of several years, they would probably give most of it away in new tax breaks for big business. And that would certainly produce precious few jobs.

	But I would take those funds and invest them immediately in new job-creating enterprises, to deal with the crushing domestic needs that we notice every day of our lives. And for every ten jobs that would be phased out, there would be fifteen new jobs under way.

	We would begin that process before the cutbacks occurred.

	The first step, in the earliest days of my administration, would be an immediate $10 billion investment in new and rehabilitated housing, transportation, pollution control, and public-service jobs. That would generate about two million new jobs, even before the application of military savings to civilian needs.

	As the savings from the arms budget became available, they would be added to the job-creating investment in our own land.

	Many of our aerospace workers would be doing precisely the same thing, because much of the arms budget would be preserved. But I also want to use your skills to build natural gas tankers instead of excess destroyers, so we can meet the nation's energy crisis. Instead of working on communications for the Defense Department, you can develop new methods of communication for law enforcement agencies. And there is no reason why the tremendous potential for modern transportation systems is being filled by products made in Germany and Japan instead of in the United States. The facilities and workers of aircraft plants in California can be channeled into developing and building mass transit systems or modular housing.

	With priorities of that kind, I am convinced that we can--and I am determined that we will--build a full-employment economy in America, one in which you can count on not only the security of a job, but clean air to breathe, clean water to drink, safe streets to walk on, a decent home you can afford, and dependable transportation to take you back and forth to work.

	And let me tell you bluntly what I think of the Republican scare-mongers. If anyone comes into your plant and says you will not be able to get and hold a job under these conditions, that person is insulting your intelligence and demeaning your capabilities.

	The truth is that your skills and experience would never be surplus as they are in so many cases now under an administration that considers the worker expendable. They would instead be held precious under an administration that would never tolerate the waste of unemployment when there are so many critical jobs to be done.

	We need planning and leadership to bridge whatever gap there might be between the old job and the new.

	A McGovern administration would insist on reform of pension systems to provide for early vesting and portability, so you would not lose your retirement rights when you move from one job to another.

	And a McGovern administration would insist that if there is any delay between the old job and the new, the country as a whole ought to provide sufficient adjustment benefits to insure against the severe financial hardships that so many aerospace workers are suffering now. The shift to new national priorities is in the national interest, and there is no reason why a small minority--those who have been employed in defense-related industries--must carry the entire cost.

	So, again, the issue is sharply drawn between Mr. Nixon and me, as it is in the case of Vietnam, in the case of tax reform, and in so many other issues. It is, as Mr. Nixon has admitted, the "choice of a century."

	For you, it is a choice between the constant fear of losing your job, or the security of stable, secure employment.

	It is a choice between the frustration of building more overkill, or the satisfaction of work that improves life.

For California, it is a choice between dependence on a roller-coaster military economy, or the prospect of steady growth and prosperity.

	And for America, it is a choice between pursuing our worst fears, or realizing our best hopes and our greatest aspirations for a just and decent land.
AEROSPACE INDUSTRYPENSIONSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIAN     & & & & &
 & & ~& s& i& g& D& :&	 L 	 : 	 2   e: