

	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you very much.

	Thank you, Reverend Brookins, thank you.  What a wonderful man you have in this great reverend, Dr. Brookins, a wonderful leader.  Let's give him a good hand.  This man speaks for us.  

	And Dr. Channing Phillips, how much we appreciate your presence here tonight.  This man speaks for us, too.  Dr. Phillips, we are proud of you and happy to have you here with us here this evening.

	And the assemblyman from this district, a real fighter for you up there in the Assembly--let's give him a hand--Leon Ralph.

	I hope our congressman, Gus Hawkins, is here.  But I just want you to know what a special joy it is to come back to this area and to see this great assemblage tonight of my fellow Americans.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to say to you what I have said to every audience across this country.  I told Dr. Brookins tonight that I just didn't have time to make one speech up North, a different kind of a speech down South; one speech to a white audience, a different kind of a speech to a black audience.  I am going to make my speech to an American audience, and that is what I am doing here tonight. 

	I know that this is the Grass Roots Committee for Hubert Humphrey for president.  Well, let me tell you, if there ever was a grass roots committee for the presidency of the United States, you ought to look at me.  I have been out "grass-rootzin" all over this country, sometimes almost alone.  But tonight I find out it is a little different.  Tonight I find out that the message of equality, the message of human dignity, the message of human rights, the message of fair play--that that message is getting through, and the American people are beginning to respond, just as they are tonight. 

	I don't have a big advertising budget.  I told Dr. Brookins and Dr. Phillips that I just left the state of Texas.  And when I was there, I was told that the Republican candidate was going to spend over $1 million in Texas alone--going to spend over $1 million in radio, television, and advertising in Texas alone between now and the end of this election period.

	Ladies and gentlemen, that is almost as much as we are going to be able to spend throughout the nation.

	Now, that man, that Republican candidate, has got money power.  I tell you what we got--people power.  And let's put it to work.

	And we got all kinds of people power.  We got them from every walk of life, every color, and every description, every cultural background.  And, ladies and gentlemen, if we go to work, we can teach some people in this country a lesson they need to know.  We can show them that the time has come when every American is going to have his chance, when he is going to be treated like a man, when he is going to be treated like a lady, when he is going to be treated like a citizen. 

	I put a lifetime of working for human rights and the people's rights.  That is my record.  And I am going to continue to do it. 

A man out here said, "Well, what are you going to do about law and order?"  Let me just say a word about it.  You know, there is a candidate, the third-party candidate, he talks a lot about law and order.  Well, I want to tell you, my dear friends, that is one kind of law and order that we don't need in Washington.  That is one kind we don't need.  And we are not going to have it. 

	And there is another kind.  There is the Republican candidate.  And he talks about it, too.  And he talks a little smoother.  He is cool, you know.  Yes.  This Republican candidate--.  Don't you worry, I am coming right to you, Buddy.  Just hang on, I will be right with you there.  And this Republican candidate--he talks a little more calmly, a little more cooly.  But it all says the same thing.

	Now, let me tell you what I think about it.  I think that every American, black or white, young or old, is entitled to the full protection of the law and to equal rights of the law, and equal enforcement of the law, and equal opportunity under the law.  Now, that is law and order. 

	And let me tell you what some of them do.  Some of them talk law and order.  And I hear what they say in the back rooms.  I told Dr. Brookins here in Detroit the other day--let me tell you what they say.  They say, "You know this fellow Humphrey.  Well, I will tell you what he is going to do."  This is what they say to the white man and the blue collar, the working class, in the back rooms, in the shops.  Here is what they have been saying up in Michigan, here is what they have been saying in Pennsylvania, here is what they are saying in New Jersey, here is what they are saying in California.  They said, "Look at that fellow Humphrey.  You know what he is going to do?  He is going to give a Spanish-surnamed Mexican-American a job."  That is right.  That is what I am going to do.

	And you know what else?  Then they say this, and this is what they say.  They say, "You know what this means to the white man?  This means you are going to lose your job, because that Humphrey is going to load him on to that work force."

	Let me lay it on the line here:  No white man is going to lose a job because a black man is going to get one, but you will all lose your job if you elect a Republican administration. 

	I know what they are saying.  Law and order to some people is another way to say to keep the Negro down.  I know that.  You ask me, and I am telling you the truth.

	You want to have it like it is?  You want me to sock it to you.  Well, all right, you are going to get it.   I will tell you what I want in this country.  And I didn't want it just because I ran for president.  I wanted it a long time ago.  And I have been fighting for it for twenty-five years.  I want an education for every boy and girl.  I don't give a hoot what his color is.  I want him to have the best education that we can buy in this country, black or white. 

	Let me tell you something else.  I want my schools integrated.  I want blacks and whites to learn how to live together when they are kids.  Then they can learn how to live together when they are adults.

	And I want everybody to have health.  Let me tell you, when you are sick, it doesn't make any difference what color you are.  And it doesn't make any difference whether you are young or old--when you are sick, you are sick.  And we need health care in this country.  We need health care for people in America, regardless of their color, regardless of their economic status.  And, ladies and gentlemen, you are looking at a man that has fought for it all his life.  And now I want your help to get it. 

	We need housing in America.  We need decent housing in America.  And let me tell you how to have a decent home.  You give people a chance to live in one.  And I want you to know that if I can live in an integrated neighborhood, and I do--and let me tell you, when I moved in, the property values didn't go down.

	I am here to tell you that I believe that people ought to have the right to live where they want to live, regardless of who they are. 

	And I will tell you something else I believe.  I believe that there is great potentiality in our people.  Get me elected and we will start. 

	This man says he wants it now.  And let me tell this man, he is in no more of a hurry than I am.  I have been working for it for a quarter of a century, and I am going to help you get it now. 

	But what you need--but what you need, my friends, is a leader.  And what you need is a man that will work with you and not somebody that came to you for your votes.

	Listen, I was here when you couldn't vote for me.  I have been here when there wasn't a chance.  I have been with you in the worst days of your lives.  Now I want you to be with me in the best days of our lives.  We can win this election. 

	So let's go from this place tonight and do one thing:  Let's go from here determined to cast our vote.  Let's go from here determined that we are going to show the nation that we know what the score is.

	Listen, my friends, the greatest days of this country are yet to be lived.  There are great potentialities in our people.  We are going to help the poor people of this country.  I have helped them.  Give me a chance to be your president and we will help them more.  Give us a chance to work together. 

	But I will tell you this.  It is going to take more than me.  We are going to have to go from this place tonight, working as we have never worked before.  I know that Dr. Brookins, and I know that Dr. Phillips, and I know that others--I know that Leon Ralph and many of these people are going to ask you to vote.  I want you to vote.  I want you to be a voter.  I hope that you can see fit to vote for Humphrey and Muskie.  But I want you to be a voter above all.  Don't you stay away from the polls.  Let the American people know that you cherish your citizenship.  Let this nation know that you are a proud American--not only black pride, American pride, pride in your country, pride in the fact that you live here.  And, ladies and gentlemen, if you work with me, let me tell you from the bottom of my heart, I will work for you as you never had a president work for you.  

	Let's go to work now, friends, and let's do a job.  Thank you. 

AFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL RIGHTSDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONEMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHEALTH CAREHOUSING DISCRIMINATIONRACE RELATIONS     % V% P% L% D%
 8% 3% .% #% % % % %	  	  	  	 r 	 Y 	 @ 	 / 	 $ 	  e: