

	I am happy to be in the South again and I am proud to be in South Carolina.  It is good to be among friends--and it is particularly good to be welcomed here by my close and long-time friend, your distinguished governor, Jimmy Byrnes.

	You know, going South is becoming a habit with me--and a very pleasant one.  From what Governor Byrnes says, I gather the habit is beginning to catch on.  I know you will give my distinguished opponent a warm welcome when he comes.  But you will forgive me if I say I am glad I go there first.  It is my aim to continue to keep ahead of him--right through November 4.

	Here, close to your lovely capitol, I am sharply reminded that some ninety years ago now, South Carolina and the South were a grim and bloody and a tragic battleground.  Through good and evil times, you in the South have cherished the heroes and the heroism of those years.

	There, in front of me as I speak, is a monument which illustrates just what I mean.  It is a monument "Erected by the Women of  South Carolina to South Carolina's Dead of the Confederate Army; 1861-1865."  Someone copied for me the words which are carved on it.  Let me read you this part of them:

     	"Let the stranger who may in future times read this inscription recognize that these were men whom power could not corrupt, whom death could not terrify, whom defeat could not dishonor, and let their virtues plead for just judgment of the cause in which they perished.  Let the South Carolinian of another generation remember that the state taught them how to live and how to die, and that from her broken fortunes she has preserved for her children the priceless treasure of their memories, teaching all who may claim the same birthright that truth, courage and patriotism endure forever."

	Those words, my friends, were written by South Carolinians about South Carolinians.  But--North or South--young or old--any American who can read them and fail to be stirred by them has missed something of the heroic meaning of America.

	I read, the other day, a newspaper article, written by a Southerner, which said that this year the South is again a battleground--a political battleground.  I can only express my hope and my firm belief that you will engage in this political battle in the spirit and with the high motives of the words inscribed on that monument.  If you do that, then--whatever the outcome--I will be satisfied with the result.

	Let me quote for you what was said just two weeks ago by a life-long Democrat, a Southerner, a great American who has served his country as few others have been able or privileged to serve it.  Let me quote your own governor, Jimmy Byrnes.  In this election, he said, "I shall not vote for a label.  I shall do what I have heretofore urged others to do.  I shall place loyalty to my country above loyalty to a political party. . ."

	Is it any wonder that I have faith in the South?

	Now, a preacher friend of mine once told me that every good sermon should have a good text and he went on to deplore the fact that many preachers, having taken a text, do not stick to it.  To them, he said, a text is only a point of departure.

	Well, today I have taken a text and I plan to stick to it.  My text is drawn from a speech made some days ago in Los Angeles, by my distinguished opponent, the candidate of the present administration.  I gather that my opponent made this speech because--in his travels--he had made a discovery.  Getting out among the people he had discovered that the failures of this administration are too large to be concealed, that the public morals of this administration are too unsavory to be sweetened up, that the total record of this administration is too heavy a millstone for any candidate to bear.

	Something had to be done about that and my distinguished opponent did it.  With the wave of two sentences he passed it all off.  Those two sentences are my text.  Here they are--and I quote them:  "Whose fault is it then that we get what we deserve in government and that the honor and nobility of politics at most levels are empty phrases?"  And here is the way my distinguished opponent replies to his own question:  "Having asked the question, I shall hastily answer it myself by saying it is not the lower order of the genus pol"--that, I believe, is the Latin phrase for politicians--"It is not the lower order of the genus pol, but it is the fault of you, the people."

	There you have it.  For the inescapable fact that, under the administration, "honor and nobility" in government "are empty phrases"--for that, the fault belongs to "you, the people." 

	How does that strike you here in South Carolina:  as true or false?  Is this Washington mess the fault of you, the people?  Will you accept the blame while the administration and its candidate get out from under?

	You can answer those questions once and for all on next November 4.

	But let us look further at this amazing charge, this wholesale indictment of the American people.

	Our deepest desire--the desire of every American--is for a just and lasting peace; for the end of war and the threats of war.  It was not for national ambition or aggrandizement, but solely to win such a peace that we fought in World War II.  Yet today, seven years after that war was won, it is not the promise of peace, but the danger of war that fills the future.  Our economy is a war economy; our so-called prosperity is a war prosperity.  The uncertainties that hang over every American family are bred of war and the threats of war.

	Is that tragic prospect the fault of you, the people?

	Are you to blame for allowing nation after nation to fall to the Communists to increase their manpower and swell the resources of their slave empire?  Are you to blame that today, as a result of these surrenders, the enemies of freedom have built and heavily manned a threatening line across the middle of once-free Europe?

	Are you to blame for the loss of China?

	Are you to blame for the fact that seven years after winning the second world war, our country still has no clear, positive, practical program for peace?

	You know the answers to those questions.  You know that this long record of failure in the cause of peace is not your failure; it is the failure of an administration too long in power.

	That is a record, my friends, which calls for a change.

	Today, our country is involved--and our sons are fighting--in a major war in Korea.  The long shadow of that war reaches into more and more of our homes.

	Is that the fault of you the people?

	You know that that war is a tragic chapter in the record of this administration.  You also know that, today, America still lacks a program which will bring to a speedier end the growing list of casualties in that conflict.

	Isn't that reason enough for a change?

	Maybe somebody has been telling you that you never had it so good.  The next time such a person shows up, just ask him:  "What do you mean, had it so good?"

	Let me suggest that you take a good hard look at that $5 bill in your pocket.  It looks like $5, it feels like $5, and it has $5 printed on it.  But is it $5?  Ask your wife.  At the store where she does her shopping that $5 is worth exactly $2.65 pre-war.

	The income of the average factory worker's family today is $500 more than it was in 1950.  Is that family $500 better off?  No.  That raise has been squeezed and crushed between higher prices and higher taxes until there is nothing left of it--until there is less than nothing left of it.  In terms of what your money will buy, you aren't ahead of where you were in 1950, you're in back of it.

	Are you to blame for this treadmill prosperity, for the fact that, tread as hard as you will, you can't even stay up to where you were?  You know better than that.

	Recently someone suggested a new American holiday:  "National Tax Freedom Day."  The day selected for this celebration in 1952 was May 19.  May 19 was selected because that was the first day in 1952 that the average American could call a dollar his own.  For the first four months and nineteen days of this year, every penny earned by the average American went--not into his pocket or to pay his living expenses or into his savings account.  It went--every cent of it--to pay his taxes, federal, state and local.

	Are you to blame for that?

	But that is not the worst of it.  The worst of it is that every year the length of time you have to work for the government tax collector increases; and the time you have left over to work and earn for yourself and your family grows shorter.  In 1920, the average American had paid his tax bill and was ready to start working for himself on February 26.  By 1940, the date had been advanced to March 27 .  In 1951, it was April 28.  Now--May 19.  Next year--what?

	Of course, some of this huge spending is necessary.  But doesn't that very fact make frugality in government more essential than ever?  Isn't it time we had, in Washington, an administration which knows how to keep spending down; which will put an end to waste; which believes that an unbalanced federal budget is dangerous to every one of us--and moves to bring that budget into balance?

	If that is what you believe, then your vote this year will be a vote for a change.

	The American people want a government which merits their trust because, from top to bottom it is trustworthy.  What have we got instead?  We have an administration which may go down in history as the "Scandal-a-Day Administration."  As bad or worse than the scandals, themselves, is the attitude of those in high office who--faced with these revelations--have, too often, first denied them, then condoned them and, when public pressure became too great, reluctantly has undertaken to do something about them.  Let me read you what Democrat Senator William J. Fulbright of Arkansas had to say about this at the conclusion of his own inquiry:  "What seems to be new about these scandals is the moral blindness or callousness which allows those in responsible positions to accept the practices which the facts reveal.  It is bad enough for us to have corruption in our midst, but it is worse if it is to be condoned and accepted as inevitable."

	Is that record the fault of you, the people?  Are they your standards and your principles that are being currently practiced in Washington?  Is that the way the American people do business with their neighbors?  You and I know better than that.  And we are going to change it.  We are going to change to an administration which will root corruption out and then go on with the kind of men and women who can be trusted to see to it that corruption does not get in!

	Let us look at one further chapter in the record for which you, the people, have been charged and indicted.  Some time ago your fellow South Carolinian, a great American, Bernard M. Baruch said:  "Freedom's greatest threat today is too much government."  I am sure my old friend, Mr. Baruch, would permit me to add a phrase to that truth:  "Freedom's greatest threat today is too much government too far away from the people."

	For years--for far too many years--we have had in Washington a new breed of political philosophers--new, that is for America.  They have had practically no faith in the people and almost total faith in government.  They have accepted the principle of government for the people--and out of their little faith, they have rejected the prior principle of government, of and by the people.

	For the great eras of American history our people have looked, first, to themselves, then to their local communities, then to their state governments.  But this, we are told, is a new era and it calls for a new look.  Now we are told that we must look to Washington and that, if we do, Washington will look after us.  And Washington will--far beyond anything we have figured on.

	For example, I believe wholeheartedly and without any "ifs" or "buts" in federal programs to stabilize farm prices, including the present program insuring 90% of parity on all basic commodities.  I believe that the farmers should obtain their full share of the national income.  I am for programs to put a firm foundation under farm prosperity and to strengthen the family farm as the mainstay of our agricultural production, including soil conservation, research, rural electrification, rural telephones, farm credit, farmer cooperatives, farm to market roads.

	But I am for ending this era in which, increasingly, the American farmer has been looked upon by the Department of Agriculture as Washington's stepchild.  The independent American farmer is nobody's ward.  And management and direction of the farm program--federally financed though it will be--must be turned over to farmers.  It must be made, not only for them, but of and by them.

	And I am sure of one thing: the Brannan Plan for the regimentation of American agriculture was not cooked up among the farmers of South Carolina or of any other state in the Union.  You cannot fasten the blame on our farmers for Washington's increasing controls over farming and for the increasing arrogance of those sent out by Washington to enforce them.  Every American farmer knows better than that.  He knows so much better that he, too, is ready to vote for a change.

	But there is another and equally amazing part of this story and here, too, I am sticking to my text.  The same strange kind of political mentality which seeks to blame the people for what has been wrong and what has gone wrong turns right around and, at one and the same time, denies to the people credit for anything that has gone right.  This, I am sure, is another result of this new kind of political philosophy which, instead of trusting the people, puts its trust in the government.

	No part of our country is moving forward with longer strides these days than the states of the South.  And as the administration politicians describe it--particularly in election years--you would think that this progress was wholly and completely a bureaucratic invention in Washington.  You would think that it was the administration which poured oil into the soil of Texas and Louisiana; that it was the administration which planted Alabama's coal fields and thereby made possible that state's steel industry; that the favoring climate and productive soil of Georgia and the Carolinas were administration creations.  I have even heard the claim that the huge atomic energy plant now being built in South Carolina was a blessing sent by Washington out of a desire to benefit this state.

	But informed people know that the plant is being located here because a careful investigation by a great private industry discovered that the waters of the Savannah River were peculiarly suitable for certain processes essential to the development of atomic energy.  Of course, it's possible--though I doubt it--that the Savannah River, itself, has its source in a Washington Bureau.

	This, my friends, is a good year for some straight political thinking.  It is a bad year to be fooled.  It would be a particularly bad year to be fooled into thinking that the Washington mess is the fault of you, the people.  And we will not be fooled into the belief that this great land of ours and the progress we have achieved here are blessings handed down by government.  We are going to think straight--straight through to the conclusion that America is what free Americans--with courage and sweat and drive--have made it.  

	After the 1948 election, the head of the present national administration declared at a press conference that he was proud he had won that election without the support of the solid South.  As Republican candidate for president, I want you to know that I am proud to come here and ask for the help of the solid South to win this election for America.

	You don't look like any party's political captives.  You don't sound like political captives.  I don't believe that, on November 4th, you are going to vote like political captives.

	And when we have won this election for America--as we will win it--Washington will have a new moral climate, America will have a new sense of direction and you and I--all of us--will have a renewed faith in ourselves, in each other and in the future.

	We will go on from there to strengthen every measure for the social security of our people:  to build a strong floor beneath them against personal disaster.

	Wherever government has boarded up or nailed shut the doors of opportunity, we will pull out the nails, take down the boards and release the ambition, the imagination, and the industry of our people.

	We will move forward more rapidly to make equality of opportunity a living fact for every American.  Wherever I have gone in this campaign, I have pledged the people of our country that, if elected, I will support the Constitution of the United States--the whole of it.  And that means that I will support and seek to strengthen and extend to every American every right that that Constitution guarantees.

	Equality of opportunity was part of the vision of the men who founded our nation.  It is a principle deeply imbedded in our religious faith.  And neither at home nor in the eyes of the world can America risk the weakness which inevitably results when any group of our people are ranked--politically or economically--as second-class citizens.

	We will work out a program for peace that will express our own determination to put an end to war--a program that will be understood by both the friends and the enemies of peace abroad.  With a clear program and decisive leadership, we can bring the war in Korea to a speedier end; we can prevent future Koreas; we can greatly lessen the threat of a third world war.

	It was not for partisan reasons that I accepted the nomination of my party and it is not with partisan arguments that I am carrying this campaign into every part and section of our country.  I have only one purpose and, however the words may change, I have only one campaign theme.  I believe that in this year's election our country's future is at stake.  My only appeal to you--my only appeal to America--is that of Governor Byrnes:  "to place loyalty to country above loyalty to a political party. . ."

	For tasks ahead, more will be required of all of us than political skill and economic competence.  We will need single-mindedness born of moral conviction and wisdom, and courage born of the spirit--a spirit rooted on our own deep and uncompromising religious beliefs.

	These are the sources on which our forebears drew.  They are ours to draw upon today--not as partisans, not as the South or North, the East or West, but as Americans who, differing in lesser matters, are kinsmen of a common heritage, joined one to the other by a like faith and like aspirations. 

	We will not forget our heritage.  We will not fail our future.  Together, we will go on to possess it.

	Together, we will prove in our generation, as your forebears proved in theirs, that "truth, courage and patriotism endure forever."

AGRICULTURE--GENERALCOST OF LIVINGEQUAL OPPORTUNITYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY CUTBACKSMILITARY PERSONNELNUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESREGIONALISM--SOUTHTAXATION--GENERAL     L K K K K
 K K K K K K K K	  	  	  	  	  	 w 	 g 	 V 	 D 	 # 	  e: