

	Thank you very much.  Thank you. 

	VOICES: We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Thank you, thank you.  

	May I first say to those that have chanted that you want Humphrey, that Humphrey wants you.  Thank you very much. 

	Mr. John Gilligan--and this man Gilligan is destined without question to be the next United States senator from the state of Ohio.  He is the man. 

	I want to thank Dr. Cottell for making available this auditorium, and for his invitation.  I couldn't help but think, Doctor, how it helps us on an occasion like this, particularly in the last week of a very hard-fought campaign, to stand silently for just a moment and to think very deeply in prayerful thought about the privileges that are ours in this country, as well as our responsibilities.  And I do thank you as much for helping us today.  And to you, Mr. WRENNn, you will have your troubles as we go into the question and answer period, so I will just pay my respects to you now because you are supposed to be the moderator.  That is something like being the referee, and nobody ever likes the referee, you know.  

	We have on this platform a candidate for Congress from this district, Virgil Musser, from the 16th Congressional District of Ohio, and I know that Virgil is waging a hard-fought campaign and the reports that I have indicate that there may be a new face in the Congress of the United States from the 16th District. 

	Somewhere in this audience from the 14th District is Oliver Ocasek who is the candidate from Akron in the 14th Congressional District.  We want to wish him the very best. 

	One lady that was not presented, as I recall, from this platform is a very distinguished woman who is presently a professor at Howard University, formerly the United States ambassador to Luxembourg, Mrs. Patricia Harris.  Mrs. Harris, will you please stand?  

	She is from Washington D.C.  She has served our country brilliantly.  She is a beautiful woman and besides she is a member of my committee, so I have a special liking for her, and I am glad she is sitting so close to Miss Ohio.  I wouldn't mind being over there myself. 

	Now, to Ron Harris, let me just say something about this man that you might want to know.  First of all, Ron, as he was met at the airport by his mother and his father, I saw two tears stream down his mother's face in pride over her son, and is there any greater thrill to a mother than to have a wonderful son who does beautifully and does not only superbly, but is the champion, and I want to say to Mr. and Mrs. Willie Harris how proud the United States of America is for Ron Harris, for your son, that brought us a great championship, a gold medal in the Olympics in Mexico City.  We are so proud of him. 

	And I know that Ron's ambition to be a doctor will be fulfilled because he has those qualities of perseverance and determination which he exhibited in the Olympics.

	I wonder if you recall some of the circumstances.  Let me just tell you, he won that championship under the most difficult circumstances, Ron had injured his right thumb in a previous fight, and he had been afflicted with what they call Montezuma's Revenge down in Mexico, which is a little stomach trouble, during the day of his main fight for the championship, and, consequently, he was not able to eat.  He felt very weak, he said, and his legs were rubbery before the fight.  But he was determined to win.  He knew he had the qualities of a champion--and those qualities are great courage, great perseverance--and he went into that ring, and I think some of you may have seen him on television.  I saw a replay of some of it last night, and he went on out there and he won.  And he has told one of my associates that he was basically a religious man, that every time he went to his corner during the fight he asked God Almighty to give him strength to go out there, and he said he was given that strength.  What a wonderful young man.  This man deserves not only a gold medal from the Olympics, but he deserves the highest tribute that can be given to anyone--a great citizen of the United States of America, and we are very proud of him. 

	Thank you.

	Now, Ron, as I looked over the circumstances surrounding your fight, it felt a little bit like my campaign.  I got off to a late start, I am sure I sprained my thumb or at least did something when we started out, because the campaign was so late in getting going.  There was a long period of time when we wondered whether or not we could really last it out.  Politically, the legs were a little wobbly, but I tell you that I have, too, prayed for strength, and I have looked for a number of friends to help me.  And I am happy to announce to this great audience at Canton, Ohio, that I intend to have a championship medal placed around me on November 5th. 

	Ron said at the airport--they asked him what he was doing here and they said, "How come you came out with the Vice President,"  And he said, "Winners like to stick together."  

	Now this morning in the time that we have, I want to make a very brief statement, and then I would like, if it meets with your pleasure, for you to ask questions, and I shall try to do my best to answer them.  We're at the last week of the campaign, a campaign for the highest office in the gift of the American people, and I am determined during this week to demonstrate those qualities that are worthy of your faith and confidence.  I believe that this is the time to clearly delineate the issues--to restate them as they need to be restated, to refute what may be misrepresentations, and to carry our case to the public.

	The fundamental issue in this campaign, and I think it is in any major political contest, has now clearly emerged.  It is the issue of trust.  This goes beyond any particular issue.  Whom can you trust to lead our country in the next four years, whom can you trust to win the peace, whom can you trust, above all, to hold this country together so that we can trust one another, and whom can we trust to try to put a halt to this dangerous costly spiraling arms race which lifts the level of danger throughout the world to proportions which could be catastrophic?

	Who can lead America forward and lead America together?  Trust between the people and the president only exists when a man is rally unafraid to face the people, when he takes his case directly to them, when he speaks to them openly, frankly, and honestly, and this is why I am here today.  I know that we don't all agree on everything, and really that is relatively unimportant.  What is important is that we put ourselves--make ourselves available for the ventilation of ideas, for the crossfire of ideas, and I am here today to hear what you have to say, hopefully to answer your questions, and to let you know what I have in my mind for the presidency.

	I happen to believe that the American people are entitled to know what we think and that we ought to look upon the American people as the great jury, to pass judgment on the man, the program and the ideas.  I think this audience knows that throughout this entire campaign I have beseeched my opposition to enjoy with me the opportunity of debate, public debate.  I think you also know that during this campaign I reminded the Republican nominee many times that he failed to appear on a single news network show for over two years, and only last night, for the first time since 1967, did the Republican candidate appear on a program like Face the Nation.

	I appeared for my eighteenth time on Meet the Press yesterday, and I have appeared many, many times--and I have appeared many, many times of Face the Nation, on Issues and Answers, on all the many programs, Capitol Cloakroom and what have you, because I believe that a man that seeks public confidence and public trust must be able to trust the public and he must be willing to place himself before that public.

	Now there are many young people, very many, who have great concern about the future of this country, and they are rightfully asking many questions, and particularly young people who are asking questions about the people in America, who have been left out--who have been forgotten--millions of them.

	By the way, you know the champions of America, the talent of America, don't always come from the high and the mighty.  This young man that is on this platform--his father is a steelworker, and I am sure that that father knows the ravages of unemployment.  I am sure that he has had his hard and dark days and, therefore, one of the things that is uppermost in my mind in this campaign is how will we maintain this economy, how will we keep it growing and expanding as it has been these last eight years so that the fathers and the mothers of other Ron Harris' will not be without jobs, because jobs mean opportunity, and there are so many in America that have had to suffer far too much because some people look upon human beings as statistics rather than to look upon them as heart and soul, flesh and blood. 

	The main reason--the main reason that I entered public life when I first ran for mayor of Minneapolis in 1945 was to help bring to all Americans full participation in the life of this country.  And I can say to this audience that during those two terms of my mayorship that we established programs of training and rehabilitation for our unemployed.  The first vocational rehabilitation program of metropolitan significance came under that administration of mine, when over 85 percent of the cases that were on relief were trained for jobs, placed in jobs, so that they had a chance to be self-respecting, earning, productive citizens, rather than to be supplicants at the welfare office.

	The first human relations council in the United States was established under my mayorship, the first fair employment practices ordinance enforceable was established during the time.  Why?  Because I believe that every American, regardless of race, color, creed, background or how he spells his name is entitled to every opportunity that this country can offer.     

	I have spent a lifetime now of trying to promote that cause of opportunity.  I think what our young people want more than anything else.  To be sure, social security is important, and we built that into our system, not with the help of the opposition but we built it into our system.  We have that today.  But--but America is a young nation, and it is getting younger, and what young people want is opportunity.  They want a chance to be a doctor.

	I happen to know Bob Gibson pretty well of the St. Louis Cardinals, a great pitcher.  He is a good friend of mine.  Bob Gibson has a little book entitled "From the Ghetto to Glory", from the ghetto to glory, from poverty to wealth, from despair to fame.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the undeveloped resources of America are immense, and I am not talking about the mineral resources alone.  I am talking about the human resources.  The human resources of this country in the areas of the poor, in the hills and valleys of rural America, in the slums and the ghettos of urban America--those undeveloped human resources represent the greatest power and the greatest strength and the greatest wealth that this country will ever have, and I intend to help develop it. 

	Let's talk very straight on this subject.  You know, one of the things that you know in politics is what people are saying about you, you hear about it, and some of it isn't very complimentary, and you sometimes have to face up to it.

	I know what the opposition has been saying behind the scenes, and I will give you some straight talk.  They say law and order, and what some of them mean is really black and white.  That is what they mean.  

	Because let me make it very clear, that there is no people that need law and order anymore than the poor and the deprived.  They are the greatest victims of lawlessness.  They are the ones who are set upon more often.  They need protection, and there ought to be safe streets and safe neighborhoods.  But may I say that you don't get it by putting bumper stickers on your cars.  You get it by backing your law enforcement agencies, and you get it by being willing to pay the bill.

	They say, for example, this opposition, that Humphrey wants to give a black man a job.  Or when they are out in the Southwest of the United States, they say he wants to give a Spanish-surnamed American a job, a Mexican-American a job.  I heard it, I was out there, southwest Texas, New Mexico, Los Angeles, and they spread this amongst what they call the white blue collar workers, and they try to make people believe that this program that I advocate will mean that the white man will lose his job.

	They say it will be your job, Mister, that Mr. Humphrey is trying to take.

	And then they say that Humphrey wants to go too fast.  Well, let me tell you something.  I do want to see a black man get a good job.  In fact I want to see everyone in this country to have an opportunity for a good job.  I don't care what his color is. 

	But let me be equally clear, when someone gets a job who didn't have one before, it doesn't threaten your job.  It helps you.  When somebody gets an education or gets some training who didn't have it before, all of us benefit.  America benefits as each and every person raises himself up out of the despair of the slums and of poverty.  And all of this doubt and suspicion that is cast around this country today, saying that what we are doing is going too fast, we are trying to push people too much, that comes from people who have very little faith and have very little understanding of the character of the American people.

	I am here to say that as we benefit from jobs, America benefits.  And I noted late last night that Mr. Nixon in the Face the Nation show had something to say about the Job Corps, and I made note of it, and I was going to just read it to you.

	Mr. Nixon indicated that he would, if elected president, do away with the Job Corps, which is one of the most successful programs undertaken in recent years to help underprivileged young people become productive, taxpaying citizens.

	Now the Job Corps recruits only those who are the dropouts.  The Job Corps takes care of those who apparently, for some reason or another, couldn't make it elsewhere or were denied an opportunity.

	Now, we have had 135,000 young men trained in the Job Corps, young men and women.  Most of them are earning good money.  Their average--their average hourly pay before they came into the Job Corps was 70 cents, if they had a job.  Their average hourly pay after they left the Job Corps was two dollars an hour, a great deal of difference.  And what is more, 70 percent of all that had been trained in the Job Corps got a job, 10 percent went into the military and 20 percent went back to school.  It is a pretty good record, and I might mention that Mr. George Foreman, Mr. George Foreman, 1968 Olympic gold medal winner--and I think Ron may remember him--was receiving that medal in Mexico City just about the time Mr. Nixon was calling for the abolition of the Job Corps, and Mr. Foreman publicly at the awards ceremony gave all credit for his success to the Job Corps of which he was a recent graduate.  And Mr. Nixon says abolish it.  

	Let me tell you, my friends, no matter what the cost may be to train a nonproductive, unemployed person, that cost is a wise investment.  It comes back, and the government has a way of getting back what it spends.  Did you ever hear about withholding? 

		The government can't make any revenues, gets no revenues off a relief client, but there has never been a man who had a job that the government didn't do pretty well by.  And when a boy comes out of the Job Corps, no matter what you spend on him, he will pay into the federal treasury, the state and local treasuries, much more than all the cost of the training put together, and what's more, he is a self-respecting, productive citizen--and in the instance of Mr. Foreman, he is a world champion.

	Now, Mr. Nixon, answer that. 

	Now, my friends, when we create productive, self-sustaining, self-respecting citizens then we do get real law and order.  And what's more, we do what is right.

	Yes, I want to change things.  I hope you do, too.  I hope every young man and woman will want to right all the wrongs.  I hope that your sense of idealism will burn for years.  I hope you will never be complacent.  I hope that you will never say that things are all right.  I hope you will realize that we need to build and we need to progress.  And I hope we will understand that the next twenty-five years or our national life can be the most exciting and the most dramatic years of human existence, that is if we can prevent this world from being blown to pieces, which is the search for peace itself, and if we can keep this country held together, and we must.  We built this country together.

	The railroads, the highways, our great buildings and homes.  They were built by black and white, they were built by every race, creed, and nationality, and we need to be able to build even more in the days ahead.  But what we need more than anything else is to build a sense of confidence in each other, to reject these spokesmen of suspicion and doubt.

	Take a look around this audience, take a look on this platform, take a look at the people who are doing things in America today and ask yourself, "Can I trust them?"  Of course, you can.  And unless we can trust each other, how can we trust God Almighty, because he created man in his own image, and if you can't trust what God created, what good does it do to put on your currency "In God We Trust?"  I suggest you also put on there, "In Each Other We Trust," and then we start to really do something for this country. 

	This is why I am at this campaign, because I think a great national referendum is being taken.  I think the third-party candidate in this campaign represents--he represents retreat into the world of unreality, into the dark stages of yesterday.  I think the Republican nominee represents standstill.  He doesn't want to move, he says we have gone too fast and too far.  He doesn't say he wants to go back, in all fairness, but may I say to him that the man who stands still in the flowing stream, the tides and the waters move by him, and the world is moving whether Mr. Nixon likes it or not, and so is America, and it is changing and our job, it seems to me, is to try to bring these forces of change into a pattern of constructive development.  America is a nation of builders, not destroyers.  America is a nation of people that have been able to do what some people thought was impossible and made it possible.  

	If ever there was a time for us to have faith in our institutions, if ever there was a time to infuse those institutions with a new sense of moral commitment, if there ever was a time for us to have a great pride of citizenship and to see that that citizenship is spread to everyone, and the meaning of that citizenship applied to everyone, it is now.  And I call upon the young people of America to stand up and say that we are going to see to it that the old wrongs are righted, that the injustices of yesterday are overcome, that you have the faith to do the job--and I ask you to give me your help in getting that job done.

	Now, I am ready for your questions.

	Mr. WRENN: As you have questions, would you raise your hand, please, and then as I call on you, would you move to a microphone that you will find down in the aisles after you have been called on?  

	This gentleman up here, would you move to this microphone, please?

	QUESTION: In what role do you see the federal government play in financing or helping to finance education in private colleges and universities? 

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: We presently have what we call the Higher Education Act which aids institutions of higher education in the construction of the needed facilities, that is the physical plant.  Also--and by the way, the most recent bill in that area for the next five years represented a $7.3 billion commitment.  The Higher Education Act was passed in 1965.  It was one of the bills, by the way, which Mr. Nixon voted "no" on when he had his chance as vice president can ever vote in the Senate is when there is a tie, and Mr. Nixon did not use his vote to break that tie in order to pass the Aid to Education bill.

	Now, there are other things that we can do and that we have done.  For example, research grants, very substantial research grants go to the universities today--under the National Defense Education Act, under the National Institutes of Health, out of the different departments of government, from the National Science Foundation, from the Office of Education and Library Service, from the U.S. Public Health Service, from NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Agency, there are a host of grants.  There is a sum total today of over $13 billion in the federal budget for aid to all forms of education--graduate, undergraduate, elementary and secondary.

	One other form of aid which has been very helpful is in what we call student loans, guaranteed student loans and scholarships.  Presently there are 750,000 young men and women in colleges and universities who are there today because of student loans and scholarships.  That program is being expanded, and may I say it is one that does not cost the government.  The money is repaid, but it permits a student to have the money to go to school during a time when he is relatively non-productive in his earning power and to repay at a time when he is productive.  In fact, it may be at the height of his earning power.

	So there are many things that we have done, and we want to continue to do them.

	I want to say that investment in education is exactly what--it yields a tremendous dividend, and in the next twenty-five to thirty years we are going to have to double the capacity of our higher education establishments in America, because of the growth in student enrollment.  Fifty-four percent of the American families now have a son or daughter in college.  In ten years it is estimated that over 70 percent will have a son or daughter in college, and with the growth in population, another 100 million by the next--in the next twenty-five years.  We are going to have to build more college classroom space, more facilities in the next twenty-five years than in the last 300, than in the last 300, in order to accommodate the increase in student enrollment, and that cannot be done by state colleges or by private schools without federal help, and this is why I have been an early advocate since the first day I came to the Senate in 1949 of federal aid to education.  I think it is the only way we can keep up our educational plan. 

	MR. WRENN: The lady with the pink sweater.  Will someone give her a microphone?

	QUESTION: Vice President Humphrey, do you feel that your administration or the Republican administration could end the war in Vietnam in the near future?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: It is my hope--and I say it is a very much live hope--that the present administration will be able to end this war.  There are more--very sensitive negotiations underway, as you know.  They have been exceedingly sensitive the last two weeks, and I hope and pray that these negotiations can be successful.

	As you know, there is a lull in the fighting--the very lowest rates of casualties that we have ever had in the war was in the last week.  I think this has some significance.  Now I can't predict whether or not these present negotiations will succeed.  I do feel that there is reason for hope.  But let me say quite candidly to you that the next administration, and if it is my administration, will have as its highest priority to bring this war to an end and to find a way of doing it.

	I have said that there are acceptable risks that we must take for peace.  I addressed myself to that in my speech in Salt Lake City on a nationwide telecast, and I believe that this president has at his heart, more than anything else, to bring this war to an end.

	President Johnson has had to go through all of the abuse that comes because our nation has been at war, and if any man has a stake in peace, he has it.  But if he is unable to do it, then the next administration--and I trust and hope that it will be mine--must do everything within its capacity to bring this war to an end.  First to de-Americanize it, to bring back our troops, to place our resources to work here at home, and to find some way to bring about a political settlement of this conflict.  But let's hope that it can be done before that, because every day that the war goes on is an expenditure of lives and resources--and no human mortal--no mortal should want this war to last an extra day.  

	MR. WRENN: The boy right next to you.

	QUESTION: What is your opinion of the lottery system versus the present draft system?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: The present draft system to me is totally unacceptable.  I think that the lottery system is--and may I say that I have already talked to members of the Congress, and when I am elected your president one of the first pieces of legislation that we will offer will be to change this draft law so that it has come elements of fairness within it so that a young man knows whether or not he is going to be called.

	I think that the greatest tragedy of the present Selective Service System is the uncertainty that is in it.  I think young men want to know "Will I or won't I?"  And if your number isn't drawn at age nineteen, then you are free.  If you are drawn, that is the way the game goes. 

	You know, it is the draw of the lot, and I think most of the young people I have talked to feel that way about it, and we will get it done for you, my friends. 

	MR. WRENN: The lady to your immediate left.

	QUESTION: Mr. Vice President, will you please explain the ruling handed down by the United States Supreme Court regarding Bible reading and prayers in public schools?  Is it mandatory or flexible?  

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Well, frankly I am not a judge, and I am not trying to evade your question.  As I recall, as I recollect, the decision said to the effect that mandatory reading was not within the first amendment of the Constitution, and that is my recollection of it.

	I can't recall the case in particular.  I am not a lawyer, I regret to tell you, but it is my views that the court ruled that it could not be made by a school board mandatory within the schools.

	MR. WRENN: All right.  The gentleman that is standing in the back or let's get that one first and then let's get the other gentleman standing in the middle here, the fellow with the white coat on.

	QUESTION: Mr. Humphrey, this summer you were elected as the nominee for the Democratic Convention in the infamous Chicago rally, and you took as your platform at that time the platform that the men set up for you.  At that time, you accepted Mr. Johnson all the way, you got the nomination because you wholeheartedly approved Mr. Johnson.  Since that time you have made two different types of speaking which have changed your Vietnam policy, the last one is in Salt Lake City.  Also since that time you have tried to divorce yourself, so to speak, from Mr. Johnson because that has been an infamous administration.  

	I would like to have your views on this.  Is it trying merely to buy votes?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Well, first of all, let me say that the platform of the Democratic party was written by the members of that convention after heated debate.  Compared to the Republican party, there is no comparison.  Our convention was an open convention.  There were...

	VOICES: No!  Boo!

	Well, there were four hours of debate, time equally divided, on the Vietnam plank.  The party platform also included within the modernization of the party structure the abolition of the unit rule.  Hearings were held in three cities, they were held for a period of two weeks, they were all open to the press.

	I would suggest that if you would read the New York Times editorial of this morning, you would find a rather objective analysis of what happened at that convention--in the convention.  What happened outside was deplorable.  What happened inside the convention was within the traditions, may I say, of a hot, heated debate--in this there was surely a majority and a minority both of which expressed their point of view very vigorously.

	Now, secondly, on the matter of Mr. Johnson.  I have been very proud to be Vice President of the United States.  I think that the accomplishments of this administration will go down in history as some of the best--in the field of education, of health--in the field of education, of health, of consumer protection, of conservation, a host of areas of legislation.

	Particularly in the education field, never has there been anything equal to it.

	Now, the one thing that has caused the President grave trouble is the war in Vietnam.  But might I suggest that the original commitment on that war was made in 1954, and might I also suggest--might I also suggest with complete accuracy that it was Mr. Richard Nixon who at the time that the French were there as a colonial power called upon the United States to send American armed forces into Vietnam to save a colonial regime--and no Democrat has ever done that. 

	Now, finally--now finally may I say that my position has not changed.  My position on Vietnam has always been for political settlement.  My position on Vietnam a number of times in this administration was for a bombing pause.  We had eight of them, I supported them.  I believe that the only purpose of a bombing pause would be to encourage the processes of peace, and I have said, and I quoted, and I have said a number of times, as I said in Salt Lake City, I would stop the bombing of the North as an acceptable risk for peace because I believe it could lead to success in the negotiations and in a shorter war, and this could be the best protection of our troops.

	In weighing that risk and before taking action, I would place key importance on evidence, direct or indirect, by deed or word, of Communist willingness to restore the demilitarized zone between North an South Vietnam.

	At no time has the Vice President ever said that we should place or troops in jeopardy.  At no time has the Vice President ever said that we should have a unilateral bombing halt.  At no time has the Vice President of the United States suggested that we should have an enforced or imposed coalition government. 

	My position has been an accurate position, has been a consistent position.

	I was asked once whether or not I could accept the minority plank in the platform and I said at the time that I thought I could but I would have to make my own delineations.  What do I mean by that?  That I would have to state what was my view, and that view has been stated succinctly and carefully and that is why I stated it at Salt Lake City, so there could be no doubt.

	Now, Mr. Nixon last night saw first to pretend that he was a great defender of President Johnson.  I thought that was most interesting.  He spent a good deal of his life tearing at the Democratic party.  He said it was the party of treason, and he has spent a good deal of his time recently saying that we have a security gap and will have a survival gap.  He spent a good deal of time recently talking about Vietnam, which he said was untalkable and untouchable until just a few weeks ago, and Mr. Nixon knows what my position is and so do you, and the position was clearly states so there could be no doubt about it, so the theology about Vietnam could not be distorted because it becomes a theology, and that is why I made my speech in Salt Lake City, and it stands, and it makes sense, and if it is abided by, it can lead to peace.  

	MR. WRENN: The gentleman standing with the white coat.

	QUESTION: Mr. Humphrey, Mr. Wallace said he wants law and order, but is it not so that Alabama has had the highest murder rate in the country?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Well, let me tell you what I think about Mr. Wallace's law and order.  If that were the kind of law and order that we were to have throughout this country, we could say God bless America as sort of a, well, I don't know, as a pitiful prayer, because Alabama does have the highest murder rate in the union.

	Secondly, it has the second- or third-highest aggravated assault rate, and everybody knows that the kind of law and order that Mr. Wallace talks about is repression.  That it has nothing to do with justice.  And the whole question of law and order is not only the matter of equal protection of the laws, the equal enforcement of the laws, vigorous enforcement of the laws, but also, may I say, a vigorous push for social justice in this country so that people will have some reason to observe the law and to love the law and to love their country.  The two go together, civil order and civil justice insofar as this candidate is concerned.

	Mr. Wallace has a different point of view.  He says, repress them.  He says, "If you lie down in front of my car, I will run over you."

	We don't need that kind of law and order.  They don't need it in Alabama, it didn't work there, and it isn't needed in Washington.  Thank goodness we won't have it.  

	MR. WRENN: Mr. Parks, the gentleman behind you with the blue shirt and the tie.

	QUESTION: Mr. Humphrey, the National Rifle Association Journal, and I don't support the National Rifle Association, but it quoted you as stating that you had changed your position four times on gun control in thirty-six hours, and also it was my understanding that Mr. Wallace, before he entered this race, was a Democrat.  So all those things occurred under a Democratic rule, right?  

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Well, first of all, may I say-

	VOICES: Boo!

	QUESTION: My question is about the Rifle Association, what is your position on gun control now?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: My position on gun control first of all there should be registration of all guns.  That is number one--registration. 

	I spelled it out in particulars.  I have never changed my position.  I backed the legislation in the Congress.  We have now registration in terms of the mail order, but I believe that there ought to be very effective gun control registration laws.  I would hope that that could be accomplished by the states.  If it can't, then the Congress of the United States should set those standards.  I never changed it.  I know it is not a popular position.  I know it costs one votes, but I don't care.  I happen to think that the use--that the promiscuous use of lethal weapons in this country is one of the great sad things of present current day America, and I think we have got to have some way to keep these weapons out of the hands of people who are mentally disturbed, who are dope addicts or who have criminal behavior, and I know of no better way to do it than effective gun control and registration laws, and I support it, Rifle Association or not.

	Now, let's talk about Mr. Wallace's being a Democrat.  So was Strom Thurmond.  Good riddance to both of them.  Those are the kind of Democrats that we don't need. 

	MR. WRENN: All right, in the back.

	QUESTION: Now that the election is so near, Mr. Nixon is beginning to talk about the survival gap.  Will you tell us something that you would like done in defense of this country?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: The question was on the--Mr. Nixon's charges on the survival gap and security gap.  I have--I released a statement last night which I would like to just for a moment, if you don't mind--a page here--to read to you.

	On Thursday, Mr. Nixon charged that the Kennedy and Johnson administrations had created a "security gap" which would become a "survival gap" unless vast new military expenditures were undertaken.  Then he outlined what some of those projects would be.

	On Face the Nation, Mr. Nixon did not, however, substantiate his charge when he was cross-examined because he knows that the following is true: Our nuclear retaliatory forces are largely made up of Minutemen missiles buried beneath the ground, protected, and Polaris missiles at sea.  We have a thousand Minuteman ICBMs now as opposed to twenty-eight when Mr. Nixon left office.  We have forty-one Polaris submarines with 656 missiles now as compared to three submarines with forty-eight less powerful missiles in 1961, and we continue to maintain our superiority in--over the Soviet Union in long-range bombers and tactical aircraft.

	The secure Minuteman and Polaris missiles and those bombers are the cornerstone of what we call our deterrent capacity or our assured defense.  We are without question the strongest and the most secure nation on earth, and that security is undermined by irresponsible statements that, first of all, erode the confidence of our allies and tempt our enemies to miscalculate.

	Now what Mr. Nixon said was that the Soviets were gaining but he interprets that to be that there is a security gap.

	Let me tell this audience that there is such unbelievable nuclear power in our arsenal, and today indeed in the Soviet's, that the first exchange of nuclear weaponry between these super giants would cost 250 million lives, and there would still be plenty of missiles left for the second and third round.

	Now we are not engaged in just piling up weapons for the sake of statistics, to make it appear that if you got three times as many missiles as the Soviets that you are three times as strong.  If you have killed 250 million people in the first blasts, it doesn't really make much difference how strong you are.  For all practical purposes, organized society has been destroyed.

	Now, the fact is we are the strongest, and Mr. Nixon knows it.  The fact is that what we ought to be engaging in now is carefully planned negotiations to reduce the arms race, to halt it, and if possible, to turn it back, and Mr. Nixon has never been for this.  He called the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty a "cruel hoax" and "catastrophic nonsense".  Yet Thursday night or Friday night of this Ban Treaty as if he were for it when he fought it with everything at his command.

	I was the co-author of that in the Senate.  I went to Moscow for its signing, and when President Kennedy signed it in Washington, he handed me the pen and said, "Hubert, this is your treaty."

	I have been engaged for a long time in my public life in matter relating to arms control, the chairman of the Disarmament Subcommittee of the Senate, the author of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency of your government.  Three times a representative of this country Geneva, Switzerland, at the conferences on disarmament and arms control, a representative at the United nations working on this subject, and I have helped negotiate the most recent treaty called the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons.

	What did Mr. Nixon do about that?  When it takes a two-thirds vote in the Senate to ratify a treaty--eighty nations had signed it--it was our idea--took us several years to negotiate it, Mr. Nixon said he was for it "but not now".  Now he comes around and says he would be for it next January.  What kind of politics is that?  It seems to me that the most important thing that we can do is to stop the spread in nuclear weapons.  Mr. Nixon in his speech failed to mention a single word about the offensive and defensive missiles which if they are deployed in the years ahead, will cost this country millions of dollars, and the Soviet Union an equal amount, and when I become your president, the first thing that I am going to do is to try to find some way to engage the Soviet Union and other powers in talks to stop the spread of these weapons, to stop the deployment of the antiballistic missile system in the Soviet Union and here, to stop the--halt the arms race and hopefully to cut back on conventional weapons, because we need to lower the level of danger, ladies and gentlemen.  The level of danger in this world is too high now, and I submit to you that Mr. Nixon does not know how to conduct the works of peace.  He is incapable of it by his thought and by his record and by his program. 

	MR. WRENN: All right.  Call on this gentleman with the red-checked coat, and before he comes to the mike, I want to say I am extremely sorry this is the last question, the Vice President has to be in Akron.  And after this question and the Vice President has given his answer, would you please stay in your seats until the Vice President has left the hall.  Thank you.

	QUESTION: Mr. Vice President, Mr. Curtis LeMay several days ago made a statement to the effect that if he were elected, he would no longer tolerate conscientious objectors to war of any type.  Do you see in the future of our society a continued place for conscientious objectors on the basis of religion?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: I surely do, and I don't think Curtis LeMay has any chance whatsoever to be elected to office, so don't worry. 

	MR. WRENN: Please remain in your seats, please.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: May I say just one final word to you.  I hope everybody will realize this week is a critical week.  This has been a hard fight.  We are on the march, we are on the upward trend.  I finally got Mr. Nixon to talk.  It took some time to do it.  His well-planned campaign is coming apart.  I now want you to go on out and work.  If you don't have a bumper sticker, make one.  If you don't have a pin, make one.  Call people on the telephone.  

Let's win this election.  We will have a great victory.
EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSEMPLOYMENT--MINORITIESEQUAL OPPORTUNITYGUN CONTROLJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMILITARY PREPAREDNESSMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYNUCLEAR WAROLYMPIC GAMESPOVERTYSCHOOL PRAYERSPORTS/ATHLETESVIETNAM WARNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)         
         O3	 6	 	  	  	  	  	  	  	 u 	 j 	 ] 	 V 	 I 	 :  / e: