

	Ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning to understand why they say New York is a big state.  There are just more people here than I think I ever saw.  And my first and most pleasant duty is to extend a word of thanks to each of you, thanks because you have done me the great honor of taking an hour out of your busy day to come here and allow me to bring you a word of greeting, to express to you a few of the thoughts that are on my heart and mind as we progress through this great political campaign.

	We are engaged in a crusade, you and I, a crusade to get good government in place of bad government, to get intelligent, broadly based, dedicated, loyal leadership in all of the great places of our federal government, instead of government where we know there has been disloyalty tolerated, dishonesty tolerated, where there have been things happening that make us hang our heads in shame.  This is a vast job, ladies and gentlemen:  It is a team job.  It is a job that needs the cooperation of the municipal government, the state government, the federal government and, indeed, of all the people.  It needs your watchful eye at all times.  No citizen can afford to grow complacent and indifferent.  Remember, eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.  In the same way, if you want to protect your rights in government, eternal vigilance is the price you must pay:  But when you send representatives to Washington like Senator Ives and Congressman Keating and Congressman Ostertag, then you are sure that you have representatives on the job who will do these things for you, who will watch what is happening, will report honestly to you so you can always take action.

	I, of course, want to pay my tribute to this city for a number of reasons.  One is because of your educational institutions here.  And I am delighted to see here representatives of these institutions--I think both the Institute and the University of Rochester.  I have always felt, because I love universities so much, that when I get to thinking of retiring, I can get a job as a cheerleader.  You know, I am a university president on leave myself.  You people have to determine how long my leave will be.

	Another point I want to make about this county is that there are six thousand more women registered here than men.  It is not merely that this crusade needs their votes.  The reason that I associate this reference to young people and to women is this:  Our civilization, our form of government is primarily bedded in a deeply felt religious faith by the mass of our people.  Our founding fathers so declared, and they were very wise people.  They pointed out that our government made sense only if it was based in such a religious belief.  Where do our young first get their sense of moral and spiritual values?  At their mother's knee.  I think the most heartening thing about this crusade is the number of women we have enlisted in it.  I have seen these women on the march with their brooms, and I know something about what morally indignant women with a good sound broom in their hands can do.  I will promise them this.  If they will bring the brooms and the men will bring the shovels, we will bring the clean-up job that is necessary.

	Here I want to make my special salute to the oldest living veteran of the war between the states, Commander James Howard.  I would like to leave here some assurance of my respect and devotion to such a [missing text].

	Now, you know something of the record that this administration has piled up in the last two years, and you know how impossible it is for the opposition candidate to bring that record to you and ask you to give them a new lease on power in Washington on the basis of that record.  Why should they come to you and say, "Yes, we have failed in leading you toward peace.  Yes, we have spent your money extravagantly and wildly.  We have established expenditures programs that we cannot meet.  We have deficits that have cheapened our money and pushed prices up to an unconscionable height.  We have disloyalty in government.  We have some chicanery and crookedness, some plain thievery in government."  How can they come to you with a record like that?  So what do they do?  They have been selling you a campaign of fear and hate.  They create bigotry by accusing others of it.  They have accused me of bigotry.  They have said nobody who has his origins or his kinship with people of eastern or southern Europe could expect any sympathy or decency from me.  I declare to you, I have more friends in those areas than any other American I now.  Those people and I have worked together, fought together.  We are friends.  Why should such a charge be launched against me except in the hope of creating schism, disunity and bigotry?

	Why do they accuse this crusade, my associates and I, of wanting a depression?  We want peace, first of all.  Now if we are going to have peace, ladies and gentlemen, what is the first essential?  A strong America.  Without a strong America, the free world is doomed.  And how must we be strong?  Not only in ships and planes, regiments, guns--that is just one facet of America's strength.  First, we must be strong morally, spiritually, intellectually and scientifically.  Our factories and our farms must maintain and increase their productivity.  We must be strong economically and financially.  We must be solvent.

	Now, if we are going to be all of those things and we are going to unite that strength behind the cause of peace, to lead the cause of peace in the free world, how do we realize the maximum of that strength?  Because we are so diversified in activity, in customs, we must have the unity that comes from the support of common principles.  That means support of a government.

	How do you support a government?  Only if you have pride in it.  Are you going to have pride in a government that has been guilty--as one St. Louis judge remarked about a man high in federal office--of selling its birthright for a mess of dirty dollars?  Are you going to have pride in a government that, when told of evidence about disloyalty says, "Red Herring?"

	Of course not.  You have got to look upon this contest now going on as your opportunity to remove from power an administration that cannot unite you because you do not respect it; or to find among the outstanding men and women of America, the people in whom you can take pride to be in that government.  That is what this crusade is offering you, a chance to bring into Washington--into all the political offices and policy-making positions of government--the outstanding men and women of every section from every walk of life, from every industry, from our manufacturing institutions, retail and wholesale business, farming, the professions--everybody, the men and women who are your guarantee that that government is good government; that it is a fair government, a just government, a friendly government, and above all, a government of common woodshed honesty.  That is one thing you do not have to ask of your representatives.  You can demand that and you should not have to ask for it.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, this campaign of fear and hate and bigotry, vilification, that is going on is bound to fail.  It is bound to fail because those people have underestimated the American character.  They think that they can sell you this phony bill of goods and get you to buy it, to continue them in power by making you fearful of your comrades, of your associates.  These men and women of whom I speak, who are going to form your government, are right here in this crowd.  They are your friends; they are your neighbors; they are the people you know.  They are the people who you know are incorruptible, and therefore will be incorruptible when are representing your most vital interests down in Washington.

	That is what good government means.  There can be no good government unless that vast mass that we call the great American people, 156 million of us, believe that that government is of us, for us, and by us.  That is what we must have.  That, my friends, is what the crusade is all about.

	If you believe those things, if you want a government of which you are going to be proud--not one that you read about every day in your headlines with a new scandal a day--now matched by a new slander a day--if you want the kind of government that makes your chin go out, your chest go out, and makes you stand up and say, "Those people I know, they are top-flighters.  I have known them all my life, and my friends over in St. Louis and San Francisco and Atlanta know them," then, my friends, you belong in this crusade.

	I expect to see you later.  But before I go, let me repeat to you a great sentence I heard from the governor of Texas.  He said, "Now is the time for every Texan to caucus with his conscience."  I think every American can adopt that slogan today and on November 4 register that at the polls.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--BIGOTRYELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENVOTING--WOMEN     $ # # # #
 # # # # # # # #	  	  	 e 	 G 	 * 	  e: