

	It seems to me that on Labor Day in Cadillac Square in Detroit we are mighty close to the heart of America, and I am grateful for the opportunity to share this experience with you.

	I'd like to tell you a little story about how Labor Day started.

	As nearly as I can find out, the idea was first suggested by Peter McGuire, a leader of the Carpenters Brotherhood, in 1882. McGuire was immediately denounced as a "radical" and an "agitator," and someone suggested that the next thing you knew, labor would be demanding a week's vacation every summer. There was a Republican administration in office at the time.

	But twelve years later, in 1894, Congress passed an act making the first Monday in September a legal holiday. I hardly need to tell you that by this time we had a Democratic administration and a Democratic Congress. And furthermore the man who was president in the Senate on June 22, 1894, the day that law was passed, was the vice president of the United States. His name was Adlai E. Stevenson. He was my grandfather.

	I don't like taking credit for something I had nothing to do with. But when I hear those Republicans claiming they invented things like peace and prosperity--well, if they did, then Labor Day is something my grandfather thought up all by himself, and we Stevensons are mighty glad you could all get the day off to come to our family picnic.

	I am particularly glad to be here today with three distinguished Americans who have contributed so much to the values we celebrate.

	No leader in our country has done more, I think, to make state government an instrument for serving the responsible interests of working people--along with all other human interests--than has your great Governor Mennen Williams.

	Nor has any voice in Washington in these past two years spoken out more plainly and effectively for the rights of labor than that of Senator Pat McNamara.

	It is a special privilege for me to join you in saluting here today, on its twentieth anniversary, one of democracy's truly great organizations, the United Automobile Workers; and its president, my friend, one of freedom's truest and most effective servants, Walter Reuther.

	As you may suspect, I have come here today not only to observe with you the Labor Day tradition, but also to talk politics. And because I do not want to keep you too long I propose to get right down to business.
	
	First, let me say just a word about that basic political duty of citizenship in a Democracy, which rises above any partisan issue. I remind you all--Democrats, Independents, and Republicans alike--that if you haven't registered you must do so between now and October 8th. This is a mighty small price to ask for the precious right of self-government.

	I want to talk with you today about the program of the Democratic party for our future as a people.

	I have called this a program for a New America. I have said that among other things the New America must be, and can be--yes, and is going to be--a place "where poverty is abolished and our abundance is used to enrich the lives of every family." But to say this isn't enough. Words are cheap in an election year. It is the responsible candidate's obligation to set forth his ideas about America's future. I propose to do this--and to try to say here today what the economic goals in the New America must be, and how we must set out to reach them.

	I start from this simple belief: that the only economic goals that count are those that mean something in terms of people's lives.

	Let the Republicans talk if they will about being "liberal in human affairs and conservative in economic affairs." Their blindness is that they see unemployment in a factory and depression on a farm and the cost of living as only economic problems. They see business as an end in itself, progress as something you measure on a slide rule, and prosperity as a statistic. These are false values. They create smugness, the complacency, the self-satisfaction, which are today's great danger in America. They are what this election is about.

	We are told that America is prosperous. And it is--in part. We are thankful and we are proud. Twenty years of Democratic stewardship of this nation's affairs went into building this prosperity--building it up from a rubble of Republican bankruptcy and depression. But this prosperity has not been built by politicians--Democratic or Republican. It has been built by men on tractors in America's fields and men on the assembly lines in America's factories. When I hear Republicans boasting about "their" prosperity, I think of the fly sitting on the ox's ear and saying "What a good job of plowing we have done today."

	But the real point is not who has been doing the job so far. The question is who is going to do the job that remains.

	I say it is wrong that fourteen million of our fellow Americans live today in families whose income is less than $1,000 a year.

	I say it is wrong that the ten million men and women over sixty-five years of age in this country--the people who have done most in building this general prosperity of ours--are being forced to live in what ought to be their golden years on an average family income of less than $1,000 a year.

	I say it is wrong that the American farmer is getting this year only $3 of income for every $4 he was making in 1952 while his costs have increased.

	I say it is wrong that while farm income has been sinking, the cost of living has been rising to an all-time record high point.

	I say it is wrong that, in this year of our greatest production as a nation 230,000 workers in the automobile industry have been laid off, that today one out of every nine members of Detroit's labor force is out of work, and that over 50,000 Michigan workers have now exhausted their unemployment benefits for the year.

	I say that these are sorry facts, disgraceful facts, in this richest, most fortunate country in the world. And I say that anyone who knows these facts and is still not only complacent but boastful is no proper steward of this nation's future.

	When the Republican Secretary of Defense looks at these facts and says that he never liked kennel dogs anyway; when the Republican Secretary of the Treasury looks at them and then proposes a 5 percent sales tax; when President Eisenhower's assistant looks at them and laughs about the right to suffer as one of the joys of a free economy--then I say it's time to take this government away from the people who only know how to count and turn it back to people who also care.

	It is time to start thinking again in America in terms of people--in terms of individual human lives.

	To believe in the New America is to commit ourselves to fighting with every resource at our command these ugly patches of poverty and insecurity which still deny dignity, even decency, to the lives of almost one-fifth of all American families.

	Take this matter of unemployment. To see unemployment not as a statistic but as a human fact, the waste of the skill and spirit of a human being, the smothering of hope and of laughter in a home--to see it this way is to know that such human tragedy must be, and therefore can be, averted.

	I know Governor Williams's proposals for making the unemployment benefits more adequate. I hope they can be adopted and that they will become a signpost for the nation.

	Responsible union leaders have proposed programs for industrial rehabilitation and aid to distressed areas. The Democratic platform endorses these proposals. Senator Paul Douglas and other Democrats have already introduced bills in Congress to establish such programs. I hope that when Congress reconvenes they can, with a White House endorsement they have so far lacked, be enacted into law.

	But the basic protection against unemployment must be to make our economy stronger in all its parts and to make even more stable the consumer purchasing power upon which full employment must depend.

	This is why the Democratic party is pledged to raise the minimum wage.

	Yet Government guarantees of minimum wages and unemployment benefits will never be the real answer either. In this rich land, and in the American tradition of free enterprise, it should be through private channels that we find our way toward the New America. This is why it is so important to repeal and replace the Taft-Hartley Act with a new law, which will strengthen and equalize the essential processes of free collective bargaining. 

	There is no disagreement about the public interest in holding unions and employers alike to the standards of responsible bargaining. But it is an offense to the standards of fairness to load our labor laws with prohibitions on traditional types of union security--by the misnamed right-to-work laws--and to pack the National Labor Relations Boards with representatives of management.

	I make no proposals here today, nor will I ever, in terms of special advantages to any one segment of this economy. Nor could anyone in good conscience claim the working man's political support by condoning racketeering in labor unions or violence and illegality in labor disputes. And I note with satisfaction that the AFL-CIO took further vigorous steps only last week to eliminate these evils.

	I assert the basic proposition that a weakness any place in our system of things and in our laws and their administration is an injury to all of us.

	I am glad in this connection to have the opportunity to say before a city audience that we face no more important problem these days than that of restoring farm income.

	Political opportunists are seeking to divide the farmers and people, particularly wage earners, in the cities. But there are no isolated problems in the nation today. The farm depression does not stop at the city limits. In towns where farm implements are made the unemployment situation is no less serious today than it is here in Detroit. And unemployment in the city means a worsening of the farmer's market.

	And I must say, too, that we overlook at our peril the current creeping price inflation, which has brought the cost of living to the highest point in our history. Inflation cuts the value of the dollar--the value of our insurance, our government bonds, and our Social Security. The millions who live on fixed incomes are the worst sufferers, but we are all the victims of inflation because we are all consumers.

	Like the unemployment in the automobile industry, inflation offers stern warning that too much of our current prosperity has been borrowed from the future on the easy-payment, buy-now-and-pay-later plan.

	Most basic of all--behind the problems of unemployment, unused farm production, inflation, too many who still have too little--is the necessity of seizing upon the great new opportunities for expansion of our economy which are opening today before us.

	Automation and atomic energy are among the great promises of the immediate future. They will supply the production resources, which will mean jobs for the two million men and women who are each year now entering America's work force.

	But we must be careful that these new instruments of production are used for the general welfare. There will inevitably be temporary disruptions of employment in some plants, the displacement of some workers by the new machines. These workers and their families must not be asked to bear the whole cost of society's general advancement.

	So we must insist upon expanded programs on unemployment insurance, worker retraining, guaranteed annual wage, and other programs aimed to share equitably between business, the consumer and the displaced worker the transitional costs of technological change. Bold invention is needed as much in the social sphere as in the sphere of technology itself.

	Beyond all this--beyond this basic job of eliminating poverty, of balancing and perfecting our prosperity--lies the more exciting job of turning our abundance to the greater purposes which it can and must serve.

	While our nation has grown larger and richer, our educational plant has become more antiquated and inadequate. Our schoolrooms are overcrowded. The quality of our education is beginning to decline. And the number of children going to school increases each year.

	The Republican administration utters pious words and holds conferences. But when a bill for federal aid for our children's' education finally came up this summer in the House of Representatives, an overwhelming majority of Republicans voted against it.

	The New America means, to me, an America where there are adequate schoolrooms and enough skilled teachers for every American child.

	This will require federal assistance to the states. Such a program was defeated this year in Congress when ninety-seven Congressmen voted first to add an amendment to the school bill which they knew would defeat it, and then turned cynically around and voted against the bill itself. Every one of those ninety-seven was a Republican; their action cost Detroit two badly needed new elementary schools.

	The need for more teachers, fully trained, is, if anything, more acute than the classroom needs. I mean to propose, too, in fuller detail during this campaign, a program for immediately increasing our teaching force by a federally supported scholarship program for young men and women who are competent to teach. We do this kind of thing to meet the demands for defense. The need for education is today just as real and just as pressing.

	The New America means, to me, an America where we fight sickness and disease the way we fight war--for in both cases the stakes are life and death.

	I shall propose, again in further detail later, a new attack on the vast realm of pain by new programs for medical research, for increased hospital facilities, and the training of the doctors and nurses we need so badly.

	And we must do more than we have to meet the shattering costs of a serious illness or accident or a major operation. For most American families these things mean today being plunged into debt. I shall propose a program to encourage the formation of comprehensive plans of private, voluntary, prepayment health insurance, with provisions enabling the purchase of such insurance by families who are themselves now unable to afford it.

	And--perhaps most basic of all--the New America means to me an America in which every man and woman and child enjoys equally and without regard to race or religion the freedoms of conscience, belief, expression, and opportunity.

	The Supreme Court decision on the desegregation of the public schools gave new emphasis to a traditional American principle. That decision is the law of the land. And, as I have repeatedly said, it is the responsibility of the chief executive to do all in his power to create the climate of understanding in which the Supreme Court's decision can be made effective everywhere as it has already become effective in so many areas that were formerly segregated.

	It is equally essential that we wipe out all lines of false discrimination in the areas of political participation and economic opportunity.

	These are three guideposts to a better life--education, medical care, and freedom. To follow these beacons along the road toward the New America, we need a government which really cares about people--all people--cares about them, not as statistics in a poll, but as children of God, entitled to the best of all possible lives in the most abundant nation in the history of the world.

	On another Labor Day, now forty-four years ago, another Democratic candidate for president gave this nation what he called a program for "social justice." True justice demands, in Woodrow Wilson's words "universal sympathy, universal justice, universal cooperation,... our understanding one another and serving one another."

	We have moved far along this course, first under Wilson's own guidance and then with the inspiration of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman. But today we face new frontiers and look toward new horizons.

	My solemn pledge, as the presidential candidate of the Democratic party, is to do my best, with your help, to lead us all into the shining and spacious America which lies within our grasp.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALAUTOMATIONBROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONEDUCATION--GENERALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHOLIDAYSINFLATIONMANUFACTURINGORGANIZED LABOR--CORRUPTION/ETHICSORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPOVERTYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALUNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION/INSURANCE     HA A A 
A A
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @	 /	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	 p 	 W 	 ? 	 8 	 # e: