

	Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr. Porter.  Thank you, thank you.  Thank you.

	Congressman Charlie Vanik, the next congressman and the congressman from the 22nd District--a great congressman.  

	Mayor Zimmerman and Mayor Steigerman and Mayor Knogberg, ladies and gentlemen: this is a wonderful, wonderful audience tonight, under the most adverse weather conditions--even Nixon weather couldn't keep you good folks at home. 

	I am very, very grateful to you.  And I want to thank the folks of Richmond Heights, of this great metropolitan area, this great suburb.  I want to thank you for coming out here tonight so we can do a little politicking, so we can talk a little bit about the issues.  You know, we have only seven days to go--seven shopping days--seven days before the Nixon bubble is going to burst on November 5th.  

	Isn't this wonderful?  Isn't it great?  Just look around here.  People were saying, about three weeks ago, the election was all over.  Why Mr. Nixon was acting so much like president that by the time that November 5th comes around you people will vote for me just to get a change.  

	Tonight--tonight I want to talk with you seriously, though, about the times that we live in and about the election choices in this election year.

	You live in a great city, a great part of America, in this Buckeye state of Ohio.  This election, like all great national elections, represents your moment of strength and power and decision.  This is the time when the people speak.  And this is why during this time I have wanted the opportunity to debate the issues, as Mr. Vanik has pointed out--to debate the issues from these platforms with my Republican opponent.

	I thought the American people ought to have the right to hear what we had to say, and to judge the men and the policies and our statements and our views. 

	But as you have known, Mr. Nixon has refused to accept this challenge.  He prefers--he prefers to do his own speaking in his own way.  He prefers to have his own show.  So let me suggest to you, since he wanted his show during election campaign, why don' you have your show on November 5th, and close up his show and put a new one in the White House. 

	Now, what are the choices here?  What are the issues?  May I have your attention?

	Now, what are the great issues?  We are down now to where we have to make up our mind as to just whom we can trust to lead this country in the next four years.  Whom we can trust to win the peace for the American people, whom we can trust to turn back the dangerous arms race, and whom we can trust to hold this country together, and whom we can trust to lead this America forward.  
And I ask you tonight--whom do you think you can trust?  

	VOICES:  Humphrey!  Humphrey!

	Thank you, my friends.  You know, trust is a beautiful word--and a whole nation depends on it.

	Mr. Nixon, as I said to you, will not debate.  He won't take his case to the people.  He happens to think that the White House should go to the man with the biggest advertising budget.  I don't happen to think so.  I think the Nixon supermarket, the things that he has had to offer, represent what I call no truth in packaging, no truth in labeling, no truth in lending--just plain no truth in choice for the American people. 

	But he thought he had this election in the bag.  And he has said so.  Many times he has gone around this country and told you that all we had to do was to wait for election day, and the election was in the bag.  But, my dear friends, let me tell you what is going to happen when he opens that bag on November 5th.  Out is going to jump Muskie and Humphrey--we are going to jump out of that bag. 

	You know, the first choice--the first choice that a presidential candidate makes--the first choice that a presidential candidate makes is for his vice presidential running mate.  That is the first choice.  And it is an important choice.

	We live in very uncertain times.  And you and I know that these are unpredictable days.  One out of every three men who has served in the presidency in the last fifty years has failed to live out his term.  A sad fact, but a historically true one.

	Therefore, it seemed to me, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not only electing a president, but you are also electing a vice president.  And I ask tonight for you to weigh in the balance the ticket of Nixon and Agnew, as compared to the ticket of Humphrey and Muskie. 

	Mr. Nixon's first appointment was of Spiro T. Agnew, the man who stands a heartbeat away from the presidency in the nuclear age.  And I ask very soberly and seriously tonight, are you willing to trust this country to a President Agnew?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, Mr. Nixon was.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Are you willing to trust this country to a President Nixon?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Are you willing to trust this country to a President LeMay?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  To a President Wallace?  

	VOICES: No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, then, will you trust this country to the Democratic ticket?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You know, friends, we are on the point now, the season of tricks or treats.  Up to now, you have had the Nixon tricks.  And very shortly you are going to have the Humphrey-Muskie treats. 

	Now, let's just talk a little bit about the public record.  

	Mr. Nixon is the leader of the Republican party, the party that in the past thirty-five years has fought every advance in social security, has fought every effort in aid to education, has fought against every effort made for Medicare for our elderly, has fought against every conservation measure, has voted against most of the urban legislation, two-thirds of its membership, more than that, three-fourths, voted against Model Cities, has voted against every form of consumer legislation.

	I ask this audience tonight: what has Mr. Nixon and his Republican cohorts ever done for you?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What did you say?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, what do you plan on doing for Mr. Nixon on election day?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That is a fair deal if I ever heard one. 

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the Humphrey-Muskie Democratic ticket--with Jack Gilligan as Senator, with Charlie Vanik for Congress--that ticket has gone to the people with our case.  And I think that we have presented the case in a host of fields--everything from the war in Vietnam, where we have spoken out as we say it, everything on the cities and urban and suburban problems as we have seen then, the facts that relate to our economy, the social security and the Medicare--we have not failed to talk of a single issue.  And yet I ask you tonight--tell me what Mr. Nixon and his running mate have talked about that makes any sense to you in this community?

	Now, the American people are a peaceful people.  They want an end to this costly arms race, which is one of the great threats to the world of tomorrow.  And we are talking about the world of tomorrow, because that is the one we are going to live in.  All of my life I fought and worked for control of armament, to reduce the tremendous costs that go into this spiraling arms race, that raise the level of danger in this world.

	Now, Mr. Nixon the other night contested the security of this country.  He said there was a security gap that would result in a survival gap.  And then, ladies and gentlemen, when I pinned him to the wall and showed him that his facts were wrong, that his figures were wrong, that his judgment was wrong, he hastily went to a television--or radio show--I should say, and he said that he would like to give a little talk on peace and arms control.  And what did he say?  He said nothing that hasn't been said, and he left out of that talk two of the most important items on the business of American government.  He left out, for example, the necessity of this country joining in immediately to stop the spiraling arms race in missiles and anti-missiles, which will cost the taxpayers of this country billions, which will add little or no security to anyone.

	Mr. Nixon's armament program alone would cost the American taxpayer in the first year $50 billion, according to the New York Times.  And yet he talks about cutting the costs of government.  Ladies and gentlemen, it just doesn't make sense, and he knows it doesn't make sense.

	But here is a man--here is a man, my friends, who says he wants to talk peace, who ,yet when the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was before you, called it a "cruel hoax" and "catastrophic nonsense".  Here is a man who is a cold war lawyer, who today, when we have a treaty before the Senate that can stop the spread of nuclear weaponry and thereby, protect your lives and your homes, says "no", says "to wait".  Here is a man who called the Peace Corps a "haven for draft dodgers".  Here is a man who only last Friday night pretended that he was a peace man when he has a record that indicates that he is one of the military-industrial complex men who have little regard for the words of peace or the instruments of peace.

	We can't afford that kind of a man in the White House.  

	Now, Mr. Nixon says now that he has changed.  You have heard about that.

	There is the new Nixon.  There has been one every four years.  No man in public life has had his political face lifted so often.

	But let me tell you, my friends, when the pressure is on, the real Nixon comes out, and we have seen it.

	Here is a man just a week before the election--after having spent a lifetime voting against children, voting against federal aid to education--now says he is for it.  Well, let me tell you--if he has been against it for twenty-five years, I don't believe he is for it one week before this election.  Do you?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Here is a man who in 1962 had his chance to help the schools of this country--when he could have broken a tie vote in the Senate, and he refused to do so.  He voted no for schools, he voted "no" for higher education, he voted "no" for elementary and secondary education.  And every property taxpayer--every property taxpayer here knows that the main source of property tax--the main source of revenue today for your schools is on your property.  And the only relief that you can get is from the federal government, through its federal aid to education.

	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nixon said pay your property taxes, there will be no federal aid.  The Democratic party said there will be aid--billions of dollars of it--and we put it into the schools so that people in America today have the best system of education that the world has ever known.  And Mr. Nixon can't claim credit for it.  

	Now, Mr. Nixon, I notice the other day that you said you were for Medicare.  I guess it is because he is getting a little older. 

	Well, I want to reassure him that after this election is over, we will provide him social security, we will give him Medicare, he doesn't need to worry about that.  We Democrats will take care of him.  

	But, ladies and gentlemen, in 1962 here is what Mr. Nixon said about Medicare.  He said it wouldn't work, and he said it would do more harm than good.  He spent twenty some years of his life fighting against it, and a week before the election, when he sees that there are millions of our elderly citizens that look upon Medicare as a godsend and as a blessing, he gets political religion, and he would like to have you believe that after a quarter of a century of cutting it to ribbons, of being against it, that suddenly he has seen the light.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mr. Nixon deserves Medicare, but he doesn't deserve your vote. 

	Now, what does that man represent?

	At a time of ferment and change in America, at a time of change in the world, this man says we are going too fast, we have got to slow down.  He says he wants to bring things back as they were.

	Well, ladies and gentlemen, the way they were in those eight Republican years, there was no shopping center here, first of all--none whatsoever.  And Cleveland and this area was suffering grave unemployment.  Three Republican recessions--three of them that sapped the revenues of local communities.  Three of them that took the wages of unemployed workers.  Three of them that took the profits of businessmen.  And Mr. Nixon says that that is the way we ought to have it.

	Here is the man who said that a little unemployment was not dangerous--that as long as you didn't have over 4.5 million unemployed, it wasn't dangerous.  Recently he has raised it another million.  And his adviser says as along as you have not over 5.5 million, it is not dangerous.

	I ask this question of this audience.  Most everyone here has a mortgage to pay.  Most everyone here has consumer credit.  I want to know if you lose your job, and you are one of those 5.5 million, how are you going to pay those bills?  What kind of a man is it that says--looks upon people as if they were sheer statistics, and says to you that in order to have price stability we will have 5.5 million people unemployed.

	Ladies and gentlemen, if that is the only knowledge that the man has of this economy, he ought not to be president of the United States--he ought to go back to school and study economics.   

	Remember this, friends, that every program we are talking about relates to your family and your community.  When we talk about aid to education, we are not talking about some impermanent thing.  We are talking about millions of young men and women in college today.  We are talking about three-quarters of a million students that are getting student loans and scholarships.  We are talking about aid to elementary and secondary schools that you need.  We are talking, when we talk about aid to our cities, to airports, for water systems, for sanitary systems.  We are talking about open spaces where you can live.  We are talking about areas for parks, where people can enjoy life.  All of these things relate to your family.  And one of the real tragedies today of modern government is that we interpret so much of it in terms of dollars and statistics, rather than in terms of people.

	Keep this in mind, my dear friends: every time an unemployed person gets a job, every time a worker that is unskilled is trained for a job and gets a job, it makes a better America, it makes a better community.

	That is one person that doesn't need assistance, that is one more person that is productive, one more person that is a taxpayer, one more person that is self-respecting.  Ladies and gentlemen, in the last eight years 10 million new jobs have been added to this country, 10 million of them--people that are earning their way.   

	The millworks that were unskilled, untrained this last year, have been trained and put on jobs.

	Ladies and gentlemen, that means we cut down the costs of welfare.  It means to give people some sense of participation in their country.  It means that they feel that they are a part of America.  And what is good for that worker is good for you.

	When a black man gets a job, it doesn't take a white man's job.  What it does--it means that both live a better life.  And the only way that America is going to hold together is if we both live a better life.  

	Yes, my friends, the greatest resource of this country is its human resource.  And I represent a party here tonight that may very well have made many mistakes.  And I see many times that we do.  But let me tell you this.  There are two kinds of sins: one is the sin of omission, and one is the sin of commission.  One is the sin, if you please, where you sin from the heart, and the other one is where you make a mistake of the mind.

	Now, we might have made some mistakes of judgment.  But I represent a political party tonight that cares--we cared about the handicapped, we cared about the mentally disturbed, we cared about the mentally retarded, we cared about the unemployed, we cared about the elderly, and, young man, we cared about the students, we cared about the consumer, and we have cared about this country's cities.  We have cared about the person that needed protection under a minimum wage.

	I represent a political party whose hallmark is the party that cares, the Democratic party.  

	And, my good friends, this great nation of ours is not only powerful and rich but it must be strong and compassionate.  The power of this nation is generally equated in terms of its military strength.  But the strength of this nation is in its people, its people who feel that they have something at stake, its people who are educated, its people who are on the job, its people who have learned to trust each other, its people who have learned how to build a community together.  That is the strength of America.  And a rich and strong America can afford to be compassionate with those who are less fortunate, with the sick, and with the handicapped, and with the elderly, and with the retarded.  And, ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know the kind of a president you are going to have: you are going to have in me a president that does care for the child, that does care for the elderly, that does care for the sick, and does care for the handicapped. 

	And you are going to have in me a president that loves his country.  This great America of ours, which often times is falsely accused, this America is not sick, this America is growing up.  This America has not lost its way.  This America is finding its conscience.  And, ladies and gentlemen, the best days of this country are yet to be lived.  The unfinished business of America is our job.

	What is some of that unfinished business?  To see that those that have been left out are brought in--to see that this country prospers and grows, because there isn't a thing that we seek to do that we can do without a strong economy.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, I come to you as a representative of a political party that has seen to it that this country has had ninety-two months, consecutive months, of uninterrupted economic progress.  I come to you as a representative of a political party that has tripled its investments in education, tripled its investments in health, that has passed more consumer legislation in the last four years than in the preceding 150.  I come to you as a representative of a political party that cares for the little kid, in Project Head Start, that cares for a boy that didn't have a chance in the Job Corps.  And when I heard Mr. Nixon say last night that one of the things that he would eliminate was the Job Corps, I said to myself--there he goes again, the old, the old callous Republican philosophy.  That Job Corps program has given 135,000 young men that never had a chance the first chance in their lives.  

	Yes, my friends--to those of us that are more fortunate--to those of us that are more fortunate, listen to this.  A young man that was an Olympic gold medal winner, that was last night receiving his gold medal and his honors, as he carried the flag of the United States of America in Mexico City, that young man, George Foreman--what happened to him?  He was a dropout.  He got his chance in the Job Corps center.  And when he received his gold medal, this young man told the world that he got his one chance in life because the government cared, and the Job Corps program gave him that chance.  

	This is what it is all about, friends.

	We are going to decide in this election whether there is going to be people power in this country or just political power.  We are going to decide whether the people will have a voice about people's affairs, or whether it is just going to be the managers and the statisticians, and the Madison Avenue public relation artist.  That is what we are going to decide.

	This has been an uphill battle.  But you and I know as we are here tonight that this tight fight is going to be won.  You and I know tonight that Mr. Nixon is on the losing end, and you and I know tonight that we are on the ascendancy to win this election. 

	And we want to win this election--we want to win this election, not just for a Democratic victory, but because there are things in America that need to be done.  There are wounds that need to be healed, there are hatreds and divisions in our society that must be put aside.

	We need to win this election to reaffirm the basic decency of spirit which lies within us as a people.  We need to win this election to reassert America's moral leadership in the world, to show that America cares about humanity, that America cares about peace, that America cares about a sane, sensible world.  That is why we need to win this election.  

	Now, may I say to you--America needs you.  This is your country.  America needs your ideas; America needs your experience; America needs your talent.

	We need new people in America taking part in the decisions of this democracy if we are going to make this great experiment work.  And blessed is this land of many peoples.

	When I hear the critics of our nation, I say to them, "Where do you want to go?"  I have never seen one yet that asked for a ticket.  They know that they live in the greatest land on this earth.  And they know that our greatest days are yet to be lived.  They know.  Those who are our critics--those who are our critics know that the greatest glories of this Republic are yet to be seen.  And I call upon you now, my friends, to help us, to help yourself, to help your family, to help your country, to have faith in your institutions of government, and to have faith in this democracy.  And may I say to you, finally, I call upon you to go to your neighborhoods now and help us in this fight.

	We do not have the resources of the other party.  And you know it.  Sometimes this has been a lonely fight.  Sometimes I have been out on this stump alone.  But, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have proved something in this campaign; that if you have a just cause, and if you believe only one thing to do between now and November 5th, sock it to him.  Let's go.

	Thank you.
EDUCATION--GENERALJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMEDICARENUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PROPERTY TAXRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)UNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     'X W W W W
 W W W W W W W W	  	  	 v 	 n 	 ? 	 3 	  e: