
	I have been developing in this campaign the ideas for this country's future which I think of as the New America. Of course there is a New America every morning we wake up. It is upon us whether we will it or not. The New America is the sum of many small changes--a new subdivision here, a new school there, a new industry where there had been swampland--changes that add up to a broad transformation of our lives.

	Our task is to guide these changes. For, though change is inevitable, change for the better is a full-time job. The great economic forces of our day may build a new gigantic society in which the individual has no chance--or they may create the healthy, happy, free society, which lies within our grasp. It is a question of mastering these great technical forces or letting them master us. The choice is for us to make, and it is part of the significance of the choice we face in this campaign this fall.

	Florida is a good place to think about these things. For in a few short years, Florida has been transformed--and in a few short years more, it will be transformed again. This gleaming metropolis, a crossroads of world traffic, now has a population of 750,000. Fast as America has grown, Florida has grown faster.

	You are developing a diversified industry and a diversified agriculture, building for yourselves a balanced, year-round economy. Hundreds of millions of dollars are being invested in industrial expansion. And the process is self-reinforcing. New industries provide new outlets for agriculture and attract still new industries. New jobs in industry and rising farm income create strong new demands for new homes, new stores, new laundries, new filling stations and restaurants, new businesses, big and little, of every kind.

	And, of course, growth means new needs for schools and teachers, hospitals, police and fire protection, roads, water and sewage systems--for all the many essential public services that can only be provided by government and that we tend to take for granted, unless they aren't there when we need them.

	The Republicans point with pride to America's economic growth, to a $400 billion economy, to the employment of sixty-seven million people. Their facts are all right, but their complacency and self-satisfaction are not.

	We are grateful for the rapid growth and the well-being we have enjoyed for the past ten years. But our economic growth has been unbalanced, and we should not close our eyes to this fact. It is nice to have spacious country clubs, but it is wrong that too many of our children are jammed in overcrowded schools. It is fine to have luxury hotels, but it is wrong to throw those who are mentally disturbed into medieval institutions.

	It is wrong that a fifth of the nation lives in severe poverty. It is wrong that old age has become for so many a time of anxiety and want. It is wrong that millions of Americans will suffer and die needlessly, victims of diseases that could have been prevented.

	And it can be no comfort to anybody that our economy is so closely related to the balance of terror in the world that more than half of every one of your tax dollars is spent for defense.

	I hope America never becomes complacent. I hope America is never ready to rest on its oars in smug self-satisfaction. I hope America never thinks pretty good is good enough. That is not the spirit of the America that grew to greatness. That is not the spirit of the New America we want. And that, thank heavens, is not the spirit of the Democratic party.

	We need government with largeness of spirit and vision for the tasks which government must perform in building the New America. Even more do we need this largeness of spirit and vision for the tasks which must be performed in building the new world of lasting peace.

	Most of us, I think, share a growing uneasiness about the conduct of America's foreign policy. Apparently, it is going nowhere; certainly, it is getting nowhere. Here in Miami, where many nations meet, you are especially aware of the lost opportunities that mark not only our domestic affairs but also our foreign affairs. Here, as throughout the United States, there is a particular affection for the twenty other Western Hemisphere nations we call Latin America. And there is a realization that here in our own family of nations we can best prove the soundness and the promise of American policy, American ideas, American leadership.

	The experience of these twenty-one countries, working together, has already made solid contribution in leadership to the Free World. We have guaranteed each other's boundaries against attack and have joined in a common peacekeeping alliance--an alliance which became the model for NATO.

	Many years ago, the idea, which became Point 4, was begun in Latin America, and later became a powerful force for good throughout the world under the leadership of President Truman. It was the economic follow-through in Latin America of the Good Neighbor Policy begun by Franklin Roosevelt.

	These men of practical vision saw the American Hemisphere as a great laboratory in which policies and relationships worthy of the twentieth century could be developed. Well-started here, they could be extended to other parts of the earth. Surely none would contend that this development has been completed. The job is still very far from done. And yet during these past four years, it seems to me we have fallen back rather than advanced.

	During these four years, in Latin America especially, American policy has too often placated America's enemies and advanced their intrigues and has disregarded our friends, treating them all too often like poor relations to be sent for when needed.

	The case of the unpleasant Argentine dictator, Pern, it a dismal example. Pern's abuse of the principles and policies of freedom and democracy is now written plain in history's record. In his own country he courted the Communists but persecuted with equal fury the free press, free labor unions, and the Catholic Church. He plotted the overthrow of friendly governments. He connived against us and friendly democratic governments in Central America.

	Yet the record stands that, under this administration, the United States chose to appease him. A member of the President's personal family assumed special, if informal, responsibility for our relationships with Argentina. We kept an ambassador in Buenos Aires because Pern liked him. During these same years we made loans to Pern, and Pern, in turn, piled up a balance of more than $100 million in Switzerland for the use and benefit, not of the Argentine people, but of Pern. The United States put money into Argentina. A principal result seems to have been to allow Pern to take money out of Argentina--for himself.

	You can hardly blame our South American friends for wondering what goes on here. Loud-mouthed insults by a dictator who was ruining the people of his country found response in American aid, a sympathetic ambassador, and high-level diplomatic assistance. Was this the way, our friends wondered, to deal with Uncle Sam?

	This is all too much of a piece with recent happenings in the Middle East. It can only seem to at least some of the nations there that the way to obtain increased aid from the United States is to be ugly and threatening and to flirt with Communism.

	Now, though the program of foreign aid clearly needs overhauling, I am not opposed to spending what is required for common defense and for assistance that truly serves common interests. But I am old-fashioned enough not to want to pay one cent for tribute.

	Sometimes, I wonder whether this administration knows that there are some things which can't be bought. I mention the Argentine incident--and there are others--because it is a clear example of policy completely off the track--morally, politically, and economically. It is high time that our policy be put back on the track. Half our foreign trade is within the American Hemisphere--with Canada and Latin America divided about equally, and both Canada and Latin America trade primarily with us. We depend on them; they depend on us; our economics are interdependent. To the businessman seeking new markets and new sources of raw material, the old national frontiers become less meaningful with each passing year.

	What is good for any country in this Western Hemisphere is good for every other country--in North, or Central, or South America. And what is good for this family of nations is good for the whole world of nations.

	Many programs of loans and aid to help our neighbors have been instituted to implement President Roosevelt's Good Neighbor Policy. But the pieces have not been pulled together to work out a hemispheric plan. I believe we can seriously undertake the task of bringing together the economic hemisphere, which we know exists from the trade figures. And in doing so, we can demonstrate that the world can be remade by voluntary means, by consent, and without Communist coercion and force. And we can demonstrate, too, that American leadership has more to it than buying off enemies or making opportunistic deals.

	A good place to begin is in the Western Hemisphere. And where this declaration of interdependence involves aid from this country or one another, let us see to it that as a result peons as well as politicians are better fed and better clothed. Where this involves trade programs, we must see to it that maximum mutual benefit is taken from the fullest use of the resources and the special capacities of each member of this family of nations. None can be left out. Each must be a good customer of the others. And so each must be a producer too. By acting and working together, we can meet the challenge to our independence by cooperation, resting firmly on our interdependence.

	And in everything we do here in the hemisphere and in the world, we must make it clear that our dollars are only tools of our hearts, that military pacts are never ends but only means, that the one purpose behind every military and economic program is the achievement of greater freedom, and greater richness, and, most of all, greater peace in people's lives.

	I believe we can demonstrate this in our great American Hemisphere; I know we must try. And then we can so much more convincingly say to the world that democracy works--not just as policy for people living together in one nation, but as the vital principle by which nations and people can live together in the world.
ARGENTINADICTATORSHIPSWEALTH DISTRIBUTIONLATIN AMERICA     ) ) ) ) )
 {) v) q) l) e) c) [) Q)	 6 	 - 	     e: