

	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Mayor Elko.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want you to know is that the mayor of McKeesport gave me this big key.  And I looked at it, and it is just exactly the right size for the front door of the White House. 

	And I am going to hang onto it.  And I am going to use it, with your help, on November 5th.  We will get into that place, now, if you help me with your votes on November 5th, for Humphrey and Muskie.  How about it? 

	My dear friends, first of all, I want to acknowledge the presence of and the great candidacy of a gentlemen that represents this 20th Congressional District--and one that you ought to support all the way--and that is Joe Gaydos.  Joe, are you here? 

	And we have here--and by the way, he has the prettiest wife.  Come on up here, Mrs. Gaydos.  You will get him a lot of votes.  I tell you, if any of you have any doubts about Joe, take a look at her.  Isn't she nice?   And by the way, when you get a chance--I'm sorry that Mrs. Humphrey isn't here--a lot of folks say "I don't know about that Humphrey, but I sure go for his Muriel."  And I think that you would like her, too.  

	And then I have here with us today the man that you are going to re-elect to the United States Senate, a real fighter for you folks out here--Joe Clark. 

	And I hope our friend is here, Bob Casey.  Is Bob here, too?  Well, come on up here, you good-looking Irishman.  Take a look at that fellow.  Yes, sir.  And Bob--auditor general of the state of Pennsylvania--and you are going to elect him.  And I predict to you that you are going to elect him to a lot of other jobs before he is through with his public life, because he is a remarkable man.

	Now--where is my friend, Len--Len Stacy.  Well, Len--here is the man that runs things, they tell me, in this country.  Is that right?  Anyway, he is a dear friend, and we want to thank him for being here with us today.

	Mr. Mayor, I will just take a little while here with these great friends of mine, the steel workers.  This is Local 1408.  And I suppose we have some other folks here from other unions.  I am proud--proud to have had all of my public life the support of my friends in organized labor.

	I am proud that the leadership of organized labor is able to say to their members that in all of the votes that labor had an interest in the Congress--and they listed 191 of them--I never was found voting wrong once.  And that is a pretty good record, may I say--not once. 

	But one of the things that the working man and his family are interested in--not just his union, even though that is very important--very, very important--our trade unions have done so much for our country, so much for the families of working people in this land.

	But laboring people and the trade union people, the labor organizations are interested in a lot of things.  And they have been interested in things which the Republican candidate and his party have not shown much interest in.

	For example, they have been interested in education.  The first people to fight for education in this country were workers and their organized labor unions.

	Mr. Nixon, the Republican candidate, has yet to cast his first vote in the Congress of the United States--I said here just a little while ago that the sun would come out today--all that Nixon weather is gone. 

	Well, let me get back.  What are we interested in?  We are interested in our youngsters having a chance, a better chance.  We are interested in education for them in a public school or a private school or a parochial school.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the first vote I ever cast in the United States Senate was for federal aid to education.  Mr. Nixon voted the same time.  He voted "no".  I voted "yes".

	He came here to this county, he came here to the greater metropolitan area of Pittsburgh and McKeesport, and what did he say?  Yesterday he said,, well, he would like to get some kind of a group to study the possibility of some aid to our private and parochial schools.

	Ladies and gentlemen, under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act passed in 1965 aid is going to children.  We send aid to the children for their libraries and their books, for their equipment--and to our great universities, public or private or whatever they are.  We are interested in people, Mr. Nixon.  We are not interested in brick and mortar alone.  We are interested in people.  And we have been providing, under a Democratic administration, care for people.

	I come here with a record of a Democratic party that for thirty-five years has had one hallmark that described it--a party that cares, a government that cares, cares about people, all kinds of people. 

	And that is why I selected as my running mate a man that cares, too.  And, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to stand before an audience and not only talk of my own candidacy, but to talk about the candidacy of the Humphrey-Muskie ticket in the Democratic party, because that is a good combination for you.

	I gave you a man as vice president who served his country with great honor and distinction; a man that knows about cities--a man that knows about the country; a man that is an expert in a host of affairs of this nation--a governor, a senator, a man that understands the problems of air and water pollution, a man that is the author of the Model Cities legislation, a man that has never failed to protect the interest of people.

	Now let's take a look at the other record.  Who is the man that voted against federal aid to education?  I'll tell you--Nixon's the one.

	Who is the man that never in his life has ever spoken out for any advance in benefits or coverage of social security?  Mr. Nixon.  His party fought it.  There were only four votes from the Republican party--four--one, two, three, four--when we started social security.  And only once has a Republican administration ever even made a recommendation for improvement in social security.

	Who was it that fought Medicare, and who said in 1962 that it wouldn't work?  And who said that he wanted no part of it?  The Republican nominee in this campaign.

	And may I say to every man and woman here, young or old, that of all the blessings that this government has bestowed upon people, the Medicare program that provides hospital and Medicare--medical care and nursing home care to our senior citizens is one of the finest programs that any country ever devised.  And Mr. Nixon fought it. 

	And now what does he say?  He wants your vote.  He said he would like to have it now.

	Well, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen--I want Mr. Nixon to know we will provide for his Medicare.  He doesn't need to worry about that.  But we want to be sure we have somebody in office that is going to take care of it.

	Now, Mr. Nixon now comes out and says he would like to do a little something about social security.  Well, let me tell you it would never have been born if you waited for him and his kind.  And I propose to the American people a program that is actuarially sound, that can be financed, that will provide an increase in benefits in the next four years of fifty percent, that will provide--Mr. Abel, you as a great head of a union--that will provide an escalator clause so as the cost of living goes up, those benefits go up.  This is a sensible program.

	You, friends, are interested in many things.

	Mr. Nixon has never in his life ever proposed or voted for any consumer protection legislation.  I said that he is out here with his supermarket of goodies.  But, you know, when you walk into that Republican supermarket, there is no truth in labeling or truth in packaging, not one bit.

	And I am here to tell you that we have, under the Democratic administrations looked out for the health of our people--tremendous programs.  We have looked out for the education of our young.  We have increased the investments by over 300 percent.  We have looked out, if you please, for the consumer's protection.  We have tried to do something to help people who needed jobs.

	And I can remember when this great steel works didn't have the employment it has today.  And it wasn't long ago.

	I call your attention to 1958 to 1960.  I just visited here the monument, the statue, the memorial to John F. Kennedy.  John Kennedy came here to tell you people that we had to get this country moving again.  He came here to remind you what eight years of Republicanism had meant.

	And have you forgotten?  Three recessions in eight years.  Seven percent unemployment.

	Have you forgotten the cities that were in trouble?

	Have you forgotten the families that had no income?  Have you forgotten the people that were wondering if they would have enough to eat?

	And they called it good times?

	I hope you haven't.  Because let me tell you, my friends--Mr. Nixon is the man that said that if you had no more than 4.5 million unemployed it wasn't a very significant or dangerous thing.  And here the other day, a week ago, his top economic adviser said--listen to this--he said we could take more unemployment--more unemployment--maybe up to 5.5 million.

	Whose job is he talking about?  I want you to look around here.  Five-and-a-half million unemployed in this country--in the manufacturing, industrial work force of this nation?  That is seven percent.  You want to go back to those times?

	I would like to come back to McKeesport, if you elect a Republican, and see you, and I will have you say to me--you told us, but we would not listen.

	Ladies and gentlemen, don't let me have to say that to you.  

	The fact is you cannot afford to have trouble, and this country cannot afford it.  We have got great responsibilities.  We need a growing economy.  We need more jobs, not fewer.  You need them right here in Pennsylvania, right now.  And we need to train workers.

	All during that period of unemployment, of the 1950s, the Republican administration did not train one single worker.  Now, that is a fact.  Not one training program.  Last year we trained under government-industry programs, working together, one million--one million workers that had never had a job in their lives.  Now, that is some accomplishment.  And, my friends, when another man gets a job, it not only help him, it helps you.

	Ladies and gentlemen, twelve million people in this country have come out of poverty since 1961--twelve million.  Those are people that are no longer on relief, no longer getting welfare checks.  They are people that today are productive, taxpaying citizens, self-respecting.

	I submit to you that that is a record.  And I submit to you that you shall judge us by our deeds and not by our words.  That is the way you should judge candidates and parties and programs. 

	Is it any wonder that Mr. Nixon doesn't want to debate me?  Because I want to ask him some questions.

	And now there is another candidate.  And he parades around as a friend of the working man.  And that candidate is Mr. Wallace.  Now, Mr. Wallace...

	VOICES:  Boo!  Boo!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:...I hope that is the way you feel.  Let me say something about it.  Let me say something seriously about this candidacy.
Many people in our country are disturbed and angry and upset.  And they are looking for some way to show that protest.  So they say I think I'll vote for George Wallace.

	But, ladies and gentlemen, he says he gives you law and order--and his state was one of the most lawless in the nation; the highest rate of crime, the second-highest rate of aggravated assault; a man who obeyed the laws he wanted to and disobeyed the others.

	He says he is a friend of the working man.  And yet his state has low wages--and if it were not for the fact of the steelworkers, if it were not for the fact of this union, those wages would be much lower, because this union demands in its negotiations that they pay the same wage scale in Birmingham, Alabama that they pay in McKeesport.  That is why they got it.  But even then the average in the state is a thousand dollars lower than the national average.

	This is a state that has the second-lowest per capita expenditure for education, the lowest workmen's compensation, union busting, right-to-work laws, the highest sales tax in the United States--six percent out of every dollar they take, on everything.

	And he parades around in union circles and gets some union members to believe that he is their friend.

	Now, I'll tell you--if the fellows are going to fall for that, ladies, don't you fall for it. Now, the old man may get off the beam a little bit once in a while.  But don't you do it, because you have got to pay that grocery bill, and you have got the kids to think of.  And you don't need that kind of administration in Washington.

	I guess Nixon must be getting close by--I feel the breezes coming in.

	Well, now I am going to leave you.  I am not going to keep you any longer, except to tell you this.  I need your help.  We need your help.  Let me ask you--let me ask you a couple of questions.

	What has Mr. Nixon ever done for you?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What are you going to do for him on election day?  

	VOICES:  Nothing! 

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You know, we are coming up on the Halloween season.  You know--tricks and treats.  You have had several months of Richard Nixon's tricks.  Now you are going to have some Humphrey-Muskie treats on November 5th. 

	So listen.  Now let's get busy.  Let's get busy.  Let's go get busy.  Mr. Nixon thinks he has got this election in the bag.  You know that, don't you?  Let me tell you what he is going to find.  Let me tell you what he is going to find on election day.  When he opens up that bag on election day--when he opens that bag upon election day, here is what is going to happen: out of that bag is going to jump Hubert Humphrey and Ed Muskie. 

	So you know what they say these days--and here is what I want you to do between now and next Tuesday--Sock it to 'em. 

	Okay--thank you.
CONSUMER PROTECTIONEDUCATION--GENERALJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMEDICAREORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOCIAL SECURITYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     +8 7 7 7 7
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7	  	  	 ~ 	 g 	 _ 	 G 	 8 	 # e: