

	We're coming down to the wire.  In a few days, we'll have our second and last debate about foreign policy and national security.  Yesterday in a campaign swing the president sought to set the stage for that debate by saying the debate was over who is confused about America's strength.  I welcome that issue.

	Mr. President, if you want a debate about making America strong, if you want a debate about who's confused and who's baffled, if you want this campaign to turn on the question of who's out of touch with reality, you will have that debate, and it begins this morning on the Stanford campus.

	I don't question the president's good intentions.  And I'm sure he dreams of peace.  But you just can't dream about it.  Good intentions are no substitute for discipline and geniality no substitute for leadership.

	Think of what we need in a president.  It may be 2:30 in the morning.  He may be awakened to hear that missiles are on their way.  He may be asked to make, within a minute or two or three, the most fateful choice in human history.  At a moment like that, we have a right to demand a president who knows the crucial facts that he must know.

	But when the president talks about our strategic arsenal, he reminds me of what Will Rogers said of Hoover when he said, "It's not what he doesn't know that bothers me.  It's what he knows for sure that just ain't so."

	Mr. Reagan may know for sure that he can recall nuclear missiles after they've been launched, but it just ain't so.

	Mr. Reagan may think he can recall a missile the way he can run a movie in reverse, but it just ain't so.

	He may think, as he said, that bombers and submarines don't carry nuclear warheads, but it just ain't so.

	He may think that the Soviets don't depend mainly on land-based missiles, but it just ain't so.

	He may think, as his campaign chairman said the other day, that it's "brutalizing" to read a briefing book, but it just ain't so.

	And he may think an illegal war in Nicaragua and a military build-up in Honduras are answers for Central America, but it just ain't so.

	And Mr. President, you may think you're going to win this election, but it just ain't so.

	Mr. Reagan--the fact of it is--Mr. Reagan has been confused about American security for thirty years.

	For more than a generation, Mr. Reagan has gone all over our country saying that everyone in power would weaken America.  Over and over again, he has said that the only man who really, truly understands the evil empire is himself.

	He called John Kennedy weak and blasted him for not taking what he called "the final step" in the Cuban crisis.

	He called Lyndon Johnson weak and attacked him for not threatening the use of atomic weapons in Vietnam.

	He called Gerald Ford weak and said that he and Henry Kissinger were "bowing and scraping" before the Soviet Union.  And he said that Gerry Ford was making this country so weak, that the Soviet Union was getting so far ahead of us, that we would never catch up.  When Kennedy tried to stop, as he did, testing of atomic weapons in the atmosphere, he opposed it on the grounds it would make us weak.  When Mr. Nixon called for the ratification of the SALT I treaty, the antiballistic missile treaty, he opposed those treaties because he said it would make us weak.  When Johnson signed the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, Mr. Reagan opposed it on the grounds it would make us weak.  When President Carter signed the SALT II treaty, he opposed it because he said it was weak.

	For thirty years, Mr. Reagan has had a naive and primitive notion of national strength.  And we can see it in the work of his presidency.

	Did it strengthen America to put Marines in Lebanon in a vulnerable spot, against the advice of the Joint Chiefs of Staff?

	Did it strengthen us to proclaim, as he did, that American intelligence is weak--practically an open invitation to terrorists?

	Did it strengthen America to announce, as he did, that the United States is strategically inferior to the Soviets, when we are not?

	Does it strengthen us that there are now twenty-five-hundred more Soviet warheads aimed at us than there were four years ago?

	Does it strengthen us that there are now Soviet submarines off our coast that can nuke the White House in six minutes?

	Does it strengthen us to buy an MX missile we don't need and deploy it like a sitting duck?

	Does it strengthen us to spend $25 billion on a B-1 bomber that the Soviets have spent fifteen years preparing to shoot down?

	Does it strengthen us to pay $7,600 for a coffeepot and $500 for hammer?

	Does it strengthen us to launch a new arms race into the heavens?

	This is a record of profound confusion.  A president must be in touch and in charge.  A president must learn.  He must listen.  He must master.  He must command.  And he must lead.  But that's not what we have today.  Former secretary of state Haig said that the White House is a "ghost ship."  And a respected columnist put it this way:  "Mr. Reagan is the most passive, remotest president since Coolidge, uninformed, unwilling to grapple with the tough issues.  And for anyone who cared to see, that is what the debate showed.  It stripped away the illusion that Ronald Reagan is governing."

	So we have a true choice in this election.  In three weeks, the decision is up to you.  This election is a referendum about the rest of this century.  And when you reach for that voting lever, you'll actually have our future in your hands.

	If you pull their lever, you can vote for a nuclear arms race.

	A president must keep us strong--but he must use that strength for peace.

	We all see the Soviets for what they are.  But despite all of our deep differences, we must meet them on the common ground of survival.

	All my life, I have supported a strong and sensible defense.  I have supported a stable strategic balance and strong Pentagon management.  I have fought against waste in government, including in the military.  But I have never confused one point:  We must remain strong, but sensible and strong arms control--mutual and verifiable arms control--makes us stronger, not weaker, and the president cannot understand that.

	So if you want to prevent a nuclear war, if you want true and sensible strength, if you want a breakthrough in arms control, if you want a fresh start toward sanity--then pull the lever that says Mondale-Ferraro.

	If you pull their lever, you will vote to open up the heavens to nuclear weapons.

	If we cross that line, there is no turning back.  Do we want weapons over our head for the rest of our lives?  Do you want to turn over to computers the decision as to whether a war should be started?  Do you want to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on a brand new arms race?

	The next time you look up at the night sky, think of killer satellites circling the earth.  And they won't belong just to us.  For there is nothing surer in our age than this:  If one side builds a new system, the other side will match it--as the new Soviet deployment of cruise missiles proves yet again.

	This election poses the choice of your lifetime.  If you pull their lever, you get Star Wars.

	But if you want to draw a line, if you want to stop a new arms race into the heavens before it starts, if you want to ban those weapons in space, if you want a president to follow John Kennedy's example and challenge the Soviets to come to the treaty table--then on November 6th, pull the lever that says Mondale-Ferraro.

	If you pull their lever, you will vote for a primitive idea of strength.

	But there's a different choice that you can make.

	We must not only be strong--we must be smart.

	I believe that American strength depends not only on the force of our arms but on the power of our ideas.  America must not only stand tall; we must also stand for something.

	We must stand for human rights and dignity.  We must oppose persecution--whether in Poland or South Africa or Cuba or the Philippines.  I want to see America selling more food and fewer guns.

	Let us not only strengthen the Marine Corps.  Let us also strengthen the Peace Corps.

	Let America again make our case to the world.  Let them see America reflecting those most powerful values, those most attractive values on earth.  As president, I will launch a renaissance of foreign language study and strengthen exchange programs for scholars and artists and young leaders around the world.

	We must have diplomats who speak the language and understand the history of the countries in which they serve.

	We must restore integrity and excellence to the United States Information Service.  People of the world yearn for freedom and look to America for leadership.

	During my first year in office, I will move to organize a new, permanent assembly for all the world's democracies.  Its task will be to:

	-support free institutions;

	-help countries like Argentina that have only recently tasted democracy;

	-encourage the struggle for human rights, from Chile to Poland;

	-promote development in poor nations dedicated to liberty;

	-advance democratic values in international bodies;

	And it will unite democracies in the struggle for peace and arms control;

	If you believe in the strength of American values, if you believe in attracting the world with those values, if you want a president to show America's best face to the world--then pull the lever that says Mondale-Ferraro.

	The future was made in heaven for America.  We've got everything we need:  the values of a decent society, the power of a free economy, the muscle of a skilled workforce, the talents of an educated nation, and the dreams of a restless people.

	Today, we have everything we need except a president who will lead us there.  Help me be that leader.  Help me today, through this campaign.  On Election Day, we'll take over the White House and move this nation forward.

	Thank you very much.

DEMOCRACYHUMAN RIGHTSMILITARY PREPAREDNESSSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS PROLIFERATION     ' ' ' ' '
 ' ' ' ' ' ' n' c'	  	  	 ~ 	 i  I   e: