

	You know, the best thing that can happen to a candidate's ego is to have a lot of young, pretty girls screaming at him. I should like to say at the outset that I am frankly bewildered by this sea of people. I didn't know there were this many people in Pennsylvania. And I assume that your presence here in the capital of Pennsylvania is only as a mark of respect for the governor of a sister state. If by any chance you are here for another reason, you are very welcome indeed.

	And I should like very much to express my profound gratitude to Governor Fine of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for turning [missing text] he was good enough, my friends, to release the state employees and to permit them to come here to see me this afternoon. And I should like to express my profound thanks to him for that courtesy.

	I must say that I couldn't be more pleased to see this sign indicating that the students at Bucknell College are for Stevenson. That reminds me that practically everywhere we go in the proximity of a college we run into the same experience. I am reminded that years ago a man out in my section of the country said, "This country used to be safely Republican until they started to build schools."

	I am delighted to have this opportunity to ask your support for David Randall, your Democratic candidate for Congress. Although I have had no chance to know him before this campaign, I have asked some questions about him, and I have learned that David Randall is my kind of a Democrat--independent, forward-looking, and responsible. And I hope you will vote to send him to Washington because I expect to be there and I don't want to be too lonesome. Unlike my esteemed opponent I don't have to blush with embarrassment when I endorse a Democratic candidate. Nor do I have to throw away my convictions either.

	Harrisburg holds a special interest for me just now because your city was the starting point for another presidential campaign very much like this one. If I remember my high school history correctly, a distinguished general, William Henry Harrison, was nominated here in 1840 by the Whigs--the reactionary party of that day. They had no platform and no program. So his managers tried to railroad the general into the White House with a campaign of torchlight parades, character assassination and slogans. Instead of discussing the issues they just shouted, "Tippecanoe and Tyler too." I don't suppose America ever heard a more meaningless campaign slogan--at least until somebody invented, "It's time for a change." Incidentally, I noticed in the newspapers last night that the general is now assuring us that he is just the same man today that he was four years ago. He says that he hasn't changed a bit since he started running for office under the guardianship of Senator Taft and the rest of the Republican Old Guard. I should hate to think that my distinguished opponent's memory was slipping a little, but he seems to have forgotten what he wrote in a letter to a publisher of a newspaper in New Hampshire some four years ago. In that letter he said, "the necessary and wise subordination of the military to civil power will be best sustained when life-long professional soldiers, in the absence of some obvious and overriding reasons, abstain from seeking high political office." Well, I have no doubt that the general had his own reasons for changing his mind, but they are not yet obvious to a good many people, including Senator Taft.

	Now, in this fateful year of 1952, I don't believe our people can be stampeded by such slogans as "Tippecanoe and Tyler too," or by, "it's time for a change," or even by one that I just heard a day or so ago, "Ike plus Taft for the price of one."

	Voters are mature and sensible people; and before they vote for a change they want to know exactly what they are changing to. And that, my friends, is one thing we have never been able to learn from the opposition. The biggest single fact that has emerged from this campaign is that the Republicans have no program for the future. The only thing the Old Guard can tell us is what they are against. In brief, throw away--in brief they say that are against the constructive achievements of the last 20 years, ever since the Democratic party rescued the nation from the depths of unemployment and of depression. But, they can't tell us what they are for, because the warring factions within the Republican party have not been able to agree on anything. And, if they could agree, they would never be able to hide the Republican record of two decades--a record of blind, stubborn opposition to the will of the American people. The Republicans in Congress voted to cut down social security; they voted against soil conservation and rural electrification; they voted against minimum wages and fair collective bargaining, they voted against parity price supports for farm products; they voted against slum clearance and better housing; they voted against price controls to check the rising cost of living; they voted against every measure to build up our defenses and to strengthen the free world against Communist aggression.

	This is the record of the Old Guard Republicans, the men who have written this unbroken record of obstruction and reaction, and I mean Senator Taft, Senator Martin, Jenner, Dirksen and all of the rest of the Old Guard.

	For a few weeks last spring, I had hopes, as so many of you did, that General Eisenhower might bring a new kind of leadership to the great--to the distinguished Old Republican party. Like so many others, I too have been sadly disillusioned. With alarm and disbelief, we saw the general sign his treaty of surrender to Senator Taft. We watched him abandon one principle after another as he embraced the isolationists and the extreme reactionaries who have always fought against everything the general believed in. And we have come to realize beyond any possibility of doubt that the Republican party has not changed--that it still stands for nothing except a return to a dear, dead, buried past.

	Maybe the general believes as a United States senator once said that there are times when we must rise above our principles.

	I don't need to tell you what the Democratic party stands for, because you can read its record; you can read it in your own homes; you can read it in your own balance sheet and you can read it in your own lives. The Democratic program for America isn't complicated; it is simple; we stand for the people, for government with a heart--and I don't mean just a few people; I mean all of the people, and that means equal opportunity for everybody, regardless of race, color or creed.

	There have been mistakes, of course, and there will be more, because in case you don't know it, even the Democrats are human. But I think we have learned and profited from our mistakes, and I hope, as we all do, to keep on learning from and listening to the voice of the people. Most of all, my friends, we stand for peace. We aren't making promises we can't keep, and we refuse to play politics with the anxieties and the hopes of the nation and of the free world. So we are trying to talk sensibly to the American people. We are recognizing that the course ahead of us is a stern course, that there are no easy, simple, cheap solutions for war, for Communism, for hunger, for misery all over the world. We believe with all of our hearts that we can make this nation strong and secure, that we can keep good times at home and help our friends abroad towards a stable prosperity and peace, the ultimate dream of all mankind. And if we do these things, it is towards this goal that we direct our best energies.

	All of you can help this cause by voting next week for candidates who are dedicated with all of their hearts to the purposes of peace and a strong and prosperous America. You have just such a man in David Randall, your fine candidate for the House, and in Guy K. Bard, who has served you well as a judge and who will serve you well in the Senate; you have one of the best qualified candidates that it has been my good fortune to encounter about the country.

	We know our cause is a just one; it is the people's cause, and I know that I can count on your support. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for coming here, and before I go along, I thought you might be amused with a telegram that somebody handed me a moment ago. It comes from California and it says that on the day after election, the five star finals of the newspapers will be on the street and so will the editors and the publishers. Actually, they really haven't treated us very badly, you know.

	Before I go, I should like very much to have the privilege of introducing to you some charming ladies that we have with us on this campaign train. First, Mrs. India Edwards, the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, and my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives; and the national co-chairman for the National Volunteers for Stevenson, who is a reformed Republican, Mrs. Dick of Chicago; and a grand old lady of Pennsylvania that you all know, Emma Guffey Miller; and also our State Vice Chairwoman of the Democratic Committee, Mrs. Ruth Horting.

	I think we have to resume our journey now. I have enjoyed our brief visit here in Harrisburg. I sometimes wonder a little about the danger of too much egotism that afflicts a candidate. I think somehow that we are not exactly--at least we have never purported to be on a crusade; we merely purport to try to go out and tell the American people what our record is and what our program is. We think that that is all that you expect of a candidate, that and the utter dedication of heart and mind to the job.

	I thought of a story the other day about my grandfather--my great grandfather. He was a minister--he was a Presbyterian minister and his best friend in this community down South many, many years ago was a Catholic priest who used to stop by in the evening on his way home from the church, and they sat in the summer twilight and talked about all of the things that interested them, the parishioners, the state of the world, the state of mankind, and the formula was always about the same; when the shadows lengthened, the priest would get up and he would say, "and now I will say good night to you, Brother Green, and we will both be doing the Lord's work--you in your way and me in His."

	I don't know whose work I am doing but it gives me the utmost satisfaction that it is the work of the great mass of the American people. Good-bye and bless you all for coming.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTS     * ) ) ) )
 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )	 @ 	 " e: