

	My friends, you make me very proud.  You have come here taking this hour out of your busy day to give me a chance to bring you a word of greeting--as one American to another--and to bring to you some of the thoughts that are on my heart and mind as we progress through this political campaign.  I am additionally honored in the character of the men with whom I have been privileged to travel on the train as we go through your great state.  The man whom you are going to make governor I have know for some time.  He visited me in Europe.  Since this campaign started he has visited me and advised with me numerous times.  I truly congratulate you on such a candidate for governor; and your two United States senators are men who are alert, men of experience, wise, men who know what goes on in the world and who are experienced in the ways of combating Communism, making certain that your government is clean, is honest, and is serving the people and is not trying to rule them.  Along with them is Congressman Heselton.  I can't imagine any sector of the United States better represented in its total team of political leaders than you are.

	All through this section, I am discovering old friends from Williams, from Amherst, from Smith and a lot of other places.  All of these old friends have been talking to me during the day, and I am reminded how much we are the same people in Massachusetts and in Southern California, in Boston and in Dallas.  We have somewhat different accents and certainly we have different histories.  Yours back here was already an old civilization before the first plow struck my native Kansas.  Nevertheless, underneath it all, we want certain fundamentals.  Above all, we want peace.  We want peace in the world, and we covet no other nation's property.  We do not want to interfere with their rights.  We merely want to live in such a way that we can work out our destinies so as to profit most, spiritually and intellectually and materially, each of 155 million people.  The desire for peace is as strong in Phoenix as it is in Pittsfield.  I assure you all over this United States, we are united in that thought.

	Now, I am going to talk to you for just a moment about one requisite of getting peace, and it is this:  It is a strong United States.  I want to point out to you that with our great expanse of territory, our great diversity of resources, our diversity of types of things that we do--work that we perform in each of these sections--we have to be unified, not behind methods and details, but behind these great principles of which only the determination to have peace is merely one--but it is the overshadowing one.

	Now, how can we be united?  How can our agriculture, our industry, our scholars, our workmen, our management, our financiers--all of us--be united in a sense?

	I will tell you what we must have.  We must have a government that every single one of us has cause to respect.  It might be a government, ladies and gentlemen, that wasn't of your first choice, but it must be one that will excite your pride.  And when it enunciates for us these great principles of longing for peace, a determination to remain in freedom, to treat all other nations fairly and demand fair treatment from them, you want to believe in that government.

	We have had an administration that has been long in power and since the close of World War II, let's look at just a brief part of the record--and manifestly in the brief time available here we cannot look at it in detail.  Where have we gone with respect to this theme of peace?  We have had the emergencies in Greece and Turkey.  We have had the Berlin airlift.  We have lost China.  We have had the Korean War.  All in all, we have lost human souls to the Communist dictatorship at the average of something like 100 million per year.  Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is no administration which could have done this job perfectly.  Let us not try to demand perfection from people who are, after all, but human beings.  But there, after all, is the record, a bad one.  Fortunately, it is interspersed with a few bright spots, but on the whole it is a bad government and means a great loss to the free world.  It is a backward step from peace instead of a forward step.

	While we were doing this abroad, what have we done at home?  I have had huge and extraordinary expenditures.  Again, a great portion of them were necessary, which makes it all the more important, my friends, that unnecessary expenses be completely eliminated from our tax budget.  Waste and corruption have no place in government, particularly at a time when the taxes we must take out of the people's pockets are so great.  We have had deficits in that budget which have inflated your money still more and made it cheaper.  Today, as every housewife knows, when she goes down to the grocery store to buy a bag of groceries, she pays now twenty-four dollars and fifty cents for exactly the same basket of groceries that she paid ten dollars for when this last war started.

	Ladies and gentlemen, we talk about more take-home pay.  That is an important thing.  But you want more take-home pay that will take home more from the store when you go up to shop.  That is important.

	One of the most distinguished editorial staffs in our country says that this government has been deliberately inflating our money to keep up the appearance of false prosperity.  But whether or not they could have saved a great deal of money from that kind of thing, whether or not this corruption costs us too much, corruption and disloyalty in government have cost us far more in something else than they have cost us in mere dollars.  They have cost us our pride in government, pride in Washington, and respect for Washington.

	When you look at Washington and you read in your daily headlines that there is another scandal a day, to which they have now added another slander a day, you hang your head in shame.  That, my friends, is a luxury we cannot afford.  We can afford dollars far more than we can afford to give up respect in the national leadership of this United States.  I say again, the only way that the might of this country can be realized to its full is to be united behind a government in the basic essentials that we are thinking.  If we don't have that, our power for promoting peace will be badly damaged in the world because other governments will not have for us the respect that we cannot have for ourselves.  They may owe us dollars and they may feel for us those feelings that a debtor has for his creditor, but will they have for us the trust and will they have for that government of ours the trust that we won't give it?  Of course they won't.  We must clean out the political leaders who have brought about this situation that denies us the right to look up to them and say, "We are proud of you."

	I want to leave with you just one more thought about our internal situation, still closely related to this question of peace.  Because the opposition has been put to the task of trying to defend a record that cannot be defended, they have been trying to sell to America a program of fear.  One of the fears they try to sell is this: That if you let these people leading this crusade lead our country, we will lose our prosperity and all hope of peace.  Ladies and gentlemen, if we can afford to spend these billions for rifles, for guns, for cannons, for planes, for ships, we can afford to spend them for anything else that makes for better living in our country.  When we turn this money lose to operate under private enterprise and local government for the purchase of schools and roads and hospitals and all of the things we need, when we begin to turn jet planes and radar to making our lives better, safer, more convenient, we have got markets right at home that can't possibly be fulfilled for a long time.

	On top of that, as we make each step toward peace we will get more from the world of those raw materials we so desperately need--the cobalt, the uranium, the manganese, the tin, the tungsten--the things we don't have, and we will send to them the electrical appliances that you people make.  We will send to them our agricultural surpluses.  We will trade profitably in a peaceful world.

	Ladies and gentlemen, as I go through this campaign, I have learned that, although I bring this administration to your attention, I need pay no attention whatsoever to the slander.  I will leave that to you to answer on November 4 and then this crusade will really start to give good government for bad government.

	Thank you a lot. 
FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEINFLATIONNATURAL RESOURCES--FOREIGN COUNTRIES     " r" l" h" ^"
 P" K" F" <" /" -" -" #"	 r 	 Z 	 = 	 - 	 $ e: