
	I am grateful, Senator Morse, for your warm and gracious introduction.

	You, my friends, know the esteem in which I hold your senior senator. I would not, for there would be no point in it, press on you my views as to his extraordinary qualifications as a servant of this state and of this nation. I share your satisfaction that the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate was not sent into Oregon from Washington, air mail, special delivery, and stamped--approved by the President. I respect your desire that the Senator from Oregon be the free choice of the citizens of Oregon. Wayne Morse wears no man's collar, as we saw in 1952. It is not often that a senator's conscience is stronger than his partisanship!

	So it is simply as a reflection of a deep and heartfelt personal admiration that I say just these two things about Wayne Morse. First, that it was twenty-four years ago, speaking here in Portland, that Franklin Roosevelt said, "Judge me by the enemies I have made." Well, judging by the enemies Wayne Morse has made among the Old Guard of the Republican party in Washington, it is clear that he has been one of the nation's most dedicated and effective defenders of progress and the public interest. And second, I shall count it a very great personal privilege if I can work--with Senators Wayne Morse and Richard Neuberger--in returning the government of this country to the service of the general welfare.

	And my feeling about this is equally strong with respect to Portland's charming and capable representative--whom I was so proud to have second my nomination in Chicago--your congresswoman, Edith Green.

	May I add, too--again not to trespass upon your judgment, but I suppose because of a special interest in the office of governor--that I respect very greatly the man whom I am sure will be Oregon's next Governor, Bob Holmes.

	Speaking now for myself, I want to say how grateful I am for the support you gave me in the primary last May. And I hope that those of you who were of a different mind then take satisfaction from the fact that Senator Kefauver and I are now carrying this banner together. I came to know Estes Kefauver last spring as a great fighter--and I've got some scars to prove it. I have come to know him now as a great partner, and a loyal friend--and not just my friend, but the friend of every Joe Smith in the country.

 	When anybody asks me about the basic difference between the Republican and Democratic parties, I answer that one basic difference is that our vice presidential candidate doesn't have to turn over any new leaf when he goes before the people. He has a consistent record of defending and speaking out for the public interest, and with him honor and truth are not tactics but characteristics. And another difference between the parties is that we didn't have to throw anybody out of our convention to get Estes Kefauver nominated.

	Well, Senator Kefauver and I have been hard at it ever since we were here with you last spring. And everywhere we have found a rejuvenated party, buoyant and vigorous, and people responding eagerly to the issues, people who are not content with the deluge of reassurances and half-truths from Washington.

	The issues before the country have emerged much more clearly in these past few weeks, and also the people's mood--clearly enough, incidentally, that the Republican managers have decided that while they don't mind a part-time President, they can't stand a part-time candidate.

	One of the central issues that has emerged is that we realize now how much, in the short space of four years, the government of this country has been shifted from the people to a single interest.

	The Republican candidate recognized this issue in his speech last night. He seems to resent, as he put it, the charge that his administration has been "indifferent" to labor and to Social Security and to the unemployed. He called this "political irresponsibility."

	I couldn't help thinking of the old comment that "what some people do speaks so loud you can't hear what they say."

	Well, what have they done? If they have been solicitous about labor, why did he oppose a minimum wage of $1.00? And why did he so renege on his promise to amend the Taft-Hartley Act that Secretary of Labor Martin Durkin resigned in disgust? And why has he refused to back up the present Secretary of Labor when he comes out against unfair right-to-work laws?

	Does the President really claim to be a champion of Social Security? Then why did he oppose the Democratic bills to lower the retirement age for women to sixty-two, and to pay benefits to disabled employees after age fifty? "Indifference" sounds like exactly the word for failure to realize that a worker crippled at fifty-five who has to support a family needs Social Security benefits even more than a man who retires at sixty-five.

	Does the President really object to his administration being called indifferent to unemployment? I remind him that his Secretary of Defense talked about workers out of jobs as kennel or hunting dogs, and that it was a White House assistant who said of unemployment this spring that the right to suffer is one of the joys of a free economy.

	And I want to say something, too, about another kind of indifference. I mean about the crisis in education in this country. The President said last night that twice in his State of the Union messages--in 1955 and 1956--he urged "swift action"--and that he even called a conference on education.

	Well, who was President from 1953 to 1955?--while we were falling tens of thousands of classrooms farther behind each year? And why was the conference convened almost three years after he took office? The proof of that pudding is that after three-and-a-half years of what the President calls his "swift action," a decent school construction bill was defeated this summer when most Democratic congressmen voted it and majority of the President's own party voted against it.

	We would be well along the road to meeting the school crisis today if the President had put one-half the swift action behind the school bill that he did behind the Dixon-Yates contract and the bills to give tax relief to the big corporations and to turn the Hells Canyon damsite over to the Idaho Power Company.

	I think the Republican candidate sincerely wants to see our children well educated, to see men at work instead of unemployed, and even to see older people enjoy the benefits of Social Security, whatever his past views on the latter may have been. But what he says reflects little realization of the fact that his administration is made up almost entirely of men who represent a single set of interests. They know what they want--and they get it. And if the President doesn't yet know, for example, that many of his fellow Republicans in the Congress are in fact against federal aid to education, then it is past time for someone to tell him the facts of the situation.

	The President in his speech last night set up a lot of straw men and then proceeded to slay them gallantly--while righteously denouncing political irresponsibility. He even told us Democrats what we stand for--bigger spending, loose handling of the dollar, inflation, centralized federal power. I thought I was listening to Herbert Hoover! And then in the very next sentence he said what they were for--"greater freedom from federal intervention," and also "effective governmental action in all phases of life." Then I knew it wasn't Herbert Hoover but Madison Avenue, and the so-called new Republican party--that is new only for two months every four years.

	Again he said, "Weakness invites aggression--and strength stops it." That one reminded me of what Oliver Wendell Holmes said about the woodpecker, "Thou sayest such undisputed things in such a solemn way." But he also said, implying some sinister Democratic scheme to weaken our defenses: "We cannot encourage our allies in the world to shoulder arms--while we throw ours to the ground." I will resist the temptation to say anything at this point about political responsibility, and merely remind you that it was the Democrats who voted the Air Force almost a billion dollars in the last session of Congress over the opposition of President Eisenhower's budget balancer.

	But I cannot dwell longer on the President's speech, tempting as that is. Rather, let me revert to those gentlemen around him who know what they want and get it. Secretary of the Interior McKay knew what he wanted. He wanted, as he put it, "to dispose of and to integrate the public domain with the private economy." And he got far too much of what he wanted. He "disposed of" Hells Canyon, and turned it over to a private power company. This means wasting half of this people's resource and only partial development of this region's economic and industrial potential. He brought the public power program almost to a standstill. In four years there has not been a single new power start in the Northwest. Some of you probably work for one of the thirteen companies whose power supplies had to be curtailed two weeks ago because of a power shortage. If so, you know that the Northwest cannot afford a slowdown in public power development.

	There were other things somebody wanted and got from the Eisenhower administration.

	They opened National Wild Life Refuges to the oil industry as never before.

	They permitted raids on the national forests under the pretext of mining.

	Secretary of the Treasury Humphrey knew exactly what he wanted: a big tax cut for corporations and their stockholders; lower defense spending; and high interest rates. And he got what he wanted. He gave the corporations their tax cut. Seventy-three cents out of every tax-cut dollar under Mr. Humphrey's 1954 tax bill went to corporations. Only nine cents went to the four families out of five that make less than $5,000.

	Defense spending was sharply cut, with more of an eye on today's budget than on tomorrow's security. Frequently, our military leaders, such as General Ridgway, were not even consulted when these defense cut-backs were made.

	He has tried to stop the whole public power program. In four years, the administration has not recommended a single new power start in the Northwest. Some of you probably work for one of the thirteen companies whose power supplies were threatened with curtailment two weeks ago because of a power shortage. If so, you know that the Northwest cannot afford to slow down in public power development.
BUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONEDUCATION--FACILITIESELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOCIAL SECURITYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     X* $* * 