

	Mayor Tripp and my friends:  I hope you will first allow me to address a word to those here from Texas Tech.  I have been fortunate in that I have been allowed to spend a vast portion of my adult years with young people--armies, air forces and navies are made up largely of America's young--and I want to say that from them I have acquired a very deep appreciation of their basic idealism--their thirst for a standard that has a due regard for moral values.

	Young America works for a cause, and I do not believe--and I shall never believe--that the pocketbook is the most sensitive nerve in the body of the young American.  So, while I wish I had real words of wisdom to give to these younger citizens of our country, I will say this:  So far as is given me the power to help pass on to you the lessons that my generation has derived from its experience--an experience that has been, in many instances, far from a happy one--I will help do so, so that you in your turn need not have to have the pitiful record, in your generation, of two world wars and an uneasy Cold War of seven years, and plagued also by a hot war in Korea.

	While I am making a bow to special adjuncts of this great city, may I also say a word to my friends from the Reese Airport Base.  I want not only to pay tribute to the men in uniform--the men who are carrying the burden of the security of our country in this uneasy world today--but I want to correct something for them that I have heard said about myself from one end of this country to the other--from New York to Florida and from Los Angeles to New Orleans.  It is that I, who wore the uniform forty-one years, would like to cut their pay.  Now, who thought that one up, I don't know, but it does show the desperation of the opposition.  I do hope that my old friends of the service will have sufficient confidence in me to refuse to believe the poisonous propaganda of some cheap politician.

	In Houston this morning, I started out this birthday of mine--a birthday that you Texans have made something that is terrific--and I have talked to them about two things:  about the belief of the opposition that all Texans are in the bag.  I, of course, have never believed any such thing.  Of course, I am not a politician--never have been, and I am not now--and maybe some of these more experienced people knew something.  But as long as I can look Texans like this in the face, I am going to stand up and say one thing:

	No Texan can deliver his vote except that Texan himself.  I do not believe that you belong in a bag with the Pendergast machine of Kansas City or the Arvey machine, or any other city machine ruled by city bosses.  I believe that Texans will vote their conscience.

	Along with this, and in furtherance of my conviction that we must fight against growing centralization of power in the federal government, I spoke briefly on the tidelands--the oil lands--question, off your coast, and in doing so I took my stand against the opposition.  I said I believed that these lands belonged just exactly where they have belonged for more than a hundred years:  with the states that own them.

	But now came up against this question:  "Well, who are you trying to get down here in the South?"  One of my friends of the press said, "Just who are you appealing to?  Just a bunch of Texas oil millionaires?"  Now, if there are as many Texas oil millionaires in Lubbock as there are people out here today, then Texas is getting even richer than I thought it was, because you are the people, my fellow Americans, that I am bringing my message to.

	Your governor, not long ago, expressed a thought that I should have liked to express.  I have copied it, and I shall not forget it.  He said, at the convention not far from here:  "Now is the time for every Texan to caucus with his conscience."  That is what I believe.

	Now, of course, the opposition has said that if you vote against the traditional party of the state you are a political apostate.  That big word means someone who is false to the faith.  What he means, of course, is that you would be false to the administration's faith:  the faith of the "Fair Deal."  What I think Governor Shivers meant is:  Do not turn away from your own faith; do not turn away from that in which you believe.  Then you certainly are not an apostate.

	At Waco, where I went after leaving Houston, I talked to a great crowd at the airport, mainly about farms.  The reasons I talked about farms were two:  One, of course, we are in this great agricultural state of Texas.  But secondly, although I have, time and again, in Minnesota and Nebraska--in the Midwest and in the South--expressed my views about a sound governmental farm program.  I find that all over the United States there are people parroting the opposition cry:  "The old General wants to pull the rug out from under the farmers."  In the first place, I have a little farm myself, so I don't know why they would think I would want to commit suicide.  But more than that, again we have the desperation of the opposition.

	Devoid of real programs, it has nothing in the world to do but to come around and preach the doctrine of fear:  "See what they are going to do to you.  Don't let them take it away."

	Don't let them take away what?  High taxes?  High prices?  A 260-billion-dollar debt?  The loss of peace?  A bungling foreign program?  Corruption in government?  We shouldn't take them away?  Well, I think we should!

	But they try to apply that to every constructive and decent thing that the congressman of both parties have attempted to do for the United States in these late years.  One of them is the farm program.  I have expressed my views, as I said before, in several places, about these things.  The big difference between me and the administration--between all of those who have joined with me in this crusade and the administration--doctrine--is this:  They want to do everything from Washington through the medium of the Brannan Plan; I want to devise a farm program where farm thought, farm relief, farm information and farm operation are the controlling elements.

	I believe that, unless we keep these programs close to home, we are feeding the ever-growing desire on the part of federal bureaucrats to gather to themselves more and more power over our lives.  No matter what some detail of procedure says in our laws, unless the people who are affected--the people on the spot--have a controlling, influential voice in the program, it will in the end fail, because we will surrender responsibilities to our Washington overloads and then we know it will go wrong.  I still don't believe that a Texas ranch can be run by a bureaucrat sitting behind a desk two thousand miles away.

	You have wrought marvels from the productive soil of your state, but the priceless ingredient has been your own intelligence, your own initiative, your own energy.

	Thomas Jefferson said something on this subject of keeping the government out of it.  He said, "Were we directed from Washington when to sow and when to reap, we should soon want bread."  But, you will remember, the modern administration Democrat doesn't think much of Jeffersonian democracy.

	No program made by man is perfect, and our present support systems--and all the rest of the things that we have to assure that the farmer shall not fall into a pit of disaster not of his own making--are not perfect.  We have not yet extended a proper program to the perishables as well as to the nonperishables in our farm products.

	Moreover, as time goes on, we know we must make adjustment to meet changing conditions.  Again I pledge that, in any adjustment in the future, after present laws have run their course and are up for revision, the farmers who are affected shall be consulted and their voice shall be heard in influential places.

	Likewise, in operation of these things, you know how often the bureaucrat can go wrong.  Here, I think, this part of the state was probably affected by their predictions about cotton and the great crop that they predicted.  They finally made predictions that drove the price down and down, and after most of the crop was marketed, they suddenly said, "Oh, we didn't get as much as we thought we would."  And it is estimated that it cost the Texas farmers fifty million dollars.

	Is that the kind of thing they don't want us to take away?

	Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this crusade in which I am engaged is to supplant bad government with good government.  To my mind, it is impossible to have good government unless we first recognize that our form of government--all free government--is based on a deeply felt religious faith.  Our forefathers acknowledged it--indeed they proclaimed it--so that, thereby, they might make an intelligent explanation of our kind of government.  That is the first thing that we must never forget.

	Next, good government will have honesty and integrity, not only to prevent the loss of your tax money through its sticking to the pockets of tax collectors and all that sort of thing, but it will be an honest government in order to earn and retain your respect, in order that it may be strong and produce a strong United States.

	It will be concerned with the individual and collective security of the United States--security from the threat abroad and security for the individual from within, so that he may not become an object of charity due to causes beyond his own control.

	A sound and good government will be concerned with preserving the value of your money, so that your pensions, your bonds, your savings accounts, will not disappear down the drain of inflation. 

	Good government will be concerned about your taxes, so that the individual American is not robbed of his incentive to better himself, his children, their education, and the community in which he lives.

	We must, by reducing the wasteful expenditures of government--getting rid of the inefficiency, duplication and extravagance--bring the cost of government down.  We must produce an intelligent program for peace in the world, so that behind these two programs we can bring taxes down.

	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, good government, above all things, would want to make people understand that government is to serve people, not to rule over them.  So I should like to describe it in this fashion:  If you install in Washington a government in which you could, for four years, believe it was a good government, the principal members of that government could come four years from now and stand on this platform.  And you, the American people, would be the judges.  You would look at their record; you would go through your memory, and you could turn to each other and honestly say:

	"They were fair.  They did not try to play one group or one section or one class against another in order to seek votes from one at the expense of another.  They did not treat one section as a captive section:  They worked for all America.  They believed that what was good for all America was good for each citizen in it."  Next you could turn to each other and honestly say:  "They were just; as God gave them the power to see justice, they tried to be just in all things."  Next you would say:  "They were friendly; they did not try to lord over us.  They found it an honor to serve us, because they were one of us.  Being part of us, being where they are because we put them there, they never forgot to be humble enough to work with citizens and not just to work citizens." 

	Finally, and above all things, you could look at each other and say:  "They were honest.  There were brought to Washington men of outstanding preeminence in every walk of our national life, from every section of our territory.  They were men who, by their very names and standings, command respect.  They were incorruptible.  Therefore, not only were they honest, but they selected men under them who were honest and loyal."  So there was no question of hunting out Communism in government; these men would not let it in.  There was no question of hunting down dishonesty, because these men would not let it in.  But if these men and women were so unfortunate as to find one among them who failed--failed his trust to the people of the United States--it would not take them three years, or even one year--or even ten minutes--to get busy to uproot it and throw it out.  

	And finally you could meet and you could say to each other:  "They intelligently and persistently sought a program of peace in the world, a program of peace consistent with our honor, our responsibilities, and our own enlightened self-interest--one that was in keeping with the highest of our moral standards, and protected us and our children forever--a peace that would be lasting, because it was just."  These are not specific political promises I am bringing you.  The political promises have been worn out over the past twenty years, and I have no intention of reviving their shopworn number and holding them up to your view.

	What I have just said to you constitutes a pledge on the part of myself and all those associated with me in this crusade, down to include the millions who are the combat troops, who are working for good government to supplant bad government in Washington.

	May I again express to each of you my very, very deep thanks for coming out today to give me a chance to greet you and to express these few simple thoughts.

	Thank you very much.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCOAST/WETLANDSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEMILITARY PERSONNELNATURAL RESOURCES--FEDERAL VS. STATE OWNERSHIPPARTY AFFILIATION     5 5 5 5 5
 {5 v5 q5 j5 e5 c5 c5 Y5	  	  	  	 f 	 Q 	 ? 	  e: