

	First of all let me express my appreciation to the man who just introduced me--one of the promising and able and brightest lights in California politics---Senator George Masconi. And let me add what a privilege it is to stand on this platform with one of the ablest men ever to serve in the United States Congress--Congressman Ron Della. He is going to be joined by another man whom we will be proud of in the United States Congress, Pete Stark who is here on the stage. We are honored by highly regarded members of the California State Assembly, Senator Domilie, Senator Petrus, Assemblyman John Burton, Assemblyman Miller, Assemblyman Carolos Bean and so many other distinguished figures--the Secretary of State of California Jerry Brown and the Mayor of Berkeley--Mayor Wagner of whom we are all proud of, and I probably have omitted some of the distinguished... what a privilege it is to come here from a glorious day in Ohio where I had the privilege of speaking to a large audience first at Barbeton at noon today and later to a great United Auto Workers picnic in that state and now to come here to speak to one of the most respected labor groups in this country: The Alameda County Central Labor Council.

	All of us who believe in what is good and decent and progressive in America today are indebted to this great central labor council, we are indebted to such great leaders as Russ Crowel and Dick Grew and all of the others who have fought to make this a better working place for the people of this state and a better place for the workers of America as a whole.

	Now ordinarily I don't become involved in state referendums. I think these are matters that have to be decided by those who vote in the local elections, but I heard what Senator Masconi said. I talked to Assemblyman Burton, and I have talked to others about this ignominious Proposition 22 and that is a proposition that ought to be defeated here in the state of California because any proposal that interferes with the rights of one group of Americans--in this case the farm workers of America--is a threat to the freedom and the right of every other citizen of this land. 

	Now this morning Mr. Nixon talked about the work ethic and he denounced what he called the welfare ethic. Well I want to say something about that. It is Richard Nixon who in the past three and a half years has followed disastrous economic policies that have added between four and six million people to the welfare rolls of this country. When this man came into the White House in January of 1969 there were 8.9 million people who found it necessary to be on welfare--just slightly under nine million. How many people do you think after three and a half years of Richard Nixon have found it necessary to go on welfare to survive--fifteen million Americans who are now on the welfare rolls; two million people on the unemployment rolls who were not there three and a half years ago. So what I propose is that in this country we take whatever steps are necessary to provide a decent job for every man and woman in this country who is able and willing to work.

	Mr. Nixon is for the work ethic on Labor Day but he is for unemployment on every other day of the year. And I want to say on this important and significant Labor Day that no political party can serve two masters--you can't serve the people and serve the forces of privilege and greed at the same time. And both by heritage and by choice that, after all, is the fundamental difference between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party.

	Now of course there is a group that is called Democrats for Nixon, and that illustrious group of Democrats for Nixon is headed by Mr. Nixon's former Secretary of the Treasury, the Honorable John Connolly of the state of Texas. It was during the time that John Connolly was Secretary of the Treasury that labor had its wages frozen while big business got a $9 billion tax cut. That is what Mr. Connolly is for. How many people here had their taxes cut last year by the Nixon administration? Everybody here who had a tax cut last year ought to join the Democrats for Nixon under Mr. Connolly. Now my answer to this is to say that we will give Mr. Connolly to Mr. Nixon; we will give the oil billionaires to Mr. Nixon, and we will take the oil workers and the dock workers and the auto workers and the machinists and the school teachers and the working people of this country. 

	So let us look at what the real choice is before the people of this country in 1972. Mr. Nixon describes it as the choice of the century and that is one thing on which he and I agree--it is the choice of the century. The question is can we make that choice clear to the American people--I don't mean perfectly clear--I just mean make it clear in plain old language. The real choice is first of all four more years of Mr. Nixon's secret plan to end the war or an open public plan to recognize that this war was a disastrous mistake and that we ought to end it and end it now without any further delay. And there is another choice that we have to make in 1972 and that is a choice between four more years of Mr. Nixon's wartime inflation or four years of stable, peacetime prices. 

	Whenever you go to the local grocery store or the supermarket you are going to be reminded that no working person can afford another four more years of Mr. Nixon's economic policies. And the truth is that the Nixon-type economic policy is ground into the price of every pound of hamburger you buy. Mr. Nixon believes in controls on the income of people who work for a living but he believes that the sky is the limit on those who live on corporate profits and interest rates and that is an injustice to the people of this country. And perhaps the clearest choice of all that we will make in 1972 is the choice between tax favoritism on the one hand and tax justice on the other. And I think that is going to be a crucial question. 

	A week ago I went right into the heart of Wall Street and I told the truth on tax justice in this country. The Republicans say I want to soak the rich. I don't want to soak the rich, I just want them to start paying their fair share of the load. And this has to do with tax loopholes. It has to do with tax justice and just remember that every time you sit down to eat that baloney sandwich at work--you don't deduct that from your tax bill, but the business executive with his twenty-dollar martini luncheon deducts it from his taxes. You pay for every loophole in the tax law that benefits someone else, including John Connolly's oil millionaire friends in the state of Texas. You even pay the taxes that Ronald Reagan has managed to avoid. 

	Now the point of all of this is that no one wants to penalize effort and initiative in this country, but we ought to remember that this nation began with a rallying cry--"no taxation without representation." If there was any one single cause that triggered rebellion in this country it was the injustice in the tax laws imposed on the people of the American colonies. Now we ought to revise that today to say "No taxation without justice for all of the people of this land." And that means that money made by money should be taxed at the same rate as money made with the sweat and the toil of the working people of this country.

	There has been so much rubbish written in the press and circulated about my views on tax and welfare reform that I want to take a minute to tell you what I stand for as well as what Mr. Nixon stands for. I have demanded a program to close $22 billion in tax loopholes. It will not take one additional penny out of the pockets of anyone who makes his income on wages or salary. It will not take one additional penny out of those who live on investment income provided it is not investment that is sheltered by unjustified tax loopholes. None of you will pay more, but the corporations and the wealthy will finally begin to pay their fair share of the load.

	Now Mr. Nixon also has a plan on taxation--remember he is the president who has run up more than an $80 billion deficit in his first three and a half years in office and it is his last three and a half years in office--and so after the election if he wins, which God forbid, there is going to have to be an accounting. And what does he have in mind? Well I doubt very much if we are going to see the facts on that plan before November 7th, but I can tell you what I think it is, and indeed what I am sure it is, and it is the old National Sales Tax that has been under consideration for many years. It is going to be called something different--it will be called the Value Added Tax--but a sales tax by another name smells just as bad. And this--we have done some calculations on what a National Sales Tax would do to the people of this country--it would hit the working people the hardest--it would hit the middle-income people hard--it would hit the older people who are already sorely pressed the hardest of all--and it is the most unjust, the most reactionary, the most backward-looking tax that it is possible for the mind of man to devise. 

	And I submit that this is what Mr. Nixon has in mind if he wins this election on November 7th. Now I think that when that difference becomes clear and when it is discovered that it is going to cost the average family two hundred dollars a year more to pay Mr. Nixon's Value Added Tax, and when that is compared with the alternative proposal that I have offered to close the loopholes at the top of the income scale for those who are not paying their fair share of the load, it will not be the American people who have anything to fear in 1972--it will be Richard Nixon who will have something to fear.

	Now these are the choices before the country and we desperately need your help to see that this message is brought to the people all across this land and neither Sargent Shriver nor I have any secret $10 million campaign fund stashed away. In fact, we are going to have the greatest test of our political lives in trying to raise the funds that we need to carry on this campaign. And that is why every place I go I am appealing--to the young people, to the older people, to those in the middle, to those who work, to the older people, to the housewife and to the student--to give your dollars to this campaign so we can bring our message to all of the people of the United States.

	Now remember that we are dealing with Mr. Nixon and we are going to be called radicals when we stand up for the interests of the people of this country. This is the same man who began here in California some twenty years ago by calling his first opponent, Congressman Voorhees, a radical. He called Helen Gahagan Douglas a radical, he called Harry Truman a radical and he called Adlai Stevenson and John Kennedy a radical and he is doing it once again in 1972. But what is a radical? That is a name that has been applied by the forces of privilege and power to try to preserve the things that are wrong in the status quo. But after all I don't have to tell the people of California about Richard Nixon. You know all about him and that is why ten years ago he moved to New York where he hoped to find greener pastures.

	Let me conclude on this note--some twenty-seven years ago, like many of the people in this audience today, I was involved in World War II, and in my case I was a bomber pilot. We were hit very badly over a target one afternoon in the spring of 1945, and it appeared for a time that we might lose the plane and would have to bail out. But we made an assessment of the trouble and the damage and I gave an order to the crew to "resume your stations, we are going to bring the plane home." Now we have had a difficult and trying month, but on this Labor Day I say to those of you who are workers across America--I say to my fellow Democrats, and I say to concerned Republicans who are anxious to join our cause--I say to you to fight on, and to resume your stations, because together we are going to bring America home to the great ideals that gave us birth.
CAMPAIGN FINANCECONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSALES TAXWAGE AND PRICE POLICYWELFARETAX REFORM     u0 A0 ;0 70 /0
 #0 0 0 0 0 / / /	  	  	 _ 	 G 	 / 	 & 	   
 e: