

	Well, you know, as long as we have the young people for us, there is nothing to worry about in the Democratic party. I am always surprised to find so many people at this hour in the morning at these meetings, because I come from a farming country where they get up early. I don't know about this area around here but I do know something about it during the war because I came here a number of times when you were helping build ships. However, that is not what I am talking about today. I am very grateful for your coming out here and deeply touched by this response to our journey through Massachusetts.

	There is some very important business before our nation, as you all know, and it encourages me to think that these many groups we see all the time have a strong feeling we had better leave the management of our affairs in the hands of the Democratic party. And one reason for this is that it has become harder and harder instead of easier and easier to tell precisely what the Republican party stands for in this campaign. I confess it is early in the morning to be harsh about anybody and to be very critical of anybody. I don't want to be critical or harsh. I have in mind that we are now only a week from our election and we still don't know precisely what the Republicans propose to do about much of anything. We know where they stand on the matter of a new labor relations law, for example. That is precisely where they stood for the past five years. That is an old Republican position.

	On foreign policy, which perhaps is our most important concern, they have us completely confused. I have an idea that that is by design and intention. And if that is their purpose, that is the one issue on which they have come perfectly clean. We haven't the faintest idea what they intend. I said when the general announced that he was going to go to Korea the other day, that perhaps he was getting the wrong bus because the Korean War isn't going to be settled in Korea. It is going to be settled in Moscow. As far as our Democratic position is concerned, I think you all know the substance of it in detail. It is the program upon which we have moved for some twenty years, from the depths of a depression to a position of solid prosperity at home and of leadership in the family of nations. We are not just sitting back and counting our blessings. We are looking ahead to the problems before us, and they demand our most careful attention. Certainly we have to watch the problem of living costs most closely. A lot of loopholes have been bored in our cost-of-living controls. They must be plugged up if the cost of living shows signs of further increase.

	I guess that is a--well, it is probably a Republican pilot.

	There are many improvements in our labor relations law, in our Social Security Act, in our agricultural legislation, and it is time, I think, that we stopped treating this question of eliminating racial segregation as a political football, and that we get it worked out so that there will be equality of opportunity for all Americans, regardless of their race, or their color, or their creed. And most important of all is the business of driving ahead toward our goal of world peace--and I mean peace without war. Certainly the Korean situation is the most compelling problem that we have today, and demands our utmost and continuous attention. We can count on no gains in this field until that matter is brought to a final conclusion. But that is only part of our obligations, both to our sons and to the nations of the free world which look to us for friendship and leadership. We must press every effort to counteract, to neutralize, and to turn back these poison forces of imperialist Communism which the men in the Kremlin seek to spread across the whole world. We believe with all of our hearts that we can make this nation strong and that we can keep good times; and, if we can, we shall avoid world war that would inevitably destroy both the world and our civilization which we have created through 2,000 years of Christian effort. It is toward this effort that we direct our best energies, and it is toward this purpose, too, that we have sought companions abroad to join us in this mighty battle for a safer and a more secure world. All of you can help in this cause, and you can help by voting in November for candidates who are dedicated with all of their hearts toward the purposes of peace and a strong and a prosperous United States.

	If I am going to be entrusted with your trust and confidence in this appalling job, I shall need the help in the House of Representatives of men like David Crowley, who was good enough to introduce me here this morning; and I shall certainly need the help in the Senate of the United States of this remarkable young man who has been nominated for the United States Senate, Jack Kennedy. And if you want to carry on as you have with a progressive administration the affairs of this great commonwealth, you had better send Paul Dever back to the governor's mansion. They all believe with me that our cause is a just one; that we know that our cause is the people's cause as it has been for these past two great Democratic decades.

	You know, I remember during the war, in Washington when I was in the Navy Department, they used to say if you worked in Washington during the world war, you would contract one of three diseases--you would either get ulcers, galloping frustration or a sense of humor.

	As far as the ulcers are concerned, my health has never been better I want you to know. As far as the frustration is concerned, my only frustration is that I can't find out what the Republicans are talking about. And as far as the sense of humor is concerned, I have never had a better time in my life.

	I wonder if you have noticed that any time the Republicans say anything ugly--which is not infrequent--about us Democrats, it is a public service, but whenever we Democrats say anything about the Republicans, it is a smear. It has gotten so bad that I can't wake up in the morning without wondering what happened to me the night before--I don't know whether I became a traitor the night before, a subversive Communist, or just a socialist, or just a poor half wit, who didn't want this job anyway but just loves the job of getting it.

	I have often thought that the best thing I could do was make a deal with the Republicans--it may be a little late now though I proposed it more than two months ago and I didn't get any takers--the suggestion was that if they would stop telling lies about us, we would stop telling the truth about them.
And now I did read in your morning newspapers that the general's campaign manager has announced that we can all expect that in the last week of the campaign the Democrats will step up their smear campaign.

	Can you tie that? Just tonight, with the general's full approval, you will hear perhaps the most magnificent of all smears of all time when the junior senator from Wisconsin tries to save an election for the Republicans in the last few days.

	Well, I am not worried--are you?

	You have been very good to come here; it touches me deeply. I am profoundly grateful to you, and I bless you, everyone of you and wish you godspeed.

	I am deeply touched by this thoughtfulness and I am so grateful to you, John Keith, and to all of those who associated with you, in presenting me this everlasting reminder of this city and of this famous vessel. And if we can only cling to the Constitution of the United States, we have nothing to fear.

	And I wonder if before I leave you would permit me to introduce to you my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives. And I also have with me the national co-chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson who has faithfully developed, led this activity among the independent voters all over the United States, Mrs. Dick of Chicago. She confesses that she was formerly a Republican. We also have the national vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards. And I wonder if you would like to meet Mr. Steve Mitchell, the National Chairman of the Democratic party. I shall never forget this visit to Quincy and I will be back. Good-bye.
COMMUNISMELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)              
         s  q  q  g 	 _ 	 V 	 9 	  e: