

	Thank you very much, Governor Anderson, Master of Ceremonies Bill Walker, my colleague in the Congress, Congressman Don Fraser and other distinguished platform guests, and ladies and gentlemen. 

	It is great to be in Minnesota today for an event that has become one of the best known and most honored traditions in America today. And I am proud to have been introduced by a governor who is not only known in this state as a distinguished and able public servant, but who is being recognized across the country as a man whose career gives great promise of national prominence in the years ahead--Governor Wendell Anderson. And I am pleased to share this platform with Bill Walker, with one of my long time friends and colleagues in the Congress, Don Fraser. 

	I think that we all know that this has been an event over the past twenty years that has been almost a command performance for presidential candidates. It was at the 1952 festival where the well-known picture of Adlai Stevenson was taken showing that famous hole in his shoe. And those of you who are older will remember that that shoe with the hole in it became the symbol of the Adlai Stevenson campaign and many of us wore those little silver colored shoes on our lapel buttons.

	Now I realize that I have to be more careful than Governor Stevenson because this administration has at least thirty top spokesmen lined up to attack me on everything that I say or do in the course of this campaign. It has gotten to the point that when I read what my critics have to say about me in the public press, I scarcely recognize the person they are talking about. And I fully suspect that if I were photographed here today with a hole in my shoe, at least a half dozen administration spokesmen would call a press conference before tonight to denounce me. Secretary of Agriculture would find some way to show that this is harmful to agriculture. The Secretary of the Treasury would certainly find some evidence that it was undermining the economy. Mr. Mitchell would probably discover that it was an evidence of radicalism. And Gordon Liddy, the recent White House Official who led the Watergate bugging, would doubtless say that he knew all about it, having heard it on the telephone a few days earlier. The only person who would probably have no comment at all is the finance chairman for the Committee to Re-elect the President, who doesn't like to be on record answering questions.

	But I am especially happy to be here, as Governor Anderson has said, because of my own long background with rural and farm people. Most of my life I have lived very close to the farm producers of this country. Farmers and other people have literally been the foundation of my public career, and I think the future of rural America and the fate of independent farming is one of the central issues in this campaign. 

	The choice to me is very clear. It is a choice between four more years of an administration that has largely ignored the working farmers of this land or four more years of an administration that is largely based on the proposition that no one of us can prosper unless the farm families of this country prosper with us. 

	Now, in a very real sense, the present administration breaks into two parts: the first three years largely of turning their backs on the farmer and the current year of attempting to embrace him. But I don't think that farmers can afford a friendly president only one year out of four. They need a full-time president and I intend to be one. I think that it is fair to say that not since the years of Ezra Taft Benson has there been an administration so closely aligned with the interests of corporate agribusiness and so fundamentally indifferent to the concerns of working farm families. And that is no coincidence because the men who run the Department of Agriculture are the same men who ran it under Ezra Taft Benson. If a modern Rip Van Winkle awoke after a twenty-year sleep and found himself walking through the corridors of the Department of Agriculture today, he would never know that he had been asleep. The new faces of the Nixon administration are in fact the old faces of the Benson administration, and they have returned to complete a job that they so efficiently started twenty years ago--to preside over the extinction of the traditional family farm as we have known it in this country.

	Four years ago, at an event similar to this one, Mr. Nixon made a speech in Des Moines, Iowa. He said at that time that 74 percent of parity is intolerable and I agree with that, but during his four years agricultural parity has averaged out at 72 percent, and today it is barely 75 percent, so that farmers are still missing one out of every four dollars of their rightful income. But 74 percent was intolerable in 1963 and it is intolerable today and the time has come to confront that fact.

	During the last four years some 250,000 more farms have been forced to shut down and 1 million more people have left rural America. The Secretary of Agriculture who now presides over the Department of Agriculture says this is inevitable, but I have never accepted that proposition--I don't accept it now and I never will. The cold fact of life is that farmers earn less today for a bushel of corn then they earned a generation ago and yet the cost of machinery, and indeed the cost of money, have both moved considerably beyond the level of a generation ago so that the cost/price squeeze still remains the most painful reality in the lives of farmers of this nation. President Kennedy once said in a speech in my state that the farmer is the only man in our economy who buys at retail, sells at wholesale and pays the freight both ways. And he could have added that the farmer is the only producer who is penalized for his efficiency. 

	But when Mr. Nixon took office four years ago a corn grower needed 197 bushels of corn to pay the real estate taxes on 100 acres of farmland. Today instead of 197 bushels he needs 252 bushels to pay the taxes on the same land--an increase of 28 percent. And this administration has not come up with a property tax reform proposal. The one they claim is on the drawing boards would be financed with a national sales tax--the most regressive and reactionary tax that it is possible to devise--and one that would hit farmers and working people and old people harder than anyone else. I think we do need to provide some relief to the property taxpayers of this country but the way to do it is not by a sales tax but by closing some of the most unjustified loopholes at the top of our federal income tax laws and using those revenues to carry some of the burden now being borne by the property owners of this country to sustain our schools. That is the kind of a tax reform that I think is required in the United States in the 1970's. But I do not believe that the farm people of this country can afford another four years of the Nixon economic philosophy. That administration has fought tooth and nail to eliminate any reasonable parity price support in legislation for the past three years. 

	This administration, when corn prices were at depression levels, defeated a bill in the Congress of the United States to raise price support loans by 25 percent. That defeat alone cost the grain farmers of this country $1 billion with $100 million of that coming out of the pockets of the grain producers of the state of Minnesota. 

	It is the Nixon administration that has repeatedly cut back and held up millions of dollars for farm price supports, for credit loans, for conservation programs, REA, rural environment programs and everything that has to do with the prosperity of agricultural America. 

	It is this administration that seriously considered dismantling the Department of Agriculture and disbursing its functions in other parts of the Cabinet--essentially urban oriented agencies. It is this administration that has tried to replace a farm program with a public relations program. 

	They have, for example found a new way to figure parity--just change the definition. Today 75 percent of parity actually appears on the Administration's books in this election year as 101 percent of parity. Is there any farmer here who honestly believes that he is receiving 101 percent of parity on the grain production in this state. Unfortunately, farmers of America can't use that kind of new mathematics to pay off their creditors and to pay their bills. It is the Nixon administration that has turned the Department of Agriculture into a springboard into agribusiness. 

	Now I am told that at one time the administration first considered buying a shuttle bus to run between the Department of Agriculture and these big business agricorporations. But they apparently decided it would be cheaper and more efficient if they just moved in together. And we saw that happen when Hardin and Butz exchanged places at Ralston-Purina and during the past several months we have seen a frantic movement of personnel between the giant grain companies and the Department of Agriculture. Now the Secretary says that there is no impropriety in these arrangements. But on the recent grain deal with the Soviet Union--and I am for the sale of grain to the Russians or others who are willing to buy it--that deal was handled in such a way as to provide the bad odor of blatant special interest favoritism not for the farm producers of this country, not for the taxpayers, but for a few great grain speculators and grain corporations that skimmed off the gravy that should have gone into the pockets of the people that produced that grain.

	Farmers were not told of the size of this deal at the time it was being negotiated. It was only later that they learned that the grain buyers and the grain speculators who were aware of the size and the shipping schedule of this enormous grain transaction had gone into the market at harvest time earlier this summer, bought wheat a $1.32 a bushel, bought futures to capitalize on this rising market and then made a killing when the grain was shipped in August and September plus the fact that they were given a 47 percent a bushel subsidy at the expense of the taxpayers of this country that went not into the pockets of the grain producers but again into the pockets of the exporters at the cost of $128 million to the taxpayers of this country. 

	And let me say here this morning that if the Department of Agriculture were just half as concerned about farmers as they are about protecting the well-being of these great grain corporations, perhaps the farmers of this country would have benefited in a major way from this grain transaction, rather than the grain companies. At the very time this transaction was being negotiated with the knowledge and cooperation of high officials in the Department of Agriculture, those officials were quietly resigning their jobs, taking positions as vice presidents in these great grain exporting companies, and profiting from the inside information that they had as officials of the United States government. And I say that, no matter what Mr. Butz's explanation is, that arrangements of that kind have a bad odor and I intend to pursue this matter until all of these troubling questions are answered to the satisfaction of the American people.

	We do need to expand our exports and I applaud the Administration effort to bring about these grain transactions, but we can have the sale of grain without shortchanging farmers, without robbing consumers, without bilking the taxpayers, and without coddling the big grain companies who do very well on their own initiative. I think it is time we had the leadership in this country that turned the power of the Department of Agriculture over to the farmers and who appointed a working farmer as the next Secretary of Agriculture, and I make that pledge here this afternoon.

	First, I would move to raise farm income with the authority that the President and the Secretary of Agriculture already have. The Department of Agriculture has authorization in the law to raise farm income to 90 percent of parity and I intend to use that authority as president of the United States.

	Secondly, I will act immediately in calling upon the Congress to provide property tax relief to already overburdened farmers. It is a scandal that farmers today pay 18 percent of their entire income in property taxes. 

	Now, I have no secret plan for property tax reform that I am going to unveil after the election. I have an open and a public plan and it is to reduce property taxes drastically by having the federal government assume one-third of the cost of our schools and to assume all of the costs that are presently borne by our bankrupt and unworkable existing welfare system. Now where does the money come from to provide this additional support to the states that can permit a reduction in school and property taxes? It comes first of all, as I indicated earlier, from closing off some of the loopholes in our tax laws, it includes, secondly, putting an end to this tragically wasteful, immoral, and futile war that is now bleeding our resources in Southeast Asia. 

	A few days ago as Senator Magnuson, who once supported the war, said on a public platform that I shared with him in Seattle, the time has come for us quit wasting $250 million a week chasing little people in black pajamas around the jungles of Southeast Asia, and that is what I believe.

	The third step that I would take after efforts to raise farm income and reduce the property tax burden is to move to stop the takeover of American agriculture by absentee corporations and Fifth Avenue farmers. 

	Unless we act quickly to put an end to this tax loss farming and to reform our tax laws so that they don't invite the operation of non-farm interests in rural America--unless we do that quickly the names on the mailboxes of rural America by 1980 will no longer be Smith or Anderson or Jones--they will be Tenneco and Ralston Purina and Dow Chemical. 

	So we ought to pass legislation along the lines of the Family Farm Act of 1972 that has been supported by some of the great champions of agriculture in the United States Congress--Humphrey and Mondale of Minnesota, Gaylord Nelson and Bill Proxmire of Wisconsin, Senators Mansfield and Metcalf of Montana, and Senators Burdick and Young of North Dakota--all of them men who fight for the farmers of this nation. 

	Now with this Family Farm Act it will prohibit giant nonfarm corporations from engaging in farming directly or indirectly and everyone who believes--not by lip service--but believes in his heart in the free enterprise system in family farm production ought to support legislation that puts an end to the corporate takeover of American agriculture. We ought to provide farmers with the same access to reasonable credit that the giant corporations now have and we ought to enforce a $20,000 payment limit on our support programs so that once again they become programs to strengthen the family farm not to invite in the corporate takeover.

	Finally, we must act now to preserve one of our irreplaceable and I think unique natural resources, and that is the richness of life in rural America. It is one of the great tragedies of today that while our cities are literally groaning under the strain of overcrowded populations, that many of our rural areas are plagued by underpopulation and the loss of vitally needed economic and human resources. If we were to provide better educational and health and recreational and water resources in rural America, man's search for a more fulfilling life will restore itself in a better balance in the distribution of our population in this country. 

	One of my boyhood heroes in South Dakota was a splendid corn hog farmer by the name of Art Kendall. I spent much time as a youth, particularly in the summer and fall, on his farm, following him around and exploring that farm, hunting pheasant and doing other things that I enjoyed at that stage in my life. 

	But one day in the fall of 1932, when I was eleven years of age, my father and I found this old friend, Arthur Kendall, sitting on the back steps of his porch and his head was down. And when he looked up I saw that there were tears in eyes and I think it was the first time in my life that I had ever seen a big strong grown man crying. And what had happened was the arrival a few minutes before with a letter and a check for his entire hog production that year. That check was barely large enough to pay the truckers cost who took the pigs to market at Sioux City, Iowa. 

	And I resolved that afternoon as a young boy that there was something terribly wrong about a system that would do a thing like that to a decent, splendid, hardworking, honest man like Art Kendall. I resolved that if the day ever came when I had a chance to do something about correcting that kind of injustice, that I would throw myself into that fight with all of the strength and energy and indignation that I could muster. That is a resolution that I have kept as a congressman, as the director of the Food for Peace program under President Kennedy and as a United States senator. It is a resolution that I intend to keep if I am elected as president of the United States. 

	Thank you very much and God bless you.

AGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMAGRICULTURE--GENERALBUSINESS, CORPORATECABINET OFFICIALSMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSPROPERTY TAXRURAL DEVELOPMENTSALES TAX     D D D D D
 }D yD tD tD kD iD aD VD	  	 v 	 b 	 O 	 > 	 & 	 