

	All right, here we go. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.

	I want to thank--I want to thank everybody here, and also I understand a couple of thousand people in another building who couldn't get in here today, and I want to thank you for coming. It's great to be with the Ashland Eagles. I'm proud to be here today. And we're going to win. And I'm happy to have two Eagles with me, George Bush and Jerry Ford. What great Americans.

	And I said to myself--over here when they were speaking, the fact that they were standing here, speaking to you, speaking to America, says it all about integrity in the White House and what the White House should be in America. Both have served their country in many, many ways--always with honor, always keeping in mind honor and duty and country. Made America great.

	And I say to all the young people here, you couldn't have two better role models than President Ford and President Bush, right here.

	And let me say--oh, I see some Kappa Sigs out here, too, that's great. Let me say to those who may not know it, my grandfather came from Montpelier, Ohio. In fact, I was there about two and a half months ago and visited the grave of my great-great-grandfather Michael Dole. So I am an Ohio and I need your support. We're going to get this election. Vote for the hometown candidate.

	Mr. President, Mr. Benz, and Mr. Patron, John Ashbrook, who was a friend of mine, as many of you know, we used to campaign together, I'm proud to be in the Ashbrook Center and I'm proud to be here with Harvey Young, chairman of the board, and all the people from this area. This is a big, big indication, as the governor said, that on November 6th, the headline is going to read, "Bob Dole Carries Ohio and Goes to the White House."

	And to my good friend Ralph Regula, I'm about out of Smuckers. He always keeps me in Smuckers jams and jellies. And I know President Ford and President Bush are about out, too. But anyway, Ralph. And Mike DeWine, who's done a great job in the United States Senate, is going to leave--have a great record there representing the people of this state. And I've got a feeling he's going to be joined in a couple of years by Governor Voinovich in the United States Senate, and that would be a good idea, too.

	Lane and Kathy, we'll see you in Las Vegas. I think we're going to be there 2:30 a.m. for a rally sometime; going to go out and roll the--I don't mean gamble, but you know, we're rolling this dice here, we're on--this is a special day.

	And for our campaign, this is hour number one. They've got ninety-five to go, ninety-six hours to victory. This is my first event. This is our first event in a ninety-six-hour, nonstop march to victory and this journey. It started today at noon, it will end at noon on Tuesday when I cast my vote in that great metropolitan area of Russell, Kansas. But it begins right now in Ashland, Ohio--right here. This will be known as the spot where it all began, where history was made, right here in Ashland.

	Now, the last time I fought around-the-clock for my country was in Italy in 1945. But I think this fight is just as serious. We've got to get serious about this election, serious about who's going to occupy the White House. The stakes are high. We're talking about America's future, your future, America's future.

	So we'll be taking our message to Republicans and Democrats and members of the Reform party and Independents all over. We're going to make our case all across the country, day and night. We want to reach every worker and every family and every voter, because as I said, the stakes are so high. We cannot afford four more years of broken promises and a new ethical scandal every week.

	Four years ago, four years ago Bill Clinton said he wanted to be president in the worst way, and now he is. And now he is.

	And I believe that in the end, I believe that in the end, I say to you in all sincerity, voters make a judgment based on the content of our character and the positions we have on basic issues. That's the way it should be. Maybe some don't care about it. I think America does care about it. Whether they're Democrats or Republicans or Independents, America cares about the public trust and how someone conducts themselves when they set foot in the White House on day one, minute one and hour one.

	So this election comes down to a few central convictions. Just look at the record. Listen to the candidates. And what you'll see is a clear line that separates my vision of America from Bill Clinton's. And let me mention just a few familiar issues.

	Mike DeWine mentioned one, a 15 percent-across-the-board tax cut, a $500-per-child tax credit. Cutting--cutting the capital gains rate in half to create more jobs in the private sector to stimulate activity and make America grow.

	President Clinton disagrees. He thinks Americans do not pay enough in taxes, which is why he supported the largest tax increase in America's history, signed it, supported it, pushed it through the Congress--and not a single Republican, I'm proud to say, voted for it in the Congress United States.

	It raised taxes on senior citizens, it taxed their Social Security benefits. The President said if you make $25,000 and you're a senior citizen, maybe a widow, that you're rich and you ought to have 85 percent of your benefits taxed. Seventy percent of the tax increase was paid by small businessmen and women. Thirty-two billion dollars in gas tax increases, not for roads or highways, to put into the general that he could spend on his pet spending programs. So I want to give you an option to keep more of your money, more of the money in your paycheck. It's your money, it's your money, it's your money.

	And the President, former presidents, I will say to my colleagues here, are eligible for this tax cut, and if Bill Clinton leaves his forwarding address he will get the tax cut next year.

	I also want to encourage a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States. I am for it, President Clinton's against it.

	I also believe we ought to protect the flag of the United States of America, and I am for it and he's against it.

	And I believe if young people can get together through sports, debate, whatever, when it's not dictated by the teachers or not dictated by the state, they ought to be entitled to have a little voluntary prayer if they want to have a little voluntary prayer.

	And I want to give working parents--I want to give working parents the option to send their children to the school of their choice. And I don't believe--no child in America should be forced to attend an unsafe school or a school where they can't get a good education. But here, too, here too, the President disagrees. He would rather take advice from the powerful unions and their leadership in Washington. But in a Dole administration, my top education advisers would be America's parents and America's teachers. They will be my advisers.

	And I want to see every city in America create a program like the one created in Cleveland with the help of Governor Voinovich--it's called a scholars program--that lets parents send their child to the best schools--public, private, or religious--the best school, the best school.

	I know there are some of us up here who had the GI Bill of Rights, some of you in the audience had it, whether you're Korea or World War II or Vietnam or whatever. We got an education because we served our country. It changed the face of America, it changed the world.

	And if we want to change this country, we start with a good education, we start in kindergarten, all the way through high school and all the way through college. That will change America for the better.

	And we're going to have a war on drugs in my administration. I will not be AWOL as Bill Clinton has been AWOL. You couldn't find him on the war on drugs. Now, he's been AWOL before, but on the war on drugs you couldn't find him. He didn't do anything. And drug use doubled, ages twelve to seventeen, after it had gone down 50 percent under the Reagan and Bush administrations. And my goal is to cut it in half in the first four years.

	And I will work with governors like Governor Voinovich to abolish parole for violent felons. Violent felons get no parole.

	And I believe in naturalization. We are a country of immigrants. But I will not rush immigrants through without an FBI check, so that we have murderers and sexual predators and child abusers who are now citizens of the United States because they never had an FBI check.

	And I will appoint judges who respect the rights of the victims and can read the Constitution of the United States and strictly interpret the Constitution of the United States of America.

	And I want to strengthen and preserve Medicare, and I don't see any--well, I do see one senior citizen, I won't point anybody out, but there's one senior citizen here. I want to say to you, and you can tell your friends--well, I know there are a couple up here, but talking about down there...[missing text].  In our plan to save Medicare, it grows 7 percent a year, double the rate of inflation, Mr. President. Stop telling untruths to America's seniors; start telling the truth, Mr. President.

	And I will say to every senior within the sound of my voice, when I used to go home to Russell, Kansas, my mother would say, don't touch my Social Security, that's all I got, and Medicare. And I didn't do that. In 1983, when Social Security was about bankrupt, we had a commission and we saved Social Security, and I was honored to be on that commission. And I want to be the president who's known--the president who's known as the one who saved Medicare in 1997 for America's seniors all across the...[missing text].

	And as President Ford said, and President Bush's finest hour in my view is the Gulf crisis, where he did it working with our allies and our friends, and not a single Democratic leader in the Congress would support President Bush but there were enough Democrats who put their country ahead of politics. And he made it work. Strong leadership, that's what it's all about.

	We need a strong military. We're not going to spend more than we have to, but I don't want any of these young people here today ever be engaged in any conflict. And if we're not feared by our enemies and respected by our friends, we might get drawn into a conflict. We should be strong because we want peace. And if I have to make the mistake of spending a little too much or a little too little, I will spend a little too much to protect the liberty and freedom of the United States of America.

	And I will lead an administration that respects the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States. They deserve our respect.

	And we will have real campaign finance reform. I know the President's giving a speech on campaign--if you can believe it, on campaign finance reform today. Apparently all the money's been in and it's been counted; now he can go ahead and make the speech. The receipts are in, okay. But what we've seen from this administration in the last few weeks is evidence that we really need campaign finance reform. So. It's an idea that I suggested several years ago. We need a bipartisan commission, because let's face it, I'll be very honest about it, when we were in power we want to fix it so it helps us, when they're in power they want to fix it so it helps them. What we need is a bipartisan commission to fix it so it helps America--helps you, helps you, helps you.

	And I would just lay out some ground rules I hope the commission would consider. First, only U.S. citizens can make a donation to a candidate or a political party. If you're not a citizen, you don't participate.

	Second, abolish what they call this soft money that floats around.

	Third, end the practice of forcing Americans to give part of their paycheck to finance a political agenda they don't agree with. That's what's happening in organized labor now. A lot of Republican union members are being forced to give money to the Clinton campaign, and they don't want to do it, and they shouldn't be forced to do it.

	And fourth, abolish political action committees. If we do that, we'll clean up the--political scene.

	And I would say to reform members, party members in this state, you know, I know Ross Perot, but if you vote for Ross Perot you might as well vote for Bill Clinton, because every vote for Ross Perot takes it out of our hide. If we're going to win--I can't beat two people, I can beat Bill Clinton but not if Ross Perot takes votes away from me. So let's hear it, let's do it.

	And I want a White House that never compromises its ethics or violates its word. I still believe in the honor of that office, and it's right behind me--President Ford, President Bush. That's honor, that's integrity, that's decency.

	And when I'm the president of the United States, I'm not going to betray those standards. I'm not going to promise high standards, I'm going to deliver high standards. Let me just give you a specifics we're already working on. Number one, I'll establish a White House Office of Ethics reporting directly to the chief of staff, to guarantee that the business of the people is not compromised by politics, a White House Office of Ethics.

	Number two, I will assign a Secret Service agent or another law enforcement official as the director of the White House Office of Personnel Security--not some guy named Craig Livingstone who used to work as a bouncer in a bar. We'll bring integrity back to the office.

	And I will require that all prospective White House employees complete their security clearances and drug tests within their first ninety days on the job. If they don't finish it, out they go, out they go.

	And I will not hire anyone with a recent history of illegal drug use. And any White House employee who fails a drug test is gone--g-o-n-e.

	And finally, I'll require that no FBI files go to the White House without the approval of the attorney general and at the request of the president of the United States and only the president of the United States.

	And needless to say, I won't invite drug dealers in for dinner.

	The president should be a source of inspiration, and this president is a source of cynicism. He has led an administration without a compass and without a core. We deserve an ethical White House. We must demand an ethical White House. And next Tuesday, you have a chance to vote for an ethical White House.

	So I would conclude by saying that I think my beliefs are pretty basic--letting Americans keep more of what they earn, balancing the federal budget and passing a constitutional amendment sending it to the states for ratification, allowing parents to choose the best school for their child or children, keeping drugs out of schools and out of neighborhoods, protecting our communities from violent crime, giving seniors the peace of mind and security they have earned, restoring our national defense, promoting real equality and opportunity, and bringing honesty back to our political system, and creating an economy that helps Americans save and helps Americans prosper; and above all, keeping the public trust, keeping the public trust.

	These are my views. These are my views. And I--I'm not going to be reinvented, I will not turn against the values that shaped me. I'll never run on a stolen agenda, it will be mine, I won't take it from the Republicans, as President Clinton is trying to do. I will never be ashamed of my roots.

	I believe in the value of economic hope, because I have seen the edge of poverty. And I believe in service and sacrifice because I watched young men die for a future they would never see. And I believe in compassion and community. These are the beliefs I hold and the values I honor. And these are the lessons of a lifetime, let me say to the young people here.

	Maybe some of this doesn't sound--maybe you're saying, oh, well, we--who cares about that? You better care about that. You better care about honesty and decency and integrity, someone you can look up to, somebody you can look up to, somebody you can be proud of.

	Well, I want to ask for your support. Out in Kansas you can only ask for their support, you don't get it, you don't always get it when you ask, but at least you ask. But I want to say to this huge, vast audience today, that this is what America's all about, this is what the political system's all about.

	Now it's your turn. We've had our turn. As someone said, it's not the pollsters or not the pundits, and I wish some of these great American newspapers who--you now, who editorialize in favor, endorsed President Clinton but they spent half their endorsement apologizing, saying, well, we know this, this, this, this, this; and finally down at the end they say but maybe he'll clean it up the next four years.

	Well, why give anybody a chance? He's had a chance. Let's take it on what the performance has been thus far.

	But I ask you this: Go out and go to work. We've got four days, ninety-six hours, ninety-six hours on the road to victory. We're going to make it with your help. Thank you very much, and God bless America.
CAMPAIGN FINANCEDRUG ABUSE--GENERALDRUG TESTING--EMPLOYEESEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSIMMIGRATIONMEDICARESOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--GENERAL     D D D D ~D
 vD qD lD cD _D ]D KD @D	  	  	  	  	 P 	 3 	 ( 	   	  e: