
	It was Woodrow Wilson who said back in 1912: "There has come over the land that un-American set of conditions which enables a small number of men who control the government to get favors from the government; by those favors to exclude their fellows from equal business opportunity; by those favors to extend a network of control that will presently dominate every industry in the country, and so make men forget the ancient time when America lay in every hamlet, when America was to be seen in every fair valley, when America displayed her great forces on the broad prairies...

	He might have been speaking today.

	Under the Eisenhower administration the face of our American economy is changing more rapidly than most people realize. Corporation mergers have increased enormously. The tidal drift toward the concentration of monopolistic economic power has gone unchecked. The family farm is in danger of giving way to the factory farm. The family firm on Main Street is in danger of being swallowed up by the giant corporation from Wall Street. The big are getting bigger and the small are disappearing. And I say this is a dangerous trend in a society that is built on democratic capitalism.

	Under the Eisenhower administration antitrust enforcement has softened, and today the rate of industrial mergers is at the highest point in a quarter-century. That is the Eisenhower record on monopoly. In the fiscal year 1956, corporations, despite their all-time high profits, paid less money in income taxes than they paid in 1952--$170 million less. But at the same time individual income taxpayers paid out vastly more--nearly $5.5 billion more in 1956 than in 1952. That is the Eisenhower record on taxes. The corporations pay less, Joe Smith pays more.

	Let's look at some other facts.

	My opponent says with pride that he established the first Small Business Administration. But he does not say that this is simply a new name for a good Democratic agency. Nor does he say that when he changed its name he also changed its spirit--he put at its head a man who said philosophically, "Let's face it. Big business is going to get bigger and small business is going to get smaller and there is nothing we can do about it. Why get excited?"

	In August of this year 1101 small businesses failed in the United States, according to Dun and Bradstreet, up 24 percent since a year ago and the highest August number in sixteen years. That is the Eisenhower record on small business. 

	What is the record on consumer prices and on interest rates? Consumer prices reached an all-time high last July. Washington's only answer to inflation has been to raise interest rates. And the result has been that the consumer, the farmer, the small businessman, and the man who pays the grocery bills and wants to buy a house or a car, is caught in a nutcracker.

	He pays more for what he buys.

	And he pays more for what he borrows.

	And he goes deeper and deeper into debt.

	The fact is that today money is harder to get and buys less than at any time in the last quarter-century.

	No wonder so many people are working today--it takes more than one job per family to get by these days; thousands of wives have gone to work to try to pay off family debts.

	One group, and one group only is happy about the tight-money policy--the large bankers and heads of large financial institutions who lend money and who contribute heavily to Republican campaigns.

	The Wall Street Journal recently reported, "The money squeeze promises to give New York City banks their highest third-quarter net operating earnings in history." This is good news on Wall Street but bad news on Main Street--the squeeze is getting tighter, for during the week ended September 20, business failures increased sharply, and among them retailers' failures were 62 percent above last year's record.

	But the most important thing among the tight-money policy is that it has not stopped the inflation.

	But it has had serious effects upon ordinary men and women.

	It has tightened the screws on the farmer.

	It has tightened the belt of the small businessman.

	The small businessman today who wants to borrow money in order to stock up for Christmas is paying too much money for his money--a businessman in Detroit said the other day, "You can borrow all the money you need if you are willing to pay through the nose for it." This policy discriminates against the small man. He doesn't have resources of his own and must borrow. He cannot pass costs on to the public. The big company, by contrast, has its own resources and higher interest costs can also be passed along to the public. Thus the Eisenhower policy has been very favorable to big business and hard on small.

	The hard-money policy--or no money policy--has stopped home building in its tracks, with dangerous consequences. Only now, a few weeks before the election, has the administration acted--as usual, with little more than words and a gesture.

	It has greatly increased the yield on the government bonds that bankers buy--on bankers' bonds--but the yield on the people's bonds--Series E Savings Bonds--has stayed the same.

	It has made it impossible for many young couples to buy homes. A veteran who buys a home for his family in 1956 and puts a $12,000 mortgage on it will pay about $2,000 more in interest and other charges than he would had he bought the same house in 1952.

	The tight-money policy has increased enormously the cost of carrying the national debt--which means higher taxes. This cost is now over $7 billion a year--compared with $5.9 billion in 1952. And this carrying charge must be paid from your taxes.

	It has inflated interest and carrying charges on automobiles, television sets, and so on. A man who bought a car on time in 1952 could pay it off in twenty-two months; now he will make the same payment on it for thirty months instead of twenty-two.

	Today, a town will think twice before building a new school. The extra cost for interest on the bond issued for a $10 million school program will amount to an additional million dollars, and that means a serious rise in local school taxes. And if the school is not built, Joe Smith may not have a job; if he doesn't have a job, he won't be able to buy a house or a car; and if he doesn't buy a house or a car, then the house builder or the auto dealer lose a sale.

	In short, the hard-money policy of the Eisenhower administration has been hard on the ordinary citizen and easy on the large financial institutions. And it has not stopped inflation. Yet the administration has tried no other new ideas.

	This is an old Republican habit. Hard money in the towns and hard times on the farm brought on hard times everywhere the last time the Republicans were in office and it can happen again.

	It is an odd fact that only in the last few weeks has the administration made any move to ease the effects of its tight-money policy on home building, on farmers, and on small businessmen. As the Wall Street Journal said recently, "In its moves so far, the Administration has acted chiefly in fields where Democratic political candidates have been most critical of GOP policies."

	If I'm not careful, the Wall Street Journal may endorse me!

	Now, I do not say that interest rates should never be raised. That is one means of discouraging borrowing and thereby relieving inflationary pressures. There are other ways, too. And inflation--which has been defined as too much money chasing too few goods--is a serious problem that we neglect at our peril.

	But I say that the administration's economic policy has been discriminatory and ineffective. It is not right to solve a problem by laying it on the weakest shoulders. And I think the burden of inflation controls should be distributed equitably and not fall on the small borrower.

	It can be done. To do it--to look out for the ordinary man, for Joe Smith--has been the historic mission of the Democratic party. 

	And starting next January, we'll be looking out for him again.
BUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONBUSINESS, SMALLMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSMONETARY POLICY     <       
        	 S 	 6 	 '   e: