

	Thank you very much. 

	First of all, I want to express to this splendid student body and to the guests of this fine college--I want to express the thanks for the poll I have just seen.  I have seen Gallup polls.  I have seen all other kinds.  But I liked that stand-up poll that we saw here just a while ago. 

	I do want to express also my personal appreciation to Father for the courtesy which has been extended to me to speak here at Rockhurst College.  And I am going to get right down to business.

	When I came through, I saw one young man that had a one- or two-page folder with very large letters on it, and as I went by I quickly took a look at it, and it said "Nixon's Stand on the Issues".  And I looked inside, and there was nothing.   Well, almost--almost, nothing.  It said inside, "I am saddle sore, riding both sides of the issues."

	Now, this morning we have a very special kind of gathering.   I have a few words that I want to say to you, and then I want to turn myself over to the tender, objective mercy of this panel that is here to my left and to your right.  And I know they have only my best interests at heart.  But I haven't found out how they qualify my best interests.  I surely will in just a little while.

	It is always a special pleasure to come to a college campus.  There have been times that I have wondered if the trips were really necessary, but I think they are.

	This morning I want to welcome you to Humphrey's College of Political Participation, because that is what we are going to do here today.  Political life is a rather precarious life.  Sometimes you are in, and sometimes you are out.  And I have to be frank with you.  My contract is expiring this January.   As I said to a few of my friends in the trade union movement the other day, I have no seniority clause.  What's more, the management quit on me. 

	So I am like one of those people that Mr. Nixon's economic advisor was talking about--in order to keep price stability he said, we maybe have to have a little higher rate of unemployment.  And I thought I didn't want to be included in that group.  So I am out shopping around this morning in the hopes that somehow or another I might be able to convince you--not that I ought to go back to teaching at a university, because I really wasn't that good--I prefer staying somewhere near where I am--just move across the street from the Executive Office Building into public housing, the White House. 

	Now, I wouldn't want anyone here to think that I had changed so much that I had lost my sense of compassion, because that is not the case.  I want it quite clear that while I surely have no designs upon being unemployed in January, I do intend to make the most generous possible terms of unemployment compensation and social security benefits available to one Richard Milhous Nixon of California and New York, and to George Wallace of Montgomery, Alabama.

	So today we are going to have what we call a dialogue.  But before that, I would like to just say what I think are some of the choices that you face and that I face in the two or three weeks--a little over three weeks--that are ahead.

	My first observation is quite obvious in this hall.  This is a young country--very young--young in terms of history; but more important, in terms of spirit.

	Half of our people today are under the age of twenty-five.  And the whole country is getting younger--at least in age.  And the question that is going to be before the house--Will we have a young spirit as a people, a spirit of hope, a spirit of faith, and a spirit of confidence which identify you, or will we have a spirit of despair, a spirit of fear, and a spirit of hopelessness which identifies old age?  That is really the question.  Because someone once said you are as young as your hopes and as old as your fears; you are as young as your faith and as old as your doubts; you are as young as your confidence and as old as your despair.

	And I believe that while we can talk about chronological age of our country being relatively young, we make a decision in every four years as to whether or not the spirit of this country is to be one of adventure, one of creativity, one of moving forward--all of which are symbolic and all of which are characteristic of youth itself--or whether it is to be a spirit of a country that is old before its time.

	That is what we are really talking about.

	And within a very short time, the young people that I am looking at here will in a very real sense be in charge.  You will be making the decisions.

	I thought I would like to come out and take a look at you, because you are going to be responsible for my Medicare, and I want to know if you are for it, like I am, or against it, like Nixon. I just want to know.

	Yes--in very serious terms, you will be responsible for at least designing the plans for the education of my grandchildren.  I want to know whether or not you are going to still believe that this country is rich enough, big enough, and good enough, to provide excellence in education.  I want to know whether or not you are going to believe that the federal government has the responsibility to be of help to students in colleges and universities, so that everyone who so desires and is capable can have the experience of education--from preschool--up through college.  Or whether you are going to identify yourself with a philosophy that says you can go it on your own.

	I remember when the man who is my opposition in the Republican party had a chance on higher education that would have affected this school.  And there was a tie vote in the United States Senate.  And the only time a vice president ever has a chance to exercise any authority is when he breaks a vote, a tie vote in the Senate.  Up until then, all he has is responsibility and no authority.  And when Mr. Nixon had his chance for authority, to cast a vote that would have decided aid to higher education, aid to this school, in its libraries, its laboratories, its dormitories, and to its administration buildings, and to all of the facilities of this great college, and a thousand more like it--he voted no.

	I just want to know whether or not you are going to double deal my grandchildren that way.  If you are, I am going to stick around and talk to you a little while, because I want every boy in America--black or white, rich or poor--to have a chance for an education. 

	And it is going to be up to you, quite candidly, what kind of...[missing text]...whether it is a country that is torn with division, in which we no longer trust each other, in which we live in a fear and animosity, rather than in trust and in friendship.  And we are making that decision this year.  And you are going to help make it.

	I want to know whether or not I am talking to people that are going to help keep this country one of common trust, common faith, or whether it is going to be one of suspicion and doubt and fear and hatred and division.  That is the central issue of our time.

	Because America can do nothing divided.  America can do nothing in anger.  America can do nothing for itself or for anybody else in division and racism and bigotry and intolerance.  And we are going to have to draw the line on it, this year of 1968, and send the message throughout the world, that we believe that we can be one people, and that we can trust one another, and that we can work together as one people.  We are going to decide that in a great national referendum. 

	I found a quotation from my notes, political philosophy, which I once had the privilege of teaching.  And one of my favorite philosophers was that great theologian and philosopher, truly, of course, a saint, Saint Thomas Aquinas.  And here is what he said.

	"These three things are necessary for the salvation of a man.  To know what he ought to believe; to know what he ought to desire, and to know what he ought to do."  Not just what he ought to believe, not just what he ought to desire.  But what he ought to do.  And while those terms are written essentially for a spiritual message, it is still a fact that the difference between democracy and any other form of government or social organization, is the recognition of the human spirit.

	If you let me divert for a moment to the teacher that I once was, I always believed that the only moral justification for democracy, since Winston Churchill described it so aptly as the worst possible form of government except all others that have ever been tried--the only moral justification was that man was created in the image of his maker, and as such, being a child of God, he has--there is no one that has the right, the moral right, to rule him without his consent.  This is the whole moral premise for government by the consent of the governed, for majority rule and respect for minority rights.

	Enough of the philosophical lesson.  I am not getting paid for it.  I am not on the faculty.  But I thought I would just touch up the board here and the staff, in case things didn't work out--I may want to come back.   Let me hurry along.

	It will be the kind of country that you will help make.  And we are going to decide whether or not we have peace in this world, and we are going to decide a lot about that this year, because the next president of the United States has the compelling responsibility to, first of all, to find a way that is within our interests and honor, to find a way to end that war in Vietnam and bring those troops and those resources back to this country for the work that is needed to do here at home.  That is the first obligation. 

	Secondly, even more important, the next president of the United States must dare--and I repeat--dare to take risks for peace.  He must pursue with indomitable courage and patient perseverance every course of action which can halt the arms race before the arms race halts humanity.  This year, 1968 was the year that so many young people for the first time got into the political process.  

	VOICES:  "We want Gene."

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I do, too.  Well, we agree on that.  You see how quickly you can resolve these things.  I want to ask my young friends of young America just a question or two.

	You have aroused this nation to a need for peace, and you have helped reform, at least set in motion the reforms for a major political party.  You have brought new people of all ages into the work of democracy.

	Now, the question--and it is a very serious question--are you going to stay in that process, are you going to be part of the political action in the state, or are you going to opt out?  And may I say that for those that opt out, they betray everything that they said they were for.  Because we provide a way in this country--we provide a way in this land for change.

	Three weeks from today, this nation will decide its future, not by force of arms, or by a coup d'etat, by the quiet, powerful force called the shuffle of ballots, entering the ballot box.  And I ask every person of voting age, and those who are not, to encourage all who are, to play your part in it.

	I entered politics some twenty years ago or more.  And the people who came into politics with me were called "Humphrey's Diaper Brigade".  That's right.  We were a pretty young crowd.  And we are still around--a little the worse for wear, and maybe a little the better for some experience.

	Congressman Donald Frazier, Congressman John Blatnik, Senator Walter Mondale, Secretary of Agriculture Orville Freeman, the mayor of Minneapolis, who was my secretary when I was mayor--he was twenty-one and I was thirty-two.  He today is the mayor of that great city--Arthur Nafthalin.

	Senator Eugene McCarthy started the same time that I did in the same election.  And may I say I have know Gene a lot longer than his more recent adherents.  And I have been with him a lot longer.  And we will be together a lot longer.   And you know, we began as young people, where you can make wonderful friendship.

	We haven't always agreed.  That upsets people sometimes.  But after all, one of the aspects of democracy is the right to disagree.  And good friends at times become the better, their lives become more enriched, their minds become more developed, out of honest dissent and disagreement than out of the pleasantries of just yessing each other.

	So we have grown together.  But we have stayed within the system.  And that is what America needs today--young people who will start together, grow together, mature together, disagree together, work together, but will stay within the system.

	Let me finally tell you then why I run for president.  Because I believe that one man can make a difference in this country.  I believe that one man, one woman, any one person, can make the difference.  I believe that what is wrong can be made right, and that people possess, in this great land of ours, the basic wisdom and the goodness to govern themselves without conflict.  

	I believe that we can create one nation.  I think we can have it.  I really believe that we can heal--and there are wounds to heal--we can heal the wounds of hatred and division among us.  I believe that we can reaffirm the basic decency of spirit which lies within the American people--at least if we call upon that spirit.

	I believe that we can reassert this nation's moral leadership in a world that desperately seeks that leadership.  I believe that we can tell a generation that what we have here is essentially good and sound and that it is worth saving, and that the dreams of their parents are still worthy dreams.  I believe that there is work for all of us, and especially for you.  And I seek through the office of the presidency of the United States to do my part.

	My presidency will be your presidency; it will be an open presidency, it will be an active presidency.  I view the office of president as a forum for leadership and education, as a forum for inspiration and uplift.  And I shall be a president calling forth participation by all Americans, and especially the young.  And we can build into reality this free and open society that we talk about and that we want and must have, a society where all cannot only participate in the benefits, but equally and more important in the decisions that relate to those benefits.

	And I believe that we can make the White House not a remote shrine known for its history and surrounded by a black picket fence, like a fortress, but a place where the doors are open to the people, and most of all the young people, where they can find a welcome.

	And I will make my presidency one, not where I always agree with everybody that comes through those gates, but one where I am willing to listen and to understand and to search with those persons who come with different points of view, to search with them for what is right--because who knows what is right?  If you knew what is right, it would be so easy to do it.  The great problem is to find out what is right.

	Now I am ready to turn everything over to you at the right time.  I still expect to be around here a little while, and I hope to be in charge for a little while.  But I do make a bargain with you.  

	I first of all believe in you--I must.  I have people like you in my family.  And if you will believe in me, we will do things in this country that seemed impossible only a short time ago.  We will wake this nation up.  We will arouse it.  We will give everyone a place and a chance.  And that doesn't mean crowding anyone out of his place or chance.  And the historians will mark 1968 not as the year when America lost her faith, but the year that America found her conscience.

	If you will put your trust in me, I pledge to you that 1968 will be a year when a new generation really did make a difference about the future of this country.  I think you can make the difference.  That is why I am here.  

	Now let me hear from you. 
DEMOCRACYEDUCATION, HIGHEROPEN PRESIDENCYPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHYOUTH     /? > > > >
 > > > > > > > >	 L 	 C 	 2  #   e: