

	I want to say a word about the President's speech last night. 

	First, the President expressed this country's passion for peace. He did so in a manner befitting his office. He spoke for all of us.

	Second, the President gave us a reassuring picture of progress and peace in the world today. I think it is unfortunate that he chose again to state only half the facts.

	When he pointed with satisfaction to "the free nation of Vietnam," he left out the fact that half of that nation, more than ten million people, has been lost to the Communists.

	When he talked of defending Formosa, which he said had been "previously written off," he must have forgotten that it was President Truman who sent the Seventh Fleet to defend Formosa.

	And when he talked proudly of progress in the "total war... upon the forces of poverty and need" in the world which he declared four years ago, we could only wonder what war this was that has been waged on poverty and need--for the emphasis of late has been so largely military.

	When he said, "We have seen an end to the old pattern of tragedy," he left out any reference to the ominous tensions which today mark Africa and the Middle East.

	However, the reassuring tone about world realities of the President's speech has a long line of uninterrupted precedents. In January 1954, for instance, Mr. Eisenhower told us there had been "a great strategic change in the world during the past year. That precious intangible, the initiative, is becoming ours." That was nice to hear, but it did not prepare us for the disaster that befell us a few months later in Indochina.

	And when President Eisenhower returned from the Summit Conference, he encouraged the happy illusion that a new era had begun. But later events quickly shattered those rosy predictions.

	And even last night the President's passing reference to Suez gave no hint of the awesome fact that, within the past few months, Russia has gained the foothold in the Middle East she has sought for centuries.

	I do not believe that a political campaign excuses the President himself from a more objective candor about the state of affairs in the world.

	Finally, the President mentioned, and dismissed curtly, certain proposals for adjusting our military policies to current conditions and to the overriding purpose of taking the initiative for peace. He referred specifically to two proposals I have made--with the same sincerity I am happy to grant him--one that the United States take the lead in promoting curtailment by all nations of hydrogen bombs tests; the other, that our government consider whether, in view of the changing requirements of military technology, our present draft policies are the right and permanent way of meeting our military manpower needs.

	The president did both of us an injustice by stating these proposals with misleading implications.

	When he called the proposal to spare humanity the incalculable efforts of unlimited hydrogen bomb testing a "theatrical national gesture," he indicted churchmen and political leaders the world over, including Pope Pius XII, representatives of the Baptist, Unitarian, Quaker, and Methodist Churches, Commissioner Murray of the Atomic Energy Commission, Sir Anthony Eden, and many other sincere and thoughtful persons in the United States and abroad who have made similar proposals.

	If the President intends to foreclose debate on these proposals I think he does the nation a disservice and I must dissent and persist in my effort to invite public attention to matters of such grave concern as the hydrogen horror and national security.

	As for peace itself, if the President sought to suggest that this is an issue in this campaign, I would refer to the words of another: "As far as peace is concerned, I never knew that peace was a controversial or partisan subject with the American people." These were the words of his Secretary of State, Mr. Dulles, on November 29, 1955.

	I noted with great interest President Eisenhower's sending off Vice President Nixon and his associates with the admonition--almost wistful, I thought--that they should stick to telling the truth. He couldn't have chosen a better audience for that advice!

	I do not mean, however, to deal lightly with this proposition of the President's. If he can make his admonition stick--and I hope he can--this campaign will strengthen the nation in a way the 1954 campaign did not. And, I might add, in a way the 1950 senatorial campaign here in Maryland most certainly did not.

	I hope that the new Republican emphasis on truth will start with the treatment of the crucial, sensitive issues of war and peace. We will know then whether this truth pledge marks a change in the familiar Republican habit of charging the Democratic Party with responsibility for history's wars, while they take credit for our periods of peace.

	I will be more impressed with the President's admonition to stick to the truth and his influence in the Republican household when we hear no more of these familiar refrains or when we get truthful answers to questions like these:

	When Republican orators slander the Democratic party as the "war party," or make such inference, do they mean that a Republican administration would not have defended the United States from the Kaiser in 1917?

	Do they mean that a Republican administration would not have fought following the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941?

	Do they mean that a Republican administration would have let the Communists take over South Korea in 1950?

	We fought these wars, not as Democrats nor as Republicans, but as Americans. And for Republicans to say or imply that war is partisan in origin is to belittle and deny the sacrifices of gallant men who three times offered their lives in defense of America--or to engage in the most cynical double-talk.

	I would say to President Eisenhower's truth teams that, like charity, truth has to begin at home! It is not a commodity--to be packaged and plugged and pushed for campaign purposes. As far as we are concerned, it is a fundamental principle, a ground rule, of democracy's great debate.

	I am particularly glad to come to Silver Spring because it is the kind of community in which I feel perhaps most at home. I am a suburbanite myself.

	Nothing has been more significant in our life in the last few years than the growth of the suburbs. You know that well enough here in the Silver Spring area, where your population has increased by over 50,000 just since 1950. And what has been going on here has been going on across the country. People are moving to the suburbs at the rate of nearly a million and a half a year. Our suburbs are growing seven times as fast as the metropolitan centers.

	The suburb, in short, is America's future. And the character of our future is therefore going to depend a lot on the kind of life we develop in our suburban communities and in our American families. That is what I want to talk with you about tonight.

	The Democratic Party has played a special role in the whole process of suburban growth. This great new development in our life rests essentially on the tremendous social and economic gains, which took place under twenty years of Democratic government.

	It is not just that the Democratic party took over responsibility at a time when the American economic machine had stalled--or that twenty years of Democratic rule more than quintupled the annual output of goods and services for our people. Nor is it just that the Democratic party brought back to government a spirit of concern for the ordinary people of the country.

	I think, rather, of the basic matter of people owning their own homes and of the contributions of Democratic action to home ownership in America. We set up the Home Owners Loan Corporation to save people's homes from foreclosure back there in the thirties. We established the Federal Housing Administration and later the Veterans' Housing Program to bring home ownership within the reach of more Americans. We set up the Federal National Mortgage Association to support the FHA and G-2 home loan programs and thus enable millions of families to buy homes at low interest rates and with modest down payments. We strengthened the Federal Home Loan Banks and established the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation to help home investments.

	In this way, the foundation was laid in our land for a revival of home ownership. Today fourteen million more Americans own homes than did fifteen years ago. For the first time in this century, more Americans own homes than rent homes. Every day more of us have our own quarter- or half-acre, our lawn, our garden; we pay our own heating bills; fix the leaks in our own faucets; gossip over our own back fence. A home of one's own, community living, the land and space provided by suburban living--all these offer a better opportunity for the good life than any nation in history has been able to provide its citizens. I think that this revolution is one of the happiest and healthiest things to have happened to our country.

	Yet this dramatic transformation of our nation has brought problems too--problems for our suburban communities, problems for our families--the Joe Smith problem, yes, and even more, those that are troubling Jane Smith--whom I hereby also welcome to the Party.

	There is too much truth in the characterization of the suburb as a place where if a man is out of work for a month you see a For Sale sign on his house. Too many families realize that they are today living from hand-to-mouth on an electric refrigerator and two cars--in which they own only a down-payment interest.

	There is the need to provide means of paying medical bills so that our families can enjoy the benefits of preventative medicine and need not fear the crushing burden of catastrophic illness.

	There is the need to keep rising prices from swallowing up our savings.

	There is the need to readjust our system of taxation, so that the burden of taxes will not weigh unfairly on those struggling to support their wives and children on limited income.

	I want to mention particularly our needs in the field of education. I don't suppose there is anything more constantly on our minds than our wish to give our sons and daughters the best schooling we can afford, we are handicapping their future; we are denying them the opportunity for full development, we are letting them down.

	And that is exactly what is going on today. Through the country the school situation is a national crisis. Our classrooms are overcrowded, our teachers are underpaid, and sometimes even the school buildings are unsafe. In too many communities the little red schoolhouse has given way to the big gray firetrap. And the reason for this can be given in a word--money. Most schools are supported by the general property tax, and it just can't carry the load anymore.

	We can't put this problem off any longer. The crisis is so serious that it can no longer be handled by local communities alone. Surely the nation has an interest in the education of its children; and it is reasonable and right that the national government lend a hand to help the local community.

	Let no one tell me that we are already spending all the money we can afford to spend on education. I will never believe--nor will any of you--that the country, which can afford the biggest motorcars and the best highways and the highest buildings and largest aircraft carriers in the world, can't afford to educate its children properly.

	For four years, this problem has grown steadily worse. And for four years, the Republican administration with unflagging ingenuity has hit upon one expedient after another to avoid doing anything about it. Thus the United States Office of Education announced that we needed 720,000 classrooms. Later that figure was cut down to 600,000 and then to 407,000. In the end, when Mrs. Hobby was running the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, the figure was triumphantly reduced to 176,000. The American Association of School Administrators, the people who run our schools, were finally driven to say, "If we give Mrs. Hobby a couple of more weeks, we may even have a surplus of classrooms."

	This is known as meeting our needs by revising our figures. Government workers aren't the only people in the country to have suffered from the numbers racket.

	For years the Eisenhower administration avoided action by promising to hold a conference. Finally it held the conference. And then an election came along and the administration, which had proposed nothing in '54 and not much in '55, saw the light and announced that it wanted some Federal aid in 1956. But what a Republican administration proposes often bears little relation to how a Republican Congress disposes. 

	The Republican congressman from this very district, Mr. Hyde, said of the classroom problem, "There is not a state in this Union which cannot afford to take care of that need."

	Another Republican congressman suggested that classes were too small and that they should go into the evening and run twelve months of the year. And, though President Eisenhower was nominally in favor of aid to education, this particular congressman on April 12, 1956, read into the Record a letter from the President in which Mr. Eisenhower said, "I would flatly oppose any grant by the federal government to all states in the Union for educational purposes." I am perplexed to say the least, but contradiction--unilateral as well as multilateral--seems to be about the only entertainment these Republicans have contrived.

	Well, you all know what happened about the school aid bill introduced by the Democrats. The White House stood by in amiable indifference during the debate--while at the same time it was using every means of pressure at its disposal to defeat the bill, which would have saved Hells Canyon for the people. And when the school bill finally came to a vote, the Republicans killed it--119 Republicans voted against it and only seventy-five for it. And so millions of American boys and girls are going back to school this fall in buildings which are old and dark and dirty and rickety and overcrowded, to learn from teachers who are harassed, overworked and underpaid.

	No one who thinks for a moment that this situation can be complacent about the state of things in America. Our children are being let down--and they are being let down because our government in Washington is too indifferent to human values and too absorbed in advancing the interest of a few.

	The trouble is that the Republican leadership just doesn't think of the world in human terms. When the Republican Party hears the word "economics," it sees stocks and bonds. When the Democratic Party hears the word "economics," it sees men and women and children.

	The more I see and hear these Republicans in Washington, the more I'm reminded of the man who knew the price of everything and the value of nothing.

	One other matter: when General Eisenhower came to Silver Spring as a candidate just about four years ago, he promised government workers "security and stability in their jobs." Well after four years you now know more about Republican "security and stability."

	I spoke over in Virginia last Saturday about the insecurity and misery the present administration has brought to hundreds and even thousands of able, conscientious, and loyal federal employees. It was made to appear that thousands of innocent federal employees had been guilty of disloyalty.

	There is no excuse for this. No employee, once accepted for federal service after competent and thorough security investigation, should be subjected to anonymous charges, suspended without pay, and compelled thereafter to exist under a presumption of guilt instead of innocence. Appeals to an agency outside of the one in which charges originate should be provided. These are simple basic changes necessary, together with the tightest possible security provisions, to bring the program into line with the institutions of free government and respect for the honesty, integrity, and impartiality of the federal service and those entrusted with its administration.

	To remove the shadow of anxiety from government employment, to restore honor to the public service, we must have a Democratic administration and a Democratic Congress--with congressman like your own candidate in the Sixth District, Judge John Foley. Judge Foley had fought hard and intelligently in defense of the integrity of the public service. He knows the problems of federal workers and can be counted on to see that federal workers get a fair break in Congress.

	And I am glad to know too that the Fifth District will return its able congressman, another attractive, vigorous, young Democrat, Richard Lankford. It is gratifying to learn that Democratic registration in these two districts has increased markedly this year. I remind you that tomorrow is the last day to register in Montgomery County, and that the day after tomorrow is the last day to register in Prince George's County. Let's be sure that every citizen is registered to vote for them.

	Let me tell you another thing that the new Democratic party stands for. That is honesty and decency in campaigning. All of you remember what happened in the state of Maryland six years ago. Your state was invaded by the politics of deceit--faked photographs, scare words, smears, all the arsenal of trickery and falsehood. These methods have no place in a democratic society, any more than the man who profited by them has a place in the United States Senate. I know that the citizens of Maryland will replace him and the methods he condones and the values he embodies and send to the Senate a fighting Democrat, George Mahoney. George Mahoney is entitled to a vote in his own right. But a vote for George Mahoney is more than that--it is a right to vote the wrongs done Millard Tydings and the people of Maryland in 1950. It is a vote that says to political charlatans everywhere: you shall not degrade free elections in America.

	I hope, too, that you will support your two fine candidates for Circuit Court judges, two men with notable records in fighting against crime and juvenile delinquency in this area--Charles Ireland and Alfred D. Noyes.

	And I cannot let the occasion pass without saying a word about the man who has done such a remarkable job of leadership in Montgomery County, your County Chairman, Colonel Ward W. Caddington.

	I know that Montgomery County went Republican in 1948 and 1952. But it redeemed itself in 1954; and I am confident that it will produce an even greater Democratic majority in 1956!

	This is a Democratic year. The rising Democratic tide, which swept Congress and so many state capitals in 1954, engulfed Maine last week. And in November it will engulf Washington!

	It is not only that our Democrats are rallying to the standard. It is that there is in addition an increased swing of Independents and Republicans toward the Democratic Party. It is natural that this swing should be taking place--and it is fitting that we should mention it tonight in a school bearing the name of Montgomery Blair. For the Montgomery Blairs, father and son, were among the founders of the Republican party. One Montgomery Blair was a member of Lincoln's Cabinet. Then, after the Civil War, when the buccaneers of finance took over the Republican Party, the Blairs became Democrats. In the spirit of Montgomery Blair, I call on all citizens of Silver Spring to follow their sage example and come over to the Democratic Party, the party of youth, the party of fresh ideas, the party that cares about people and gets things done!

	The country has been stalled on dead center long enough. It is time for Americans to get up and get moving--to resume the forward march toward a New America, based on freedom and abundance and justice for all.

	That is what this election is about. That is why I am here in Silver Spring. That is why Estes Kefauver and I mean to conduct the hardest campaign that this country has ever seen. And, if you will work with us, I have no doubt about the outcome.

	We will win in November.
EDUCATION--FACILITIESEDUCATION--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT EMPLOYEESGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHOME OWNERSHIPNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGSTANDARD OF LIVINGSUBURBSWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     P yP sP oP gP
 ZP UP PP CP ;P 9P P P	  	  	  	  	  	  	 ^ 	 P 	 < 	 * 	 # e: