

	In our extensive and stimulating travels over the country since the August nominating conventions, we have constantly crossed the trail of Joe Smith. He has joined up for the duration, I am assured--and I can also tell you now that on November 6th, it will be a Democratic landslide.

	It has been definitely established, I believe, that this indestructible Joe named Smith is a member of the great family of rovers and movers that includes colonizer and matchmaker Captain John Smith, mountain man and pathfinder Jedidiah Smith, and our own unique Al Smith.

	Another member of this distinguished company--one whose name you will find in Lincoln's papers--is Truman Smith, who wrote to the first Republican president in November 1860, urging him to take a bolder policy stand to forestall a threatening economic recession. This line of Smiths, I'm sure you agree, has earned the right to be regarded as a symbol of the original free citizen, who is in the habit of showing up at unexpected moments and stirring up interesting developments in behalf of the people.

	It is also clear, I think, that Joe was attracted to the San Francisco Cow Palace late in August by the rumor that President Eisenhower had made some changes in the Republican party. Now he has had a chance to see for himself just what the reform amounts to. He--along with his millions of brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, and cousins of voting years--have this year had a particularly enlightening view of what goes on behind the Republican banners and posters labeling the GOP as "the Party of Lincoln."

	To state it mildly, they have observed no revival of "government of, by and for the people" in the party that fathered the nine-to-one tax cut for corporations and stockholders, the Dixon-Yates gouge, the Hells Canyon Giveaway, lower farm price supports, the shutdown on public power development, the dim-out on civil rights, the slowdowns and stoppages in general welfare programs.

	It is true that Joe Smith didn't get to hear President Eisenhower proclaim that he has now transformed the GOP into "the party of the future." Our Joe missed that part of the theatrical proceedings, since he had been recognized as a genuine Lincoln man and tossed out of the Cow Palace by Permanent Chairman Joe Martin before the night of the acceptance speeches.

	However, I am sure that Joe, like the rest of us, regards this election-year miracle as a refreshing change from the Old Guard rhetoric still favored in virtually all the Republican orators. Further, I do not imagine that his wonderment at the Eisenhower shift diverts him from his citizenry duty of checking on the actual progress, if any, which the Republican party has made toward overtaking the present under the Eisenhower administration.

	Further, it is impossible not to observe that the only tangible Republican future, which Mr. Eisenhower has conjured up, bears the name of Richard M. Nixon. But we are told that we are seeing a new, and uplifted, Nixon, too. Still, something tells us that if the change in Republican direction from yesterday to tomorrow was genuine, the state of alarm among the financial powers who rule the GOP would know no bounds.

	From their calm and relaxed demeanor, you would never guess that they are getting ready to lead and direct the restless forces of change. Instead, you might suppose that someone had just told them that a way had been discovered to permit the Republican party to sit out the entire 20th Century.

	Note how little winded they are from their strenuous exertions on the Eisenhower team, trying to make up for forty lost years in four.

	Behold the monumental equanimity with which the old fogies and the young fogies contemplate the prospect of four more years of such pioneering with Dwight D. Eisenhower.

	Observe the massive fortitude of such old rebels against the status quo as Pennsylvania's Senator Martin, Congressmen Hugh Scott and Richard Simpson, as they prepare to storm the walls of isolation and special privilege under the banner of the Great Crusade.

	It is, in short, purely an election-time phenomenon.

	In the circumstances, we are compelled to conclude that the sometime resident of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, has his sense of direction sadly confused. We are also forced to conclude that Mr. Eisenhower--around and about next January 20th--should come to Pennsylvania for an uninterrupted sojourn. Retirement to his Gettysburg farm is the recommended course--for an extensive stay in Pennsylvania is good for any man.

	Incidentally, I am told that Mr. Eisenhower traveled to his Gettysburg farm only yesterday, to meet there with some 400 leaders of his party. It seems obvious that he called them there in an effort to convince his Gettysburg neighbors that Republican leaders had acquired a "new look" as Crusaders. Gettysburg citizens and other Pennsylvanians indicated emphatically, by their votes in 1954 and 1955 elections, that they couldn't see any improvement in the Republicans. The voting trend all over the country since 1953 indicated that this is also the general impression, and that it is growing steadily.

	Actually, Mr. Eisenhower has passed up his last opportunity to reform or liberalize the Republican party. In a second term, as a "lame duck" president, his influence over his party would be much less than it has been in the last three and one-half years--during which his leadership has made an almost imperceptible impression on the GOP. Moreover, there is no evidence whatever that there has been a change in Mr. Eisenhower's disposition to hold the presidential reins so lightly that Sherman Adams and other lieutenants are able to keep the party buggy in the old Republican ruts.

	The last hope that Mr. Eisenhower might assume forceful leadership died when he gave up any thought of dropping Nixon at the first puff of opposition from the old pros of the right. A temporary party peace was established when he disarmed his Secretary of Disarmament on leave before sending him on his journey to humiliation in the Cow Palace, but it was the peace of Old Guard triumph.

	Now it is our duty to review the whole record and search it for lessons. It is a provocative record, for it is full of opportunities given to Mr. Eisenhower to lead the Republican party in new directions--opportunities to advance the nation's welfare which were wasted, but which now must be recovered and made good by election of a Democratic administration and a Democratic Congress.

	A basic test of Mr. Eisenhower's promise to improve the Republican party came when he had the opportunity to decide against a return to the old Republican discriminatory tax policies which favored the corporate powers--policies which had hastened the nation into disaster during the last previous experience with GOP rule. His popular prestige, combined with Democratic and liberal Republican votes in Congress, would have sustained President Eisenhower in a stand against the revival of Mellon's "trickle-down" economy. But he refused to stand up against the Old Guard in Congress and the spokesmen of big finance in his Cabinet.

	In the same train came the administration's "hard money" policy, the higher interest rates, which benefited the few at the expense of the many, the rate-making and tax-refund favors, and other windfalls for special interests.

	It all adds up to a lopsided prosperity--a dangerous distortion of the country's economy, a mounting inflation which makes any gains in take-home pay illusory for most of our working people--in all, a long march away from our goal of economic justice.

	The Republicans have now reversed the movement toward the wide distribution of income which, under Democratic administrations, brought this nation out of depression and set us on the high road to a sound-based prosperity. They do not have their eyes fixed on the goal of full employment, which must be our constant pole star if we are to make places for the new millions who enter the work force each year, and if American opportunity is to have meaning for the three million or more who cannot now find jobs, the other millions who are forced into premature retirement.

	Satisfaction with things as they are blinds the Republicans to the warnings flashed by the decline in the nation's annual growth rate, as gauged by the total product of goods and services. They are not concerned that in the last three years we have fallen far short of our production potential.

	Until we have a national administration that responds to these challenges, our people cannot use all of their energy and skill as they were meant to do; our country cannot give a full account of itself.

	President Eisenhower had it in his power to hold the line against the disastrous price break, which has carried the nations' farmers into deep depression. He could have made that decision by honoring his 1952 campaign pledge to work for 100 percent parity in the market place, with a positive guarantee of 90 percent price supports.
	
	The immediate and central problem was to keep the farmers markets from going through the floor while we were finding the right answer to the commodities surplus dilemma. It will take many discussions, in the campaign and later, to bring before the public all the facts they must have to deal intelligently and justly with the wide-ranging agricultural problem. But it admits of no dispute that the Eisenhower administration tragically shirked its duty to maintain the parity price system unimpaired throughout this emergency.

	We know from sad experience that the dollar costs of providing such protection are small indeed beside the losses, which the nation suffers when our twenty-one million farm people go through the wringer.

	That this administration knew that the higher price supports provided the means for the needed aid is shown by its election-year use of this economic weapon despite its vaunted sliding-scale principles.

	That the administration's abandonment of its price support pledge grew out of Republican remoteness from agriculture's problems is indicated further by the short shrift it has given to other important farm programs. That remoteness was shown again when Republican convention orators painted rosy pictures of conditions on our farms, at the very time when farm prices were registering a three-point fall in the month ending August 15th.

	When he took office, Mr. Eisenhower had opportunities which had been presented to no other American president to lead this nation to new heights. Twenty years of social pioneering, in the New Deal and Fair Deal, had built the solid foundation of a new America, extended our vision.

	The programs and the methods for great enterprise in the general welfare had been tested and proved sound. Public endorsement of Social Security, unemployment insurance, fair wage and hour standards, and other notable gains of the two previous decades had softened Republican hostility to the point where the GOP managers were borrowing Democratic platform planks they once assailed as socialistic.

	The country was strong, prosperous, and eager to go to work in the task that lay ahead--in slum clearance and housing, school construction, health insurance, hospital building, training of doctors and nurses, medical research, erection of new protection against the hazards of retirement and old age.

	Now nearly four years have passed, and Mr. Eisenhower is asking for four more years just to get started.

	While the slum blight has spread and the housing situation for low-income groups has grown more critical, the administration has held out for a program that would have been puny in 1949. Then the late Senator Robert A. Taft fought for a program four times larger than this administration's proposal for 35,000 units a year.

	The administration stalled for two years while the classroom shortage grew from critical to desperate. The educational crisis deepened in the third year, while the administration presented a program that amounted to little more than a do-it-yourself lecture to the states. This year, with the classroom shortage approaching the 400,000 mark, the administration sat on its hands while Republicans in the House scuttled the Democratic-sponsored school construction program.

	All the opportunities that existed four years ago, and all the means for their fulfillment are still at hand. All that is needed is an administration that fights for the programs progressive America needs.

	In 1953, the final decision as to whether this nation would continue to move ahead in the development of our great natural resources rested with one man--President Eisenhower. He left it to Sherman Adams, to Douglas McKay, and to other Republicans whose philosophy is expressed in the Dixon-Yates Deal and the Hells Canyon Giveaway. Now the private utilities monopoly sets Eisenhower's so-called partnership policy. No federal power dam has been started in four years. Conditions have been created for the greatest despoliation of the public preserve since the wanton days of the Robber Barons.

	An unparalleled opportunity was presented to President Eisenhower when he was given the task of charting our course in harnessing atomic power for peaceful industrial uses. He has permitted his Atomic Energy Commission chairman to follow policies which stake out reservation for private monopoly. America's tomorrow is in the making here. Our nation must have an administration which will give top priority to the public interest in the development of this precious asset, and to the attainment of that purpose I pledge unceasing effort.

	One of the most heartening signs in the national picture in 1952 was the progress that was being made by small business, the seedbed of our free enterprise system. A large factor in that upturn was the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, which for twenty years provided the credit which saved many small businesses and helped other firms to grow stronger and larger. Another major stimulant was the consideration given to small business by the federal government in awarding defense contracts--a policy which strengthens both the broad mobilization base and steadies the national economy through promotion of industrial centralization. And we then had a Federal Trade Commission which maintained a militant watch against unfair trade practices and monopolistic tendencies.

	The Eisenhower team reversed all these policies. Now big business profits soar to record heights, mergers and monopolies flourish under the benign influence of the Brownell "consent decree." But small business profits have dropped sharply in this period, small business failures have risen alarmingly. The next progressive era for competitive business in this country will not begin until the new Democratic administration takes office next January.

	President Eisenhower has had for three and one-half years a unique opportunity to forge greater national unity in the work of making more secure the rights of our working people in this age of the industrial giants. His 1952 campaign pledges held out a hope that he would lead the Republican party to take a more enlightened attitude toward collective bargaining, unemployment benefits, Social Security, disability insurance, adequate minimum wage standards, fair employment practices legislation, and other measures to bring true partnership into labor-management relationships.

	That hope has been bitterly betrayed by President Eisenhower's failure to keep his promise to work for liberalization of the Taft-Hartley Law, by the stacking of his National Labor Relations Board in favor of management, by his administration's opposition to increasing the minimum wage to $1, by his party's opposition to the guaranteed annual wage and to higher unemployment benefits, by Republican efforts, both in Congress and in state legislatures, to pass laws restricting labor's political freedom, by the Republican drive to enact oppressive labor laws in the states, operating through a loophole in the GOP's Taft-Hartley Law, by the Republican stand against enforceable Fair Employment Practices code, by efforts, on the part of both administration leaders and Republican leaders in Congress, to pit farmers against working people, by excluding labor's representatives from the councils of the administration.

	Automation and the atom have brought us fully into the day when there must be a new American concept of labor and management, freed from all the old and outworn impediments of class antagonism and misunderstanding. Labor has grown up, grown strong, developed a leadership which gives first place to policies and programs, which serve the common interest of all American citizens. Labor, through its strength in collective bargaining, has contributed immeasurably to a better balanced and expanding economy. Labor has earned the right to the public's full confidence and to wider recognition from management. The nation must have, will have, an administration that receives labor into full partnership.

	No president in our history has had the opportunity that was given to Mr. Eisenhower to expand the dimensions of American liberty. The national climate for such an advance had been created throughout the twenty years in which Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman took resolute steps to dissolve the walls of discrimination--in the armed forces, in Federal employment. In defense industries and elsewhere. A long series of antidiscrimination decisions in the courts, preceding the 1954 decision in the public schools case, had given further evidence that the spirit of American greatness was astir in the years before 1953.

	Now, for two years, our nation has been permitted to drift into deepening trouble over implementation of the Supreme Court's decision against segregation in the public schools. The country has waited in vain for the President to use the great prestige of his office to maximum advantage in promoting a smooth transition to integrated schools. Our citizens have the intelligence, the heart, and the aspiration to meet this constitutional test and confirm our Christian fellowship. But the first obligation rests in the chief executive, to lead in the mobilization of the forces of reason, good will and respect for the law. These great moral agents will be called into full-time service by the new Democratic administration when it takes office next year. We will seek and find the right way to achieve universal compliance through a concentrated national study of all the problems involved, through an enlightenment which depends on unflagging White House leadership.

	President Eisenhower's assumption of a bystander's role in this work reflects the same attitude he has shown in response to other civil rights challenges. To this day, he has never even mentioned three key proposals for legislative reforms that were promised in the Republican 1952 civil rights plank. He offered no civil rights program at all for three and one-half years--waiting until April of election year to present a program--and then offering a watered-down version of Democratic proposals. He has been silent on Rule 22--a Republican innovation--which tightens the filibuster strings on the Senate. And certainly his silence on civil rights issues does not lend integrity to the loud claims of his followers, who seek to give him false credit for reforms which were initiated, fought for, and defended by Presidents Roosevelt and Truman. But the retreat unhappily, does not end with unkept promises, administrative inaction, and misrepresentations. The nation's leading publishers and editors repeatedly have expressed grave concern over the rise of secrecy and censorship in Republican Washington. Though TV has made the public more aware of the presidential press conference, Mr. Eisenhower meets the press much less frequently than did his two Democratic predecessors. Among members of his Cabinet the press conference has become a vanishing institution.

	The crude political system which the Eisenhower administration introduced into our federal security-loyalty programs has elevated the snooper and the hidden informer to a position which gives our country a decidedly un-American look. It spawned the infamous false numbers game, under which thousands of loyal Americans in the federal service were misbranded as security risks. It has been condemned by courts, leaders of the bar, senators, congressmen, editors, educators, ministers.

	An aroused public opinion is now forcing some remedial action--against the will of the administration. But that change comes late, and the country has been put on notice that the alien system of the false accuser and condemnation without trial will not be completely eradicated until there is a different administration in Washington.

	Similarly, we had to wait two years--for the mobilization of public opinion and the election of a Democratic Congress--before there was any halt in the abuses of power by Republican extremists of the new Know-Nothing cult, who even trampled ruthlessly on the rights of the President himself.

	From President Eisenhower came mild words of reproof--occasionally--but no action to stem the wave of intimidation by slander and slur, no rejection of the techniques of McCarthyism and Nixonism, no interference with the guilt-by-association shows and the book-burnings. A majority of the President's own party voted on the Know-Nothing side at the censoring of McCarthy, without so much as a frown from the White House.

	Such is the use that this administration has made of the greatest opportunity in a generation to win new ground for freedom. In the last two years, a Democratic Congress has done much to stop this erosion of our constitutional rights, and next year a full-scale advance will begin under a new Democratic administration and a Democratic Congress.

	No administration in our history faintly compares with the Eisenhower administration in pretensions to crusading for clean government, and no administration in our history has done less for morality in government.

	You have to go back to the scandals of the Grant administration--more than eighty years ago--to find a parallel for the corruption, the conflict-of-interest and the betrayal of public trust that are written in the record of the current Republican government. As a matter of fact, in the extent of the public interest involved, and in the number and importance of faithless officials who quit their posts after their misconduct was disclosed, the record of the Eisenhower administration is even blacker than that of the Grant administration.

	It is documented in volumes of evidence produced by congressional, legislative, and press investigations. It is in black and white in the stories of former Air Force Secretary Harold Talbott, former Federal Buildings Administrator Peter Strob, former Interstate Commerce Commission Chairman Hugh Cross, former General Services Administrator Edmund Mansure, former Republican National Committee Chairman Wesley C. Roberts, and Adolphe Wenzell, the ambidextrous Wall Street banker who served simultaneously as Budget Bureau consultant in the Dixon-Yates deal and as agent of the utility bonding firm chiefly concerned in that scheme to siphon off easy millions of the taxpayers' money. And, of course, Murray Chotiner, Mr. Nixon's man, the California attorney hired by Eastern lawbreakers to represent them in Washington.

	These are the principals in a long parade of Republican leaders who regard public service as an open door to the feathering of their own nests--a procession which was never interrupted by White House vigilance. Neither did the White House move to retire any of the wrongdoers--until forced to do so by public indignation following disclosure. They departed not with a presidential rebuke--but with a presidential letter of commendation, and, on occasion, a medal or a silver tray. These souvenirs now adorn the trophy case of the Clean As a Hound's Tooth Club, as permanent reminders that a member of the Team--even though he gets caught promoting his private business at public expense--never loses integrity in the eyes of the Chief Crusader.

	That's the record: not only unexampled corruption, but corruption of the corrosive kind which blinds the leader of the national administration to acts of misfeasance in his own party.

	Most perplexing of all is the course which President Eisenhower has steered in the areas of national security and foreign affairs. He came to office at a time when we had passed the peak of emergency spending for the necessary buildup of our military strength. Under a Democratic administration, American valor had won the ground--at heavy sacrifice--and laid the basis for the Korean Armistice, which President Eisenhower signed soon after the start of his term.

	In Europe, the tidal wave of war exhaustion and Communism was in a retreat that had been brought about by American aid and imagination--swift, resolute, and generous action that filled the spiritual, economic and military vacuum left by World War II. Under American leadership the Western Alliance, the Free World's collective security system had steadily grown stronger, and the threat of Communist military aggression was receding.

	We had come to a great turning point in the Cold War, and the clear prospect was that our gains would be consolidated and extended by the new Eisenhower administration if it worked faithfully to maintain and strengthen the policies and programs which had brought us safely thus far. And the new Republican president was in a position to do that under less pressure, and with much fewer Spartan demands on our people, than was the case in the period when President Truman had to make the quick, hard decisions.

	I must reserve for another occasion a detailed analysis of how and why the American initiative was lost during the Eisenhower years. That requires a long and exceedingly careful exposition, which will take more time than I have here. But it is beyond successful contradiction that our military strength with relation to the Soviet empire's has worsened and worsened seriously in the last three and one-half years.

	Only the most blind of partisans would deny that the Western coalition has deteriorated sadly in this period, that our relations with the uncommitted nations have become increasingly strained, that the Soviets are running with the economic, political, and diplomatic initiative in the race for world leadership, and that new war clouds ride the skies over Asia, the Middle East, and Africa.

	A third ominous fact is that the Eisenhower administration seems constitutionally unable to perform its duty to alert the American people to the new dangers and larger challenges that confront us. That is, of course, not a pleasant task, but the life of the nation depends on the faithful discharge of this watchman's role by the administration in power.

	The Eisenhower administration instead is irresistibly attracted to the rose-colored glasses, which cast an unreal and a dangerously perceptive film over an insecure peace, and an increasing threat to man's freedom.

	This lapse in our international leadership has it source in the same political state of mind that is responsible for the administration's failure to come to grips with our mounting domestic problems. It results from too much delegation of the president's policy-making power to subordinates. It grows from too much dependence on the purely domestic political councils of the overheated party men. It develops from Mr. Eisenhower's peculiar concept of the president's role--his inclination to be umpire rather than participant, the consistency with which he has appeared as a passive, detached, negative chief executive. His acceptance of this part-time presidential role was shown repeatedly, in both utterances and his actions, long before his heart attack and his ileitis operation added complicating factors.

	In this address, I have devoted major space to the Eisenhower record of inaction in domestic affairs because of my conviction that the work, which will preserve and enlarge freedom, will be done on the American shore primarily. We cannot coerce, we cannot bribe or argue other people in accepting our ideas and our ways of life. But we can make our own social order so right, so just and so strong that all will open their doors--and their hearts and minds--to us.

	When we speak from a Geneva Summit with the voice of a leadership that is uncertain and vacillating in our homework for a greater democracy, then we are not heard clearly, our basic motives are misunderstood, our finest purposes are distorted, and we are mocked. But when we speak from the true American summit, with the voice of a leadership which works untiringly for the best that we have to give, then the clouds of fear and anger, the mists of suspicion and envy begin to dissolve, and we will be able to accomplish good things which now seem beyond us.

	The form and substance of the New America--the great America--is even now at our fingertips. It is ours if we will reach out for it. All of our people--candidates and constituents, Republicans and Democrats--are eager for this work to begin. They live in this hope. They are impatient to use the new tools, the new secrets that have been opened to them, the spirit they have been given for man's mastery of his environment and himself. 

	It is our task to provide the leadership worthy of this great nation at its zenith. In humility, and in gratitude to the One who has granted us the privilege to live in this land of limitless opportunity, let us apply ourselves to the work that America was meant to do.
AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSBROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONBUSINESS, SMALLCIVIL RIGHTSCOMMUNISMEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONEDUCATION--FACILITIESEMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATIONGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTNUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPRODUCTIVITYWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     gv 3v -v )v !v
 v v 
v  v u u u u 	 |	 W	 <	 -	 !	 	  	  	  	  	  	 h 	 G 	 / 	 # e: