

	I have come to Milwaukee tonight to talk with you about communism and freedom.  These two plain words--we all know--bespeak two distinct worlds.  They signify two titanic ideas, two ways of life, two totally irreconcilable beliefs in the nature and destiny of man.

	The one--freedom--knows man as a creature of God, blessed with a free and individual destiny, governed by eternal moral and natural laws.

	The second--communism--claims man to be an animal creature of the state, curses him for his stubborn instinct for independence, governs with a tyranny that makes its subjects wither away.

	These two ideas are opposed as danger is to safety, as sickness is to health, as weakness to strength, as darkness to light. 

	Great truths can, at times be startlingly simple.  This one is of that kind.  It is so simple a truth that it seems almost too obvious, almost stale.

	But let not our memories be too short.  Only a few years have passed since many moved among us who argued cunningly against this plain truth.  Their speech was persuasive, and their vocabulary clever.  Remember?  It went like this:  "After all, while we stand for political democracy, they stand for economic democracy.  Fundamentally, there are but two slightly different roads to the
same goal.  We both believe in freedom."

	We all must remember that sophisticated lie.  We will never forget it.  For it partly poisoned two whole decades of our national life.  It insinuated itself into our schools, our public forums, some of our news channels, some of our labor unions, and--most terrifyingly--into our government itself.

	What did this penetration into government mean?  It meant contamination in some degree of virtually every department, every agency, every bureau, every section of our government.  It meant a government by men whose very brains were confused by the opiate of this deceit.

	These men were advisers in a foreign policy that--on one side of the world--weakly bowed before the triumph in China of Communists hailed as "agrarian reformers."

	On the other side of the world this policy condoned the surrender of whole nations to an implacable enemy whose appetite for conquest sharpened with every victory.  This penetration meant a domestic policy whose tone was set by men who sneered and scoffed at warnings of the enemy infiltrating our most secret counsels.

	It meant--in its most ugly triumph--treason itself.

	These years have, indeed, been a harrowing time in our history.  It has been a time of both honest illusion and dishonest betrayal--both terribly costly.  It has been a time that should have taught us, with cold finality, the truth about freedom and communism. 

	Most of us, young or old, wise or naive, have learned.  An important few have not.  They have learned very little--and they admit nothing.

	They are men about whom there is nothing great except their vanity and their complacency.  They are proud prisoners of their own mistakes.

	Who are these men?

	They are those who cheered the blithe dismissal of the Alger Hiss case as "a red herring."  They are those who applauded two weeks ago when an administration servant grandly declared that Communists in our national life were "not very important" and that we should not waste time chasing "phantoms."  They are those who slapped their sides with laughter when the same man dismissed the quest for Communists in our government as a kind of silly game played in the Bureau of Wild Life and Fisheries.

	Do you think these fish stores, ghost stories and animal stories are really very amusing?  Such comedy touches do little to relieve the tragic knowledge that we have been for years the gullible victims of Communist's espionage experts.  These experts in treason have plundered us of secrets involving our highest diplomatic decisions, our atomic research.  Tragically, we do not know how much more our security may have been jeopardized.

	This, I repeat, has been a calamity of immeasurable consequence.  It is not irreparable:  We are strong enough and wise enough to survive it.  But for a disturbed people it is made easier to bear--not by making light of it, but by assuring the people it cannot be repeated.  To minimize it is criminal folly.

	You can never cure malignant growth just by a hearty bedside manner!

	I must be blunt, for this is a serious matter.  I speak not as a partisan or as a candidate but simply as an American citizen--moved to honest anger by this persistent, gnawing threat of Communist treason in our national life.  I know that millions of both parties today are moved to anger and to action.

	Neither these millions nor I can understand a politician who one week makes jokes about this menace, and another week--after public reaction has dampened his humor--promises to offer a serious solution.

	Perhaps my deep concern is sharpened by personal experience and personal knowledge.  I know what fifth columns can do to a free nation, I know the awful effectiveness of Fascist fifth columns before and during World War II.  I know what Communist fifth columns have done in East Germany, in Poland, in Czechoslovakia, in East Austria, in Rumania, in Hungary and Bulgaria.

	At first hand I saw some of these nations struggling desperately to maintain their independence of the Kremlin.  The name of Cardinal Mindszenty symbolizes all those gallant men and women who led that struggle and the bitter fate which overtook them.

	I know how close these fifth columns came in postwar years to forcing their way to power in some countries of Western Europe.  And I know personally what alertness was required, both in our wartime operations and in our NATO planning, to guard against espionage.  I learned that national secrets and national security can be guarded, and that there are ways to defeat the cleverest of spies--whether Nazi or Communist.

	At a critical moment in World War II, we induced the Nazis to hold an entire army in reserve in the Calais area to meet an attack that they thought was coming but which we never intended to launch.  Measures to deceive them worked so effectively that they estimated our original strength in Europe at seventy-five divisions instead of the actual thirty-six.

	In the entire American record in Europe there is no single instance where the enemy gained essential information of our plans through the medium of spies or subversive agents.

	Now, my fellow Americans, we must do more than recognize a menace in order to defeat it.  When a free country frankly faces this menace, what should it do--and what should it not do?

	As a people we must be wise enough to know this principle: freedom must defend itself with courage, with care, with force and with fairness.  Failing to remember this principle, freedom in destroying its mortal enemy, could destroy itself.

	Freedom is not only a precious but also a complex privilege.  It is the most generous way of life known to man.  It is a way of life that permits and encourages far-ranging differences of opinion, infinite varieties of sentiment and attitude.  It places its faith in the ultimate ability of the people to think clearly, to choose wisely, to act firmly and compassionately.

	The most awful poverty for people in this way of life would be a poverty of ideas.  Their food for thought must never be rationed, nor their diet dictated either by an intellectual elite or by a government which presumes to act as censor.

	We can win nothing by trying to make everyone think and act alike.  Such a course would deaden the lively spirit of freedom itself.  We would have nothing left to defend if we allowed ourselves to be swept into any spirit of violent vigilantism.

	To defend freedom, in sort, is--first of all--to respect freedom.  That respect demands another, quite simple kind of respect--respect for the integrity of fellow citizens who enjoy the right to disagree.  The right to question or challenge a man's judgment caries with it no automatic right to question his honor.

	Armed with a clear and uncompromising respect for freedom, how then shall we defend it?

	To begin with: All of us--citizens, jurists, officials--must remember that the Bill of Rights contains no grant of privilege for a group of people to join together to destroy the Bill of Rights.  A group, like the Communist conspiracy, dedicated to the ultimate destruction of all civil liberties cannot be allowed to claim civil liberties as its privileged sanctuary from which to carry on subversion of the government.

	At the same time we have the right to call a spade a spade.  That means, in every proved case, the right to call a Red a Red.  The time is past when we can hide our heads in the sands of stubborn ignorance or spend our days in the leisurely indulgence of abstract argument.

	As we clear our own minds, we can go on letting others speak theirs.  Our system entitles every political voice to be heard--but let each voice be named and counted.  Let every political medicine be offered in freedom's marketplace, but let it be plainly labeled--especially if it is poison.  Let every person or organization distributing political literature through the mail be made to disclose its source of funds and its membership.

	Let every organization affecting our political life be compelled to make public its finances, membership and affiliations.  In short, let us use every legal resource to insure that all groups which enjoy the right to free speech extend that right to talking about themselves--plainly and publicly.

	Having done this, let us make one more fact plain: to work for the United States government is a privilege, not a right.  And it is the prerogative of the government to set the strictest test upon the loyalty and the patriotism of those entrusted with our nation's safety.

	Every official of government must bear clear responsibility for the loyalty and fitness of his own immediate subordinates.  And every official of the federal government--on every level--answer any question from appropriate sources touching upon his loyalty and devotion to the United States of America.

	If we add candor to our fidelity to freedom's principles, I sincerely believe our attack on the Communist threat will be well under way.  I am confident that a new administration--but only a completely new one--can organize and press this attack successfully.

	I do not suggest that the battle plan can be simple or easy.  Wars that involve ideas and rights and principles are far more difficult to wage than those that are concerned only with material values.  Such a conflict calls not only for the devotion of all our citizens, but for the special contributions of our spiritual leaders, of our educators, our writers, our journalists, our lawyers, our poets.

	In this kind of war there is a special value in allies.  Exchange of information among friendly governments is an important weapon against Communists and the doctrine they preach.

	Because I can claim the chiefs of those Allied governments as my personal friends, I know we can count in this vital matter on help from all NATO nations of Western and Southern Europe.  I know we can count also on Western Germany, whose Chancellor, Conrad Adenauer, is my good friend.  Likewise, I number among the exiled countries held captive by the Kremlin many friends who are ready to help.

	But above all there is needed firm and determined leadership.  The climate of our federal government must be one that Communists and their sympathizers would find not only uncongenial but thoroughly hostile.

	I am confident that millions of Americans of both parties will, in this autumn of 1952, demand--with the fervor of an aroused people--the appointment of new guardians of our country's security. 

	We have all had enough, I believe, of those who thinking is still
haunted by past illusions, those who are prisoners of their own fuzzy thinking and their own mistakes. 

	We have all had enough, I believe, of those who have sneered at the warnings of men trying to drive Communists from high places--but who themselves have never had the sense or the stamina to take after the Communists themselves.

	We have all had enough, I believe, of men who seem to feel that freedom can do nothing but fret and whine as it watches its own slow sure death.

	The future of this country belongs to more courageous men.

	It belongs to men who know that freedom's fight must be forever relentless, uncompromising and fair.

	It belongs to men who--today--are ready to bear spiritual and intellectual arms against an alien army of Communist ideas.

	It belongs to men who--tomorrow--will be ready to press their counter-attack into the enemy's darkest haunts--the dark areas of poverty, intolerance, prejudice, social injustice.

	The future belongs to men who know--in their hearts and minds, their souls and very bones--that freedom can be strong.

	Such men America has in abundance--let her call them to her service.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECOMMUNISMESPIONAGEGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORS     3 k3 e3 a3 W3
 I3 D3 ?3 63 -3 +3 +3 !3	 b 	 R  1  (   e: