

	Ladies and gentlemen:  Thank you very much.  It is first my pleasant privilege to thank each of you for coming out here this morning.  In doing so, you pay me high honor because I have the ambition to look into the faces of as many Americans as I can meet to exchange with them ideas, to let them know what is on my heart and mind--and they have a right to know that as long as I am the standard-bearer of a political party--and to get from them their reactions, which gives me some way of measuring the public sentiment of America.

	Additionally, I have the high honor of sharing this platform with men for whom I have the greatest admiration:  your local congressman, Mr. Frey; your candidate for the U.S. Senate, Barry Goldwater.  He was with me in a former crusade and I am delighted to have him as an associate in this one.  And then your Governor Pyle.  I knew his cousin well.  I have known him only a short time, but in that short time I have conceived for him an admiration and respect that is unexcelled in the case of any public figure.  And then finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have been introduced here by one of the greatest figures of our time, Lew Douglas, a man who has permitted me to call him friend for years and because of that, in addition to the admiration and respect I have for his brain, I have for him personally a deep and abiding affection.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I stopped in Phoenix and there I talked some about the possibilities of the material development of this great West.  I talked about the need for that development, the need for bringing water to these acres of the West to provide those products that in the future this country is going to have great need of because of our constantly growing population.  You know that each evening there are six thousand more Americans than there were on the preceding evening.  A growth of that kind demands that we constantly look ahead in the material side of our resources and the development of them for the simple reason that America cannot stand still.  We must always go forward.

	Here, stretching between the two borders of our country and from the Rockies westward, we still have those great uncounted acres where this can be done.  It is the imagination, the energy, the ambition of people like yourselves, of all of these people of the great West that must take the lead.  And proper federal cooperation and partnership, necessary as it is, must never take any form of domination.  We do not want to cut off, stultify or diminish in any way the influence of the people on the spot who know what is necessary.

	Now, I am not, ladies and gentlemen, because of the limitations of time, going to review for you in detail all of the things that I have discussed with the good people at Phoenix this morning.  I merely wanted to give you the idea that the people joined with me in this crusade are, all of us, are determined that this progress in the development of our resources shall go on.  We are certain that none among you believe the extraordinary charges made that because a person is against those in power he is also against power, and water for the West.

	I ask you not to forget two facts:  that Teddy Roosevelt signed the bill giving birth to the Reclamation Bureau, and that the vilified 80th Congress gave greater support to Western development than any other Congress in history.

	Now, I know that all of you will allow me to pay a particular tribute this morning that would be inescapable, considering my background.  I mean the tribute to those among you wearing uniform and those who have worn uniform, and particularly because of the nature of this base, I want to pay my special salute to the men of our Air Force.  Through this place came many of the men trained here and organized here who helped win the war in Europe.  Equally, they went to the Pacific.  So to those men and to those of you who knew them, helped train them and were friendly with them, my warm salute.

	Now, aside from that and because of the long history of this spot, stretching back to its connection with the Spanish civilization for four hundred years, I want this morning to address myself not so much to the material side of our future development and of our present problems as I do to the spiritual and moral sides.  I do this for three local reasons.

	First, there is the presence here of a great university.  I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that you will pardon, therefore, a special word to the young of our country.  They are its future.  Wherever the United States goes, they will be there for a long time.  Men and women of my generation and age, if they are lucky, have fifteen to twenty years.  That measures our stake in this country.  These young people have sixty years, so let us consider for a moment what we can turn over to them in values, well knowing that the youth of our country are not going to be stirred solely by appeals to pocketbook and to material values.  They demand, and they rightly demand--and I speak out of a lifetime of experience with the young of the United States--that there is included in every one of our exhortations, in every one of our presentations to them, a recognition that the American civilization is based soundly on spiritual values.

	Let me go just a bit further.  Our founding fathers, in order to explain to the world the nature of this new government, said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights."  They had to call upon the Almighty and His direct creative function in our lives in order to explain this government.  If we don't remember that and if we don't include it in all that we try to give in the way of the lessons of the past to these young people of ours, they will rightfully reject us.

	But I say to them, if they will never forget that direct connection between our form of government, between all clean governments, and a deeply felt religious faith, they will never go far wrong and they will, in their turn and when they are my age, be very, very proud of the kind of America they will be turning over in their turn.

	With your permission, I want to address a special word to the women because, as keepers of our homes, I think they have a special appreciation of the spiritual values in our lives.  Specifically, at least, they are responsible for that early absorption of belief and conviction on the part of the very young.  Unless the women are imbued with this idea that the very basis of American government is a deeply felt religious faith, again we shall go astray.  So I appeal to women not only because there are two million more women voters than there are men.  I appeal to them as the special custodians and guardians of these values that are, after all, the imperishable part of American and Western civilization.

	Then I hope that you will allow me to address a special word to the citizens of Spanish speaking extraction.  The Spanish padres came into this region many, many years ago.  They lighted candles before the altar of Almighty God, and in doing so, they lighted candles before the altar of the freedom that grew up in this great West.  With those people I have had wonderful associations.  One of the most valued opportunities I have had in recent years was that of going to Mexico City as the guest of the government some five years ago to pay my tribute to the contributions made by the Spanish speaking people of America to the winning of World War II.

	Here in this region where so much of your progress is due to their descendants and their relatives, again I want to repeat that tribute.  I learned only recently that the one Medal-of-Honor man still alive in Arizona is of this same group, Sergeant Guerrera, and if he were here, I would like to render him a personal salute.  Because of the special and deep faith of those people, I class them along with the youth and the women in their support of these spiritual values.

	The three groups to which I have addressed my brief remarks, along with all other citizens--and remember, I do not deprecate these qualities and these values in others--I merely say that these three groups seem to bear a special regard for them and, therefore, give examples to the rest of us.  But if those three groups combine their strength to keep all of us aware of their tremendous importance of this kind of thing in our lives, ladies and gentlemen, we will gain in Washington the kind of government that will inspire the respect of each of us.  I want to show you, as my concluding thought, the very definite relationship between a government in Washington that we admire and respect and the development of peaceful programs in the world.  The true cornerstone of any peace structure under current conditions is a strong America; strong spiritually, as I have just tried so haltingly to explain, strong intellectually, scientifically, productively and finally, militarily.  If we do not have that strong America, there is no hope that the free world can combine among itself to hold back Communism.  We hold back Communism not only by putting a solid front in the places where it may seek to affect military aggression, but by fighting those misfortunes, those conditions in the world that are favorable to the propagation of that dread disease--poverty, ignorance, squalor.  Those are the things that must be combated.  And they can be combated only if the United States is solvent and strong.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the United States is solvent and strong when 155 million independent, free Americans are united.  Now, I do not mean united in all of the details of method, of practice, procedures, or, indeed, of many important problems in our lives.  There are different approaches, and in more than one problem, different solutions can be correct.  But I mean united in our trust, in our faith, in our conviction that our government, is leading us surely and decently toward a peace of honor, a peace that provides security and one that will make free all of the independent capabilities and ambitions and will allow us each in our turn to add to the might, the glory and the future of America.  If we have that kind of a government then these things can be done, but if you are distrustful of our government and you will not give it your support in these basic issues of aspiration, of faith, of purpose, of objective, then we are not going to have peace. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, peace in the world today has a dozen roads to travel to produce the situation and the kind of thing that we need.  It must eliminate the present fighting.  It must make sure that future fighting will not break out.  It must lift from the hearts of men and women everywhere the dread fear that their children will have, in their turn, to put on uniforms and go off to war or off across the sea.  We must produce a life of tranquillity and peace, and that means a government that you respect, in which you believe, and which you will earnestly support.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, therefore, I ask you never to forget this one thought:  The United States government is not power in itself.  The United States government is a collection of individuals in the United States Senate, in the House of Representatives, in the executive departments.  They produce nothing.  They merely lead in accordance with constitutional processes of our country, the energy, the thoughts, the spirit, the product of 155 million people.  Consequently, unless they have that faith, they are helpless.  Now, your problem is to decide between now and November 4 what is the best way for you to get that kind of government--one that will inspire your faith, one in which you will believe, one in which your aspirations and your hopes, if they cannot be reached, at least progress will be made toward them.  More than that, no one can pledge you that they will try with all of the wisdom and justice and spirit of fair-play with which God endowed them, with a determination to be honest, square-shooting and straightforward, to lead the American people as well as they may in the paths of peace abroad and prosperity, happiness and tranquillity at home.

	Again, may I thank each of you from the bottom of my heart for coming out here this morning.  I am sure that as I leave this stand, several of my associates are going to say, "General, you talked fifteen minutes too long," but please don't hold it against me.  I get interested in these ideas and I can't stop.  Good-bye and good luck.
HISPANIC AMERICANSMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTREGIONALISM--WESTYOUTH     1 1 1 1 1
 1 1 1 1 z1 x1 x1 n1	 b 	 P 	 3 	  	  e: