

	All right.

	Now ladies and gentlemen, I think you may just as well know that there is a determined effort being made in this country today by a very small group of well-disciplined, highly organized people who have made it their business to interrupt me, in which there are thousands of people present here tonight and a handful of people who feel that for some particular reason, they have rights beyond anyone else.

	Once there was the danger of the tyranny of the majority.  Now we face the danger of the tyranny of an organized minority. 

	Now, some of these young men and women were in Portland last night.

	They have some here for the same purpose that they were in Portland last night.  They have come here to disrupt this meeting.  And I ask them in the name of freedom and peace, for which they say they stand, to please be ladies and gentlemen and permit this meeting to go on or get out--one or the other. 

	Now, my friends, you know we're going on with our meeting, and I'll answer our young friends tonight.

	VOICE:  Answer the question.  What about democracy in Chicago?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Ladies and gentlemen, let me just assure you of one thing.  There are approximately 2,500 people outside these doors that wanted to get in here tonight.  Of that 2,500, at least 1,500 of them are young men and women that are polite, tolerant, understanding, not necessarily in agreement with us, but the kind of young men and women that make you proud of this country.  I regret that there are those--I regret that there are those that feel that free speech is license, that they have the right to disturb an assembly, that they have the right to abridge the opportunity of those of us to speak.  And I shall not be driven from this platform by a handful of people who believe in nothing. 

	VOICE:  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you.  You've got me.

	I might say that under other days, you might have made the accusation that this kind or harassment was fit from the political opposition.  But I want to make it clear that your Mr. Wallace, with his racist doctrine, would have no part of this, and I'm sure that Mr. Nixon, with his do-nothing doctrine, would have no part of this.

	And what I'm more sure of is the American public wants none of this and they are tired, sick and tired of it.

	Now, isn't it interesting that to your far left, and my far right, that noise comes.  And that's generally the way it is.     

	Tonight, we're here to discuss some good old-fashioned American politics.  I understand--may I just suggest to this young college student that the first characteristic of a college-educated man is good manners?     

	Might I suggest to this fine group up here that the other characteristic of an educated man is forbearance, tolerance, and reason.  And will you please now--knock it off, will you, please?

	What do you want to do with this crowd?

	VOICES:  Throw them out.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  No, my friends, let me tell you something.  That is exactly what they would like to have us do and we're not going to do it.  We're going to stay here all night if need be, and we're going to carry on our meeting, aren't we?

	Well, I thought maybe if I could, I would tell you about the Republican candidate.  Since they don't have much time to spend with him, I thought we would spend a little time with him tonight.  And I thought possibly, since the Republican candidate was here last Tuesday, it was time maybe for the truth squad to come in.  So I'm going to tell you like it is tonight.

	If any of you are upset by that slogan, "Nixon's The One", I would like to have you just remember that Agnew is number two.     

	I believe, my friends, that as we approach the last few weeks of this presidential campaign, I believe that the Republican candidate owes it to the people to come out of the shadows.

	Would you mind bringing your television cameras down here?  You fellows do an awful lot to provoke that kind of stuff.

	Well, ladies and gentlemen, if they want to have their little meeting up there, we'll have ours down here, if that's okay with you.

I want to talk to you about what I consider to be the serious issues of this campaign.

	All right, ladies and gentlemen.

	Ladies and gentlemen, this is what some people wanted tonight, and regrettably, this is what happened.  Now, let's not let it happen any more.  I ask now for your attention.

	May I ask for the attention of our friends?  All right, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to start whether they like it or not.

	As we enter the last month of this presidential campaign, with all of its turbulence and turmoil, as we see tonight, I believe that the Republican candidate owes it to the people of this nation to come out of the shadows; to put down this instant poll-taking machine and to tell the American voter where he stands on the major issues of the day.

	I do not believe that majority of Americans are ready to vote for a phantom candidate, trying desperately to tiptoe through the issues of this campaign without the sincerity, or forthrightness and candor and honesty that this country cries out for.

	Mr. Nixon, I wish to goodness that I could get as much response from you from this public platform as I have had from some tonight.  I want Mr. Nixon to come here and to debate with me the free and open issues of this campaign.  

	Yes, I want a free and open debate on all issues.  The Republican candidate says that such a debate would be kid's stuff.  I say to him that it is not kid's stuff; it is the work of our democracy.  So, Mr. Nixon, come out into the open and face what I face.  Come out and debate these issues under these circumstances.

	Yes, Mr. Nixon, I suggest that we stand on the same platform.  I hope I can give you better conditions than this tonight and I hope that we can stand on the same platform, you and me, where we can put our programs and policies to the people.  Let's talk about foreign policy.  Let's talk about race relations.  Let's talk about education.  Mr. Nixon, Mr. Republican, let's talk sense to the American people and then let them judge you.

	I ask the Republican party to have its candidate come out from behind those Madison Avenue balloons and confetti and these carefully staged television speeches where you answer questions of those great, those nice neat little prepared cards.  Let's get down to the business of democracy.  Let's talk business about what's going on in this country even what's going on in this hall, Mr. Nixon, and let's face up to it.

	Now, my friends, we have heard the words tonight--"stop the war."  Well, let's talk about the war.  This war has finally reached, thank goodness, the stage of the conference table and there is some hope when men sit down together around a table for peace, and it's that hope to which I give my efforts, my prayers and my work.  I run on the platform of my party and that platform points the way to peace in Vietnam; to peace through a negotiated political settlement.  It points the way toward what some young men tonight have cried out for.

	They say they want peace.  I know of no civilized man that does not want it.  Peace is not the property of any one; it belongs to all of us.  That platform points the direction toward the reduction of American combat forces as the army of the South Vietnam is able to better defend itself; it points to the de-Americanization of this war.  It points to free elections open to all who will abide by peaceful processes.  And I can say to you that peace will come to no one unless men reason together--not shout at one another.  And I pray that on January 20, 1969, we shall have that peace that we long for in Vietnam.  But if we do not--let me say to those tonight who have sought to disrupt this meeting, as well as those of you who have come and sat here so patiently, that I pledge to you if I am elected your president, that my first priority as president shall be to bring an honorable end to that conflict in Vietnam.

	It will not be easy, but it must be done.

	And what about Mr. Nixon?  Well, he says he does not want to upset the Paris talks.  Neither do I; I was part of an administration that got them started.  But in March he said he had a plan to end the war.  And I ask tonight, where is that plan?  This week, his running mate said there is not new and there never has been a Nixon-Agnew plan for peace in Vietnam.  Yet, Mr. Nixon said in March that there was such a plan.

	Mr. Nixon's running mate said, and I quote him, "It was all designed to maintain suspense."  And then he said, "Isn't that the way campaigns are run?"

	Ladies and gentlemen, you do not play that kind of politics with the tragedy of war.

	Now, if Mr. Nixon and Mr. Agnew had a secret plan to end that war with Vietnam, and I hope they have, I suggest they let the commander in chief know it, the president of the United States.  And if they don't have a plan, as Mr. Agnew said they didn't, then I suggest they stop playing games with the American people on such a serious subject.

	Now, for twenty years, I have spoken out on the issues that affect this nation today and in the yesterdays and tomorrow.  I have spoken out about the things that affect your families here tonight, and you have rights, and you have every right, to be concerned as family people about what transpires in this country.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you in all the seriousness of my heart that when there are efforts made to destroy the Democratic process or to disrupt it, to put it aside and to ignore it, these are danger signs.  There is not a single grievance in this country that cannot be settled reasonably.  And there is not a single problem in this country that is not subject to reason and negotiation and at least some form of conciliation.  

	But we shall never settle our problems if all we do is chant, if all we do is harass.  We shall never settle our problems if we take them to the street in violence.  We have a better way.  We have the way of dialogue, of debate, of discussion, yes, even of open and honest dissent.  Dissent in America, yes, but disorder in America, no.

	My fellow Democrats and my fellow Americans, I happen to think the people of this country are watching, waiting to see whether or not we tolerate the kind of abuse, the kind of violence, the kind of disrespect for the law and for the rights of others that we see all too often.  And if a member of this party that seeks high office condones either violence or the abuse of democratic rights, he is unworthy of public trust.  And I want it very clear, as I tried to say a little earlier, I have all of my life been one who tried to see the other fellow's point of view.  I have tried to be one that believed that in the debate and discussion, and through the processes of democratic procedure, we could solve our difficulties.  But I have studied the history of this century and I must say in candor that when I see people and hear people who believe that free speech belongs only to them, that the freedom of assembly is only theirs, and that the right to complain is only theirs, I say to you that those are the signs of danger.

	And we must draw the line.  And we must let it be known--at least, I shall let it be known that if I am the president of the United States, I shall do anything within my power to defend democratic rights and I shall do everything in my power to see that the principles of democracy are not abused or defiled by those who commit violence or have disregard for the law.

	I hope that some of us here tonight know what is going on.  Patterns such as we see here drive voters by the thousands to a racist candidate.  Patterns that we have seen here tonight drive voters by the thousands to one who takes no stand on any issue.  Isn't it interesting that a liberal Democrat, isn't it interesting that a progressive Democrat, isn't it interesting that a man that has worked all his life for peace should be the target of a handful of people that would like to destroy this party, and indeed, destroy this nation?

	I am going to call upon you and thousands, yea, millions more like you to make it clear to those who are willing to defy everything, who are willing to stand in total disregard of law and order, I am going to ask you now to stand up and to take your stand in terms of an orderly society and a just society.

	There is no justice that comes out of displays of bitterness and hatred, of shouting and of profanity, of violence and fisticuffs.  That is no way for social progress.  That is no way to build a democracy.

	And you know, my friends, that the only way that we will build it is when we stand together as a free people and build together a society in which more and more of our people share in its benefits, in which more and more of our children shared in education, in which more and more of our people, regardless of race, creed, or color, have a right to participate in every process of this country and to share in every benefit of it.  And we can do this through the violence.

	I must say that I consider it almost an honor to have been selected out as the target, as I am in every city.  I seek no pity.  In fact, what I seek is only your help.  In every city across America the Students for a Democratic Society, as they call themselves, have made me their target.  And why?  Because I speak up for the Negro, because I speak up for the Mexican-American, because I speak up for the worker, because I speak up for this country.  All of my life I have been speaking up for the children of this land that have not had a chance.  All of my life, I have stood guard against those forces of reaction and bigotry and discrimination that would weaken and poison the atmosphere of this land?  Now, what is the end result?  The end result is that the handful of militants and anarchists and nihilists who believe in nothing have determined that they are going to destroy a man, a party, and weaken a country.

	But ladies and gentlemen, they are not going to do it.  We are going to succeed.  We are going to win.  We must make it clear that in spite of all of it, in spite of the white supremacists, the extremists of the right, in spite of the extremists of the left, in spite of any extremists, we must make it clear that the overwhelming majority of Americans are going to march forward in the steady path of social progress, that we are not going to be intimidated, that we are not going to be run out of our country, that we are not going to be run out our halls, that we are not going to be run out of our meetings.  We must make it manifestly clear that the voice of the people will be heard, and the voice will be heard on November 5th, and I want that voice to be a Democratic voice.

	Now, friends, these that have interrupted us tonight are not on the ballot, so let's talk about those that are on the ballot.  There is one that is on the ballot who makes his plea openly to the bigotry, to the prejudice, to the bitterness of some of our fellow Americans.  I have been asked what do I think of that candidacy.  And I think it makes me sad, because what it does is to appeal to the base, evil passions that each and every one of us has in some measure.  It is bad for America.

	And then there is the Republican nominee, who has made his alliances and has decided that he can ride out this stormy period of American history without taking any stand.  He is of the opinion that we have forgotten a record.  That is his record.  And he intends to cover it over with confetti and with parades and with bands and with noise and with that cool calm that comes from a well-disciplined and organized campaign.  But I come to you tonight to talk to you about the record, about the public record of a public man.

	Who is the one that has opposed Medicare and said that it would not work?  Who is the one that when he had the chance to break a tie vote in the United States Senate on a massive program for federal aid to education refused to vote and then let that program die?  Who is the one, Mr. Worker, that has voted against every law, every bill, I should say, that tried to benefit the worker?  Who is the one?  Who is the one that has voted both ways on social security?  Who is the one, if you please, that said that the Nuclear Test Ban was a cruel hoax?  And who is the one that said the Peace Corps was but a haven for draft dodgers?  I ask you, my fellow Americans, who is the one?  And I will tell you: Nixon's the one.

	Yes, my friends, Richard Nixon is what the show business people call a master of the soft shoe routine.  He is front, behind, around and on top of every issue.  The fancy footwork, however, is not part of a job description for a president.  He has been both for and against increases in minimum wage, for and against social security coverage, for and against treaties that tie the hands of the president in foreign affairs, for and against civil rights legislation, for and against--you name it.

	Now, he talks of law and order as if it's a magic phrase.  He calls for a doubling of the convictions and he heaps scorn on me because I say that I would like to double our efforts in aiding the deprived, in helping the needy, in waging the war on poverty.  Let me make it clear as I have from this platform tonight: there must be order in our society, there must be safety in our neighborhoods.  For the guilty, yes, there must be convictions.

	But to talk of law and order without telling you how you intend to provide for it and to pay for the specifics of law and order; to talk to you about how you are going to pay for better training and provide of better salaries for your police and better qualifications; to talk about law and order and not to talk about these things is to offer this nation counterfeit security--as phony as a three-dollar bill.  And Mr. Nixon knows it.

	Now, I have been the mayor of a great city and I have had to face up to these difficult problems.  And I can tell this audience tonight that I provided for the city of Minneapolis law and order, first laws, first-hand.  But I provided something else, too.  I provided some hope for people who needed schools.  We helped provide better playgrounds for families that needed recreation.  And we helped provide jobs for the jobless.  The next president of the United States is not to be your county sheriff.  He I to be your national leader, your educator.  He shall come to you with a program of leadership and inspiration--law and order, yes, but a safe and just society, yes.  That is the duty of a president.  

	Let me be very, very candid with you tonight.  According to the polls and the surveys, I guess I can say in some truth and some jest, my campaign has not peaked too soon.  There is still a chance for it to it to go up.  Nobody can accuse us of being fat cats.  We are underdogs, in fact.  But the role is not new to me.  I was an underdog when I ran for Mayor of Minneapolis in 1945--just before I won the biggest victory that any Mayor ever won in that city.

	And I was an underdog the first time I ran for the United States Senate, just before I won by over 270,000 vote majority.

	And I was an underdog many times in the Senate as Warren Magnuson and Senator Fred Harris, who is with me tonight, can tell you, when I led the fight for such programs as the Peace Corps, then they said it did not have a chance, for Medicare, Food for Peace, the National Defense Education Act, the nuclear Test Ban treaty.  Yet, we were underdogs on every issue just before we counted the votes and we won.

	Oh, yes, my friends, in 1948, six weeks before that election, Harry Truman was sixteen points behind in the polls, in 1948.  And Harry Truman had on the one side the Dixiecrats--you know who I mean; Strom Thurmond, the new partner of the Republican nominee--he had on the other side what they call the peace party or the progressive party.  He was torn from the left and from the right.  He had as his Republican opponent the former governor of the state of New York, Thomas Dewey.  And Mr. Dewey, like Mr. Nixon, was already selecting his cabinet and already measuring for the new drapes and the new furniture in the White House.

	Then Mr. Truman went out to do just what I am going to do.  He went out to tell the American people the truth and he went out to give them you know what, and that is what we are going to do.  Let me say this:  I believe that the tide is going to turn, and I will tell you why:  because you are thinking.  Every worker in this room needs to think tonight about your family.  Do you want more recessions?  You had three in the last eight years of Republicanism.  Do you want an income that can support your family?  Well you did not get it during the last eight years of Republicanism.  Do you want better schools for your children?  Well, you are not going to get them from a candidate that has voted against every aid-to-education program?  Do you want a program in which a nuclear threat can be minimized?  Well, you are not going to get it from a man who has said a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was a hoax.  And even today, when we have it again to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, he says again, "Don't hurry, don't go to fast."

	We can no longer wait.  There are issues in the campaign that we cannot let be shouted down by a little clack.  And we cannot let them be glossed over by a Madison Avenue type campaign.  I am asking you tonight, in your interest, not in mine, I am asking you to think about your children, about your mothers and fathers, your grandparents.  I ask you whether or not you want a man in the White House who said Medicare would not work and was not for it.

	I ask you, my laboring friends, whether you want a man in the White House that has fought you every step of the way.  I ask every person in this audience who says they want peace: do you want a man who still practices the politics of the Cold War in the White House?  I ask you who believe in a safe and safer world, do you want a man in the White House who opposes every effort of arms control.  I ask every man here who wants justice, do you want a man in the White House who condemns your Supreme Court, who rebukes your attorney general, who heaps scorn upon the law of this land?

	Ladies and gentlemen, these are your problems, not only mine.  We are in this race together and we are either going to win it together or all of America is going to lose.

	We have a terribly difficult choice to make.  On the one hand, a man stands and appeals to the outright bigotry and intolerance of us.  On the other hand is a man who says, "Let's play it cool; let's take it easy; let's not make any stand on any issue."  And he hopes that somehow or other, you will soon forget or never know what his stand was.  He hopes somehow or other through the razzle-dazzle of modern politics and the media he will be able to confuse you so you will not know what those issues are.  This is why I have asked and I appeal again from this platform tonight: I would like to see Mr. Wallace, Mr. Nixon, and Mr. Humphrey stand before an audience like this and each of us have--each of us in our own way state our own case.

	Or, my friends, are you going to let this election go to the party that has the most money, to the one who can buy the most television time?  The only answer to that is this:  two hundred million Americans are involved and indeed a whole world, because this is yet the last hope of Earth and what we do here will not only affect our own nation but other nations throughout the globe.  What the next president does will not only affect those in his four years of his term, but children yet unborn.  I do not think that the presidency is for sale and I believe that the only fair answer, I believe the only fair way, the only real honorable way is for a man to act honorably and say, "Here I am, ready to state my case, ready to answer your questions, ready to be cross-examined."  Then you will know what Mr. Wallace thinks, then you will know what Mr. Nixon thinks, then you will know what Mr. Humphrey says, then we will know that you are thinking and will be able to give an honest decision.

	We need a president, in other words, who understands the great challenges of this age.  And those challenges have been stated again and again:  ending the war with honor; stopping the spread of nuclear weapons, seeking to reduce the tensions of this world and looking to world peace; the issue of racial justice, of peace in our cities, and a better life for every American.  These issues are not going to be settled in a rain of confetti or in a parade down Fifth Avenue or any place else.  These issues will only be settled in the quiet of your living room as you may listen to your television, or in the seminar or the conference or a meeting like this, where you can hear the candidates.

	And I believe that America deserves better of her political leaders than what she is getting.  I think the American people deserve of us clear thought, unequivocal statements.  I think she deserves of us what we believe.  And I believe that before this campaign ends, this message will begin to ring true in every American household.

	I know if we can get our case to the people, we can win this election.  I know we can win it despite the disturbances.  I know we can win it despite the fact that we are outgunned, so to speak, in the media market.  And I would be less than honest if I did not tell you that we have had a very difficult time to raise the funds that are necessary to wage this campaign.  But ladies and gentlemen, for every dollar that we lack, we have got an issue, we have got dedication, we have commitment, we have moral purpose, we have what is right on our side.  And I ask this great audience tonight, which is one of the biggest and the best that I have seen, an audience that regrettably had to suffer through some inconvenience, but has been kind enough to stay--I ask you to take your stand tonight for equal justice under the law for every American.  I ask you to take your stand tonight to see that this is one nation, not two.  We cannot be a divided people and realize our aims and our ideals.  We cannot regain the peace that some shouted for tonight unless we have peace in our own country.  There can be no freedom in the world if there is not freedom here, there can be no peace abroad if we can't bring it to ourselves.  We cannot win the war on poverty in Asia if we can't win it here.

	We have got a job to do at home, my friends, and the only way we are going to get it done is if all of us in this room, if you and I, if we, the people, work through this instrument called the Democratic party, that has given you a Roosevelt, that has given you a Truman, that has given you an Adlai Stevenson, that has given you a John Kennedy, that has given you a Lyndon Johnson, and now has given you a Hubert Humphrey.

	I thank you. 
CRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNFREEDOM OF SPEECHHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARVIETNAM WARPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONS     Kk k k k k
 j j j j j j j j	 	  	  	  	  	  	 m 	 S 	 +    e: