

	Since I was last here in September I have been, as they say, getting around a bit. I have met a lot of my fellow Americans and I think quite a few of the people who came out to see me were Republicans. I think perhaps I know why those Republicans are turning out to hear a Democratic candidate. They had heard that I was talking over people's heads. They must have thought it would be a pleasant change from speakers who were talking through their hats. There's a change that is a change!

	In any case I shall stick by my conviction that the American people are intelligent. I also believe that they consider elections something that should be taken seriously. And if Republicans want to hear any serious discussion of the issues they certainly have to come to our meetings.

	Out here in Southern California you have built the most famous industry in all the world on man's eternal love for make-believe. But you also know that make-believe is intended for our hours of relaxation and of entertainment. It is meant for the theater and the radio serial--not for political discussion.

	Here last week you were treated to a fascinating example of political make-believe. The General paid you a visit and he told you that he and the Republican party were 100 percent in favor of social security. And he said that social security was bipartisan.

	That's what he wants you to believe now.

	But not long ago he said something quite different about social security. As recently as 1949--before he was a political candidate, of course--he told the American people that if all they want is security, "They can go to prison. They'll have enough to eat, a bed, and a roof over their heads."

	And about this matter of bipartisan support the General spoke of, I suppose the Republicans in Congress were supporting social security in 1935 when they attacked old-age insurance as unconstitutional. I suppose they were supporting it when the Republican presidential candidate of 1936 attacked the Social Security Act as a "cruel hoax" and campaigned for its repeal. That's the kind of support they give to all progressive measures.

	The General said the Republican platform pledged extension of social security to millions not recently covered. He said he stands by that pledge. He wants you to believe the Republican party will make good on it. Well, the Republicans made the same pledge--the same promise--in their 1944 platform. But what happened? Two years later they gained control of the Eightieth Congress. They had a chance to make good on their promise. Did they make good? They not only did not fulfill that pledge--they actually took social security coverage away from more than a half million people.

	Last week the General said, "Now after all these inadequate years, the time has come to reexamine this system, extend it and make it fair to all."

	I can only say that when the Republican leaders talk about reexamining social security and making it fair, someone is likely to get hurt. When you hear such talk you had better remember the words of President Truman,--"Look out, neighbor."

	But I prefer to talk not about what the Republican party is against, but about what the Democratic party is for. We are not the party of obstruction but the party of leadership. That is why we are entrusted with leadership every four years.

	The program of the Democratic party is very clear. I have spelled it out a number of times this fall. You know what it is. And you know the broad principles our program is based on.

	We believe that government must defend the individual against calamity--and that's why we propose to extend social security and maintain farmers' price supports and all our other defenses against depression.

	We are opposed to laws written in revenge and spite--laws which promote industrial strife instead of industrial peace--and that's why we intend to replace the Taft-Hartley Law with a better, fairer one.

	We believe that government must undertake the great public projects for the good of all the people that private industry could never undertake.

	We seek the fullest possible freedom and equality of opportunity for individual men and women--regardless of their race or creed or color.

	I could probably sum up our views very briefly. We believe in government with a mind--and a heart.

	I think we have a good program of detailed measures already familiar to you. And I have every intention of getting started on the job of putting that program into effect early in the morning of next January 20.

	Do the Republicans have a program? They say so, but do you know what it is? Well, neither do I. But they offer loud and plaintive wails of socialism, bankruptcy, and ruin, and, of course, the familiar assurance that their hearts are in the right place.

	But perhaps I've done them an injustice. They do propose to reduce taxes. Well, who doesn't want to reduce taxes, but we will not promise tax reduction at the risk of our security. The time is coming, in spite of Republican opposition, when the balance of power will be restored in the world and our defense expenditures can be reduced, and that day will be as dear to Democrats as to Republicans.

	When we ask our Republican friends what laws they will enact, they say to us only, "Have faith in our man." They offer us a government of means without ends. And they admit it. They say so themselves. The General said on July 12, "In the military... long-term programs are not nearly so important as winning the next battle," that is, the election. Well, that may be the way they do it in the Army--but it's not the way we do it in civilian government. We want to know where we're going before we start out.

	And we want to know who's in charge. When we elect a president, we elect a political party. And we have a right to know who the leaders of that party are.

	Well, at long last we do know who the real Republican leaders are.

	It was made very clear for us just the other day by an eminent Republican, Mr. Curly Brooks, a former United States Senator from my own state, Illinois. The good people of Illinois long since replaced Mr. Curly Brooks in the United States Senate with a great American, Paul H. Douglas, but Brooks still is one of the men with a stranglehold on the party of Abraham Lincoln in his own state. Last Thursday night he made it brutally clear who's in charge of the great crusade. He told some Republicans in Illinois that Senator Robert A. Taft was working hard in this campaign--"But," he said, "unless you give him a president, he can't change the Secretary of State, can't change the department heads, can't change the philosophy." Unless you give Taft a president--there you have it. Well, I would say this--the American people do not go to the polls every four years for the purpose of giving an American president to Robert Taft or anybody else. The president of the United States serves no one man and he serves no one group of men--he serves all the American people, every last one of them, and he serves nobody else.

	If so much were not at stake I would be tempted to feel sorry for my distinguished opponent. Imagine being wrapped up as a gift package to be placed under Bob Taft's Christmas tree!

	Well, I'm happy to announce that wherever I go as I travel around the country, I find men I'm proud to call my friends.

	When I meet a fellow Democrat, I don't have to keep my right hand in my pocket so he can't shake hands with me--and at the same time throw my left arm around his shoulder.

	Maybe I've been unduly lucky, but everywhere I go I find good men, able men, decent men running on the Democratic ticket with me and working with me. And it is more reassuring than I can tell you to know that Senator Kefauver and Senator Kerr and Dick Russell and Joe O'Mahoney and a lot of other able men are going to be in the Senate next year to help me with our program.

	What I have said and what we propose for America does not represent the continued judgment of all of us as to what will get us the most votes. It does not represent our considered judgment of how we can best reconcile the differences of a party hopelessly split into bits and pieces. It represents our considered judgment of what the people need.

	Once upon a time--and it is within the memory of many of us--the people needed a great deal indeed. They needed a job. They were losing their homes. Some of them were hungry. They needed above all a friend in the White House. Well, the Democratic party met those needs. It gave the people a friend in the White House, a real friend--Franklin Roosevelt.

	We have come a long way since those terrible days, a very long way indeed.

	But much work lies ahead. We must continue to meet the present urgent needs of the people. Too many Americans today dwell in misery in tenements in our huge congested cities--second-class citizens living in third class houses. Too many Americans still live in rags in sharecroppers' shacks. Too many Americans find that rising living costs are outrunning their pensions, social security benefits, life insurance proceeds and their salaries. The cost of living and wages have been chasing each other up and up in a dizzy, dangerous spiral of inflation that spells disaster for everyone. And we know what to do about that too, if the Republicans will just keep their hands off.

	Too many Americans are being hauled around the country like cattle--migratory workers, homeless and friendless. Too many American children are attending hopelessly overcrowded schools. Too many Americans are living in unfit, unsanitary houses and farmhouses, some still lit by the kerosene lamps of 50 years ago.

	And far, far too many Americans are afraid to speak their minds. For the Great Accuser is abroad in the land.

	We Democrats have always believed that men are and ought to be free to speak, to read, to write, to listen, and to unburden their innermost thought to their neighbors without fear.

	This was the belief of the founder of our party, Thomas Jefferson. We have never forgotten, and we shall never forget his noble vow of eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man.

	Those are some of our problems at home, urgent problems. That is some of the work before us.

	But we have a higher task. We have constructed in this nation a stable foundation of well-being and freedom. Upon this foundation we must rear the structure of world peace. This, I submit, is the destiny of this generation of Americans.

	We have reached a watershed--a great divide--in the history of our country. We have come to the place in history where there are in the world two great powers, and we are one of them. We have reached our rendezvous with destiny. I saw this happen. You saw it too.

	The way of the world has been in the past the way of the jungle. Ignorant armies clashed by night, and destroyed each other, until at last but two remained, and these two met at Armageddon. Had we followed the way of the world we would stand today at Armageddon. We did not. We chose another way.

	It was not an easy way. It would have been far easier to say as other great powers have said: "Let's get it over with, let's fight." It was far more difficult to say instead, as we have said: "Let's seek peace--peace with justice."

	The way we chose lay through the United Nations, then the Marshall Plan, then the North Atlantic Treaty, then marshaling strength for peace by resistance to our enemies and assistance to our friends. It is not an exciting way. Sometimes it is a disappointing way. Sometimes we feel that statesmen talk, and talk, and talk--that they live in a sea of words, that performance seldom matches promises.

	But we know it is not always so. We know that statesmen, great statesmen, not only talk--they act. They acted to stop the aggressor in Korea. Korea saved the United Nations. And the United Nations and international cooperation can save us all, and nothing else.

	Our way is hard. It requires courage, yes, but we have enough of courage--we had it at Lexington and Concord and at every crisis since. It requires strength, yes, and we are strong. But more, it requires patience--patience, fortitude, forbearance, wisdom, and again patience. Do we have it? I think we do.

	It happens that I set down these thoughts for you yesterday while I was traveling to the coast. We were flying over the mountains--the jagged peaks, the desolate slopes, the shadowed canyons. We were over the mountains for a long time. But then beyond, up ahead, we began to see the gentle rounded hills, the green patched valley. And as we flew out over the valley we could see ahead the blue Pacific. It stretched farther than the eye could see, calm, blue, peaceful in the setting sun.

	But what man has contrived is not serene and calm and orderly, because our way in the world today is hard. It is hard--and it is hopeful. Nothing lasts forever--not World War I, not the Battle of the Bulge, not the Berlin airlift, not Korea. No honest man can tell you when the fighting will cease. But cease it will. And when it has ended, when we have pushed on to reason, we can put aside our arms and lift up our eyes and rejoice--rejoice that we have walked in the way of the Lord. But we will never rejoice unless we do walk in the way of the Lord.

COST OF LIVINGDIPLOMACYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSPOVERTYUNITED NATIONSSOCIAL SECURITY     >5 
5 5  5 4
 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 {4	 ] 	 O 	 F 	 $ 	    e: