

	This is a happy night for a man who was born in Texas.

	Coming to San Antonio for my birthday party is like coming back home.

	I guess there isn't a city or town in the whole world that holds more happy memories for me.

	Here I was stationed as a youngster in the Army, and also in later life.  Here, too, I won my first and most important victory:  For it was at Fort Sam Houston that I met my Mamie for the first time and we became engaged to be married.  Here, too, our first son was born.

	When a man gets to be sixty-two, he likes to count over the real values that have come into his life.  Many of the things that have made mine worthwhile had their beginnings right here in this grand old city of San Antonio.

	A lot of you Texans--in fact, a lot of folks from all over the country--have been good enough to send me birthday messages and cards and gifts.  And they tell me that American women in cities and towns and farms all over the country have been baking birthday cakes.  Until I get the chance to see each one of you personally, let me say here, "I thank you."

	One thing about my birthday I shall remember for a long time--I mean what Governor Shivers had to say about me and about this crusade that millions have undertaken for good government.

	I'm not much of a speechmaker.  You've certainly found that out already.  My life work has trained me to do things more than to say them in a witty or a pretty way.

	But I can tell a man of conviction and courage when I see one.  Your young governor is that kind of man.  When I first heard his message to the delegates at your State Democratic Convention, I was stirred.  He said;  "Now is the time for every Texan to caucus with his conscience."

	We would like to borrow these words, Governor, for our crusade.  We would like to ask, not only every Texan, but every American to caucus with his conscience.

	For each one of us knows that there is a far different and a far better way to do things in government than the way they have been done these last few years by the administration.

	Your job and mine, my fellow citizens, is to find that way.  It is the way of human liberty.  Human liberty is solidly based on faith in God, in fidelity to office, in common honesty, in thrift in spending public money, in courage in the face of hardship, in single purpose and in single loyalty to what is best for all the people of America.  As boys and girls, we were brought up by mother and father to cherish these virtues.

	Why has our present leadership lost sight of them?

	Why do they go along down the other road?

	These qualities are the very bedrock of individual self-respect. We need these qualities in our daily lives just as much--even more perhaps--than our parents did.  Nothing is more important than to have them held up constantly before us.

	You and I want one thing we have been missing sadly.  We want to wake up in the morning filled with a fervent pride in American leadership.

	For more than a third of a century, I have known this plaza where we stand tonight.  It is hallowed ground--the shrine of Texas liberty, consecrated by the blood of Bowie, Travis, Bonham, Crockett and their comrades in arms.  I can think of no more fitting place to renew our faith in the cause of human liberty, for which these brave men gave their lives in the Alamo.

	Here, Texans of both Anglo-American and Latin-American descent fought on the same side against tyranny in the year 1836.  Since that time, they have shared in building this abundant empire of the Southwest.  The Alamo has come to stand, like Bunker Hill, as a lasting monument of friendship between two great peoples.

	In the state of Texas today, the Anglo-Saxon and the Spanish cultures blend and complement each other.  Upon such a sure foundation, we Americans can go forward to strengthen the bond of mutual trust that binds us to our friendly neighbors south of the Rio Grande.

	Here I have the privilege of paying my respects to those citizens of Texas, one-fifth of your population, who are of Latin-American descent.  From them came, in World War II, six of the fourteen sons of Texas to receive our nation's highest award--the Congressional Medal of Honor.  As an old soldier, I salute all the gallant sons and daughters whom Texas sent forth to serve when danger threatened.  Many of them were with me overseas, and I know their quality and courage.

	A great part of America's strength is in her diversity of ancestral strains.  This strength has been forged under the Bill of Rights--a vital part of our Constitution.  I have pledged to the people of our country that, if elected, I will support the Constitution of the United States--the whole of it.  Every American should be secure in his Constitutional rights.  Equality of opportunity was part of the vision of our founding fathers and is embedded deep in our religious faith.  A strong nation and a strong state will match principle and faith to practice.  They cannot attain their full strength until they make full use of the talents of all their citizens--regardless of race or creed.

	Why have we gathered before the Alamo tonight?  Because millions of Americans, like you and me, believe that we do not have the kind of administration in Washington the people deserve to have and can have.  And your warm welcome tonight says to me that, in just about three weeks, we are going to do something about it!

	The present administration doesn't agree with you and me.  Everything is just fine, they say; couldn't be better.  That's why they've turned their biggest guns on my campaign.  Perhaps some of you are wondering how I feel about that.  Well, I remember the message that William Barrett Travis sent during the siege of the Alamo.  Travis said,  "At least two-hundred shells have fallen within our walls without having injured a single man."

	That, my Texas friends, is how I feel about the biggest gun they've turned on me--whichever one that is!

	A few months ago, I came back from Europe and a job I had been assigned to do there.  That job had to do with peace through cooperation with our allies in Western Europe.  I returned because I was convinced that there was a still bigger job to be done for peace.  And that bigger job had to be done in America.

	Why must the job for lasting peace be first done here in America?

	Because America is the last, best hope on earth for freedom.  Because the way we Americans carry on our lives here from day to day can win or lose the dearest goal of all mankind.

	That goal is a world without war, a world of lasting peace, a prospering world in which each individual has an opportunity freely to develop the gifts and talents with which the Almighty has endowed him.

	To win this goal, we must have a quality in our leaders that draws its vision and its strength from the old-time virtues which we learned from our parents.

	People never want to go to war.  Better than the statesmen, people know war's horror, its privation, its cruel griefs, its desolation.  They have to bear all those things.

	The great task, then, is to break down the walls of false suspicion, prejudice, and fear that selfish or incapable leaders build up between the peoples of the world.  For it is these barriers that shut out the truth and breed conflict.  The challenge of this task is great.  But if there is a will and a purpose to tackle the task, it can be done.

	For myself, whether as a public servant or a private citizen, I am ready to dedicate my humble best to the cause of peace.  There is nothing else so important for the years that lie ahead, the years that belong to the children whom we love and for whom we want the best.

	You feel a deep concern for our boys in Korea.  To many fathers and mothers know that anguish of uncertainty when a loved one faces the shells, the bullets, and the bombs of a ruthless enemy in a distant land.  All America yearns for their safe return under an honorable peace, a peace that will last.

	Seven years ago our fighting men won the greatest war of history.  Then the lights of hope burned brightly in the hearts of men and women everywhere.  But as each year has gone by since then, those lights have grown dimmer and dimmer.  Today the pace we won at such a price seems to be slipping from our hands.

	I will give you tonight my idea of the four cornerstones upon which we should go about building the kind of peace the world must have.

	First and foremost, we must have a strong America.

	By that, I mean more than military strength and more than a sound economy.  I mean that our people must have within themselves a deep well of spiritual strength, the kind of strength found in people whose house is in order.

	Some cynical men in Washington are so busy with material things that they have no time for this first and priceless ingredient.  They shrug off moral laws as platitudes.  No one so blind as he who will not see.

	The Achilles heel of any nation is spiritual poverty.  Aggressive nations seek out such weakness in the same way a bully seeks out a weakling for his attack.  There are national bullies yet in this world, ready to seize upon signs of weakness in our American spirit--our faith, our confidence, our determination.

	The second cornerstone of peace is the integrity of our national leadership in Washington.  We will never have true strength at home unless the great mass of Americans deeply respect their leaders.

	The men occupying high places in government must be the best this country provides.  If we have such--drawn from every walk of our national life--you and I will have no cause to hang our heads in shame when we survey the record of our government's accomplishment.  Men of competence will gladly accept public office in a clean climate where extravagance and waste and indifference cannot exist.  There will be no scandal to destroy our faith in those who are responsible for vital decisions in foreign as well as in domestic policy.

	We have seen an administration that has been far from diligent in uprooting from government those who plot against the very system under which our country grew great.  We have seen this kind of thing go on and on until a man like my running mate, Dick Nixon, grabbed a police whistle and blew it.

	If we Americans do not fully respect our own leadership, you can be certain that this leadership will have diminished prestige abroad.  And, unless our leadership is respected abroad, it will neither be trusted nor freely followed.  Our capacity to influence other nations will be frittered away.  Can you blame the peoples who dwell in the shadow of the Kremlin for failing to understand the kind of leadership that could still say, in 1948, of a ruthless dictator:  "I like Old Uncle Joe.  He is a decent fellow."

	Last week, the Congress of the Soviet Republics met for the first time in thirteen years.  During the proceedings, a Moscow leader launched a bitter attack upon an American.  Such a thing had never happened before.  But the attack wasn't leveled at the man who said he liked Old Uncle Joe Stalin.  I'm proud to say, that it was directed exclusively at me and my efforts to help promote a strong and secure free world.

	The United States has shown that when we have to organize for war, we can do it.  Organized, our strength is greater than that of any other nation on the face of the earth.

	We Americans deserve a strength of political leadership commensurate with our military strength.

	A third cornerstone of peace is in allies.  We need free allies, peoples who can freely see and know that it is to their enlightened self-interest to stand with us against aggression and bear their fair share of the load.  And it is to our own enlightened self-interest for us to cooperate with our natural allies among the free peoples of the world.

	The time to look for allies is not after war breaks out--that may be too late.  The time to build our friendships and cement our relations with other nations is in time of peace.  When this is done and the bond of common interest is soundly forged between us and these free peoples of the world, no aggressor will dare attack.

	Worthwhile allies cannot be bought.  Dollars alone will not do the job.  It can only be done through mutual respect, mutual confidence, and readiness to cooperate.

	The fourth cornerstone is the United Nations.  We must have a world from where we can seek to establish the proposition that aggression does not pay.  The United Nations has tackled a problem which has plagued the minds of men since society was in its most primitive form.  Such a problem cannot be solved in a few years.  It is not a cheap or an easy road that we must travel.  No entirely easy road leads to success.  The United Nations can be--must be--made a workable road to world peace.

	These, then, are the four basic elements we must have if we are to gain lasting peace:  a strong America; a political leadership that earns respect; free allies throughout the world; an active United Nations.

	In the first half of this century, we have entered three awful wars--in 1917, in 1941, and in 1950.

	Our enemies believed they could win World War I before they aroused the might and wrath of America.  The same was true in World War II.  We were blessed in both of those wars with allies who held the line, until we could make up for our weakness and get ready.  We may never again be so lucky.

	Now what about the third war, Korea?  An official pronouncement, disclaiming all military responsibility for the area, preceded by a bare five months the Communist aggression.  This was no military pronouncement, even though administration politicians have desperately tried to make it appear that military officials became, in this one instance, the authors of our foreign policy.  If that were true, then the civil authorities who surrendered their responsibilities to the service chiefs should have been instantly relieved of their duties.  This was a purely political decision.

	In any event, when aggression came, we found ourselves unready to act.  Our leaders were caught in a bear trap set by the bear itself.

	The new administration will inherit the job of bringing the bloody Korean snarl to a conclusion without plunging us into global war. Such a task will challenge all the experience, all the intelligence, and all the energy that leadership can bring to bear.

	But Americans have dealt with mammoth problems before, problems that seemed to defy a ready or even a possible solution.  But when there was adequate leadership, they got solved quickly and well.  Our job is to find the men and women to provide that leadership.

	Korea is one part of a global problem.  It won't bring comfort to any American house to fix Korea and have as bad or worse trouble break out in another place.  In my opinion, we can come to a lasting solution for Korea only when the Kremlin is made to realize that there is a will and a strength in the free world that it can no longer safely challenge in any quarter of the globe.

	The pledge of this crusade is to revive that will and to create that strength.

	You and I share the belief that the administration party, whoever speaks for it, is not qualified to do the job.

	Where then will we find this leadership?

	We must deal here with moral qualities, the deep things of man's inner life, forces that have no spiritual kinship with a slogan--"You never had it so good."

	Where will we find men and women with these qualities?

	We are calling on our people for a singleness of purpose that has no kinship with the city bosses and the city machines that have taken over the party in power.

	Where will we find men and women with that steadfast purpose?

	We can no longer have in our most sensitive high posts of government a toleration of men who take papers from our secret files and pass them on dark streets to spies from Moscow.

	Where will we find leadership we can trust to keep us safe from disloyalty?

	We must have that self-respect which is necessary for strength at home and goodwill abroad.  We can no longer have leadership that is morally blind and mainly interested in keeping its machine in power.

	Where will we find that leadership?

	I know these questions are in your minds.  The answers are for you and all Americans to give.

	This has been a wonderful and blessed birthday for me. One birthday present I would like above all others is this:  I would like every God-fearing, loyal American of every faith or party to offer tonight a prayer for peace in Korea.  In my heart, as in yours, it cannot come too soon.
ALLIES/ALLIANCESCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSHISPANIC AMERICANSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--TEXASKOREAN WARMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESUNITED NATIONS     QB B B B 	B
 A A A A A A A A	  	  	  	 z 	 ] 	 K 	 . 	 $ 	  e: