

	Two days ago, Kitty and I and our family had a wonderful day.  We joined Mario and Matilda Cuomo and my mother and Kitty's dad, and we went to Ellis Island--went to the place where the Dukakises and the Cuomos and the Dicksons and millions of Americans came--seeking hope; seeking opportunity; seeking the American dream.

	And soon--in the Great Hall at Ellis Island--where my mother and father arrived in this country over seventy-five years ago--timid and fearful and yet full of excitement about the adventure they were about to begin in the new world--soon there will be an inscription that will read, quite simply, "that Panos and Euterpe Dukakis, who came to America from Greece, are among those courageous men and women who came to this country in search of personal freedom, economic opportunity and a future of hope for their families."

	Today, here in the heartland of America, stands their son - a proud father and husband and son--a proud American - the Governor of a historic state--the Democratic nominee for the Presidency of the United States.

	Only in America--only in a country which has opened its doors to millions--some on slave ships, to our everlasting shame; some on converted coal ships, like my mother; immigrants from every corner of the earth drawn by the torch of freedom.

	Yesterday, September 4, we celebrated my mother's 85th birthday.  I hope, with your help, we can give her a very special birthday present on November 8th.

	Because nine weeks from today, we will elect a new president and a new vice president of the United States.

	The Republican ticket wants us to be content.  To stand still.  To hang on to what we have.  To hope for the best.

	They want us to forget about the trillion dollars they've added to the national debt--an IOU our children and grandchildren will be paying for generations to come.  150 billion dollars a year in debt service alone that you and I are paying, mostly to foreign backers.

	They want you to forget that interest rates are going up - again another Republican tax on Middle America--$1000 for every family [missing text] rate mortgage on their home; $300 on [missing text] dollars in new burdens for our family [missing text] have already been put through the wringer for the past [missing text] and a half years.

	But that's not all.  Friday, the monthly unemployment figures came out.  Rising unemployment for the second straight month.

	226,000 more unemployed Americans.

	And what did Mr. Bush have to say about that?  He said it was "statistically irrelevant."

	"Statistically irrelevant."  That's an interesting phrase.  But not surprising, coming as it did from the standard bearer of the party that thought ketchup was a vegetable.

	My friends, we're here today to tell Mr. Bush that Americans are not statistics--and we sure aren't irrelevant.

	Because those unemployed Americans are people.  They're neighbors; they're friends.

	And, on November 8, he's going to find out just how relevant--they--and we--are.

	Because we can't risk that kind of Republican leadership - and we won't accept their idea of prosperity.

	The time has come to bring prosperity home, to every home in America.  The time has come to stop ignoring foreign competition and start beating it.  To stop settling for second-best schools and second-rate skills and make our schools and universities the finest in the world.

	To stop hiding our heads in the sand, and realize that we've got a fight on our hands; that we're in a battle for the economic future of this country.

	The time has come my friends to roll up our sleeves and go to work and make America once again the most powerful and productive economic force on the face of the earth.

	And that's why I'm running for president of the United States.

	I want to be the president who stands up for the families of this country.  I want to build an America where our kids can go to college and afford a new home; where our parents can get decent health care and enjoy a secure retirement; and where every American family is a full shareholder in the American dream.

	I want to be the president who creates good jobs at good wages in the good old U.S.A.  Jobs you can count on; jobs you can support a family on; jobs with a future.

	And I want to be the president who builds a strong America - an America that's as strong economically as it is militarily; an America that knows its values; that defends its beliefs and that commands respect throughout the world.

	You and I know what's been going on for the past seven years, the Census Bureau told us this past week, the rich have gotten richer; the poor have gotten poorer; and those in the middle--and that means most of us--are getting squeezed.  My friends, I ask you-- can we afford four more years of that? 

	High paying jobs are being replaced by low wage jobs; average weekly wages down over the last eight years; benefits down.  My friends, I ask you--can we afford four more years of that?

	All across the country, we see two parents working harder and harder to buy what one income could buy before.  We see fewer families able to afford a home than could eight years ago.  Too many families unable to afford or find childcare for their children while they go out and work.  Forty million of our fellow citizens--most of them members of working families without a dime of health insurance.  My friends, I ask you can we afford four more years of that?

And what do our opponents intend to do about it?  They want to give those who make $200,000 a year or more a tax break of $30,000.  That's more than the average teacher makes in this country.  That's enough to send your son or daughter to Michigan State for four years.  The downpayment young couples could use to buy a home.  And who do you think is going to pay for that new tax break?  Look at your kids.  Look at your parents.  Look in the mirror, and ask yourself, can we afford four more years of that?

	Can we afford a new president, who says that Russian mechanics should be sent to Detroit, because "we could use that kind of ability?"  A new President who says he wants to put his vice president in charge in the war against drugs?

	President Reagan tried that, and it didn't work.  Is there anybody in the United States of America who thinks Dan Quayle ought to be in charge of that war?

	Can't we do better than that?

	Are we going to do better than that?

	You better believe we're going to do better.  A whole lot better, and we're going to begin on January 20, 1989.  

	Because this election is a choice between two very different kinds of leadership, two very different ideas about prosperity, and two very different visions of America.

	The Republican ticket talks about creating more jobs.  But where?

	They talk about good jobs.  But whose?

	They talk about prosperity.  But for whom?

	They've already slammed the door of college opportunity on thousands of young people.  We're going to open up that door to every student qualified to do college work.  And we're going to bring prosperity home.

	The Republicans have sat on the sidelines while our best young minds have made millions taking companies apart under an Administration that doesn't know the difference between anti-trust and anti-freeze; I want to challenge those young people to put new companies together.  And bring prosperity home.

	The Republicans don't believe it's time to raise the minimum wage; it's $3.35 an hour and hasn't gone up a penny in 8 years; we're going to raise that minimum wage and make sure that everyone has a decent wage.

	The Republicans didn't want plant closing legislation; but we beat them.

	The Republicans didn't want the new trade bill that will help us train and retrain thousands of American workers; but thanks to the leadership of Lloyd Bentsen and Don Riegle and other good Democrats, we beat them.

	My friends, Lloyd Bentsen and I are not going to settle for an America where all we do is flip each other's hamburgers and do each other's laundry for $3.35 an hour.  We're not going to accept an America where whole regions of our country are written off as inevitable casualties of change.  We're not going to sit back and relax while American ideas and American money are creating more jobs overseas than they are in Dearborn and Flint and Pontiac and Detroit.

	And so today, I say to all of you and to all Americans:  If you want a healthy and growing economy that will create real opportunity and real prosperity for every citizen in this land--stand with us.

	If you believe that the strength of America flows from the strength of our families--from those basic American values of working together and building together and caring for each other--stand with us.

	If you believe that our schools and our teachers and our universities and our research libraries must be the finest in the world--stand with us.

	If you believe that the time has come to strengthen our military forces, not to line the pockets of dishonest defense contractors and consultants; if you believe the time has come to crack down on terrorists, not do business with them; and if you believe, as I do, that its time to wage a real war and not a phony war against drugs--stand with us.

	And if you want to build an America that is so strong that no nation can challenge us; so productive that no nation can compete with us; so true to its purpose that no force on earth can divide us; then reach out, roll up your sleeves, and let's go to work for a Dukakis-Bentsen victory this fall.

	My friends, we're going to win this November because we stand for what the American people stand for.

	We are a wonderful mosaic of diverse races and creeds and ethnic groups bound together by our love for this country; by our belief in its future; and by our deep and abiding faith in the American dream for all of our citizens.

	And, if anyone tells you that that dream belongs to the privileged few, and not to all of us; tell them that that era is over and a new era is about to begin.

	Today, we send our sons and daughters off to the Olympics in Seoul.  We have hope and confidence that they'll bring back the gold.

	I wish I could be with them to watch that great Olympic spectacle that first began in Greece so many centuries ago.

	I wish I could be with them to take a look at the village of Munsan-Ni, the little village where I spent sixteen months of my life as a GI.

	Our thoughts and prayers are with them--while we work hard and work together to win this presidential marathon.

	Let's go for the gold on November 8.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHECONOMY--GENERALIMMIGRATIONINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMINIMUM WAGEWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     V* "* * * *
 *  * ) ) ) ) ) )	 p 	 R 	 B 	 7 	  	  e: