

	Thank you. Thank you very much, Tracy. Thank you. Thank you, Tracy. Thank you. Thank you, Tracy. I want to thank Reverend Wilson and I want to thank Mayor and County Chairman Rich. I want to thank your speaker, Dan Blue, who came all the way over here with me to get wet--Secretary of State Rufus Edmonston and I want to thank Eva Clayton and in his absence my good friend Congressman Lancaster.

	Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something. I know this is a minor league baseball team, but we are not in the Bush leagues tonight.

I also want to say to you I'm sorry it's raining, but we've had twelve years of trickle-down. If you'll give me twelve minutes, we can turn this country around.

	I'm glad to be in East Carolina tonight and I'm glad to be in this community. I've heard a lot about this wonderful town. I've been indoctrinated from [missing text] in the global [missing text] and I like it. I want to say to all of you here I've had a wonderful day in North Carolina. We started in Raleigh. I gave an economic speech. Then we had a rally in the Wolfpack basketball arena. And then we--then we--well they vote too now.

	And then we drove over here and I had a good time all along the way and I don't even mind the rain.

	Let me tell you, if North Carolina votes for the Clinton-Gore ticket, I believe that will clearly mean that America will vote for the Clinton-Gore ticket.

	I've always believed that this state understood the challenges that we're facing as a nation, understood the challenges of the global economy, understood that we had to have a national policy that was not trickle-down economics, not tax-and-spend economics, but a commitment to invest in our people, to educate ourselves, to cooperate with one another, to do whatever it takes to compete and win, to get good jobs and have a good future for our people, and that's what we stand for.

	I have worked for twelve years to create jobs, to educate people, to deal with the health care problems of the children and the elderly, to move people from welfare to work, to solve the problems that have gripped this country. I know we are not ever going to make America what it needs to be until we have a change in the White House. That's why I got in this race for president and what I want you to help me do--

	Let me tell you something. There's a guy here that doesn't believe in free speech but the rest of you do. Let me tell you something, folks, if George Bush comes here, I hope you'll go to his rally and not interrupt him. Be polite and listen and then vote for me.

	Let me tell you what you have to decide. You've got four years now, the first four years, the first four years in fifty years, when we have had no gain in private-sector jobs in the United Sates of America, a decline of almost 40,000, the first time in the history of America when we actually had a reduction in manufacturing production in America. We got a census report that says two-thirds of the American people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. And I bet that includes a lot of people in this audience tonight.

	One in ten Americans is on food stamps and 100,000 Americans are losing their health insurance every month. They want four more years. Sounds more like a threat than a promise. What you have to decide is whether you really believe that we need four more years of trickle-down economics. Trickle-down economics. Their whole idea is to keep taxes as low as possible on the wealthiest Americans, get out of the way, and hope everybody else will get the benefits that trickle down. It ain't like the rain. The rain trickles down, the benefits don't.

	And what we need to do is to say we've got a different idea. We believe the wealthiest Americans who've had their taxes cut while yours have been raised should pay a little more, but we also think they should have incentives. But not across-the-board tax cuts, but incentives if they'll spend their money on new plants, new businesses, helping to modernize our farms, helping to do housing projects, energy projects, and build the economy of the twenty-first century. That's what we stand for.

	And we believe this country needs a real education president, somebody that understands that everybody needs the opportunity that this community college offers.

	You know, we are the only advanced country that doesn't make sure that every high school graduate gets at least two years of further training on the job or in a community college? But if you will vote for me, we'll have that kind of system.

	And we need to teach everybody with a job in America, every working person in the next five years ought to be taught to read, given a chance to get a high school diploma so they can learn and grow and increase their earnings. And we ought to open the doors of college education to all Americans without regard to their income.

	I have proposed to set up a national trust fund out of which any American can borrow the money to go to college and then pay it back out of--either as a small percentage of their income or by giving two years to their country here at home in a domestic peace corps to rebuild America. Be police officers, or teachers, or nurses, or working in housing programs or working with the elderly. We could solve a lot of the problems this old country's got and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	The third thing we have to do is to be the last--we'll be the last advanced economy in the world, but we're going to do it if you vote for me to finally control heath care costs and provide basic health care to all of our people.

	Now, every time I say these things, my opponent Mr. Bush says, "You can't, you can't, you can't." But just last week--look at what's happened for this campaign in the last two or three weeks. I never wanted this to be a campaign of party. I tried to challenge the Democratic party to change. I wanted this to be a campaign for America and look what has happened in the last two weeks.

	Executives who worked in health care in the last Republican and Democratic administration said that my health care plan would save the average family $1,200 a year by the end of the decade every year and hundreds of billions of dollars a year in the private sector to reinvest in America.

	Republicans said that as well as Democrats, and they said the Bush plan would leave 27 million people without any health insurance and the cost would keep on going up, up. You've got a clear choice there.

	Look what's happened--our economic program was endorsed in Northern California by twenty-one executives of high-tech electronics and computer companies. Two-thirds of them were Republicans. Four hundred business executives from all over America gathered in Chicago, over a third of them Republican. And a couple of weeks ago, Admiral William Crowe who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush endorsed our campaign because he said he wanted the problems of America faced so that we could move into the future.

	I'm telling you, folks, all over this country, Republicans, Independents, former Perot supporters, are coming together to put the American first again. They are sick and tired of the average people and their average concerns being stomped into the ground by an administration that does not wake up every day thinking about them.

	I'll tell you something, I've been the governor of a state with a lot of towns like this one. I grew up in that state. I have five generations there rooted in the soil. If you vote for me for president, I may make some mistakes, but at least I'll do something. And everyday I'll wake up thinking about you and people like you.

	I got into this race for president because I did not want my twelve-year-old daughter to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. I got into this race because I was sick and tired of being told we can't. We can. We can. We can.

	When Mr. Bush vetoed the family leave bill for the second time just a couple of days ago, he was telling us again we can't. Seventy-two nations have found it possible to give people some time off from work when there's a baby born or a sick child or a sick parent and we've been told we can't. I'm tired of it. I am tired of it and I think you are too.

	This is a we-can country not a we-can't country. And I want to say one other thing. I was standing up here with Eva Clayton and thinking about her going to Congress and Martin Lancaster being there. One of the things that we have learned in the South, we need to teach the rest of the country now, is that we can't do anything if we're divided by race, by region, by income, by age. We better get this country back together.

	When the other party met in their convention, they spent the first two nights running against my wife, telling us we needed a religious war, and some of us didn't belong to real families and weren't real Americans. Well, I want you to know something. You all got a place in my America. And I'm trying to be president for all of you.

	I hope you'll always remember this night, not just for the rain, but for the sunshine we felt in our spirits. And I hope you will say that for thirty more days you'll talk to your friends and neighbors in North Carolina and in every other state in this country. We are being called upon to face a great challenge. And you know what's going to happen, don't you? For thirty days, we'll have a fight of hope against fear, of new ideas against a proven failure that's comfortable, of having the courage to change against just being stuck in the same old rut. And you know what the other guys will do. They can't defend their records. They don't have a vision for the future. They'll just throw the mud.

	But let me tell you something. We bought it once four years ago. And if we--then it was their fault. If we buy it a second time, it will be our fault and I don't think we're going to do it.

	I want you to spend thirty days determined to get your future back. I want you to remember when everybody says whatever they're going to say, I want you to ask yourself this question. When you see our ads and you hear our debates and you hear all that, I want you to [missing text] what difference will this make to my life on the day after the election? What difference does it make? Will this make my country better? Will it make it stronger? Will it open up a brighter future for my child?

I'm telling you, I got into this race cause I think we can do better. I think you think we can do better. We are better than what we have been going through. We need new ideas. We need change.

	We need the kind of commitment to excellence that I exemplified when I appointed Al Gore to be my running mate--we need somebody that wakes up every day remembering his roots in places like this. Give me a chance. I'll give you everything I've got. Let's spend thirty days to get our country back on the right track and take it to a brighter tomorrow.

	Thank you. And God bless you all. Thank you.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFAMILY LEAVE POLICYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVES     o, ;, 5, 1, ),
 , , , , + + +	 h 	 H 	 5 	 