

	This week--and next--public schools will open in California and across America.  And the children that enter first grade in just a few days will be the first graduating class of the 21st century.

	Education.  No issue, no concern, no institution means more to me than education.

	My parents arrived in this country seventy-five years ago.  My father could hardly speak the language.  He worked hard, and ran from his daytime job to take night courses in English.  Eight years later, he enrolled in medical school and went on to be the first American-trained, Greek-speaking doctor in metropolitan Boston.

	My mother became a school teacher, and she wouldn't have made it without the encouragement and inspiration of an elementary school principal named Stanley Gray.  And when her second son was born, she gave him Stanley as a middle name.

	And so, today, here I stand, Michael Stanley Dukakis, a product of the American dream, running for president because I want to make that dream come true for every citizen in every region of this land.

	Running for president because I want to make America number one in the world.

	And the key to both is education.

	That's why I've been fighting for good schools and high standards and quality teaching every year, every month and every week during my twenty-five years in public service, including ten as governor of Massachusetts.

	And that's a very important difference in this election.

	Because this fall, the American people will face a choice between two different ideas of prosperity; and two different records of leadership.

	Between those who see education as a lifetime commitment, and those who see it as an election year strategy.

	Between those who believe that a good education should be the property of a few and those who believe it is the birthright of every American no matter who they are or where they come from or what the color of their skin.

	Between those who believe that America can afford to settle for second best and those who believe--as I do--that our students must be the best-prepared, best-skilled and best-educated in the world.

	And my friends, when it comes to the education of our children and to the future greatness of America, actions speak louder than words.

	Because while the current administration in Washington has eliminated remedial math and reading programs for 500,000 disadvantaged youngsters in this country, we've started an Essential Skills Program in my state that is aimed at helping every child in our state to get a good start in life and a fair shot at the American dream.

	While they've been lecturing teachers and cutting teacher retraining programs, we've invested in Professional Development Centers to help our teachers keep pace with changing times.

	While they've led an assault on college loans and grants, we've quadrupled scholarship assistance to low and middle income students.

	While they've invested billions in star wars; we've developed a region wide network of Star Schools, that is putting the latest in new technology to work helping our youngsters master the science and math skills they'll need to compete--and win--in the 1990s and the 21st century.

	And where was George while all this was going on?  Where was the man who now says he wants to be the "education president?"  He was playing hooky.  He was no where to be found.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I don't need an election year conversion on the subject of education.

	We care when students with the energy and the skills to go to college are denied that opportunity.

	We care when parents are forced to choose between the jobs they need and quality care for the children they love.

	We care when American students seem to be falling further and further behind some of our competitors overseas.

	And when I cut taxes, as I have five times in the last five years I do it to bring prosperity home to all of our citizens; not to restrict it to a few.  If you can believe this, the Republican candidate for president has proposed a five year $40 billion capital gains giveaway that will give make more than $200,000 a year with an extra $30,000, enough for a down payment on a good home; more than the average California teacher makes in a year; enough to allow the wealthiest to send their children to college--in style.

	Maybe that's why he is running for president.

	But I'm running for president because I want your kids to go to college; I want every school in Oakland and every school in America to be a good school; and I want to make teaching a valued and honored profession in America once again.

	We need a president who understands that in a world in which information and technology can travel the globe in the blink of an eye, the one thing that is uniquely American, the one thing that can give us a true competitive edge is us--and, in today's world, knowledge, and how we use it, is everything.

	By the year 2000, only one out of every twenty-five jobs will be a low-skill job.  More than half will require advanced language or science or reasoning skills.

	That means we can't settle for the status quo; we can't stand still and expect to keep pace; we've got to work together to make our schools the best in the world; we've got to forge a new spirit of economic patriotism in America that will bring out the best in every student in every classroom in this country.

	We have to--and we will--beginning January 20, 1989.

	And Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to begin at the beginning; we're going to invest in our children.

	Because we know that every time we help a youngster in this country become a judge instead of a criminal; a pharmacist instead of a drug peddler; a teacher instead of a dropout; our families are strengthened, our communities are enriched, and our nation is a better--and a stronger one.

	We're going to invest in teaching--because teaching will be the highest educational priority we will have in a Dukakis-Bentsen administration.

	Over the next five to ten years, one half of our public school teachers will retire.  And their replacements are nowhere in sight.

	We have 35,000 teaching vacancies right now in this country.  We have 7,000 high schools that don't even offer a basic course in physics because they don't have anyone qualified to teach it.  We are graduating 4,000 new math teachers a year when our classrooms are demanding 20,000.  And over the next decade, California alone will require an estimated 80,000 new teachers.

	And yet, when I ask high school and college students these days how many of them are seriously interested in public school teaching, I'm lucky to get five hands out of five hundred.

	Compare that to Japan where there are forty applicants for every teaching vacancy.

	As president, I'm going to work with Congress to create a National Teaching Excellence Fund.

	We'll use that fund to recruit the best of this generation to bring out the best in the next generation--by providing college scholarships and loan forgiveness to young people willing to make a commitment to teaching after they get their degrees.

	We'll work with the states to create a network of real centers of teaching and learning that will help veteran teachers renew their skills, refresh their spirit, and reinvigorate their minds.

	And we're going to revive the National Teachers Corps, which this administration killed, and make it a real domestic peace corps for teaching; a peace corps that will put the energy and the idealism of young college graduates to work bringing knowledge and the power of understanding to rural and inner city schools.

	And if we're going to make every one of our citizens full shareholders in the American dream, we've got to end adult illiteracy in America.

	Today, there are 25 million adult Americans who can't read the Preamble to the Constitution.  One out of every eight American adults can't read the morning paper; they can't read a job application or the directions for operating a computer or a piece of machinery.

	And make no mistake about it; illiteracy is a curable disease.

	And we can cure it.  If we get business and government and labor and community groups working together; if we build on existing state programs and use new technology to make it easier for adults to become literate--and if we work with Gus Hawkins and his colleagues in the Congress to implement new literacy programs.  Programs that are in the trade bill that Lloyd Bentsen and Alan Cranston worked so hard to get through the Congress.

	Finally, in a Dukakis administration, we're going to dedicate our country to the basic principle that no youngster in this country who completes high school; is qualified to do college work; and is admitted to college should ever be denied that opportunity because of financial need.

	And if you don't think our nation is ready to make good on that commitment, look what happened earlier this month when Michigan began taking applications for its new College Opportunity Fund.  More than 80,000 applications during the first five days--over twenty times as many as they expected.

	We're starting a College Opportunity Fund in my state; and we need them in every state in America. 

	Early childhood education; good teaching; ending illiteracy college opportunity--this is the educational foundation that Lloyd Bentsen and I want to build in America; a foundation that can help make America's students--from kindergarten to graduate school--from Oakland to Kennebunkport--the best-prepared, best-skilled and best-educated on the face of the earth.

	And make no mistake about it, we're going to have to work at it; and we're going to have to work at it together.

	We need to say to our students--to the future scientists and teachers and engineers and presidents of the United States--aim high.

	Aim high, because as the great educator Benjamin Mays once said, "It is not a disgrace not to reach the stars, but it is a disgrace to have no stars to reach for.  Not failure, but low aim, is a sin."

	Aim high, and don't let anyone tell you that you can't make it--don't let anyone tell that you're not as good as the kids on the other side of town or in some other neighborhood; don't let anyone tell you that you can't make it if you work hard and study hard and stay in school and believe in yourself; and don't let anyone tell you that it's okay to take drugs.

	Don't let anyone tell you that America can't once again be number one in the world; number one in the classroom; number one in the workplace; number one in the world economy.

	Next year, if all goes well, I will become both a grandfather, and the next president of the United States.

	And what I want for that grandchild, I want for every child.

	A strong America.  An educated America.  A caring America.

	An America that is number one, because it's people are working together; as one people; one nation; one community.

	My friends, there are no shortcuts to the American dream.

	The best America doesn't hide; we compete.

	The best America doesn't waste; we invest.

	The best America doesn't leave anybody behind; we bring everybody along.

	The best America isn't behind us; the best America is yet to come.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHEDUCATION--MATH AND SCIENCEEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDEDUCATION--GENERALLITERACYTEACHING PROFESSION     , , , , ,
 , , , , x, v, ^, T,	  	 h 	 M  -     e: