

	Let me say I'm very honored to be here this morning. It's going to be a nice day. It might get a little humid later on. It's going to get hot for Bill Clinton, too, in the next fifty days. I want to welcome you to the Bill Clinton retirement party, right here today.

	And I'm proud to be with the most popular governor in America, Mike Foster, right here. And he's just about like Ivory soap--about 99.4, whatever it is. And Bill Bennett--Bill Bennett's--obviously The Book of Virtues sold 3.8 million copies. He'll be happy to autograph all those if you're here today. But he's been a great help. He is the Vice-Chairman of our campaign and it's certainly good to have him with me. These are the kind of people I'm going to look to for advice. That gives you some indication about what Bob Dole is thinking about and where he will go.

	You think I made a good choice in picking Jack Kemp? I think he's doing pretty well. I think my wife Elizabeth, is up in Traverse City, Michigan today and she ends up in Iowa. I'm sorry she could not be here, but she will be in Louisiana. You know she's a North Carolinian. Bill Bennett's wife is a North Carolinian. Elizabeth is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt is trying to reach her.

	And I would just say very briefly, because I know you have work to do--a lot of things to do, but this is a very important election. It is about, as I look at it, about two visions for the future of our country. As I look at our opponents--and they are our opponents, they're not our enemies, I don't dislike them, but they're our opponents. They have different philosophies. They have different ideas. They have different agendas, and we don't believe most Americans agree with them, because they believe in the old-style liberal vision that puts government first.

	Now, Jack Kemp and I have a different idea. We offer an optimistic, future-oriented vision that puts the American people first. You come before the government in our plan. And as I view it, that's the key dividing line in this campaign. They want you to trust government with more of your money and more of your freedom, and we believe it's time government started and trusted you for a change. That'd be a big, big change.

	And every day from now on, we're going to get a little billion here and a billion there, some new program. Today it's a billion dollars on terrorism, won't cost anything, won't raise taxes. Well, I don't know whether to believe that or not. But I remember when the President took the train ride to Chicago every time he would stop he would announce a little $2 billion program or another program. Somebody figured out it cost the taxpayers $12 million a mile for that train ride because every time he stopped or slowed down, he made a big announcement and somebody has to pay the bill--and you're the taxpayers and you will pay the bill. That's that bridge he was talking about--that toll bridge where you pay for every inch of the way, every inch of the way.

	It seems sometimes they have a million little programs on how the government can tell people to run their lives better--the government's got this, the government's got this, the government's got this. We think it's time to give American families back more of their hard-earned money, because we believe the people can run their lives better than any government bureaucracy ever can or ever will in America.

	And as Governor Foster said, don't believe it. Don't believe the pundits. Don't believe the commentators when they say, "Oh, they can't cut taxes and balance the budget." They can't, but we can, because we know how to do it. We'll cut federal spending, we'll give you back more of your money, we'll put more money in your paycheck, we'll cut taxes and balance the budget at the same time in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	And today in a lot of families, both parents are working. One parent works to support the family, the other parent works full-time to pay the taxes. And it shouldn't be that way in America. It should not be that way in America. And it's not going to be that way in a Dole-Kemp administration. We need to lift up this economy more. We were told by the Congressional Joint Economic Report that last year, that sixty-six countries had an economic growth rate that surpassed ours. Well, Bill Clinton may think that when it comes to economic growth sixty-seventh place is good enough, but I don't think so and the American people don't think so.

	So let me tell you about our plan. Our pro-growth plan has a tax cut--15 percent across-the-board for every American taxpayer--15 percent across the board. And if you have children under eighteen, a $500 tax credit because we believe in families and we believe in children and we believe in opportunities. Two children, that's $1,000 you take right off your tax bill. Four children, $2,000. As I've said, 10 children, you're probably too busy to worry about your taxes but that would be $5,000 that you can spend better on your children than any government agency I know of or anybody in Washington, D.C.

	We just had a tour of this printing business started by the Bishop family in 1962. And Andy introduced his three brothers. His mother, Martha, is in the hospital. I wrote her a little note.

	But here's the business that started in 1962. It showed that in America--it can happen in America. To make it more possible for more people to start more businesses we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half, right down the middle, so you can expand your business and create more jobs. Where? In the private sector--in the private sector, that's where the jobs, that's where the future of America is.

	And we're going to repeal--I see a few senior citizens here, one, two, three, well, maybe a dozen. Remember, in 1992, Clinton came to Louisiana like he did every other state. He said, "Ah boy, I got something for you. The centerpiece of my first administration, first term, is going to be a big middle-class tax cut."

	Now everybody who got that tax cut ought to vote for Clinton in 1996. But nobody got that tax cut. because you got the biggest tax increase in the history of America--$265 billion tax increase, including increasing taxes on senior citizens' Social Security. And we're going to repeal that tax increase for senior citizens. According to Bill Clinton, if you're a senior citizen--a widow, for example, and you have $34,000 income, you're rich. You're rich. Well, not in a Dole-Kemp administration, so we're going to repeal that. And I want the seniors to understand that, because they're going to be down here trying to scare you, because that's all they've got. They haven't got anything else. They've got your money--and a scare sheet. And they're going to tell you that Bob Dole's going to take away Medicare. Bob Dole's going to cut veterans' benefits. Bob Dole's going to cut Social Security. Bob Dole's going to cut education.

	And I would just take you back to 1983 for a moment, when Social Security was about to go bankrupt and Ronald Reagan--Republican president, and Tip O'Neill, a Democratic speaker, and Howard Baker, the majority leader and a Senate Republican, said, "Let's take it out of politics. Let's try to save, rescue Social Security." And we did. And I was on that commission--the one with Claude Pepper, the champion of senior citizens from Florida, and others. Labor members, business members, we rescued Social Security in 1983 and thirty-seven million Americans, senior citizens, got their checks on time because they took it out of politics. We ought to take Medicare out of politics. We ought to have a bipartisan commission and we ought to rescue Medicare so it doesn't go broke for the next five years under the Clinton administration, and we will do that in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	We're going to have estate-tax relief. Let's say that someone in this audience--and I'm certain there are--and you have a farm or you have a business, doesn't have to be a big business, and you worked all your life, and your husband worked all his life, and your kids worked all your life trying to make it work. And somebody passes on, the breadwinner passes on, you end up cutting off half the assets to pay the estate tax. We're going to provide estate-tax relief. That should not happen in America. We ought to keep the jobs and keep the opportunities. So we think in Louisiana our tax-cut package is going to mean about $1,600, $1,700 a year for the average family. That isn't bad. That's $1,600 or $1,700 you can spend.

	And with a $500 credit for children, let's give you another angle on it: let's say a child is born next week, or a week after we get this passed--it'd be about next May 1st. You can take that $500 and roll it over and over and over until that child is eighteen. Instead of $9,000--500 times eighteen--you'll have about $25,000. Tax-free, $25,000 ought to be a good start for that child to go to college. We think that's the way we ought to go. Education is important in America. Education is the key in America and we want to make it possible for everybody.

	We're also going to have a program we call Opportunity Scholarships. Now keep in mind, I'm a Republican. And I'm standing here reaching out to low-income families in America, in Louisiana, in Baker, Louisiana--anywhere in Louisiana. And I'm looking you in the eye and I'm telling you that education is the key. And you ought to have the same choice that Vice President Gore has or President Clinton has. You ought to be able to send your child to the school of your choice. I will not fault them for sending their children to private schools. They have the money. They have the power, they have the prestige. What about somebody from Baker working for $20,000 a year, or less, with a child. Do they have that opportunity? No.

	So we're going to try this experiment in about fifteen states. It's going to cost between twelve and fifteen billion dollars over the next five years. We're going to put up $500 for K through 8. The state puts up $500. You take that $1,000 as a parent and you can find the best school, the best public school, the best private school, the best religious school. That'll almost pay the tuition in some cases. It gives you the same choice that everybody else should have in America. Because if we're going to stamp out drugs and get a handle on teen pregnancy and crime, we need a good education starting in kindergarten and we're going to make it happen in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	Now the skeptics out there, "Aw, how you going to balance the budget?" Well, over the next six years--and I'm going to say this slowly because it will make your eyes glaze over--we're going to spend about 10.8 trillion, that's with a T, trillion dollars. And under our plan, where we have this $540 billion tax cut, we're still going to spend about $10.2 trillion. That's a lot of money over the next six years.

	This plan would allow for a 34 percent increase in Social Security spending and a 39 percent increase in Medicare. So don't believe all the scare ads. That's all they've got. They haven't had an idea for four or five years that I know of. But they've got a way to scare people. Fear. It's all they have, is fear, fear, fear.

	All we have to do is to save five or six cents on the dollar on other federal programs and we can save about $576 billion over the next six years which more than pays for the tax cut. Now do you think we ought to be able to pinch enough pennies and save five or six pennies on federal spending? I think the answer is yes. You do it every day. You do it every day. You do it every month.

	Now President Clinton, he was up in Chicago. You know they had a convention there. He had to go because he was the nominee--somebody had to show up. And he showed up. And he said people don't need this, some people don't need this tax cut. He said, "I want to target my tax cut." Remember what he said in 1992? Trouble was nobody got hit, nobody got the tax cut, nobody was the target. You got a tax increase. You got a tax increase. That's the way it works and we're going to change it around.

	We have a basic philosophical difference. We believe it's your money and the President, he believes it's their money. We believe it's your money, it's your money and you ought to be able to determine how it'll spend and not the federal government.

	He also says his little tax cut is paid for line by line, dime by dime. Well, we understand he's only about $112 billion short, according to the latest estimates. It's gone up since $82 billion since Saturday when it's $82 billion. And given his past record, Americans can only assume that he'll make up for this shortfall with still more taxes.

	And I know a lot of people, maybe some in this audience and I know maybe some in the media, though they're never very skeptical, wonder how we're going to do this. Because Candidate Clinton promised this in 1992 and then he did just the opposite. Well, I'm not Candidate Clinton. I'm Candidate Bob Dole. I keep my word to the American people. This isn't nuclear physics. This is Economics 101 as several economists explained to me about a week ago. This isn't something Bob Dole and a bunch of politicians got together and wrote down on the back of an envelope. We had four Nobel Prize winners, prize-winning economists on our team: Dr. Milton Friedman, Dr. Gary Becker, Dr. James Buchanan, Dr. Martin Miller. And they understand as I do that the way, with a pro-growth Republican Congress balancing the budget and cutting taxes at the same time is a matter of presidential will. If you have it, you can do it, and I have it, and I will do it for the American people in 1997.

	Now, Secretary Bennett touched basically on drugs, and, of course, he was the drug czar, and he understands the problem. There's no more serious problem for parents and grandparents and children. And a recent survey released by this administration--not the Republican National Committee--they said, they didn't want to say it but they had to say it, that drug use in the first forty-four months of the Clinton administration has doubled. Drug use has doubled in America. Marijuana use is up 144 percent. Now I understand the parents have to be responsible too. But why has it gone up? Because the government has done virtually nothing.
	
	And remember when Nancy Reagan was the First Lady and she used to come on every week--or every two weeks, whatever--and say, "Just say no." She stood there with the moral authority of the First Lady of the United States and told the parents and told the grandparents and told their children, "Just say no to drugs," and she was ridiculed by the liberals, and what happened? It worked and drug use went down in the Reagan administration and in the Bush administration.

	And then along came Bill Clinton, and drug use went up everywhere in America--maybe even Dorrance, Kansas, I'm not certain. Somebody's back there from Dorrance, Kansas, which is close to Russell, Kansas, one of the great metropolitan areas in the world. But in any event, drug use has doubled. We were winning the war on drugs in the eighties and early nineties. And I think the "Just Say No" campaign, it did work.

	But what did Clinton do when he became president? He cut the drug czar's office about 83 percent. We didn't need a drug czar with Ronald Reagan in the White House, but we've certainly needed one with Bill Clinton in the White House.

	So on day one, Jack Kemp and I are going to have a real war on drugs. And we'll fight to win. And we're going to start with a plan to use our military power, especially our technological capabilities, to fight this battle, to involve our intelligence agencies, and if necessary, to use the National Guard to stamp out drugs on the border before they get into America.

	As I said about education, we have the best teachers in the world. What we need is to get this, release this hammerlock that the unions have on teachers and on parents, and give schools back to teachers and back to the parents in America and you'll have a lot better education all over Louisiana and all over America.

	The Governor mentioned the 10th Amendment. I've got sort of a dog-eared copy I've carried around for a long time. It's not very long. It's only twenty-eight words in length. It really says a lot in twenty-eight words and this is what it says: unless the Constitution gives the federal government the power--that's number one--or unless it denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and it belongs to the people. And that's where we want to send it back. Back to the people, back to the states, closer to the people.

	And that's part of the restoration of the American dream we were talking about. Our Founding Fathers were so concerned about an all-powerful federal government that would confiscate your property, take away your private property rights, your taxation, do anything else, they decided we ought to have this as part of the Bill of Rights, part of the Constitution. It's been around over a couple, over 200 years. And in a Dole-Kemp administration, we're going to follow this. We're going to read it every day and we're going to tell the agencies, we're going to tell the Congress: whenever you can, send power back to the states, back to the people. And we're going to make it happen in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	So I just ask you to find the question [missing text] is really yours: Which bridge to the future is right for America?

	My opponent would build a bridge of higher taxes and more teenagers using drugs. A government-run health care system. More liberal judges. An economy producing too few jobs and more and more and more and more government all the way down the line.

	And I want to be this kind of a bridge: I want to be a bridge to lower taxes and less regulation, fewer teenagers using drugs and a booming economy. I want more jobs in the private sector. I want to come back to this printing place when they have 144 people instead of forty-four people because we made it easier for the Americans creating jobs.

	And I've been to Louisiana long before some of you. Only this is one of my home states. Everywhere I go I say, "This is my home state." I was at Camp Polk years ago. Anyone know where Camp Polk is? I went out on maneuvers one day, I don't think I got back for a week. I was lost, didn't know where I was. So I started in Louisiana a long time ago. I didn't have anything in mind at the time, except how do I get out of the Army--and I did. I went to Italy and I got out later. But in any event, it was a great experience. I met a lot of nice people. Met a lot of nice people in Louisiana. But a lot of things have changed since then.

	You're conservative Louisianans. You believe in less government. You believe in less taxes. You believe in less regulation. You want strong leadership. You don't want to turn our armies over to the United Nations. You want Bob Dole to make those decisions as president of the United States.

	The bottom line is trust. The bottom line is trust. I trust the American people. I said it and you ought to keep that in mind. I trust the American people. President Clinton trusts the government. He's got more government programs--in fact, they've got programs you haven't even heard about yet. I was on the Senate floor before I left in June and I said one day, "Now gentlemen, let me tax your memories," and Ted Kennedy jumped up and said, "Why haven't we thought about that before?" They want to tax everything, everything, everything. They've got hundreds of ideas you haven't even heard about on how to get more of your property, more of your money, more authority. And I say it's time to stop. Let's build a bridge to Little Rock, Arkansas, and send Bill Clinton back in January.
BILL OF RIGHTSCAPITAL GAINS TAXCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDINHERITANCE TAXMEDICARESOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--GENERAL     N N N N N
 N N N N N N N	 	  	  	  	  	 i 	 T 	 7 	 ( 	   	  e: