

	Thank you. Thanks. Thank you very much. I love the signs in this crowd: "Vietnam Vets" "Republicans for Clinton" "Catholics for Clinton-Gore" "Villanova Values" "Hillary's My Idol." I like that one a lot. Thank you.

	My fellow Americans, I am so glad to see you all here. I thank you for coming. I've wanted to come back to South Philadelphia since the last time I was in this market in the primary. And every day that goes by I feel a little more like Rocky Balboa. I want to thank all the members of Congress who are here: your wonderful congressman Tom Foglietta. Let's give him another hand--that was great. My friend Congressman Blackwell; I was in his district this morning on the north side of town. Congressman Borski; Congressman Kostmayer in the back--I want to thank my very good friend, your senator Harris Wofford, for making it possible for me to be here and to have [missing text]. And I hope you'll send Lynn Yeakel to the United States Senate to help us with the [missing text]. I want to thank your mayor, and I want to thank Joey Bishop. I mean, is he--I can't believe he came all the way back here. He just used my campaign as an excuse to come home to Philadelphia. I want to thank Ron Silver for his eloquent speech--and can Vince Bruce twirl a rope or what? Where is he? Come up here.

	Let me tell you something, folks: you can tell by my accent that I'm not from South Philadelphia. I grew up in South Arkansas. I've been watching people twirl ropes all my life, and he is better than any redneck I was raised with. He's wonderful.

	BRUCE. Thank you, sir.

	GOVERNOR CLINTON. You're from England, aren't you?

	BRUCE. Yeah. And I'm from the West of London.

	CLINTON. A cowboy from London. Thank you so much.

	BRUCE. Thank you, sir.

	CLINTON. Ladies and gentlemen, while I was waiting for the preliminary events here and listening, I was holding back there in a garage down the street, a car repair place run by two brothers. They've been in business for thirteen years. The younger one was fifteen when they went to work. They said this is the worst year they've ever had.

	I met a young man on the way up here today who told me he was thirty-five years old, walking down the street, and he said, "I'm about to vote for the first time. I'm sorry I haven't done it before, but I know I've got a lot at stake in this election."

	When Hillary and I and Al and Tipper Gore were in Florida last week, we met an eighty-three-year-old woman who came up to me and said, "I have never voted in my life, but I'm going to vote for you because I want to save my country. I want to change it. And I know we've got to."

	We got to debate a lot of issues last night. Nothing real tough like whether Pat's or Geno's has the best cheese steaks. But still, it was a pretty good debate. The one thing that I want to say to you is that you have to make a decision that is fundamental to the future of this country.

	In 1980, when Reagan and Bush came in and we started this twelve-year era, we had the highest wages in the world; now we're thirteenth. In the last four years, there has been a decline--listen to this--in the whole United States of America, a decline of 35,000 jobs in the private sector. In this nation, there would be no net job growth in the Bush presidency if it weren't for state and local and federal government. These people who say they hate government, that's the only thing that gave them any jobs, because they couldn't figure out how to make jobs in the private sector. And yet, this administration, after ten years in which people are working harder for lower wages, in which unemployment is up, in which twice as many bankruptcies as new jobs have been visited on this country, in which 100,000 Americans a month--I'll say it again--100,000 Americans a month are losing their health care, they say that they are the friend of free enterprise. These folks are going to tear the free enterprise system apart. Give Al Gore and Bill Clinton a chance to put it together and take it forward.

	Let me say that I know that our problems are not simple, we did not get into this mess overnight, and we won't get out of it overnight. I know that many people have said to me, "Well, I know you're a governor, I know you weren't part of what went on in Washington, but I'm worried about spending getting out of control." Let me tell you something, folks. In my state, we have the second-lowest tax burden and the second-lowest state and local spending per capita in the United States, twelve balanced budgets in twelve years, but we've increased investment for jobs, for education, for taking care of people who need taking care of. We can cut waste, increase investment, and get this economy going, but only if we move away from trickle-down economics.

	What I wanted to do last night--we have tried it their way for twelve years. They have had their chance. It didn't work, it failed, and we've got to change. That is the issue in this election. We have got to have the courage to take a different course. And I want you to know the only thing that creates jobs, the only thing that has ever created jobs is investment. I want to give you a tax code that asks the wealthy to pay their fair share, gives the middle class a modest break, but takes most of the money to say, look, under Reagan and Bush and Quayle, you got a tax cut if you were rich--whether you spent it on a vacation home, a Maserati, or a manufacturing plant. Under Bill Clinton and Al Gore, you'll get a tax cut if you make money the old-fashioned way--by creating jobs for the rest of America in new factories, in new businesses, in new technologies.

	They cut the defense budget and what did they spend the money on? Rising health care costs and the S&L bailout. I want to take every dollar by which we cut defense and spend it on you--investment in high-speed rail, in new roads, in new bridges, in new water systems, in new solid waste systems. We can create--we can create hundreds of thousands of jobs for people in the private sector by investing your tax money instead of squandering it.

	They say they believe in education, but it's harder and harder for people to get an education. If you vote for me, here's my program. Teach every adult with a job to read and give them a chance to get a high-school degree in the next five years. Give everybody in the work force who works for a big business a chance to get training every year. Give all the kids who don't go to college a chance to get two years of further education and training to get good jobs, not dead-end jobs. Open the doors of college education to all Americans. Your senator, Harris Wofford, has been one of the pioneers of the national service concept.

Here's what we want to do. Let anybody borrow the money to go to college, then pay it back in one of two ways: either as a small percentage of their income after they go to work, or even better, by giving two years of work before or after college as teachers, police officers, in health clinics, working these streets with the kids who need help, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities.

	I am telling you we could solve a lot of the people problems of America. How many places in Philadelphia are boarded up, belong to the government and are boarded up, and a block away there are people sleeping homeless on the street? We ought to give these properties back to these cities, let them put people to work repairing them and open them up for people.

	That's what we ought to do!

	We want to prove that America is a can-do country again. You know, we're the only advanced country that doesn't control health care costs and provide basic health care to all our people. More than anything else, that's what veterans talk to me about. There was a veteran on the north side today in his wheelchair with a Clinton-Gore sign on his lap saying, "I just want somebody who will think about my tomorrow. I'm worried about tomorrow. Can't we do something about health care?"

	I'm telling you, folks, I've got a health care program that even a Republican group that analyzed it said will save $2 trillion more than George Bush's will in unnecessary medical procedures, and taking on the insurance companies and the drug companies and the bureaucracies that have milked this system dry, and putting this thing back in the hands of the people. We can do it. We can do it.

	I want to face our problems. I want to face the deficit. But first, you've got to grow the economy. The people who say we should just raise taxes on everybody to fix the deficit don't understand that until people go back to work and incomes go up, nobody's going to have any taxes to pay for the government. We've got to get this country working again. And I will control unnecessary spending. We will cut the deficit in half in four years, but you've got to get Americans working again. If this economy doesn't work, the deficit will go up.

	I want to face some other problems, too. I want to face the problems of the environment and turn them into opportunities. I think we can create jobs by protecting the environment. I want to face the problem of AIDS not just in a debate but every day as president. I want to keep these kids alive.

	And I want to challenge the American people to come together. I want to be a different sort of politician. I don't seek a victory of party in this election. I welcome the Republicans, the Independents, the former Perot supporters. I believe that we've got to get business and labor and government and education back on the same side again. We've got to grow this economy. We can't do it when we're fighting with one another. We don't have a stake in being divided. I think we've got to unite people across racial lines again. We don't have a person to waste there, either. Every time a kid drops out of school, whether he is white, black, Latino or of Asian descent or anybody else, the rest of us pay for it. Every time somebody goes to prison who could be in the work force, the rest of us pay for it. Every time a child is born with low birth weight, the rest of us pay for it.

	It is time that we focused on the great challenge of our time, which is to prove that we can make the American dream live again. If you want to build up America, not tear it down, if you want to unite America, not divide it, if you want to vote your hopes and not your fears, vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore. We need you, and we'll never forget you.

	Thank you, and God bless you.
ARKANSASEDUCATION--GENERALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESJOB GROWTH/CREATION     D* * 
* * )
 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )	 b 	 Z 	 H 	 - 	  e: