

	I am honored to have been introduced by my distinguished running mate, the senior senator from Texas, Senator Johnson, who on three separate occasions was unanimously chosen by the Democrats in the Senate to lead them, and I am delighted that he's running with me on this occasion in this vital campaign.

	The Democratic party is a national party, and we move into this campaign with confidence and hope.  Less than sixty hours from now the polls will begin to open and the American people will make their decision as to what kind of leadership they want in the 1960s.  I come to New York and ask your help in this campaign.

	No other task, no other responsibility, is quite so important.  For remember that the polls will not open next Tuesday, or any other day, in a very real sense in Moscow or Peking or Havana or in the so-called satellite nations where I found no satellite people.

	We must vote on behalf next Tuesday, we must vote on behalf of those people, as well as our own, on behalf of all those who want to vote for the cause of freedom but who lack the freedom to vote.  And for their sake as well as ours we must vote to get this country moving again.

	For the United States will never be strong and powerful and respected abroad unless it's moving here at home, unless we are building in this country a strong and vital society.  The reason that Franklin Roosevelt was a good neighbor in Latin America was because he was a good neighbor here in the United States.

	This country is the arsenal of freedom.  We are the great defenders of freedom at a time when freedom is under attack all over the globe.  If we are meeting our responsibilities here, if we are providing work for our people, education for our children, security for our older people, if we are developing in this country the kind of society which serves as an inspiration to people around the world, then American prestige will be at its height again.

	And let us remember on Tuesday, when the last hurrah is over, that this is a solemn decision.  We are not engaged in a name-calling contest.  We are not voting for an image, or a team or a protg.  We are voting for a president of the United States.

	I run for the presidency not because I believe that that will be an easy task in the 1960s.  In many ways the office will be more difficult and will bear a heavier burden than it has since the election of Abraham Lincoln, 100 years ago.

	But after fourteen years in the Congress I run for the presidency because the presidency is the center of action in a free society and because it is up to the president to set before the American people the unfinished business of our society.

	This country is going to move in the sixties and I believe it must move forward.

	If Lyndon Johnson and I are successful on Tuesday, we want to be known above all else at the end of four years not as leaders who prevented war in our own generation, but as leaders who worked to prevent war in the generations yet to come.  Both of us have seen enough of it ourselves to know that every effort must be bent to preserving a just and honorable peace, and that will be our endeavor.

	And if I am elected next Tuesday I want to be known as a president, at the end of four years, as one who not only held back the Communist tide but also advanced the cause of freedom and rebuilt American prestige not by stating great aims as a great debater, but by doing great deeds as a good neighbor; not by tours and conferences abroad, but by vitality here at home.

	My opponent promises that if he is successful to go to Eastern Europe, or perhaps to another summit, or to go to a series of meetings around the world.  We promise if we're successful to go to Washington, D.C. because that is where the job will have to be done.

	And we do not intend, if we are successful, to ignore party leadership or party responsibility, and we do not intend to forget that we are Democrats who believe in Democratic programs that serve and benefit the people.  We want to be a president and vice president who have confidence in the people and who take the people into their confidence, who let them know what they are doing and where we are going and who is for his program and who is against.

	We hope to set before the American people the unfinished agenda of our society to indicate our obligations as a free people, to--not to please you--but to serve you, that is our objective in this campaign.  No, we are not engaged in this long effort that has taken us across the country to every state merely to win an election.  We seek to win the election in order to carry out the program.  We seek action and progress not merely in the first 100 days, but we promise you 1,000 days of progressive, vigorous national leadership.

	Well, I know what happens to a free nation that sleeps too long.  I saw the British deceive themselves before the beginning of World War II as Winston Churchill tried in vain to awaken them.  And while England slept, Hitler armed.  And if we sleep too long in the sixties Mr. Khrushchev will bury us indeed.  And that is not the fate that I plan for the United States.

	The program that we plan to put into effect here and around the world will not encourage Mr. Khrushchev.  We want him to know that this country is on the move again, that here in this society of ours we are developing the kind of direction and vitality and progress that will serve as an example to all the people who desire also to be free.

	Thomas Jefferson said that the disease of liberty is catching.  It is our function to maintain our strength and radiate the disease of liberty around the world.  And that's what we'll do.  For the Democratic party believes in a president who works full time when millions of men and women are working part time.

	We care about the nation's loss of gold and also about 4,000,000 men and women losing their jobs and their income.  We are concerned about the nation balancing its budget and we are committed to it and we're also concerned about the housewife balancing hers.  We recognize every citizen's rights as well as their responsibilities, particularly when one stroke of an executive order by the president of the United States will open up the doors of opportunity to them.  We want to be the president and the vice president of a country which raises the farmer's income and not just his costs, which sends children to college and provides security for our older citizens, who today live on an average income of less than $72 a month in Social Security, which provides better pay for our teachers and provides lower rates of interest for our small-business men.

	In short, we believe in a president and in a vice president who will fight for their legislative programs and not be a casual observer of the legislative process, a president who does not speak from the rear of the battle but places himself in the thick of it, committed to progress and to great programs and ends.

	But I also believe in a president who fights for great ideals as well as legislation, a president who cares deeply about the people that he represents--their right to a full-time job with decent pay, to raise their children in a decent neighborhood, to send their children to a good school with a chance to go to college to share the benefits of our abundance, to develop our natural resources and to retire to a life of security and dignity, and above all I believe in a president who serves the national interest, who serves no other master, who takes no instructions but those of his own conscience, who puts no personal interest, no public pressure, no political hopes and no private obligation of any kind ahead of his own to promote the national interest.

	And if I should be successful two days from now I want to be that kind of president.  I want to try to set as my standard the standard that Abraham Lincoln set the day he called his Cabinet together to read to them his draft of the Emancipation Proclamation.  They represented a coalition of different ideas and different views, but Lincoln knew that he only had the final responsibility.

	"I have gathered you together," he said, "to hear what I have written down.  I do not wish your advice about the main matter.  That I have determined for myself."

	And later, as he went to sign it, exhausted by several hours of ceremonial handshaking, Lincoln remarked:  "If my name goes down in history, it will be for this one act.  My whole soul is in it.  If my hand trembles when I sign this document, all who examine it thereafter will say, he hesitated."  But Lincoln's hand did not tremble.  He did not hesitate.  For he was not only the chief executive of the United States--he was also the president of the United States.  And if we of the Democratic party are successful on Tuesday, it is my intention to be, in the fullest measure of the word and the office, the president of the United States, as Lyndon Johnson will be the vice president of the United States.

	And I shall without hesitation or reservation take the solemn oath, that all presidents of the United States take on the 20th of January, 1961, to solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of the presidency of the United States and will to the best of my ability preserve, protect and defend the Constitution, so help me God. 

DEMOCRACYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)VOTING     % _% Y% U% M%
 B% =% 8% 0% (% &% % $	 c 	 Z 	 8 	 ! 	  e: