

	Three days ago, I stood with my mother in the Great Hall at Ellis Island, where my mother and father arrived in this country seventy-five years ago--timid and fearful--and yet full of excitement about the adventure they were about to begin in the new world.

	Today, here in the heartland of America, stands their son, a proud father and husband and son, a proud American, the Democratic nominee for president of the United States.

	Only in America could that happen.  Only in America where immigrants from every corner of the earth have been drawn by the torch of freedom.

	Nine weeks from today, we will elect a new president of the United States.

	And the most important responsibility of that new President will be to keep that torch of freedom burning for those around the world who struggle for basic rights and liberties--in South Africa and Latin America, throughout Eastern Europe and today, especially in Poland, where Solidarity's struggle must be our struggle.

	We must never forget that we are the keepers of freedom's flame; and that our strength, our aid, our prayers and our ideals provide the nourishment without which freedom would die, and with which it can never die, not completely, not forever.

	The brave people of Poland are once again showing how much they cherish freedom.  Lech Walesa, Gdansk, Solidarnosc, are again on everyone's lips.  The government and the people must engage in a productive dialogue.  Solidarity must be recognized.

	The people of Poland look to you, here in Chicago, for the support and the inspiration that allows them to carry on their fight.  In the words of the Polish national anthem, "As long as you live, Poland lives.  As long as you keep faith, Polonia keeps faith," they will have faith, and America will never break faith in its support for civil rights and workers rights and human rights for the Polish people.

	The struggle today in Poland is a reminder that America must be strong.  For it was only fifty years ago that Hitler and Stalin--the two great villains of our century--clasped hands and brought terror and bloodshed to all of Europe.  We must know the truth about atrocities like the Katyn Massacre, and we must never forget that as long as we live in a world where those who oppose freedom are strong, we must be stronger still.

	America must be strong, and we are.  But as John Kennedy said 28 years ago, "We cannot hope that people will look to us for leadership, unless we are moving ahead and solving our own problems here in the United States."

	And that is what I want to talk to you about today.

	Because the Republicans this fall are not asking us to move ahead; they are asking us to be content.  To stand still.  To hang on to what we have.  To hope for the best.

	They want us to forget about the trillion dollars they've added to the national debt--an IOU our children and grandchildren will be paying for generations to come--$150 billion a year in debt service alone that you and I are paying, mostly to foreign bankers.

	They want us to forget that interest rates are going up again--another Republican tax on Middle America--$1000 for every family with an adjustable rate mortgage on their home; $300 on every car loan; over a billion dollars in new burdens for our family farmers who have already been put through the wringer for the past seven and half years.

	And that's not all.  Friday, the monthly unemployment figures came out.  Rising unemployment for the second straight month.  226,000 more unemployed Americans.

	And what did Mr. Bush have to say about that?  He said it was "statistically irrelevant."

	"Statistically irrelevant."  That's an interesting phrase.  But not surprising, coming as it did from the standard bearer of the party that thought ketchup was a vegetable.

	My friends, we're here today to tell Mr. Bush that Americans are not statistics--and we sure aren't irrelevant.

	Because those unemployed Americans are people.  They're our neighbors; they're our friends.

	And, on November 8, he's going to find out just how relevant they--and we--are.

	The Republican ticket talks about creating more jobs.  But where?

	They talk about good jobs.  But whose?

	They talk about prosperity.  But for whom?

	I want to be the president who brings prosperity home--to every home in America.

	1 want to be the president who stands up for the families of this country.  I want to build an America where our kids can go to college and afford a new home; where our parents can get decent health care and enjoy a secure retirement; and where every American family is a full shareholder in the American dream.

	I want to be the president who creates good jobs at good wages in the good old U.S.A.  Jobs you can count on; jobs you can support a family on; jobs with a future.

	And I want to be the President who builds a strong America - an America that's as strong economically as it is militarily; an America that knows its values; that defends its beliefs and that commands respect throughout the world.

	For the past seven years, as the Census Bureau told us this past week, the rich have gotten richer; the poor have gotten poorer; and those in the middle--and that means most of us - are getting squeezed.  My friends, I ask you-- can we afford four more years of that?

	High paying jobs are being replaced by low wage jobs; average weekly wages are down over the last eight years; benefits are down over the last eight years.  My friends, I ask you--can we afford four more years of that?

	All across the country, we see two parents working harder and harder to buy what one income could buy before.  We see fewer families, able to afford a home now than eight years ago.  Unable to care for their children while they go out and work.

	Four million of our fellow citizens--most of them members of working families--without a dime of health insurance.  My friends, I ask you--can we afford four more years of that?

	And what do our opponents intend to do about it?  What is their plan for America's future?  They want to give those who make $200,000 a year or more a tax break of $30,000.  That's more than the average teacher makes.  That's enough to send your son or daughter to the University of Illinois for four years.  The down payment young couples could use to buy their first home.  And who do you think is going to pay for that new tax break?  Look at your kids.  Look at your parents.  Look in the mirror, and ask yourself, can we afford four more years of that?

	A few weeks ago, Mr. Bush said he would put his vice president in charge of the war against drugs.  President Reagan tried that--and it didn't work.  Is there anybody in the United States who thinks Dan Quayle ought to be in charge of that war?

	Last October, Mr. Bush went to Europe.  He said the American auto industry could use a few good mechanics from the Soviet Union who could teach our workers something about quality.  Then, a few days later, Mr. Bush explained: "Quality, we've got to have more of it.  If it hurts when I say that to somebody, too bad."

	I agree we have to pay attention to quality--from the assembly lines to the executive suites.  But do you really believe we in America have anything to learn from a society where workers have no rights, consumers have no choices, and even Mr. Gorbachev admits their economy is a shambles.

	Those Republicans in Washington love to blame American workers.

	They don't understand that Solidarity isn't just a beautiful word in Polish; it's also a beautiful word in English.  That's why they've spent the last seven years trying to break unions, and pit management against labor.

	My friends, we're not going to blame American workers or American business; were going to bring business and labor together.

	We're not going to cut wages and cut corners; we're going to build partnerships.

	We're not going to set management and unions against each other; we're going to get business and labor working together to make shared decisions, shared profits, and shared progress for America.

	And we're going to make the label "Made in America" a symbol of quality and durability and value all over the world.

	My friends, this election is a choice between two very different kinds of leadership, two very different ideas about prosperity; two very different visions of America.

	The Republicans have slammed the door of college opportunity on thousands of young people.  We're going to open that door to every student qualified to do college work.  And bring prosperity home.

	The Republicans don't believe it's time to raise the minimum wage; we will.  And bring prosperity home.

	The Republicans didn't want plant-closing legislation; but we beat them, and we'll put that law to work.  And bring prosperity home.

	The Republicans didn't want the new trade bill; but, thanks to Lloyd Bentsen, we beat them.  We're going to use that law to train and retrain workers--and bring down adult illiteracy and bring prosperity home.

	So today, I say to all Americans: if you want a healthy and growing economy that will create real opportunity and real prosperity for every citizen in this land--stand with us.

	If you believe that our schools and teachers and universities and research libraries must be the finest in the world--stand with us.

	If you want America to stand with fighters for freedom like Lech Walesa and Nelson Mandela, not thugs and thieves like General Noriega--stand with us.

	And if you want to build an America that is so strong that no nation can challenge us; so productive that no nation can compete with us; so true to its purpose that no force on this earth can divide us; then reach out, roll up your sleeves, and go to work for a Dukakis-Bentsen victory this fall.

	We're going to win this November because we stand for what the American people stand for.

	We are a wonderful and diverse mosaic of races and creeds and ethnic groups bound together by our love for this country; by our belief in its future; and by our deep and abiding faith in the American dream.

	And, if anyone tells you that that dream belongs to the privileged few, and not to all of us, tell them that their era is over and a new era is about to begin.

	On January 20, when, with your help this son of immigrants will enter the White House as president of the United States.

Sto Lat!

HUMAN RIGHTSINCOME TAXINTEREST RATESJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALORGANIZED LABOR--POLANDUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWEALTH DISTRIBUTIONWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     ) |) v) r) j)
 _) Z) U) N) F) D) D) 9)	  	  	  	  	 z 	 b 	 K 	 6 	 # e: