

	Thank you, thank you very much.  Thank you, thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.

	Thank you very much, Mr. Betleski.  I hope now you are all going to see to it that Jon Betleski is your next congressman from the 13th District. 

	My good friends of Lorain, Ohio, I bring you a very special greeting from your next United States Senator, Jack Gilligan. 

	By the way, didn't you like the wonderful entertainment you had here prior to my getting here today?  I think we ought to give Chubby Checker and all his great group a great big hand of thanks. 

	My fellow Americans, my friends and neighbors, here at Admiral King High School in Lorain, Ohio--you know, I heard there were a lot of good Democrats, but I didn't realize they were quite as strong and quite as loud and quite so many, but I sure like what I see. 

	Let me see if we can just get the temperature here.  Do you folks want George Wallace for president?  

	Do you want Richard Nixon? 

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  All right, how about Humphrey and Muskie? 

	Well, I am going to let you in on a secret.  I like the way you think.  I think that is a great idea. 

	Yes, friends and neighbors, John F. Kennedy came here in 1960, and you voted for him, and I come here in October of 1968, and I have a feeling you are going to vote for me, and I want to thank you. 

	We are not going to let the man that John Kennedy defeated in 1960 gain the White House in 1968.

	Well, friends, thank you very much over there.  Viva Democratic party. 

	Now, my friends, there is serious business to talk about, and I want to address myself to you now about the issues that are in this campaign.  We have been trying for several weeks to get our Republican opponent in this campaign to debate the issues before the American people.  As you know, he has refused to do so.  But of late, I have noticed that he is carrying on a debate between himself--a debate on what he said a month ago, a debate on what he said a few years ago--and a debate on what he says now, a most interesting debate, all by himself.  But I think a more interesting discussion would be if Mr. Nixon, the Republican nominee, would stand on the same platform with me before the same audience at the same time, and we can discuss our respective political records, and the records of our two parties.  I would like to be able to do that in Lorain, Ohio, where you know what the Republican party has done to you and where you know what the Democratic party has done for you. 

	Now, what is the central issue in this campaign as we come down to this final week, when there is not time for discussion of every single political matter?  The issue that confronts you as you go into that voting booth is simply this:  Which party and which candidate can you trust to lead this country in the next four years?  That is the basic issue before the American people.  Which party will you trust, can you trust, to work for peace, and which party do you think and which candidates do you think that will hold this country together, and who can lead this country forward, not backward, but who can lead it on into a better day?  I think the answer is pretty clear.  The Republicans have fought us every step of the way.  They fought every program that you people here have found to be helpful.  It was they who opposed the first social security measures.  It was they who proposed every labor bill that ever was before Congress, it was they who opposed minimum wages, it is they who have opposed federal aid to education, it is they who opposed Medicare.  Every single piece of social legislation that has added to the meaning of life to a worker, to his family, to the elderly, to the children has been fought by, fought against by Richard Nixon and his Republican crowd.  

	But, you know, the other party has had something to do with something better.  People have asked me what is the difference between these two parties and their candidates.  I say to you, I represent the party on this platform today that cares about the family, that cares about people.  We are not interested alone in statistics.  We are interested in what happens to people, and this is why the Democratic party has stood for social progress--this is why this party has recognized in its leadership that every person, regardless of his nationality--look at this great city, people from every country--that every person has something to contribute to making a better America.  We know that. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, the ticket of Humphrey and Muskie wants to carry on in the forward-looking tradition of the Democratic party that has served the well being of this community and this nation, starting with Franklin Roosevelt and coming up to Harry Truman and John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson and going right up to this very day.  

	Now, you know I find that Mr. Nixon apparently has decided that he was going to talk.  He made two decisions in the beginning of the race.  The first decision was about his vice president and, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to compare that Republican ticket of Nixon and Agnew with the Democratic ticket with my vice president of Humphrey and Muskie.  You just compare them and see where you come out.  You know which one has the best man on the ticket.  I have. 

	Now the second decision was on the kind of a campaign that Mr. Nixon was going to wage--and I think some of you know that he was going to wage a very quiet, calm, cool, well-organized campaign.  They said that it was very efficient.  Why, I look out here and I see my friends of the press who are here today, and many is the time that they wrote of his efficiency, how he was always on time and how the confetti fell from the skies, and how the balloons went up, and how nice the parades were.  Of course, nobody ever found out anything about his ideas because he never talked.  It was Silent Richard, Richard the Silent, and Richard the Cool.  He wasn't going to be in any way troubled.  He had taken this election for granted.   As a matter of fact, my fellow Americans, he thought he was president.  He started to act like a president, and he has been acting like a president so long that come November 5th the people are going to vote for a change, and I am going to be the president of the United States.

	But, you know what?  We finally got Mr. Nixon to talk for the first time in two years.  He went on a national radio show last night, the first time in two years.  I have been on Meet the Press eighteen times and almost as many times on the program he was on last night called Face the Nation.  For the first time he decided to expose himself.  Ladies and gentlemen, any man that is afraid to meet the reporters is not worthy of having the support of the voters.  

	And now what else do we find?  We find Mr. Nixon is doing some rethinking.  He is getting what I call "political religion".  The closer he gets to election day the more times and the more things he says that are like the rest of us.  For example, here the other day he said he was for federal aid to education.  Of course when he was in Congress he voted against it, when he was vice president he voted against it.  He has spoken against it but he is beginning to sense the people are for it, so just before you cast your vote, he says he is for it.  Listen, ladies and gentlemen, judge them by their deeds, not by their words.  Don't listen to that slick talk.  Any man that voted against it is not for it.

	And what about our elderly?  What about our senior citizens?  What about Medicare?  Here is what he said about it: he said it wouldn't work.  In 1962 he said it would do more harm than good, but now he sees the old folks like it.  He sees that young couples like it.  He knows that Medicare works and so he slips around the back door when the old reactionaries of the Republican party aren't looking, and he whispers to you workers and your families, he says, "I am for Medicare, too."  Don't you believe him.  He was never for it.  He was not for it when we fought for it, he wasn't there when we passed it, and he will never be for it any time he is in the White House because he is not going to be in the White House.  

	Clever fellow, this man.  He jumps on the bandwagon.  Well, I will give him a chance to jump on another bandwagon.  He can vote for Humphrey and get on our bandwagon. 

	Now let me ask you, let me ask this audience of the sons and daughters of workers and men and women, husbands and wives of hardworking people: what has Richard Nixon ever done for the elderly?  What has he ever done?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What has he ever done for young people in their schools?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What has he ever done for labor unions?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, what are you going to do for him?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That is a fair deal. 

	There are many friends here today from the UAW, from the steel workers, from the building trades, from other unions, and let me tell you that the record of Mr. Nixon as a friend of labor is one great big fat zero.  He has never voted for you, never has, and he doesn't intend to help you, and there is only one way that we can stop it, and that is to make sure that he doesn't succeed in 1968 in doing what he tried to do in 1960.  And I want Ohio folks this time to redeem the mistake you made in '60, you didn't vote for Mr. Kennedy in Ohio in 1960.  You owe it to a friend of John Kennedy's to vote for me in 1968.

	Now, my friends, let's just take a look at another question called jobs.  I have been around Lorain before; I have been through this part of Ohio.  I remember when the Republicans were in and Mr. Nixon said not long ago he wanted to come back and he wanted to have his administration so he could do what they have tried to do in the 1950s.  He wanted to help to restore the condition that were there when the Republican were in the last time.  All right, what were those conditions?  Seven percent unemployment, job-killing recessions, three of them.  Profit-killing recessions, three of them.  Not a single piece of legislation passed to help your school children.  Not a single piece of legislation passed to help your elderly.  Not one single consumers' protection legislation, nothing.

	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nixon's Republican years gave you unemployment, gave you for businessmen less profits, gave you for your schools no help, gave you for your elderly "I don't care," and I submit to you that that kind of a program is not good for America.  That isn't the way that we keep this country going.  We need Democratic programs that look to the future, that build for them all, to keep this country going. 

	I know, I know why Lorain, Ohio, and I know why Lorain County voted for Jack Kennedy and against Richard Nixon in 1960.  I know why.  Because you got good sense, you understood what the issues were.  

	Well, my friends, we started getting this country moving again in 1961, and look what happened here.  We have had ninety-two months of uninterrupted economic growth, we have added 10 million new jobs, we have trained last year 1 million workers for new jobs.  Under the Republican administration, with unemployment not a single worker was ever trained--not one.  There was no Peace Corps program, there was no Head Start, no Job Corps to train the kids who were school dropouts--and last night I heard Mr. Nixon say that one of the first things Mr. Nixon wanted to do was to abolish the Job Corps training program.  What does that mean?  That means that somebody that had no break in life, that didn't get an education, that didn't have a job, finally got a chance to be trained and to get a job.  That Job Corps program has trained 135,000 young men, and 75 percent of them have gone to jobs.  Twenty percent of them, if you please, have gone on to school, and 10 percent of them have gone into the military.  Those programs have produced productive citizens, and Mr. Nixon says he is going to stop them.  And at the very time that he was making that speech, George Foreman, United States Olympic medal winner in the heavyweight division in Mexico City, was getting a gold medal for the United States of America, was being honored while Richard Nixon said he was going to abolish the Job Corps.  And what did Mr. Foreman say?  He said the reason he had his chance to be a champion, the reason he had a chance to represent his country, is because of the Job Corps--and it had helped him become a man--and Richard Nixon says abolish it. 

	Yes, my friends, we are trying to help people, and when you help people you help your country.  When you train a man for a job and he gets a job, everybody is better off.  We have been able to help 12 million people out of poverty these last eight years.  We have been able to help people stand on their own feet.  Look around you at this new building and then look at the Lorain County Community College with 3000 students. 

	Look at the industrial expansion, look at the new housing, look at the new and better life for thousands of our people.  Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want to stop this.

	What we have started, we want to keep going.  We want to make this a better America for every person regardless of race, creed, or color--and we can do it if we work together. 

	Now, my friends, there is one other item.  I know there is a third-party candidate.  I don't think he is going to do well, but I must say just a thing or two about him because he represents, regrettably, bad influences in American life.  He says he is for law and order--yet his state has the highest rate of crime in murder and aggravated assault in any state of the union.  He says he is for law and order, yet he obeys what laws he wants to and defies others.  He respects the judges he likes and defies the others.  That is not law and order.  Law and order comes to a community, my friends, when we are willing to have police that are properly paid, properly trained, properly equipped.  And when we ask for law and enforcement, when we build a society of justice and opportunity, when men and women have jobs, when mothers can leave their children, if they have to work, in a decent day care center, when kids can go to school in a good school, when we can live in a good neighborhood, this is the way you build law and order.

	Law enforcement and social justice go together, and that is what we are going to give you in this country. 

	So, my friends, I must leave you now, but I do so with this message: if we are going to build the kind of a country that we want, we must do it by building trust in each other.  We must trust one another to be a nation of Americans, and the great program for this nation is to have a program of social and economic betterment where we can say that we are really "one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all"--a nation of enthusiasm, and a nation of progress.  

	Thank you very much.
CRIME--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMEDICAREORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSENIOR CITIZENS     ; ; ; ; ;
 |; w; r; l; h; f; N; C;	 f 	 X 	 F 	 / 	 ' 	  e: