

	My fellow Americans:  You overwhelm me with a sense of pride.  It is not only that each of you has taken an hour out of his busy day to come here and allow me to bring you a word of greeting, to allow me to express to you a few of the thoughts on my heart and mind as we progress through this political campaign, but that you have come in such numbers.  

	As I rode down your streets, I thought that all of Hartford must be lined up along the streets.  And as we turned the corner off of Main Street over there, Senator Purtell said to me, "This is my town.  Gee, I'm proud."  To every citizen here,  whether he lives immediately in Hartford or comes from the  surrounding territory, my grateful thanks.  You make me very proud.

	In the crusade in which I am now engaged, there are millions of Americans enlisted.  They are all the way from San Diego to Maine and all the way from Florida to the state of Washington.  They are out working night and day.  Their simple purpose is to provide, in lieu of shopworn, bad government, to provide good government and good leadership for America.  In this team, we have everybody from the last man who goes into the booth to vote--indeed, even the children who remind their parents, "This is voting day.  I am big enough to be a baby-sitter.  I'll stay home, you go vote"--from those right on up to those people who have to decide policy and bring it out in the form of doctrine, beliefs and programs in front of you people; we have one enormous team that is growing every day.

	The reason that we see the opposition abandoning any effort to present programs and to bring instead, along with a scandal-a-day, a new slander a day, is because they realize that this crusade is growing and growing and they are fearing one thing now only--the loss of their jobs, and they rightfully fear that.

	As part of my satisfaction in returning to your state today and on this beautiful day to meet again not only with you, but with some of the members of the team here who have to help direct the program--such people as President Bush, your Governor Lodge, Senator Purtell and the rest of them, your congressmen-at-large, and all of the others that must go along with the rest of us as a team to Washington if we are going to fulfill the program which I shall try so briefly to outline for you.

	This is the last two weeks of the campaign.  We have been working a long time and it is noticeable that the heat and the friction are going up.  As I say, in desperation, the opposition is adopting new tactics and they, of course, will be just as ineffectual as what they have done before.

	But this morning, leaving to the others all the job of mudslinging and of name-calling, I want to talk to you about the future of  America, the future that we can expect--as we turn away eventually from war production into prosperity based upon peace, as we abandon some of the bad practices of bad government and return again to some of the better practices that good government can bring us.   First of all, here in Hartford you have a perfect example of American industry geared to the future.  You have a place where we make airplane engines, and airplane engines are now changing their character.  They are going to be jets.  They are jets.  As of today, when you hear the jet engine, you think possibly of pictures of war, of combat in the air, but think of what this industry is  going to be when finally every single transport plane throughout the world, starting with our own great fleet, needs these jet engines, requires them, and we produce them and we have a new item of commerce in which, as always, America will strive to lead the world and will lead the world in the excellence of its products and in the volume that can be turned out in a short time.  

	How can we fear turning from a war production to peace production when we  realize that all of these things we are now making for the sterile purposes of war, for the negative purposes of regiments and  fighting ships and planes, whose sole purpose is to protect what we have, and that is all.  How can we fear turning from that kind of production when there is opening up before us the possibility of increasing our own standards--of getting these things that now go into wartime and war preparation uses, getting them for our own use, for schools and roads and hospitals and new uses of radar and new safety in the air, new comfort on our trains.

	All of these things lie ahead of us, saving the wear and tear on mankind and giving the greater opportunity for enjoying those full things of life, of the spiritual, intellectual and aesthetic things for which man has always longed.  I say to you, America is just on the threshold of its greatest era.

	In this atomic age, what is the song we hear from the opposition?   "Don't Let Them Take it Away."  Is that a slogan for a bright  future?  "Don't Let Them Take it Away."  Of course, you know the answer.  And they don't want us to take away scandals in government, lack of progress toward peace, extravagant expenditures in Washington, deficits in our budget.  They do not want to let us take those things away.  Do they want to allow us to take away inflation?

	Today when the housewife walks into the grocery store and plunks down twenty-four dollars and fifty cents for exactly the same basket of groceries she got in 1940 for ten dollars, she must say, "There is something I would like them to take away."  She would certainly like them to take away the prospect that next year it will be thirty-five dollars instead of twenty-four dollars.

	Incidentally, I am reminded that this is the insurance capital of the world.  If there are any people in this whole country who are mindful of the need for preserving values that represent our savings--insurance values, savings values, bond values--if we are to save pension values, all our old age insurance, our social benefits, we must stop this inflation.  Ladies and gentlemen, the pity of it is, it can be done.  At least we can abandon the deliberate policy of inflation.  The first and great requisite to doing these things in the future is to bring to Washington the finest brains that we can find among the men and women of America, regardless of their race or creed; bring them down there because  they are dedicated Americans, loyal Americans, able Americans, and of such prestige in their home communities that their very reputations bring to you two guarantees:  first, that under them in no branch of government will subversion or disloyalty creep in; and  under them, dishonesty cannot exist.

	They will bring to you something else, and even more precious than saving any money that may have been filched from you by dishonest officials among tax collectors or elsewhere.  They will do this for you, ladies and gentlemen, because of the character of that great body of men and women, character that you know:  You will have confidence in your government.  You will unite behind your  government.  Only in that way, only through a united America developing its full power because it is united can, we exert that influence for developing peace in the world that now must be attained, and soon.

	When incompetence or dishonesty or any other malfeasance in Washington robs you of pride in your government, it robs you of something that you can ill afford to lose, and that America as a whole cannot possibly afford to lose.  We must have pride in our leadership.  Because the opposition sees all this coming, I remark to you that they have resorted to a program of fear.  They sell fear to the United States and they make great charges against the purposes of the people involved in this crusade.  Among other things they say, "Why, these people would rip out from under you every program for your social security that there is in the United  States."  You know that is just antediluvian bunk.  That is the  kind of stuff that could be sold to Americans possibly a hundred years ago.  We know that it is absolutely necessary to construct a floor under every American and over the pit of disaster, the kind of disaster against which he himself cannot guard.  This applies in the field of agriculture, to the worker at the lathe; it applies to everybody who is an American if we are to develop from that American the full contributions that his capabilities can render to America.

	If he is safe in knowing that he is not going to be destitute, alone and abandoned, of course he will then exercise every talent  that God gave him to reach the full capacity of which he is capable.  Then the United States will again be on the track of realizing the great future of which I speak to you--because it is the talents of 155 million people, my friends, that will do this.

	Let me point out again that politicians do not produce the goods of America.  Political parties do not produce the wealth of America.   The people do it, and the only thing the political parties have to give out is what they first take from you, the people.  If you want an immediate and close example of the philosophy of the Republican  Party, how about some of the measures sponsored here and passed under the leadership of your own Republican Governor Lodge, your seventy-five-cent minimum wage law and at the same time reducing the debt that you are passing on to your children.  That is the kind of thing that animates the people in this crusade.  

	We pledge progress.  We do not preach destruction.  We preach construction, going ahead, producing more and more of the things that people want.  Now, you  might say, we are against stand [missing text], and that is the reason we are against the song, "Don't Let them Take it Away."  That means stand where you are and let the world go by you.  We do not believe in that.  The opposition has become a party of zigs and zags and  don't and can't.  For example, they say, "You cannot put businesslike efficiency in government.  You cannot defend the country for less dollars than we are now spending."

	That I will guarantee you is bunk.  They say, "You cannot cut  taxes.  You cannot end or minimize our Korean losses.  You cannot stop inflation.  You can't stabilize international  relationships."  What kind of stuff is that--'t and can't?  Of course, we can.  One hundred fifty-five million united Americans is the greatest power under God that has ever existed on this earth.   We have not only this great wealth of natural resources in which seven percent of the world's population produce fifty percent of the industrial products of America, but we have also a spiritual strength that cannot be matched in dictatorships.  We have the spiritual strength of a free people.  We have the strength still in this nation that allows a meeting such as this great throng.  You can gather to hear me speak, knowing that I am going to express criticisms of the existing administration.  Elsewhere in the world, my friends, if we attempted such a meeting as this one this morning, you would be on the cars for the salt mines tomorrow morning and I would be on the gallows.

	Let us never forget that it is that thing and all that goes with it, all of the economic, individual, intellectual and spiritual freedom that go with it, that we are preserving in this country, and we are fighting to make certain that no inroad from within, no matter how insidious, or how terrifying from without, can ever damage it.  That is what this crusade is about.  That is what good  government instead of incompetent government means:  the leadership that can lay out the programs under which these things can be accomplished.

	We will have nothing to do with a program of don't and can't.  We do and can and will.

	Let me return again just a moment to this question of increasing prices.  Now, for some years the workers have been chasing this wage-price spiral very desperately, but ineffectually.  We are actually worse off in take-home pay today than we were in 1945.  It isn't, therefore, that we need just bigger take-home pay.   We need pay that takes home more from the market after we get the pay home.  That is another thing for which this crusade promises to work: to stabilize our money, to make certain that everything you draw does not run out through the hole in your pocket that we call inflation.  We must stop it in its tracks.

	Now, we will have a sound economy with honest government; with a government that has not forgotten the meaning of the words frugality, thrift and efficiency; with a government that you trust;  with a government that you know to be friendly; a government that you are not afraid to go and see in order to put your problems in front of it--where they are serious problems affecting a number of people--well knowing that you don't have to be content with putting them in front of some third-ranking member of the team, but that you can go to the top when you have such a government as that.  Then,  I repeat, we will be united in this quest for peace.

	When we are united in that atmosphere, in that climate, in that trust, think of where our prestige abroad will go; because, ladies and gentlemen, we can't buy allies just with dollars.  It is futile to think that the relationship of creditor to debtor is going to promote the kind of friendship and strength between us and our allies that we must have and which will be needed to stop Communism where it is and to make it allow freedom to the people who are already captives.  We must have friendships and confidence based on mutual self-respect.  That is what we must have:  mutual respect between nations.

	As I have tried so sketchily to run over some of these things with you ladies and gentlemen, I want to leave one main thought.  I do not come before you to engage in any competition of political promises with political opponents.  As a matter of fact, every conceivable political promise has not only been used up in the last seven years; it has become badly shopworn or conveniently shoved upon the shelf when it became embarrassing and the time came for fulfilling the promise and it was forgotten.  I have no intention of getting involved in such a contest.  In fact, in the sense that we ordinarily use the word "politics", I have never been a  politician, I don't know how to make such promises, and I shall never be a politician in that sense.

	For the record, before I give my closing thought, let me remark that I am now sixty-two years, one week and one day old.  In that time, there has existed no man, to the best of my knowledge, who had the slightest right or excuse for saying that I was his captive.  And I promise you this:  Never will I be anybody's captive.  Whatever ideas, whatever policies I bring to you, no matter how widely I have sought advice, no matter how widely I have hunted out people who can help me and counsel with me the convictions I bring you, the proposals I lay before you, the people, shall be my own--no one else's.  I will take full responsibility for them.

	Now, as I again thank every single person here--I see them from Wesleyan and from Trinity Colleges, and different towns--I said I  would not make.  This crusade and its leaders and I personally come before you to say this:  if you want to entrust us with the direction of the national government for the next four years, we will have one single ambition, that at the end of that four-year period you people could meet and say, "That government tried to decide everything on the basis of what was good for the United States.  Moreover in doing so, they were to every single one of us, every group, every section, fair; they were just as God gave them the power to see justice and fairness.  And finally, they were of  us.  They were the people we sent there.  They were friendly.  They  wanted to help and they did not want to rule."  Between those two words, ladies and gentlemen, there is a gulf as wide as the ocean; and our ambition is to help America make this transition into a  peaceful prosperity that shall be as secure and as safe for the individual as it is likewise for the whole nation.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I just now realized that I was standing on a  portico belonging to my old friend, Frank Murphy, of the "Hartford Times."  To him and his paper, my very deep thanks and gratitude.
ALLIES/ALLIANCESECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSINFLATIONMANUFACTURING     @ y@ s@ o@ e@
 W@ R@ M@ E@ :@ 8@ 8@ .@	 ` 	 P 	 3 	  	  e: