

	My father was a Methodist minister and I once asked him, "What's the difference between a Methodist and a Baptist?"  He'd never tell me.  Today I know.  Baptists sing better.

	My dear friend, Rev. Jesse Jackson, thank you for that kind introduction and Dr. T. J. Jemison, thanks for having the choir intervene between the introduction and my speech.  To my dear friend Copng. Charlie Rangel, to my old friend Ben Hooks and my close friend Edward Victor Hill.  I didn't think Baptists could lose their way that, way but I guess they can.

	In the first round of this campaign, Jesse Jackson changed American history and America.  He created what is known as the Rainbow Coalition, and we all know that at the end of every rainbow is a pot of gold.  But this time, in truth, there's something even more valuable than that, because in this second round of the campaign, Jesse Jackson is going to help me defeat Ronald Reagan and become president of the United States.

	I'm honored to speak before this remarkable organization today, the largest religious black organization in the world, representing some thirty thousand churches that minister to 7 million Americans who are on the front lines of services for social justice, the front line of economic development and the production of jobs for your people, the front lines of seeking to help people needing day care and other needs and housing, an organization of powerful religious faith and message and tremendous independence.

	We meet today to rejoice in the service that you provide to our faith, the service you provide to our country, and to participate in this great debate about the future of our nation.  This is 1984, and once again, as Americans, we are permitted to decide by ourselves that most fateful question we ever decide, as Americans.  That is, "Who should be the next president of the United States, and what should the course of our blessed country be?"

	And today I'm pleased to be with you because this debate is so crucial.  And more than ever before, we find black Americans--thanks, in part, to the leadership of Rev. Jackson--more engaged, more involved, more powerful, and more able to be involved in the strength and future of our nation.

	We are no strangers to each other.  Over this last generation, we've worked together to create the most successful peaceful revolution in the history of humanity.  Just before I spoke to Baptist ministers who had formerly been in Minnesota to learn how to preach from Hubert Humphrey, or the other way around--I forget which.  We came up and compared notes in those early days.  Those tasks were never easy, but the struggle was surely worth it.  Because we struggled and didn't hang back, we cut the dropout rate for high school students and doubled the number of minority students attending college and vocational schools.

	Because we struggled, we raised the reading levels of our poorest children in our poorest cities.  Because we struggled, we helped more than 20 million people, work their way out of poverty and cut the number of poor people in half.  And because we struggled, we enriched our society and nation with a vast amount of great wealth and talent.  We opened school doors and factory doors, opened office doors and government doors, to blacks and browns and women and all who had been unjustly excluded.  We have gotten ourselves off to a good start, and I sometimes wonder if people realize what that progress has meant to our nation.

	The other day, Mr. Reagan was rejoicing--as we all did--in the performance of our wonderful young Americans at the Olympics in Los Angeles.  Weren't we all proud of those kids, every one of them?  But I wonder if the president stopped to think how it was that our teams were the best on earth.  Did he stop to look at the color of the participants?  We had them all, black and brown and Asian and white, we didn't care, just so they were the best.  Did he look to see there weren't just men, but also women participating and winning gold medals for America?  Did he stop to think that it's because we fought for civil rights and opened those doors that we were the best on earth?  Did he stop to think that because we prohibited discrimination against women in athletic programs that now we have programs that bring our young women along as well as our young men?

	We've gone a long way, but we've got a long way to go.  That's what we did together.  What about Mr. Reagan?  I am reminded of a sermon that my father used to give, in which he quoted a prayer out of the Book of Common Prayer that goes this way:  "We have left undone those things we ought to have done, and we have done those things that we ought not to have done."  My brothers and sisters, Mr. Reagan has left undone things he ought to have done and he has done things which he ought not to have done.

	Last year Mr. Reagan had a meeting with a group of black Republicans.  It was a small meeting, but they were all able to get into the meeting.  And he said that all the progress we have worked for has "threatened the character of our people."  Our work didn't threaten our character.  It strengthened our society.  Mr. Reagan didn't understand that twenty years ago, he didn't understand it four years ago; he doesn't understand it now; and he won't understand it if you leave him there for four more years.

	Mr. Reagan's plan is to undo the work of a generation, the work of our martyrs.  And he must not get away with it.  We didn't fight for the Civil Rights Act of the sixties so its enforcement could be destroyed today.  We didn't fight for fair housing legislation so this administration could pretend those laws don't exist.  We didn't fight and put our efforts on the line to end school desegregation just to have segregation academies awarded with tax breaks.  We didn't stand up for equal opportunity and affirmative action so that this administration could condemn half our black youth to unemployment.  We didn't fight for full employment so Mr. Reagan could cut job training.  We didn't push for minority entrepreneurship so that this crowd could cut the program.  And I didn't fight for children so Mr. Reagan could throw 3 million off the school lunch program.

	We haven't insisted on strong support for our black colleges so this administration could bleed them together.  And let me just stop right here for a minute.  Some people say that the need for black colleges has come to an end.  They couldn't be more wrong.  For a century, if it had not been for the black colleges, there wouldn't be any black middle class at all, and today there are hundreds of thousands of young black Americans who will only have a chance if there are black colleges that are good and have their doors open for those children.

	I didn't work for a strong, independent Civil Rights commission, a commission of conscience, just to have this administration turn it into a trained pup for the White House.  I haven't spoken out for human rights around the world so this administration could cozy up to the racist government of South Africa.  And let me just stop there a minute.  A few weeks ago, the government of South Africa turned down Rev. Jackson's request for a visa to visit South Africa and speak about human rights.  Yesterday, once again, we picked up the paper and read about the carnage visited upon decent human beings, because they are demanding justice.  This country should stand for human rights.  This government should be supporting Rev. Jackson's wish for a visa to go to South Africa if he wishes to do so.  We can't always have our way, but we shouldn't lose our way.

	And we didn't take that long, slow, sad walk through the streets of Atlanta behind the body of Martin Luther King to hear today, sixteen years later, that the march for civil rights and economic justice is over, when we know it has just begun.

	Now, I've been pretty tough on Mr. Reagan.  He said something the other day that I agreed with in part.  He said, "You ain't seen nothing yet."  And when you look at his administration, when it comes to civil rights, we ain't seen nothing at all.  When it comes to jobs and economic opportunity, we ain't seen nothing yet.  When it comes to human rights, we ain't seen nothing yet.  When it comes to any of those things that call for a just and caring president, something he ought to have done, we ain't seen nothing yet.  And if he's re-elected, if you think he's done damage to that Supreme Court, you ain't seen nothing yet.  And if you don't like what he tried to do to Social Security and school lunch and student loans and help for the poor and the disadvantaged and the handicapped, re-elect him and you ain't seen nothing yet.  If you didn't like the way they handled that tax situation, where if you make $200,000 dollars a year, he gave you $60,000 in tax relief; if you made $30,000 a year or less, all things considered, your taxes went up; where they gave the rich a free Lincoln every year and the poor a hubcap; elect Mr. Reagan, and you haven't seen anything yet.

	If you don't like what they did to the Justice Department; if you don't like what they did to the Civil Rights Commission; if you don't like what they did to the EEOC and the Office of Federal Contract Compliance; if you don't like that, if he's re-elected, you haven't seen nothing yet.

	Mr. Reagan's economic philosophy can be summarized as this:  A rising tide lifts all yachts.  Now, we need a president who will push for jobs, make our economy grow, and raise the boats stuck at the bottom and not just the yachts--and you'll get him in Walter Mondale, if you'll elect me president of the United States.

	We all believe in hard work.  No one's asking for a handout.  All we want is a chance to work.  In America, work is everything.  Jobs mean dignity, mean identity, mean self-respect and strong families.  

	When Mr. Reagan took office, you notice the very first thing he did was to take Harry Truman's portrait down in the Cabinet Room and put Calvin Coolidge's picture up.  We knew we were in trouble right then.  Coolidge was a wise man and he once said this:  "When more and more people are thrown out of work, the result is unemployment."  We say that when more and more people are put back to work, the result is justice, and we need a president who will lead this nation in an all-out effort to make certain that all Americans have a chance for employment.  And that's the key issue of this campaign.  Mr. Reagan is bragging about the fact that he's put a lot of the people he put out of work back to work.  We need a president who will keep people at work and put more people to work and get our young people in that employment force, train our youth and encourage minority entrepreneurship, rebuild our country.  We rebuilt Western Europe.  We rebuilt Japan.  The time has come to rebuild the United States of America.

	As it says in the text, Mr. Reagan has not done the things he ought to do and he has not used government as a force for justice.  We watched him try to do with government what he ought not to do.  His supporters on the far fringes are urging him to inject government where it must never go.  Listen to Jerry Falwell, whose benediction at the Republican Convention called Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush "God's instruments for rebuilding America."  Or read the so-called Christian Voice Report Card, which flunks Geraldine Ferraro on moral/family issues because she supports the nuclear freeze.  Or scan the so-called Presidential Biblical Score Card, which as much as brands me antifamily and un-Christian.  I do not call for the suppression of these voices, for the same freedom that permits me to speak my mind protects them.  But I am alarmed by the rise of what a former Republican congressman has called "moral McCarthyism."  A determined band is raising doubts about our people's faith.  They are reaching for government power to impose their own beliefs on other people.  And the Reagan administration has opened its doors to them.  Twenty-four years ago, in the heat of his own presidential race, John Kennedy went before the Greater Houston Ministerial Association to confront a different religious issue.  And he did it by stating, as he put it, "not what kind of church I believe in, for that is only important to me, but what kind of America I believe in."  Today, I follow his example.  I believe in America in which all people have a right to pursue their faith, not just freely but without insult or embarrassment.

	I believe in an America that insists on the wall of separation between church and state.  That freedom has made our faith unadulterated and unintimidated.  It has made Americans the most religious people on earth.  The history of the black churches of this country teaches us that lesson.  The strength of the black church in America does not arise because of the help of the government.  It has arisen despite the opposition of government in the early years of this church.  Before the Civil War, black churches weren't permitted, and then for a long time they were permitted if you had a white minister.  It was only when government got out of the way that people were able to shape their own churches, find their own ministers, and find the honesty and purity of their own faith.  And that's America at its best.

	I believe in an America where government is not permitted to dictate the religious life of our people.  The worst kind of religion is the kind imposed by government.  Moreover, history teaches us that if government is allowed to interfere with religion, it will corrupt our faith, divide our nation and embitter our people.  I do not believe that Mr. Reagan understands this.  He told a prayer breakfast in Dallas that religion needs defenders against those who only care for the interest of the state.  Well, who's he talking about?  His clear implication is that he welcomed a role for himself and he implied that there were leaders around who cared little for the religious life of our country.  Well, I'm a Methodist. My mother was a director of religious education.  My wife's dad is a minister.  We're proud of our faith, but I never thought you ran for office by bragging about your faith.  That is not the way I read our Bible.  The queen of England, where state religion is established, is called the "Defender of the Faith," but the president of the United States is the defender of the Constitution, and there's a big difference.

	Last month, in Dallas, Mr. Reagan attacked those of us who were trying to preserve the separation of church and state.  He supports a constitutional amendment instituting school prayer chosen by local politicians.  In Dallas, he said that anyone who opposes this amendment is intolerant of religion.  Well, Baptists are opposed to Mr. Reagan's amendment.  Are you intolerant?  Jews and Methodists, Presbyterians, Lutherans, and other church groups oppose this amendment.  Are they intolerant?  Presidents and those who would be president have responsibilities.  Judge us by whether we understand them, whether we honor the spirit of pluralism and the letter of separation.  Judge us by whether we unify and do not divide our nation.  Judge us by whether we denounce bigotry and divisiveness.  All my life I have fought anti-Semitism.  All my life I have fought racial bigotry.  All my life I fought against racial obscenity.  I was raised that way.  All intolerance is ugly, whether it wears the sheets of the Klan or spreads the slurs of the Christian Voice.  Hatred is poison, whether it comes from Rabbi Kahane or Louis Farrakhan.  You just have to see it for what it is.

	Recently, Mr. Reagan has been implying that to look straight at our country's challenges is to run down America.  He's wrong.  There isn't one political party that believes in America and one that doesn't.  There isn't one party that believes in American greatness and one that doesn't.  There isn't one party that believes in the family and one that doesn't.  There isn't one party for strength and one for weakness, and there isn't one party that stands for God and one that doesn't.  As Americans, we are together on every one of those issues, and we should not be divided by anyone.

	Martin Luther King knew this.  He called the movement to improve America "creative dissatisfaction."  And he once said, "Let us be dissatisfied until every man and woman can have material necessities for their bodies, culture and education for their minds, freedom and human dignity for their spirit".  And so today, as I ask for your help, I say let us be dissatisfied until we build a great future--not for some Americans but for all Americans.  Let us be dissatisfied until discrimination and intolerance are things our children read about in history books.  Let us be dissatisfied until we all respond to that ancient call for justice, that a mind is a terrible thing to waste.  Let's not waste a single one of them.  Let us be dissatisfied until we can look back on poverty and hunger and say, "we have overcome".  Let us be dissatisfied until there are jobs for every pair of hands that need work.  Let us be dissatisfied until our youth no longer waste their time on street corners or their minds on drugs.  Let us be dissatisfied until the victims of oppression--from Johannesburg to Warsaw, from Manila to Cambodia--can join us and breathe the sweet air of freedom.  Let us be dissatisfied until our children no longer have the nightmares of nuclear war.  Let us be dissatisfied until we have a just and caring president in the White House, and let us be dissatisfied until justice rolls down like the waters of righteousness, like an ever-flowing stream.  Thank you very much.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--AFRICAN AMERICANSFREEDOM OF RELIGIONHUMAN RIGHTSSOUTH AFRICAAFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL RIGHTSSEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE     F YF SF OF GF
 <F 7F 2F (F F F E E	  	 f 	 S 	 G  ;  *   e: