

	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.  First, I hope that you will allow me to thank each of you for taking this hour out of your busy day to come down here to allow me to look into your faces, to bring you a greeting and to express a few of the thoughts that are on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.  It is a political campaign and, of course, as you know, I am the standard-bearer of a great political party, but I did not come here to address any of you as partisans.  I came here as an American citizen to talk to you as American citizens about some subjects that I think are rather weighty and are important to us as we make up our minds as to what we must do just four weeks from today.

	I am associated with a good many hundreds of thousands, in fact, many millions of Americans who believe that America has not gotten in Washington, D.C. the kind of leadership, particularly in these later years, to which we are entitled and which our best interests demand that we must have.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of particulars of this indictment against the current administration is a long one and I am going to sketch over briefly a few of the important points, and then talk about the effect of one or two of them in a little bit more detail.

	We can see, as we look back over the past seven years, that we have made unsatisfactory progress toward peace in the world.  Now, this is not to say that anyone could have assured, by this time, that completely peaceful and tranquil situation in the world for which Americans so desperately long.  But it does mean this, that only seven years ago we came out of World War II the mightiest force that God had yet allowed to stand on His footstool.  We were not only strong, as always, in productivity, in our great agricultural and natural resources, in the skill and genius of 155,000,000 people, the extraordinary ability of our working men and working women, but we were also the mightiest military force that ever existed.  Now, how have we used all of those resources and assets to produce in the world the kind of situation that would bring, if not peace, at least a method of getting along that would have eliminated the possibilities of Berlin Airlifts, of Koreas, and of all of the other things that have cost us so much in blood and in treasure.  The record is not good.  The record would appear to be one that could have been better.  The United States had a right to demand more.

	Now, along with that we have developed, finally, unprecedented expenditure programs in the nation's capital.  This year the budget calls for 85 billion dollars.  If there is anyone in this crowd who has the slightest idea what 85 billion dollars is, I wish they would tell me because I don't.  The only thing I know about such a budget is this; that it is based, or it is supported by the largest tax bill that we have ever collected in time of peace and those taxes are collected at a time when the administration tells us we are in an era of greatest prosperity.  In spite of that prosperity, in spite of your high taxes, we still have a deficit in that budget of something like 15%.  In other words, the United States,[missing text] as it is, taxing ourselves to the point where we almost kill incentive, cannot meet our own bills.  We are not living within our means.

	Now, that in itself is serious enough, but what does it mean to you, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the dollars you have invested in insurance policies, that you put into savings accounts, or that you are looking forward to as old age pensions?  It means that those dollars are being eroded and worn away. 

	For example, in 1945 the average workman in America worked 18 minutes to earn a pound of coffee.  Today he works 34 minutes to earn a pound of coffee.  And so it goes down the line.  Not that coffee has become more valuable in 1952 than in 1945, but prices have gone up because your money has gotten cheaper.

	Now along with this we have to admit, of course, many of these expenses were unavoidable, but we have also waste, waste and extravagance.  We know that over in Africa we have seen in our papers lately that we got two airbases for the price of five.  We have seen examples of extravagance and waste reported by committees of Congress.  All of that heaped on top of the necessary expenditures of this government.

	And finally I get down to the one point in this bill of particulars against the administration that I want to speak about just a little bit more at length:  corruption, just plain dishonesty.  Now, I am not going to talk about the dollars it has cost you, although just take three of the tax collectors--take the one in San Francisco, that one in St. Louis and the one in Boston that were relieved--and at least two of them now serving time in the penitentiary--those three offices collected 5 and 1/2 billion dollars a year of our tax money.  And in one instance where a Congressional committee pointed out in 1947 that there was a bad condition existing in that office, they said a condition approaching possible criminality, nothing was done.  The government let the same man stay there for a full three years before they moved to relieve him.  So how much money went to line those pockets, we shall never know.  But ladies and gentlemen, even if those dollars were very considerable there is something far more important.  I go back again to this question of peace.  If we are going to lead the world toward peace the first thing that is necessary is this:  a strong, united, solvent, United States.

	The United States is not going to be strong spiritually, intellectually, materially unless the United States has in Washington a government that the great and vast mass of Americans--155 million people--respect.  You have got to respect it.  Because if you don't respect it, ladies and gentlemen, you simply will not unite behind the policies it wants us to follow.  I mean the basic policies abroad and at home that keep our strength here and our influence abroad.  If you don't respect it, if we don't have a united country behind a forward-looking, selfless administration, where is your prestige abroad?  How will all of those allies that we need to have join with us in opposing this Godless Communistic dictatorship?  How will they go along with us?  You can't get strong allies just by money, just by paying them.  There has got to be a union of spirit, of mutual respect.

	This business of crookedness in government holds us up to scorn abroad and makes us weak.  Moreover, when we as a people, fail to appreciate, fail to support all of those basic provisions of our Constitution that support the idea of equality among men, we again are giving these enemies of ours, these Communists, the right to hold the finger of scorn at us and to build up the propaganda against us in the world and take our friends away from us.  Whenever we discriminate against people because of their race or color or creed or religion or anything else we are not doing our part, and we must have a government that constantly holds before us the idea that we must support every part of the Constitution, that we must be truly a people determined to carry out the dream that our forefathers gave us one and three quarter centuries ago in both the Declaration of Independence and in our Constitution.

	If we do that, ladies and gentlemen, then we are a truly religious civilization, marching forward under a firm leadership, a united leadership that is bound to bring us, first, peace in the world, greater prosperity at home, with that kind of distribution of that prosperity that allows every single loyal American of good will to work for the betterment of himself, his family, his community and America.

	I don't come before you, ladies and gentlemen, to make any long list of promises.  All the promises, the political promises, have been used up in the last 20 years anyway.  What I bring to you is a pledge, a pledge couched in the kind of thing that you people have a right to demand and expect of your government, that if you want to send the leaders of this crusade to Washington; they make this pledge now, they will above all things be honest; they will make it possible for all the agencies of the government that have the task of investigating--to make it possible for them to make their findings open to the public.  There will be no concealing of crookedness and dirt in the new administration.

	Secondly, they can promise fairness and justice, a fairness and justice so far as God gives them the power to see fairness and justice based on the good of all people, not just of one single part, not of any one single section, but fairness and justice to 155 million people.

	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, they can promise you that they will never forget that they are of the people.  They are merely part of you.  They are not a special group set up to rule your lives and to rule over you, but to serve you in these great interests of promoting peace and promoting tranquillity and prosperity and decency and morality at home.

	And now as I thank you for coming out, will you permit me please to bring out Mrs. Ike for a second.
BUDGET DEFICITCOST OF LIVINGDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALGOVERNMENT WASTEPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     	% $ $ $ $
 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $	 } 	 o 	 a 	 D 	 4   e: