

	I am glad, for several reasons, that the National Plowing Contest takes place this year here in Iowa.

	It brings me, for one thing, very close to home. My farm--which I see all too little anymore--is only a few hours' drive east of here, and I don't feel like a stranger in Iowa.

	And I'm glad--if you don't mind some politics (and I'm sure you don't, for I've got some in mind!)--to come here to Iowa to express my sympathy to the Iowa delegation to the Republican Convention in San Francisco. You probably saw the story about how the agricultural inspectors wouldn't let the Iowa delegates bring in fresh-cut cornstalks to wave at President Eisenhower. The inspectors said they were afraid the corn might have some borers in it. Knowing my prejudices, you won't mind my saying that, so far as I could tell, that was the only corn kept out of that convention and the only borers that didn't get in!

	I am glad to be here, too, to greet my old friend Spike Evans. We both served in the Triple-A back in the early 1930s. That's a long time ago--way back when the government in Washington was trying to help the American farmer. Spike Evans was one of the top men in that heroic effort to save American agriculture from the ravages of the Depression--and twelve years of Republicans in Washington. American farmers and all the citizens of Iowa owe Spike a great debt for what he did in those days, and they need his ability and experience in Washington now. In fact, they never needed it more. I am sure I salute him as your next Senator from Iowa.

	I'm glad also to greet Herschel Loveless. I feel sure you people are going to elect him your governor this fall. In addition to his own qualifications, Herschel Loveless has a great advantage in this election. Unlike his opponent he doesn't have to repudiate his own national leadership to get a platform on which he can run. He stands for the same things that Estes Kefauver and I and the Democratic party stand for. And that's a fair break for everybody, including the American farmer.

	Four years ago at the plowing match as Kasson, Minnesota, both Mr. Eisenhower and I discussed the farm policy of our respective parties. I'm sorry he isn't here today, for I want to take up right where we left off that day four years ago. There are some chickens, frankly, that have been waiting a long time to come home to roost. Here they come!

	I want to start with Candidate Eisenhower's own words at Kasson. Here is what he said: "And here, and now, and without any ifs and buts, I say to you that I stand behind--and the Republican party stands behind--the price support laws now on the books. This includes the amendment to the Basic Farm Act, passed by votes of both parties in Congress, to continue through 1954 the price supports on basic commodities at 90 percent parity."

	"And," Candidate Eisenhower continued, "a fair share is not merely 90 percent of parity--it is full parity."

	And Candidate Eisenhower said the same thing many times during that campaign. At Brookings, South Dakota, on October 4, 1952, he said: "The Republican party is pledged to the sustaining of the 90 percent parity price support and it is pledged even more than that to helping the farmer obtain his full parity, 100 percent parity, with the guarantee in the price supports of 90."

	Those were not idle or casual words. They were careful, calculated words. They were meant to get farm votes. Yet the same man who uttered those words four years ago said in Washington three nights ago: "We must never in a spirit of partisan warfare treat the farmer as a kind of political prize to be fought for and captured!" What happened to those words of four years ago--which could only have been designed to capture the farmer?

	First, President Eisenhower installed as Secretary of Agriculture a man who did not believe in price supports. Then Secretary Benson put in charge of that program a man who, only a few months before, had condemned price supports as "modern socialism." A committee loaded with bankers, manufacturers, and processors went to work to see what should be done, or how little could be done. They paid no attention to Candidate Eisenhower's promises. Also, they paid no attention to the farmers.

	I am not going to attack President Eisenhower's motives. I am sure they are good and sincere. I am even willing to believe that he did not fully understand what he was saying to America's farmers in 1952.

	But the President of the United States must be a responsible man. Secretary Benson was his hired man, and if a farm is mismanaged, the farmer is responsible, not the hired man. We know that. And so should the President.

	On that day at Kasson, when Candidate Eisenhower talked about 100 percent parity, prices actually were above 100 percent. Today the parity index is 82--down 18 points. Then corn was 97 percent of parity; it is now 82 percent--down 15 points. Wheat was then 83 percent of parity; it is now 79--down 4 points. Cotton was 110 percent; it is now 87--down 23 points. Rice was 96 percent; it is now 77 percent--down 19 points.

	President Eisenhower has said that he will run on his record. This is his record on price supports. But there is one success in the record. Four years ago peanuts were 82 percent of parity; now they have gone up to 88 percent. This administration has a fine record on peanuts!

	And something else has gone down--the price of hogs. At the time of the Kasson speech, hogs were selling for $20.60 per hundred weight. Now they are $16.20--down $4.40. To sum up, your prices are down, your overall costs are as high now as they were four years ago, and your credit is tighter.

	Two or three weeks ago at Sioux City, a farmer grabbed me by the arm and said it better than I can: "Governor," he said, "I'm a dairy farmer and I know how to milk cows. But those Republicans are smarter than I am. They know how to milk farmers."

	I told him they were even smarter than that--only Republicans could keep the stock market up and the farm market down at the same time. They did it the last time they were in office with Hoover at the helm and they're doing it again now.

	This talk about the Republicans not treating the farmer as a kind of political prize doesn't square very well with the story that appeared recently in Fortune magazine--a journal never suspected of Democratic leanings. This story told of how a delegation of Republican congressmen asked the administration for a floor under hogs at $15.50 a hundred weight last January when they were selling for about $11.00. And a high official said: "Gentlemen, do you want higher prices now or next November?"

	Why November? Well, the election is in November, of course. Do the Republican politicians want higher prices in January or November? That summarizes pretty well, I thought, the attitude toward the farmer of this administration. First, they say nothing can be done for the farmer but cut prices and reduce production--and also reduce farmers. Then, with an election approaching, they advance the soil bank proposal, which they had rejected only a few months before, they raise the support prices they have long denounced, and they even offer $1.25 for unlimited corn production while hollering about "Democratic surpluses."

	Now after what happened at Kasson four years ago, I don't suppose we should be surprised about such brazen political expediency. But I must object when the President at the same time says from aloft--we must never treat the farmer as a political prize.

	But let's talk about the future, not the past. Let's talk about what lies ahead. This year we have had the best farm plank in our Democratic platform that any party ever had. It is a plank designed to establish not merely price parity but income parity--a fair share of the national income for farmers. It spells out ways and means. It is one that farmers can understand.

	We propose to support basic commodities at 90 percent of parity. We propose to extend protection to perishables through a combination of direct production payments, marketing agreements, and production adjustments. In this connection I would like to try production payments to encourage easier marketing of hogs in the years when the runs are heavy. This may be a good way to help end the anxiety and anguish of violent price movements. We must have learned that it takes more than words and stopgap purchasing programs to end these periods of bankrupt prices our livestock producers suffer so often.

	We will administer vigorously the soil bank, a good Democratic idea. And I would urge consideration of what could be called a "legume bank" to change the emphasis from reducing cash-crop production to increasing acreage of soil-building crops.

	Senator Kefauver and I have many times talked about a broad program with a variety of methods to balance production and income; we are for them now; and we will be for them next January.

	The first step is to stop and reverse the decline in farm prices. But that is not enough.

	We must go on to assure ample credit at fair rates to the farmer who has to borrow money.

	We must protect REA co-ops by safeguarding and using the preference clause, and by assuring them adequate funds for transmission, generation, and distribution.

	We must conserve the greatest asset we have inherited--the soil. I feel very strongly about this because I have seen the frightful desolation of erosion, overgrazing, deforestation, and overuse in many regions of the world. We must strengthen the Agricultural Conservation Program and the Soil Conservation Service, restore the role of leadership to the conservation districts, restore the administration of agricultural programs to farmers, and take emergency measures when needed to prevent another Dust Bowl.

	And finally we must go to the root of the causes of the farmers' distress today--the inability of people both at home and in foreign lands to buy the food that they need and that you can raise. In 1932, you remember, our grocery stores were bulging with food. Yet people were hungry. Today our warehouses are bursting, yet half the world goes to bed hungry. And in our country, many people on Social Security and on public assistance don't have enough to eat. We speak of a surplus of milk--but the children who need milk are not all in Calcutta--there are plenty of them in Chicago, too.

	Abundance is not a blight but a blessing. At home we can vastly expand out school lunch program. Did you know that less than one-third of all school-age children participate in this program? And we can launch a new food stamp program that will put food into the mouths of many who need it.

	Abroad there is much we can do with food and fiber to the advantage of mankind and the USA. We can encourage voluntary relief agencies to distribute surplus foods and we can create a world food bank and materials reserve to help the people of other nations. The recent agreement to furnish agricultural products to India seemed to me like a step in the right direction--and I am glad the administration is moving at last. 

	Today we are confronted not with a breakdown of our agriculture, but with a breakdown of imagination and leadership. What we need today is the concern and determination that wrought the agricultural revolution of the 1930s.

	So much for our program. That is what I propose at Newton in 1956; this is what we will do in Washington. I am not ashamed of what I said at Kasson four years ago; and I will not be ashamed of what I have said at Newton today.

	Obviously we can't put our Democratic farm program into action now--at least until next January. But there is something I can do right now, and I have done it time and again and will do it every chance I get. I mean explaining the farmer's problems to the rest of the country. And this, I think, is one of the farmer's greatest needs. Politicians tell him all too often what he wants to hear about his tax troubles and their remedy, but all too seldom are his troubles explained to other people--the city people.

	As I have traveled around this nation, I have been deeply disturbed by the lack of understanding of the farmer's problems. The farmer needs spokesmen, in part because too many city people think of farmers as selfish malcontents forever demanding handouts from the sore-pressed taxpayers.

	This feeling has been aggravated by the administration's setting city against country and country against city. For four years the Administration has dinned it into the ears of city people that their high living costs are the result of high rigid farm support prices. For four years now we had an administration dedicated to the proposition that the farmer is getting too much. In fact, last year one of Mr. Benson's personal assistants said that the years of Democratic prosperity on the farm were--and I quote him--"a dream world, and no one expected it to last."

	I think it's time somebody told the rest of the country the truth about farming. I want to tell the housewife that it isn't the farmer who is getting the high prices she has to pay. She ought to know that while her market basket has been costing more and more, your share of her food dollar has fallen from 47 cents in 1952 to 38 cents in 1956.

	I want to tell the man who works in the farm equipment factory--or used to before it shut down--that without a decent farm program, his job is gone for good.

	The man with the hardware store on Main Street already knows that when the farmer can't buy a new stove for his wife, his store is in trouble. But I want to say to the businessman who distributes stoves and shoes and wallpaper, and the manufacturer in a distant city who makes them, that the same thing applies to him. Every American has a stake in farm prosperity.

	I want to say to the American people that the farmer just isn't getting a fair share of our national prosperity. Many people don't fully understand that the uncertainties of farming and the necessity for price stability. They never stop to think that a farmer doesn't know what price he will get when he plants a crop, or when he harvests it, or even when he loads it in a truck and takes it to town.

	General Motors has built-in price supports. Suppose General Motors' production depended on the weather; suppose it had to sell all its automobiles in three weeks; suppose it didn't have the capital to hold its products off the market. It would need protection--and from this present administration it would get it!

	There are many other facts lots more people should know about agriculture. They should know that for every four dollars a farmer got in 1952 he now receives less than three. They should be told that asking farmers to accept less than a fair parity price is like asking wage earners to accept less than a fair minimum wage. They need to know what a tight-money policy really means to farmers--that when dollars are scarce, they always leave the small town first.

	Our people need to understand that farmers, because of their isolation and other circumstances, have lagged behind American standards for schools, highways, medical care, libraries, and many other things. They need to know that the per capita income of farmers has never caught up with that of city people--a quarter of all farm families today have to get by on cash incomes of less than $1,000 a year. The ramshackle tenant house on worn-out land is a disgrace in the richest country on earth, just as is the city slum, and the time has come for an all-out attack on farm poverty.

	Finally, there is another thing that our people need to be told about farming. Perhaps the most important thing of all. They read speeches like the one I've made today, and they think that farm policy is nothing but a lot of cold facts and figures. They don't realize that farming is the way many Americans live, and that the family farm is the backbone of American agriculture, as it was once the backbone of American society.

	They don't realize that on a family farm the most precious thing that's raised is not corn or cattle but children--children who go to rural schools and rural churches and who will inherit the earth they live on and work in. People don't realize that when the family farm is in trouble, more, much more, than dollars and cents is involved. What is involved is the whole fabric of American rural life.

	The real tragedy of a farm depression like this one is the human tragedy of young people forced off the farm, cherished belongings put up for sale, of human heartbreak, of the end of a family's chosen way of life. It is the tragedy of mounting debts, of ill-clad children, of men and women searching the skies for rains that never come, of black dust clouds rising in the western sky. And all this is an American tragedy what we who travel the back roads can see too plainly.

	It is high time our growing urban population understood the economics and the realities of the farmer's situation. And I'm not sure a government as preoccupied with big business as this one can tell it, or will tell it, or can even understand it. I have tried to tell it because I think it is important that Americans understand one another; and I think that is the very special responsibility of candidates for public office, especially the only office elected by all the people of our blessed land.

	But more than the farm program is involved in this election. We want to get on with improving our schools, our health, our Social Security, our roads, with strengthening small business and developing our natural resources for the benefit of everybody--with all the tasks which lie before us in the New America. And we will do it, with Democratic leadership, for these problems can be solved, just as the farm problem can. Where there's a will, there's a way, and because the Democratic party has the will, we'll find the way.

	We hear much talk of peace these days. But you know as well as I that there is no real peace so long as half our tax dollars go for arms, so long as the world is filled with storm and steel.

	In the last four years our prestige in the world has suffered from a succession of erratic acts and slogans, threats and bluster. Our emphasis has been on military pacts, not economic development in areas that crave peace and progress above all else. Nations the world around have come to question our intentions, our wisdom, and our leadership.

	At a time when Communist influence is spreading, when the great irresistible current of nationalism is sweeping over the world, at a time when the old order is changing dangerously before our very eyes, it is not enough to tell us to relax and that all is well; it is not enough to leave the image of America obscure, its purposes indistinct.
	
	Let's present another, truer picture of America to the world: the picture of these peaceful fields; the picture of the love of peace in the schools and churches of this tranquil, friendly land, the picture of the desire of all Americans to live in harmony with every neighbor. And let's do more; let's use the resources that we have to build the true conditions of peace. In doing that, nothing we have is more important than the great abundance of the peaceful, productive fields of Iowa and of the greatest heartland of America.

	The issue of peace is above politics. There is no peace party in the United States, just as there is no war party. No American wants war. I know that some Republican leaders are counting on selling themselves to the farmers as the party of peace. They hope that this slogan will make farm people forget their farm record. But those who fool you on farm policy make a poor risk on foreign policy.

	Our God-given abundance is a strong weapon in our hands for spreading democracy and freedom at home and abroad. You who open the soil to the seed know the urge to abundance in nature's vast resources. Let us work together to spread its benefits, to build a higher and more meaningful standard of living for the generations which will follow us on this land.


AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMAGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESPOVERTY (RURAL)AGRICULTURE--GENERALAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTS     O O O O O
 O O |O vO rO pO XO NO	  	  	  	 h 	 H  9  % e: