

	Thank you very much Stan Arnold and Herschel Warmack; my friend Ed Muskie; Congressman Conyers; the distinguished mayor of this city, Mayor Grebs, is with us this morning; Frank Kelly, the next United States Senator from the state of Michigan; and members and leaders and friends of organized labor in the Detroit area and the state of Michigan: I want to say first of all that I feel very much at home with this group here today. Many of you here have had the experience of starting out on what looked like a very tough and hard journey in organizing a shop or a plant and you have heard people say to you that it can't be done, but you have done it and that is what we are going to do on November 7th. You know what it is like to be called a troublemaker or a radical or other names of that kind by people who have a vested interest in preserving what is wrong with the status quo and so we have something in common there and we have some changes that we are going to make together beginning with January 20th next year.

	Yesterday in Queens County, New York, Senator Muskie and I had a few hecklers out--not very many--they seem to be the ones that grab the television screen--but a crowd of several thousand people were there and out of this group there were a few hands waving Nixon signs saying "four more years" and that is the same thing that we heard out of the Republican Convention in Miami Beach about a month ago. My growing conviction about that--and this great but very deeply troubled country simply cannot afford another four more years of the Nixon-Agnew policies and I have people ask me every once in a while if I don't get discouraged about being involved in a long and uphill effort of this kind, and let's be honest about it, anyone who has ever campaigned for national office and has had to come from behind, whether his name is Harry Truman or John Kennedy or Hubert Humphrey or Ed Muskie, they know there are times when you get discouraged, but when I think of the conditions that face the people of this country, and when I think about the five or six million men and women of this country walking the streets looking for jobs that aren't there, I know I can't afford to be discouraged and I know we can't afford four more years of that.

	I know we can't afford four more years of [missing text] million people in this country past the age of sixty-five who are living on less than $100 a month. And I know we can't afford a special interest administration in Washington that over the last four years has given an $83 billion tax break reduction to big business and the corporations, but turns its back on the ordinary working people of this country and in fact at the same time that tax breaks are going to big business and puts a lid on the income of those who work for a living. I know we can't afford four more years of that. And it should be not allowed to pass that for the first time we have had a wage-price freeze and then wage controls, and we have had the kind of lopsided special interest administration of these wage-price controls that have permitted the price of almost everything we buy, including the food on our table, to skyrocket right through the roof, and we can't afford another four more years of that. 

	And I want to remind you, too, that on the ninth of October in the closing weeks of that crucial presidential campaign, Mr. Nixon went on the television and radio networks of this country and he said, taunting Senator Humphrey and Senator Muskie and the Democratic cause in that 1968 campaign, and I quote him--"Those who have had four years to bring peace and have not done so do not deserve another chance." Since that statement was made another 20,000 young Americans have died in this war, a 100,000 have been maimed and wounded, some $60 billion--at the very least--of our resources poured into those little countries of Southeast Asia, not for their reconstruction, not for their upbuilding, but for some of the most savage destruction that has ever been unleashed anywhere on the face of this earth. And I think the time has come for us to bring an end to this conflict, to stop the killing, to restore our prisoners and our troops to their homes and then begin investing these billions of dollars that are now flowing out to Southeast Asia in strengthening aid, rebuilding our own cities and our own country right here at home.

	Now with the exception of his failure to end the war, there is no darker chapter in the presidency of Mr. Nixon than his exploitation of the difficult question and the emotion surrounding the issue of busing and our schools, and I submit here today that the President is using that issue to obscure his total failure to check the rapid slide in the quality of our schools. For four years the President has ignored the very tough and difficult problems that face the schools of this nation. He has stood back and watched classrooms become so overcrowded that children have to share desks and teachers have not time to teach. He has done nothing about it.

	He has stood back and watched school buildings, especially in our great cities, turn into run-down warehouses for young people and he has done nothing about that. He has watched school systems go virtually bankrupt and homeowners go into debt trying to pay taxes on their property and he has done nothing about that. He has watched school corridors and playgrounds become almost armed fortresses lined with policemen to protect our children from the violence and crime inside those corridors and he has done nothing about that. 

	He talks about law and order but the fact remains that crime in this country has increased at a rate of 33 percent in the last four years and the heroin addiction that he talked about last Monday has doubled during the four years that he has given us nothing but rhetoric and oratory on that problem. He says that he has the power to cut off military and economic aid to any government that is responsible for the transfer of heroin to the American people and I suggest to Mr. Nixon that he begin by ending our involvement in this corrupt government in Saigon that is the source of much of the heroin in this country. He has watched school washrooms turn into trading posts for hard drugs that literally kill our children and destroy their chances for life. He has watched serious drug abuse become part of the school curriculum from one end of this nation to the other and he has done absolutely nothing about that problem. For four years he has practiced a particularly malignant kind of neglect towards our schools and our teachers, towards parents and towards children and three times in the last three and a half years he has vetoed desperately needed funds provided by the Congress of the United States to make our schools happier and healthier and more wholesome places to be. What he has seemed to say each time he vetoed one of those bills is that while we were never too broke to find a few extra billion dollars to ship out to Southeast Asia, we can't afford textbooks and schoolrooms for the children of this country.

	Now I think the time has come in the life of this nation when we have to recognize that there is more to national defense than simply the size of our nuclear stockpile. I want this country to be strong. I was a bomber pilot in World War II at a time when it was very difficult, and when we didn't have the necessary defense capabilities that we needed, and I don't want us to ever again become as weak as we were in the 1930s and early 1940s, but neither do I want us to forget the warning of one of the great generals of this country the late General Eisenhower--when he said if the military takes too much it actually weakens the country by depriving us of resources that we need for other areas of national defense. And I saw Agnew on television crying about my statements about the war this morning and I want to say to Mr. Agnew don't you dare challenge my patriotism or my loyalty to this country.

	I am in this race for the presidency of the United States because I love this country enough to call it to a higher standard. I want us to be the great and good and decent and peaceful and just country that we ought to be and that we can be when we practice the great ideals that gave us birth some two centuries ago. Now back to Mr. Nixon and the schools--rather than face up to the consequences of his failures, rather than run on his record, he is using the busing issue for cheap political purposes in the most cynical and demagogic way possible to divert attention from his failures. Every person in this room I know and the President knows and we all know that neither he nor I are going settle this issue. It is going to be settled in the courts and not in this election-year campaign. And there isn't anything that is going to be done, either by Richard Nixon or George McGovern, to resolve the busing issue--it is in the courts and that is where it is going to be decided. He knows, as we all know, that his own appointee to the Supreme Court Chief Justice Warren Burger, writing for the Supreme Court in the Charlotte case, held that busing, under some conditions, is permissible, even if an undesirable, remedy for unequal educational opportunities to be used as a last resort after other remedies have failed. I understand the fears and the anxieties parents--black and white over this issue. I am a parent and I know the difficulties and anxieties that people feel over this issue when they send their children far away from home on a long ride to an unfamiliar school. You don't have to be very sensitive to appreciate the anxiety and the concern that that arouses on the part of our people. But is there anybody here who could imagine that if the late John Kennedy were still alive that he would be out trying to fan the flames of fear and anxiety when a difficult question of that kind arises?

	So while we understand the great strain and the anxiety and the difficulty of that issue, let us also understand that in a democracy which places law above men even the president cannot place himself above the United States Supreme Court. And I will wager that almost every person in this room has heard some citizen say at one time or another: I am going to get justice on this particular problem if I have to carry it all the way to the Supreme Court. And what they are saying is that in this country we are a society of law and order, we are a society where we respect the judicial process and if we ever get to the point where we pick and choose between those decisions that we like or dislike and discard the whole process of judicial procedure, we have undermined the last bastion of strength that we have to protect our democracy in this country.

	So let us look at ourselves and let us look at what we are attempting to do to ourselves. When a man elected on a pledge to bring us together is trying to break us apart pitting suburb against city, black against white, in bitter and self-destructive conflict that is more dangerous than anything else going on in this country today. Now I think the American people will understand that the only ones who benefit from these walls of division and fear that separate us are those who construct them. As long as people who share common problems are blinded with emotion they cannot see the contours of their common interest. You share the burden of an unfair property tax--a property tax that has transformed owning a home from one of life's greatest pleasures to one of its most difficult hardships. And let Richard Nixon address himself to that problem that concerns every homeowner in this country. We share the burden of an unjust income tax system that taxes working people as though they were rich and rich people as though they were privileged, and let the President address himself to that problem. He ought to be concerned about a tax system that permits a $200,000-a-year corporate executive to deduct his $20 martini lunch and the worker can't even deduct the price of his baloney sandwich. And everyone in this room shares the impact of an economic game plan conducted by this administration that has meant freedom for big business to raise profits and prices and interest rates and freedom for working people to walk the streets and look for a job and try to figure out how to pay the grocery bill. Let the President address himself to that issue.

	And both our children and ourselves share the consequences of bad schools wherever they exist. Angry young people thrown on the streets to survive; other young people stranded in a mismanaged economy without jobs; frustrated young people denied the joy of learning. Let the President tell us what he has done to ease the real burdens that unite us instead of tearing us apart with divisive issues that he knows are not going to be resolved in this campaign. I don't think this nation can afford four more years of that kind of leadership. I want the next four years to be a time when the American people can once again believe that their government tells them the truth and tells it without demagoguery and cynicism. And most of all I want the next four years to be a time when he expressed before a large audience--a television audience of this nation--questions about why I have compassion for civilians that have been killed in the war in Vietnam.

	I conclude on a personal experience that will stay with me for the rest of my life. We were hit very badly one day over a dangerous target. We had over 125 holes blown in the airplane, two engines missing completely and it looked for a moment like the crew would bail out in panic. After a moment, we made a quick assessment of the damage, and we decided that maybe we could bring the plane back home. So I gave this order: "Everybody get back to your stations, we are going to bring this plane home." And I want to say to everyone in this hall, especially those of you who were leaders of organized labor and who were so important in deciding the outcome of this election and the future of our country, and I say to everyone else who shares our [missing text] for this nation and for peace and justice: Resume your stations; we are going to bring America home.

	Thank you very much.
BUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONBUSINGCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECONDUCT OF LIFE--PATRIOTISMDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIES--SOUTHEAST ASIAEDUCATION--FACILITIESPROPERTY TAXRACE RELATIONSSUPREME COURTVIETNAM WARWAGE AND PRICE POLICY     Z9 &9  9 9 9
 9 9 8 8 8 8 8 8	  	  	  	  	  	  	 \ 	 G 	 ; 	 - 	   	  e: