
	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Five more days. Thank you. I want to thank all of you for being here. I want to say how glad I am to be back in Michigan and to be back in Detroit with all of you. I want to thank all of those who have spoken. I want to say a special word of thanks to your senators, to Governor Blanchard, to members of Congress who are here, to my good friend Ed McNamara and to Mayor Coleman Young who are trying to bring together this great city and this great county for the cause of change.

	And, I want to say a special word of thanks to the woman who spoke just before me, Rosa Parks. Almost thirty-seven years ago on December 1st, 1955, Rosa Parks took the most important bus ride in the history of America. A bus ride to remind us that we are one people, black and white together, now 150 ethnic groups in this country together, that we must go forward together or we will sink divided. Benjamin Franklin said many years ago we must all hang together or we will surely hang separately. Rosa Parks gave us a chance to hang together, and we are all in her debt.

	Twenty-five years ago Senator Robert Kennedy said something which we ought to all think about between now and election day. In a very difficult and divided time, he was perhaps the last American politician until this election who tried to ask people to join together across racial lines, to seize common opportunities, and to tear down common problems. He said, "If we fail to dare, if we do not try, the next generation will harvest the fruit of our indifference. A world we did not want, a world we did not chose, but a world we could have made better by caring more for the results of our labors."

	My fellow Americans, as we come to the end of this campaign, I ask you to choose the world we will live in, to choose to change the world we have, to have the courage to say we can do better, to reject the politics of denial and division and blame which the Bush administration has visited on this country for long enough. We can do better.

	Today you will have a picture in Michigan of the stark differences between the two election choices you have. For Mr. Bush will go to Macomb County today and tell those people that I'm not their kind of person. You saw that film. I got a lot more in common with the people in Macomb County than George Bush ever had or ever will.

	But my message to you is the same message I gave to them during the election. They in Macomb County have a lot more in common with the people in Detroit than they do with four more years of George Bush and Dan Quayle.

	Four years ago Mr. Bush came to Macomb County Community College, and pandering to the so-called Reagan Democrats, he said that he would not raise their taxes and he would not let the IRS loose on the middle class, and I quote, he would not put a tax agent in every kitchen. Well, we all know what he did on Read My Lips. But you may not know--you may not know--and they may not know, but I hope he will be asked about it in Macomb County today, that after he gave them his solemn word about tax agents, he told the IRS to lighten up on the audits of wealthy tax cheats, and crack down on the middle class and people with limited incomes. That's what he did to the people in Macomb County with his last promise.

	In Macomb County, they work to upgrade the M-1 tank program. George Bush fought the upgrade of the M-1 tank program. He did everything he could to kill it. He did not want to spend the money to do it. Your senators and your congressional delegation kept that program. Look at them all nodding their heads. They kept the program alive, and finally, finally when they could no longer refuse to spend the money without breaking the law, Dan Quayle came to Michigan and took credit for a program they had opposed.

	Then last Sunday, then last Sunday--oh it gets better--then, last Sunday, Mr. Bush came here to Michigan. I was here. He talked to the chiefs of police. And, I asked the attorney general--he's here--about this. He talked to the chiefs of police, and he used this language, he said, "I got the Congress to pass a bill making carjacking illegal. Big problem. And, I got them to act on it." What is the truth? His administration testified twice against the bill, tried to kill it, but when Congress passed it anyway, and he was behind in the polls, he signed the bill, comes to Michigan and says he got them to do something he was against and they were for. We can do better than that in this country. We can do better than that.

	He told them also, the chiefs of police, that he really wanted to crack down on child support enforcement. Why did he do that? Because for a year and a month I have been saying that we deserve a tougher system of child support enforcement, that people should not be able to cross the line of a state and evade their responsibilities to their children. And, during that time, he tried to cut funds for child support enforcement, did he not? He tried to cut back on it, but when it became popular, he had a deathbed conversion, and now he is all for it. We can do better than that.

	Every time he comes to Michigan, he says to the auto workers, Bill Clinton and Al Gore want to put you out of work because they're going to impose high mileage standards on you, and he knows that the truth is I have never said, not a single time, that I would write into the law a standard that we could not meet. That what I want to do is to make sure we are competitive, and that we have mileage cars that are competitive, and I also have suggested another way to clean up the air is to make more cars that burn natural gas. If we did that, all those cars would be made in America, and that would be good for the economy.

	And, you know, this is a guy who has the gall to come to Michigan and say I would cost auto workers jobs when we have lost 250,000 auto jobs under Bush alone. If I worked at it eighteen hours a day, I couldn't do as good a job as he has done in taking those jobs away.

	I got into this race for president because I was sick of this kind of finger-pointing and blame-placing. I have worked for a long time at the real business of public service in an environment where we get up every day and try to make something happen, not sit by and wait for something to happen the way Bush has, and then either point the finger of blame or claim credit for the labors of others. I don't believe in that. I think we should go forward together, and we all ought to be working to try to solve the problems of this country.

	I am tired of watching the manufacturing base of this country be eroded. I have worked hard in my state. We have increased manufacturing jobs while we have lost them in America, 1.4 million manufacturing jobs lost since Mr. Bush became president. The first time since before World War II when we've had a decline in personal income and a decline in private-sector jobs under this administration. I want to be a job creator, not a job terminator. Look at our record and look at our plans and you will see what the choice is.

	My fellow Americans, surely we have learned after the last four years that the distance between here and Macomb County and back is much closer than the distance between here and the trickle-down administration in Washington.

	You know, when I was a kid growing up, my mama used to say to me that old adage, "Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me." We're not falling for it this time. We can do better.

	My wife gave me a book before I got into this campaign in which the author defined insanity as doing the same old thing over and over again and expecting a different result. That's what Bush is asking you to do by giving him four more years. I mean, can you just imagine? Think of it. We could have four more years of trickle-down economics. Four more years where you work a longer work week for lower wages. Four more years where a hundred thousand Americans lose their health insurance every month. Four more years where one in ten Americans is on food stamps. Four more years where we're divided by race, by region, by income, where we keep losing our manufacturing base. I think we can do better.

	My fellow Americans, the civil rights revolution of the nineties will be in economic opportunity. We have to bring people together who work hard and play by the rules. People should not be punished. The great unsung heroes in America today are all those people who get up everyday and they go to work and they work forty hours or more a week, come home and do their best by their children, and they're still living below the poverty line in the trickle-down economics in the 1990s. We can do better than that.

	Here is my program. I say no more trickle-down economics and no tax and spend economics, but invest in the American people. Ask the wealthy to pay slightly higher taxes, but say to them, "You want to lower your tax bill? We got a new idea. Invest in American factories and American businesses and American technologies. Put the American people back to work. Then we can go forward."

	But no more something for nothing. I want to use an example. I don't want to embarrass them, but you see all these fine-looking gentlemen in their uniforms here. They are the airline pilots of America, and they've endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket. Now, you want to know why? You want to know why? I'll tell you why. Because in the 1980s under Reagan and Bush and trickle-down economics, the tax system subsidized people who bought the companies they worked for with outrageous debt, with tax breaks, drove the companies into huge debt and gave the companies--the only choice they had to pay the debt off was to fire them, cut their pay, cut their benefits, undermine the repair work the were doing on the airplanes, and ultimately bankrupt the country, while the people that were in the middle shuffling the paper made off with millions of dollars, and the American people got the shaft. That's what we subsidized.

	Now, what happened? What did our competitors do with their tax money while we were doing this with our tax money? The Europeans took the tax money they had, which they could have spent doing the same thing, and you know what they did? They built a new airplane, called the Airbus. And they began to sell it around the world, including in this country, and guess what? McDonnell-Douglas is at the point of bankruptcy. Boeing is losing market share. Some of the best jobs this country ever had are on the brink of destruction. Why? Because the Europeans spent their people's tax money investing in their jobs, and we spent it subsidizing rich people to give the shaft to ordinary Americans. We can do better than that. And, we're not going to do it anymore.

	I believe that we ought to do better by the people who won the Cold War. Everybody knows the defense budget is going to be cut. The difference is how are we going to cut it and what are we going to do? Under my plan, we wouldn't have as many troops in Europe. We wouldn't need a space-based portion of Star Wars, but we would have investments in modernizing our equipment, like the M-1 tank. We would have faster mobility on the air and in the sea, and we'd take all the money by which we cut defense and instead of blowing it on the S&L bailout, and blowing it on higher health care costs, we'd invest it in American jobs for the twenty-first Century. In roads, in street programs, in transportation programs.

	You know, anybody can talk about rebuilding the cities. The best way to rebuild the cities is to rebuild the road systems, the water systems, the solid waste systems, and put the people who live there to work, W-O-R-K! Hire, not fire, that's the way to rebuild our cities.

	I believe in a trade policy which expands trade on terms that are fair to everyone. This president has come here and talking to you about auto jobs. Ask him this question in Macomb County today. "Why, why, why did you order the Japanese to be given a $300 million trade break on multipurpose vehicles, and get nothing in return?" We used to classify them as light trucks, and we had a big portion of that market. And our government, even under Bush continued to do that until his political appointees made them, made them lower the tariffs. At the same time, our auto parts have a huge trade surplus everywhere in the world, except in Japan where they turn us into a big deficit. Why would anybody give them a $300 million break for nothing? I don't mind giving them a break. Give us something. Put our people to work; we'll help you. Why did we do that? Ask him.

	Senator Riegle and one of the gentlemen with good lungs in the audience talked about health care. Let me tell you, my fellow Americans, we will never restore security to the American people; we will never get ahold of the government deficit; and we will never rebuild our manufacturing base until we finally become the last advanced country in the world to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all of our people. It is an urgent national priority. We cannot fix the economy without it.

	I wish I could tell you all the stories of all the people I have met, the people who can't change their jobs because they've got a sick family member and can't get health insurance. The small business people who are going broke if they don't give up their insurance and leave their employees without any help. A woman I met in Columbus, Ohio who had seven children, one of them very sick, and she had a fifty-thousand-dollar-a-year job, and she had to give it up, just to go on welfare to get Medicaid because it's the only way her kid could get any help. That would not happen in any other country. And, I say to you that until we have a president who cares enough to work with Congress, to limit these health care costs, to reorganize the insurance markets and take on the insurance companies, health care providers, the drug companies, the bureaucrats, and cut the cost, provide basic health care to everybody, we are not going to turn this country around. We are not going to do it.

	And, I would also say to you that this president who talks the language of free enterprise and of government limits has given you just the reverse. Trickle-down economics has exploded the welfare rolls. Trickle-down economics has put one in ten Americans on food stamps. Trickle-down economics has given us the largest number of working poor people in our history. Trickle-down economics, in short, has not done very much to empower people who live in inner cities and rural areas, to impose more responsibility or to do anything to change the way government works.

	Mr. Bush rails against helping people in need, but he increased the White House staff 56 percent. He helped himself in need. Mr. Bush railed against government regulation, but this administration increased regulation by more than any White House in twenty years. What they did not do is anything to help you seize more opportunity, gain more power over your own lives, or assume more responsibility.

	I offer a program that will rebuild the cities and the rural areas from the grassroots up with more opportunity and more responsibility, a network of community development banks in this country set up to make loans to poor people to give them a chance to succeed or fail in the free enterprise system the way other people can.

	A program to provide a hundred thousand more police officers on the streets of our cities and communities to prevent crime and work with neighbors and help make people safer. A program for kids that get in trouble and shouldn't go to prison and shouldn't be left alone, for community-based boot camps, for drug treatment, education, community service work, reconnection to the community, for the kind of discipline and responsibility we need. A program to do something meaningful about people who are trapped in welfare.

	I get tired of hearing Republicans talk about welfare and then exploding the welfare rolls. Nobody on welfare likes it very much. Why are they stuck there? Most people are young women and their little children, people with no education, in an economy in which there are no jobs. What we need to do is to say to people we are going to give you more education, more training, health care and childcare for your kids, then require you to go to work, and give you something to do if there's not a job there. That way we can end welfare as we know it, and make it a second chance, not a way of life.

	My fellow Americans, we need to take a new direction. We need to take a new direction. Just imagine how you are going to feel on November 4th if all the fearmongering and mudslinging produces a headline that says, "Four more years." I want you to think about it. I want you think about it. You see all these pundits talking about how this election is going to come out. What they're all saying is, "The young won't really vote. The working poor won't really vote. The blue-collar people will get divided and distracted. People will give up on their future. They won't seize the future."

	Let me tell you something, folks. I want you to think about just one of the ideas that I have advanced, that Al Gore and I passionately want to implement, that combines all the themes of this campaign. Opportunity, responsibility, and community. Just one idea. And imagine what a difference it can make if you read on November 4th that we were taking a new direction. I want to open the doors of college education to all Americans.

	I want to be able to say to all of you, you may borrow the money to go to college, but you must pay it back in one of two ways, either as a small percentage of your income after you go to work, and at tax time so you can't beat the bill the way so many people do today; or even better, join with us in rebuilding America. Be part of a Domestic peace corps. Work as a police officer for a couple of years. Work as a teacher. Work with children. Work with the elderly. Work with people with disabilities to help them stay at home instead of an institution. Work to rebuild the housing programs of the country. Lift this country up. Move this country forward. That's what this election is about. Don't let them take it away from you. Take your country back. Just work until Tuesday, and we can make a new America.

	Thank you and God Bless you all. Thank you. Thank you.

AIRLINE INDUSTRYAUTOMOBILES/AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRYCHILD SUPPORTCRIME--JUVENILE OFFENDERSFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEMANUFACTURINGRACE RELATIONSWEAPONS MODERNIZATIONWELFARE     I sI mI iI aI
 VI QI LI EI =I ;I %I I	  	  	  	  	  	 R 	 7 	 * 	  	  e: