

	Thank you very much, John. I would like to thank all the people who are here. And just for the benefit of the press, I think you have a list of all the people who are on this podium today. But let me say they represent companies with sales in excess of $25 billion, according to Mr. Barron, bearer of my facts to the left here.

	They employ over a hundred thousand people and have created over forty-five thousand jobs in the last five years with an annual growth rate of 16 percent. In other words, if the economy as a whole has performed as well as these companies have, Americans would not be working harder for less and our productivity rate as a country would be soaring and we would be in much, much better shape than we are today.

	I contacted many of the people who are up here on the stage with me today months ago--several of them recently--and all of them were asked in the beginning not to endorse my campaign for president but instead be a part of fashioning a technology policy for America for the twenty-first century, a policy which we will be releasing in the next couple of days. One which will help us to build an infrastructure of communications and transportation. One that will help us to do a better job of transferring technology from ideas to jobs here in America. 

	And, one that will help us do a better job of organizing a partnership between government research and development and the trade efforts in the private sector so that we will be able to compete and win in the global economy.

	I am immensely gratified by the support of the people on this stage today. It is virtually unprecedented for a candidate for president in my party to have the support of the people who are standing here. And it represents the point I have tried as hard as I could to make for a year, now. And that is in this election we have to go beyond the old categories of left and right and Democratic and Republican. To break out of the boxes which have kept us from facing the dimensions of the problems before us. To join together to make government work again in ways that promote private-sector growth.

	I am excited. I am proud. I am impressed by the responsibility which this support imposes upon me. Not simply to make the most of the resources represented here in this campaign. But to use the enormous talents and ideas of these people and those that they represent to change this country for the better if we do win this election in fifty days.

	So, I am gratified and very, very happy today. This is a very important moment, not just for this campaign but for the United States of America. If we can win this election and if we can implement the policies that these people have put together for me, then we can go a long way in bringing America back economically. Thank you very much.

	SPEAKER: This is a press conference, so if you have some questions, please ask.

	QUESTION: [missing text]

	GOVERNOR CLINTON: Yes. I take a different view entirely. We want to create the civilian equivalent of the Defense Advance Research Products Agency.

	We want the national government to set aside more of its research for civilian technologies. Today, about 60 percent of federal loan deeds goes to defense technologies, 40 percent to commercial and civilian technologies. We want to move to a fifty-fifty balance.

	We want more of the work of the federal laboratories set aside for joint ventures with the private-sector. In short, we want to do more of what the gentleman was attempting to do with the Defense Advance Research Products Agency.

	After all, a lot of the best technology that we will find in many areas will have dual uses. And some technology, in many of our defense projects is actually--even though it's very modern in that context--is already being outstripped by changes in the commercial field.

	So, I feel very strongly that we have to do this. And by the way, the Germans do it. The Japanese do it. Other countries do it. It's not a matter of picking winners and losers. It is a matter of making sure you're staying ahead of the curve and not having the government make all these decisions and not do anything, but instead be in a private sector-led job growth.

	QUESTION: [missing text].

	CLINTON: I would advocate joint projects--public and private projects in research and development and in technology transfer.

	QUESTION: Mr. [Sully] and also Mr. [Donovan]. What do you think the difference is between George Bush and Bill Clinton? Can you also tell us why you voted for George Bush in 1988 and if that's changed, what's changed your mind?

	SULLEY: Well, I did vote for President Bush in 1988. I do know President Bush and have met with him on several occasions during his Presidency.

	I believe that the fundamental difference is that Governor Clinton believes that the country needs to change its course and that the president can make a difference by articulating a vision. And he sees the linkage between what goes on in education, in the private sector, in technology and the economy. And I believe it's going to take proactive change to lead this country into the twenty-first century, which in many ways resembles the experience a lot of us had in the Silicon Valley, that companies don't run themselves. Countries need leadership, too.

	And I think President Bush is a fine person. I like him personally. But I think that Governor Clinton is the person that I enthusiastically support to be the next president of the United States.

	QUESTION: Can I pose the same question to you, Mr. Donovan?

	DONOVAN: Well, some of you may know that I've spent a lot of the last ten years thinking about competitiveness as a subject, chairing a commission for President Reagan nearly ten years ago on the Private Sector Council on Competitiveness. Subsequently, I've come to understand, in my own mind, at least, really to be successful as a nation; we've got to have to forge a public/private-sector partnership. And unfortunately, most people are trained to think about a separation of the public and private sector but, I just don't think that's what's going to work in the competitive world today.

	I find in Governor Clinton, a very compatible soul in terms of that view of the world, and a willingness to reshape government in a way in which those ends can come about.

	So, I'm enthusiastic about that vision of the future; about technology policy. I'm very impressed by the responsiveness of the campaign. I've had hours of discussion by phone and in person with leaders of the campaign about how things work. What do you think? This is the kind of responsiveness I'm not used to. It's very, very refreshing and I'm enthusiastic about the prospects.

	QUESTION: [missing text].

	That's correct. Yeah.

	QUESTION: [missing text].

	CLINTON: Yes. We didn't talk about it today. But I have talked with Mr. Perkins about. Let me say that the thing that has impressed me most about the people who are in the business of raising venture capital for new high-tech enterprises is that they have said, well, maybe you need to broaden the definition for what qualifies for capital gains treatment. But all of them have agreed, at least ... now, I haven't consulted everybody on this platform and I don't want to hold them to that. But the people with whom I have discussed it have agreed with my idea that what we want is to encourage long-term investment. Therefore, the five-year holding period is a good thing.

	And I am open to refinements in the definition of what kinds of investments qualify once they're held for five years in job-generating growths.

	But, my whole objection to the present administration's capital gains proposal was there was no distinction made between the things that amounted to little more than consumption or quick holding investments for quick gain and long-term job-generating investments. So, the five-year holding period is critical for me for investments that are likely to generate jobs. And we've discussed about whether I have defined that properly or not. And I'm open to that.

	But, as long as we're dealing with long-term, job-generating investments, which I think they are all in agreement on.

	SPEAKER: Let's just take one more question. We have to end.

	QUESTION: [missing text]

	CLINTON: Yeah. Mr. Barron reminded me that John Young's Council on Competitiveness is not the same thing as Dan Quayle's Council on Competitiveness.

	Let me say first, that I was very grateful that Al Gore and I received the endorsement of the Sierra Club the other day. My belief is that there are a number of environmental challenges facing this country which, if properly faced, will generate a lot of new high-technology jobs in confronting the environmental challenges. And if we do go about this in an atmosphere of partnership and progress with a real commitment to dealing with the environmental challenges of the country, I think it will be very, very good for the economy and particularly for the kinds of companies that have tended to flourish in California in the high-tech area.

	I don't approve of the way the Council on Competitiveness has basically been used in closed door meetings to, in effect, exempt people from federal law. If there are problems in practicalities in the nature of federal regulations, then a president or vice president ought to just say that. Say it openly. And prevail against their own administrative departments.

	I think there is a good argument for having a sharp, sharp focus on a partnership between government, business, labor and education to make this country more competitive; and targeting certain areas of real opportunity. But I don't approve of the way this administration has handled it in the Council.

	Thank you very much.
CAPITAL GAINS TAXENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTHIGH TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIESSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY     ' & & & &
 & & & & & & &	 q 	 ` 	 H  0   e: