

     I am proud to join you tonight in honoring someone whose public service in the past is matched only by his prospects for the future: Bob Abrams.

     I recall how enormously impressed I was with his enthusiasm and vision when I first met him in 1970. Since then, I have come to know Bob as a friend and a trusted advisor. You have come to know him as a leader of deep personal commitment, genuine sensitivity to the needs of his fellow New Yorkers, and a remarkable willingness to speak out against the special interests.

     In just three years, Bob has become an effective and eloquent champion of the urban cause. He brings to that cause and this city the qualities we desperately need in a time of turmoil and change. You are lucky to have him--and the McGovern campaign was fortunate to have his support more than a year and a half ago.

     I first came to the Bronx in 1970, walking Bronx streets and meeting Bronx people with Bob Abrams. Wherever we went--to Co-op City or Pelham Parkway, to Fordham, Soundview, Morrisania, or Hunts Point--I met thousands of men and women who share common frustrations and problems. I met people who struggle every day to secure a life for themselves and their children under the threatening shadow of drug addiction and street crime. I met families desperately trying to pay soaring food bills and outrageous rent increases with inflation-riddled paychecks. I met people forced to run the urban gauntlet of a collapsing transit system, overcrowded, fear-ridden schools, and decaying neighborhoods.

     I am certain that the people of the Bronx find little consolation in the fact that these difficulties exist not only in their neighborhoods, or in the rest of New York City, but in almost every city in the nation. The hard truth is that the richest nation in human history imposes a reduced quality of life on the 70% of its citizens who live in urban areas. This is an outrage--but it is not an accident.

     America has been bled white by the longest, the cruelest, and the stupidest war in our national experience. That war has taken a tragic toll of 50,000 American lives and over a million Asian lives, and left hundreds of thousands of innocent human beings crippled and maimed. It has battered the American economy and spurred the inflation which punishes the American worker. It has cost the taxpayers of this country $130 billion. It has taken our sons and our treasure and our honor--not for a cause, but for a mistake.

     Every bomb that falls on Vietnam also takes its toll in the Bronx. The money we should spend to create and preserve decent housing at rents the average family can afford, to build subways and to bring our police precincts up to full strength, to conquer cancer and to provide dignified retirement for our senior citizens--that money has been used to destroy homes and cities and schools half a world away.

     As much as any Asian village bombed into rubble, our cities are victims of the Vietnam war. As much as any American son captured by the North Vietnamese, our cities are prisoners of war. For their sake and for the sake of human life and dignity, the next president must bring all our troops and all our prisoners home within ninety days of his inauguration. And then we must pledge that never again will we send the young life of this land to bail out a cruel and corrupt dictatorship ten thousand miles from our shores.

     Bob Abrams has worked for peace. But he has not waited for peace to work for progress in this city. Even in the face of Washington's neglect, and despite the insane decision to spend billions on a policy of death in Southeast Asia rather than on the places in America where people live, Bob and countless others have refused to abandon the urban challenge. They have fought all the harder for the essentials of a decent city life--for good shelter, quality food, personal security, improved education, and enough jobs.

     And Bob Abrams has achieved a small miracle in the Bronx even though there is a cold and uncaring administration in Washington. With the support of a vigorous Democratic Congressional delegation, he has marshaled the human resources and spirit of his borough to begin a step-by-step renewal of its neighborhoods, its services, and its housing and schools. Compassionate leaders like Bob Abrams can and will bring New York and other great cities back to their rightful place--if the White House is with them, instead of against them. And it is with leaders like him that I want to be associated in shaping a greater and stronger America.

     And what of our opposition? What do they know and care about Bronx streets and Bronx families? Let me give you an example which says it all.

     On October 3, 1970, Bob Abrams, Congressman Scheuer, Senator Javits, and I spent a morning in the Bathgate section of Morrisania investigating the disastrous housing and health conditions in that severely depressed community. What we saw was a crime against the standards of civilized existence.

     We saw street after street of burned-out buildings, stripped by addicts, dangerous and on the verge of collapse, yet open to neighborhood children.

     We saw families squatting in abandoned, uninhabitable structures with no services whatsoever, living with rats and filth, waiting apprehensively for the winter from which they had no protection.

     We saw vacant lots and alleys, sidewalks and streets and apartments caked with garbage, debris, and waste.

     We saw cleared land littered with years of rubble and trash.

     We saw tenements with no safety devices, dark and fouled hallways, crumbled interiors, and broken appliances.

     We talked to mothers who live with a constant fear of epidemic diseases like viral meningitis, which can leap from the sewers to the streets in a matter of seconds.

     We saw and spoke to human beings whose single voice was doubt and despair.

     On our return to Washington, Senator Javits and I told President Nixon of these things in a joint letter, and we asked him to set up a disaster task force to meet the immediate emergency in the Bronx and other blighted urban areas. We asked for a task force modeled after those sent into hurricane-ravaged areas to provide emergency medical treatment, mobile health units, and food and clothing. We also requested an emergency force to repair the electrical, heating, and water systems in decaying buildings that house hundreds of thousands of people.

     Our letter was not partisan--it was signed by a Republican as well as a Democrat.

     Our letter did not demand the impossible--it sought only what was absolutely essential for a minimum level of human decency.

     But the President never even answered the letter.

     It is now two years later, and New York and other cities are still struggling against the weight of this administration's indifference.

     The Nixon neglect of our cities is visible in every aspect of the White House's urban policy--or, more accurately, its urban non-policy. And nowhere is the neglect more apparent than in the scandal-ridden record of the FHA.

     For four years the FHA programs, passed by Congress to make it possible for poor and middle-income families to purchase homes, have served as engines of destruction in Detroit, Chicago, St. Louis, and here in New York. Manned by political hacks and favor-seekers, FHA has become a sewer of bribery and fraud, infested by corrupt officials, real estate speculators, and shady mortgage companies. Greedy middlemen have picked the FHA clean, leaving urban America with a vast array of abandoned houses and a vast army of homeless families.

     Congress and the press uncovered this mess almost a year ago. And what has the Nixon administration done about it? The most recent scandal in New York is a blunt answer to that question.

     The director of the Long Island FHA office--the nation's largest, encompassing eleven counties and including this city--pleaded guilty a few days ago to charges of bribery. Five other FHA employees have also been indicted.

     The director was hired by the Nixon administration supposedly to "clean up" the Long Island office. But his appointment was a product of political patronage, in return for his "contributions" to the party as the Republican committeeman from the town of Babylon.

     I find it incredible that, at a time when FHA scandals have already cost the American taxpayer millions of dollars and subjected innocent families to financial ruin and heartbreak, the Nixon administration filled a sensitive FHA position with just another political appointment.

     I find it suspicious that months after the Senate Committee on the Judiciary completed an exhaustive public investigation into the Long Island office, it was still a beehive of corruption.

     But perhaps this is all we should expect from an administration that has given us the ITT case, and the wheat scandal, and the Watergate burglary. Perhaps we cannot find anything they do incredible, for so many of the things they have done are a discredit to honest and open government.

     Now even their own Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, George Romney, has thrown up his hands and announced his intention to resign. And the Congress has flatly refused to continue a housing program that is a dismal and disgraceful failure.

     The FHA scandal is a perfect example of what we are fighting to end in 1972. We are fighting to end privileged relationships between public officials and private interests. We are fighting to end the distribution of government positions in the marketplace of a political quota system. We are fighting against a staggering insensitivity to the urban decay which threatens the fabric of life here in New York.

     I have called repeatedly for the complete overhaul of FHA to ensure that it serves the consumer, not the speculator. I repeat that plea now. And I ask your help to prevent more FHA scandals, and to protect our cities and our country from four more years of Richard Nixon.

     We have had four dismal years of tragic war, of destruction and death abroad, and decay at home. And we cannot afford four more years of that.

     We have had four dismal years of special favors and shoddy deals at the highest levels of government. And we cannot afford four more years of that.

     We have had four years of Nixon and Agnew and Connally. And we cannot afford four more years of them.

     So tonight, as we salute a young man who will surely play a significant role in shaping a nation of hope and decency, I ask you to join Bob Abrams and me in this campaign--the battle for our cities and, ultimately, for the American conscience. Join with us in saying: come home, America. Come home to the values and ideals which can make our country as great and as good as it should be. Come home, America, and then our children and their children after them will love their nation, not just because they were born here, but because of the great and good land you and I together have made it.

     Thank you and God bless you.
HOUSING, LOW-INCOMEPOVERTYURBAN AFFAIRS/AIDURBAN RENEWALVIETNAM WAR     p, <, 6, 2, *,
 , 