

	Thank you, thank you.  Thank you very much, Bert Porter.  I know that you are going to be a great country engineer, but I hope you are also a prophet, and if you are, things will be all right November 5th, 1968 when the Democrats go on to win this election.

	Well, friends, we have a wonderful day here.  It's a great occasion and we have a great mayor of a great city that has already given you a great message.  I like Carl Stokes, don't you?  And let me tell you something else, friends:  I like the man that sits over here, that is the senior congressman from this area, Mike Feighan.  Don't you?  And Charles Vanik, don't you?  And how about liking Louie Stokes and James Stanton as new congressmen?  And then above all, what about a new United States Senator like Jack Gilligan?  And what about that eternal fountain of youth, Steve Young?  Well, my fellow Americans and my fellow Democrats, we got some wonderful people up here and all that I am hoping is that in the weeks ahead, that I will be able to get as many votes here in Cuyahoga County as my good old friend, Doc Gerber.  If I can do that, I'm in.

	My friends--there's some folks over here that have got the stutters.  Is that right?  Did you ever hear such nonsense in all your life?  No.  Why don't we laugh them out of the park?   I'll tell you, everybody has their way to have fun.  Some people just make a damn fool out of themselves.  Well, dear friends, you know it is a great day to be here.  You know that John F. Kennedy was here three times and he became president of the United States and I am here for my third time and with your help I will become president of the United States.

	Yes, yes, yes indeed, we can win, yes indeed we will win, yes indeed we must win.  Isn't that right?  Now, I know there are all kinds of Democrats, all kinds of them.  We got pretty ones and somebody even said we had a homely one.  I said that's a Republican that's just been converted.  We have Democrats that think independently, we have Democrats that are independent ones, we have regular Democrats, we have all kinds of Democrats, but when it comes to election time, we just have voting Democrats.  That's the kind we have.

	You know, friends, we Democrats may be difficult, but we are never dull.  You will have to admit that.  And I'll bet you haven't seen a late show that was any duller than that Republican convention down at Miami.  That took the prize. 

	For nearly four decades, for nearly four decades, will you bring that camera back there?  Don't pay my attention to those folks.  Get over here where the folks are.  How do you like that?  Am I right?  If they keep those cameras off those characters, they would disappear.

	Let's get down to cases here.  You can bet we are going to tell it just like it is.  That's the way it's going to be.  For nearly four decades we have marched together in this country for the same goal:  a safer, a better, a more prosperous and a freer America and Americans, an America of equal opportunity where every individual can say not in defiance but in pride, I am an American and I am a man and I am proud to be a citizen of this great country.  Yes, yes, we march, we marched for Franklin Roosevelt out of the dark days of the Depression when he said that all we had to fear was fear itself and we marched right on through that Depression and America went on to win a great victory not only over a Depression, but in World War II and we marched with Harry Truman, who told it just like it was and he did something about it, too, for all of us, and we marched and we marched with John F. Kennedy who stood before you eight years ago and said these words to you:  "I would like it to be said that in our administration, our country moved, but special emphasis on education, took care of our children and gave medical care to the aged and that we ended discrimination of all kinds in the United States."  He said, and I say, we want fair treatment for all Americans.  that is the Democratic program.  And, my friends, we have been marching to that  music, to Democratic administrations, and we passed Medicare and more aid to education to help our children than any other administration in the history of this country and we passed more civil rights legislation and we have done more for our job training and more opportunity than any political party or any administration.  That's why we are proud to be Democrats.  And you can tell your grandchildren that you were there when America awoke from eight years of fitful sleep, the great GOP slumber, and moved forward once again under Kennedy, under Johnson, and now under Humphrey and Muskie.  Yes, Mr. Nixon says, and now listen to what he says, because really it's hard to understand what he says.  It's a little confusing.  Listen to what he says.  He says, "If you elect Hubert Humphrey, it will be more of the same."  And you know, that fellow is beginning to tell the truth.  It's new Nixon when it comes to that.  And, by the way, friends, don't worry about the new one, don't even worry about the old one; what you've got to worry about is the real Nixon.  That's the one you got to worry about 

	Well, Mr. Nixon says, he says if you elect me as your president it will be more of the same, and that's right.  What's more?  More education, more education for your children, more health care for our people, more job training and more jobs for our people, so that more people can stand on their own feet and be self-respecting, be productive Americans and that's what he means, I guess, when he says you are going to have more of the same, because that's exactly what we intend to do.  A Humphrey-Muskie administration with full confidence in the strength and vitality of the American people, is prepared to lead this nation and prepared to lead it much further and to keep it moving.  We want to rebuild our cities, and we know how to do it, and we want to modernize our rural areas, and we know how to do it.  The last time that I was in Cleveland, I proposed a great Marshall plan for our cities to get that job done and we want what you want: greater safety from crime and violence.  Last week I proposed a great program of assistance to support our local police.  Yes, to support our police and our courts and to help improve our penal institutions, and I say to you that anyone who talks about law and order and is unwilling to support the police with better salaries, with more policemen and better training, that fellow's as phony as a three-dollar bill.

	I am prepared, as your president I am prepared to help our police and I am prepared to help our -firemen and I am prepared to help our cities and I am prepared to help our people, because law and order is not only to enforce the law, it is also to make a just society where people have a chance to live a good life.  Will you tell those Nixon supporters to shut up?  Would you believe it?  I don't think they're Nixon supporters.  Do you?  No, they're not.  Do you know what I think they are?  Foolish.  Free speech, everybody has a right to speak, but some people don't need to be taken seriously.

	Now, friends, we want tax reforms and I know you do to reduce the financial burden on middle- and low-income families and to spread those tax responsibilities more equitably and that tax program should consider federal revenue-sharing as a means of reducing the burden of local property taxes, the burden that is on every family in this county and every family in this city.  And give me the chance to be your president and we will do something about it.  Yes, in America, Americans love education and they want their children to have a chance for a full education and it's in the national interest that we do so.  No country has ever gone bankrupt by it's investments in education.  Education is the wisest investment that we can make and I want to see an educational opportunity for every child in America, black or white, rich or poor, from Head Start to college, to special training, they all deserve it.  And I want to see day care centers, day care centers so that working mothers can have a place to leave their children when they are needed to work, and when I become president, it will be a fact.  We will get it done. Can we do it, they say?  Can we afford it?  The answer is yes.  A Humphrey-Muskie administration, Humphrey-Muskie Democrats, know something about the American economy that the Nixon-Agnew Republicans never learned.  Have you ever stopped to think what the Nixon-Agnew Republican stands for--a nap, slumber, take a sleep.  Just think of it.  Nixon-Agnew represents for sure that America takes a nap at a time when we ought to be awake.  They had three Nixon Republican recessions in eight years.  We have had none.  They raised income for a family of four in eight years $800.  During our eight Democratic years it's gone up $3,000, enough to buy a new car or enough to buy your daughter or son a good year in college and to take your wife on a much-overdue, long-overdue vacation, fellas.  That's what happened under Democratic administration, more jobs, more income, more employment.  In Ohio alone, 3,000 jobs were lost, 3,000 jobs fewer, from 1953 to 1960.  Sixty-five thousand jobs more from 1961 to 1968.  That's the difference between Democrats and Republicans.

	Now, my friends, we have realized most of the goals of a new deal, the fair deal in the new frontier and we are now ready to reach out for new goals and new opportunities that will once again revolutionize our nation, that will meet the needs of millions of Americans who have made it by any standard but ours.  They are ready for a new day and this is why as your candidate I said to you that the goals of yesterday are but history.  The goals of tomorrow are for us.  We will make the new history of this nation.  We are ready for a new day, a new day of opportunity, a new day, a chance for millions of Americans that have never had a chance, and every one of us, every one of us, white or black, Protestants, Catholics or Jews are prepared to help every other American work and get a chance to make something out of his life.  We are at the crossroads, friends, in a great year of decision and the decision which you make, which you make this year, the decisions that you make in this campaign, will have fateful implications for our future.  We will have, we can, I repeat, one nation, under God, with liberty justice for all.  We can have in this America what you want and what I want, every American to be a first class citizen from first class opportunity in a first class county.  That's what we want and I am here to tell you that we cannot afford a divided America, an America divided between the rich and the poor, the black and the white, the North and the South, I am here to say that we must have one America, united in our commitment to secure justice and a better life for all.

	In the world at large we face another massive challenge to us in the dangerous arms race and we must put an end to it.  Mr. Nixon again, the leader of his party, is uncertain where he stands.  I say that the arms race is a danger to the security of our people.  I say that the treaty that is before the Senate that will stop the spread of nuclear weapons into the hands of other countries is in our national interest.  I say pass that treaty now.  Mr. Nixon says wait.  To wait is to court danger, to pass it is to insure your life.  So as I come to the conclusion of this message to you today, I want to ask some questions of the American people and of Mr. Nixon.  Where does Mr. Nixon stand on stopping the dangerous spread of nuclear weapons?

	Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon, on civil rights?  That is, where do you really stand?  I know where you stand when you are in the South, I have heard where you stand when you are in the North, but where do you stand when you stand, Mr. Nixon?  That's what I want to know.

	Where do you stand on the Supreme Court?  How can you say you are for law and order when you condemn the highest court of this land?

	Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon, on federal aid to education?

	Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon, on Medicare, on minimum wage, on right to work laws, and where do you stand on aid to our cities?

	Mr. Nixon, where do you stand?  Where do you stand on funds for the Peace Corps; for Project Head Start?  Where do you stand on protecting our consumers from deceptive and shyster practices?

	And, Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on those television debates that you thought was such a good idea only a few weeks ago?  I am ready.  Are you? 

	Yes, my friends, every one of these questions can be answered.

	There is a big sign that you see across this country, you know, and I simply say, Mr. Nixon, you go and say you're for education but you don't want the money.  You say you are for federal aid for cities, but you don't want to pay the bill.  You are for law and order, but you don't want to pick up the check.  Mr. Nixon, where do you stand?  I think I know.  When it's all said and done, it's yes, but yes, but Mr. Nixon, is the one.  And how.  He is the one that doubts.  He is the one that evades, he's the one that is uncertain.  He is the one that has a message for you in Cleveland and another message for somebody else in Birmingham.  Ladies and gentlemen, that isn't the way to be president of these United States of America. 

	We cannot afford a moving target, we cannot afford a "yes, but president.  We need a president of this country who is firm in his convictions and compassionate in his concern.  We need a president of this nation who is a leader, not a evader.  We need a president of this country who is an educator, not a propagandizer, and I submit you can have an administration that will lead, that will educate, that will be firm and compassionate if you will elect the Democratic ticket on November 5th, 1968.   So I pledge to you from this platform today, an honored political platform in American politics, I pledge to you one thing, to give them my best, to give them my heart, to give them my mind, to give them my mind for this country.  This is the last, best hope.  It is a great country with a great people and I pledge to do my best if you will help me to help unite our country, to promote justice for all of our people.  And I pledge to you, so help me, if we have not, by January 20th, 1969, attained what is essential for he progress of this nation an honorable peace in Vietnam, I pledge to you to make it the highest priority of my administration.  Yes, the Humphrey-Muskie--by the way, isn't that a fine man, that Mr. Muskie?  A wonderful citizen, a truly gifted and talented individual--the Humphrey-Muskie message to America in 1968 is simply this:  unity, not of mind but of the American spirit.  Progress, not just for a few but for everyone to fulfill our national purpose and peace, not merely abroad but peace here at home in our own nest for the future of mankind, and I appeal to this audience today to stand together as a great people to listen not to the voices that would divide it, to listen not to those that preach hatred and division, to listen not to those that preach conflict and anger.  I ask you, my dear friends, to repudiate the kind of rancorous nonsense, the kind of disgusting talk, the kind of bitterness and animosity that you have heard from a few here this afternoon.  I ask you to join with the great spirit of America, of one nation and one people.  	

	Thank you very much.

EDUCATION--GENERALEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)     = = = = }=
 q= l= g= V= R= P= P= E=	  	 | 	 k 	 I 	 / e: