

	My friend and colleague in the House of Representatives, Charlie Jonas, and all of the distinguished guests on this platform, and all of the distinguished members of this great audience here in Charlotte, I thank you for your welcome. I recall very well my previous visits to this city and to this state, and one of the greatest rallies of the campaign of 1960. As I stand here today, after just having come over from a visit to the University of North Carolina campus at Chapel Hill, and as I stand here looking at this audience, hearing your welcome, I think it would be of great interest to you to get a report on what is going on around the country. Because when you see great numbers like this, you wonder if this is just a little part of America or whether it may be something that is happening all over the country.

	I want to tell you, it is happening all over the country. We were in Chicago last Wednesday, we were there just a week after the other convention, and when we were there, 600,000 people came out to welcome us, the biggest political crowd they have had in thirty years. They were yelling and they were stomping as you are.

	Then the next day we were in San Francisco and 300,000 people, the biggest political crowd in San Francisco in a generation was out there.

	Then that night at Santa Clara University, 32,000 were there out on the football field. It was a great privilege for me. I like to speak to 32,000 people on a football field, but I want to tell Bill Murray that it was great for me to get on the field. I sat on the bench for four years at college, and I was glad to get out there on the field.

	Then the next day we were in Houston, Texas and there down in Texas, 45,000 people, the biggest crowd in the political history of that state, was out and they were yelling and asking for new leadership.

	Then from there to Pittsburgh, a great airport crowd, and last night in the state of New York, Westchester County, as Governor Rockefeller introduced me, he said, "This is the biggest, most enthusiastic political meeting ever held in Westchester County."

	Something is happening. We are going to win in November all over America. I might tell you some of the reasons we are going to win. We are going to win, first, because across this nation a big team has been assembled all working together--all working together, not just for a party, but for a victory that will be bigger than a party. A victory that will bring to our ranks Democrats, Independents, by the hundreds of thousands in this state and across this nation. That teams includes for example, Governor Rockefeller, Governor Reagan, Governor Romney, Governor Shafer, Governor Rhodes, all of those whether they supported my candidacy or another. And a team and a people or a party that can unite itself will unite America, and that is what we are going to do with your help.

	Another reason we are going to win is that we have such a great group of candidates. It is always fine to have good coattails. I mean not mine, but the others.

	Charlie Jonas [missing text] no opposition. That is what I want, believe me. I like that. What a great congressman he has been, and what good sense the people of this district have shown to send him back year after year, as you have, to represent not only North Carolina but the nation.

	As I think of the colleagues, his future colleagues, who will be there--Jim Broyhill, whose lovely wife is here--and I think of those who are running for office, and all of them have been introduced, and as I looked at them, I said, "What a fine team. Send them down there. We need them. Don't just elect the president. Give him the men who will help him get through the program that you want for America." That is what we want.

	I have been here in this state, we must remember, and I should point this out, that after a period--and this is one of the planks in my platform--over the period of the last thirty years we have seen power flow from the people, from the states, to Washington, D.C. I think it is time to turn it around. In our administration we are going to have power flow back from Washington to the states and to the people of the United States of America.

	My friends, if that happens you have to have strong state government, you have to have progressive leaders, you have to have men with their eyes on the future, and in your candidate for governor, Jim Gardner, you have that kind of a man. And you are going to elect him governor of the state of North Carolina.

	We have the team, we have a united party, we open our arms and we accept and we ask for the support of Democrats and Independents. But there is another reason these great crowds are turning out, turning out in such huge numbers, and I will tell you what it is.

	A new voice is being heard across America. It is different from the old voices, the voices of hatred, the voices of dissension, the voices of riot and revolution.

	What is happening is that the forgotten Americans--those who did not indulge in violence, those who did not break the law, people who pay their taxes and go to work, people who send their children to school, who support their churches, people who are not haters, people who love this country, and because they love this country are angry about what has happened to America. The forgotten Americans, I call them--they are not Republicans or Democrats or Independents. They cover all spectrums. They are laborers and they are managers, and they are white people and they are black people, but they are people who cry out and say, "After four years of what has happened to America, that is enough. Let's get some new leadership for this country that is worthy of what we have had."

	My friends, I will tell you what I hear as I listen to the voices of those Americans across this land, whether those voices arise from the throats of people in North Carolina or Illinois or California or New York or Texas. And here is what they are saying. We know the choice, they say. We know the choice is clear. We know that one of the two men nominated by the two major parties will be elected president, and we know that one man says that he helped to make the policies of the last four years, he has defended those policies, and he has not indicated any way in which he would change those policies. What he is saying to the American people, "Elect me and I will give you four more years of what we have had for the last four years."

	And this is the answer, the answer of the American people is the answer I give to you today, and see if it is your answer. I say to you that when the strongest nation in this world can be tied down in a war in Vietnam for four years with no end in sight, when the richest nation in the world cannot even manage its own economy, when a nation with the greatest tradition for respect for law and rule of law is torn apart by unprecedented lawlessness, when respect for the United States of America falls so low that a fourth-rate military power like North Korea will seize an American naval vessel on the high seas, and when the time comes for the first time in our history that the president of the United States cannot travel abroad or to any major city in this country without fear of a hostile demonstration, then the time has come for new leadership for America. And that is what you are going to provide.

	My friends, that is the cause that I ask you to join today. That is the challenge that I accept and that I ask you to accept with me. I need your votes. I need your help; not only for the election, but then on in carrying out the great programs for America that we are going to carry out.

	I want to tell you the vision of the future, and particularly with so many young people here, may I point it out to you. In that connection, let's see how many there are. I remember the first time I set foot in North Carolina, in 1934. I came to school here, and my memories are pleasant of those three years. I have tar on my heels, too.

	I want you to know, looking back to the year '34, how many in this great audience were born since 1934? Hold up your hands. Look at them. A whole new generation of America. That is what is happening. They are going to get new leadership for America. They are not satisfied.

	I want to tell you what the young people want, what the older people want, what all Americans want for America. First, they want new leadership that will bring peace abroad and that will give us a better chance to avoid what I had in my generation, three wars in one generation. I think it can be done.

	As far as the war in Vietnam is concerned, what I am doing is what I think is only responsible for a presidential candidate. I will do nothing, I will say nothing, that would destroy the change to negotiate an end to that war before this election. But if it is not ended by then, then I say the American people will speak out. Because if after four years, with all of the strength of this country militarily, with all the wealth of this country economically, with the support of the loyal opposition, this war is not over, then they have had their chance. They muffed it. Give us a chance and we will end the war on an honorable basis. That is what America wants.

	Beyond that, my friends, that speaks only to the immediate present. We must look beyond that. We must look beyond the time when those who are fourteen and fifteen are eighteen and nineteen. How do we avoid more Vietnams? I say to you it means an entirely new foreign policy in so many directions. A new policy toward Europe and Asia and Latin America and across the world to defuse those particular points that might explode into war. It needs a reappraisal of what America is doing around the world.

	Let's put it quite bluntly. For twenty years we poured out billions of dollars to the rest of the world. For twenty years we furnished most of the money, most of the arms and most of the men to help other countries defend their freedom against aggression in Korea and then in Vietnam. Now, I say: look at America. We are rich and we are strong and there are 200 million of us. But there are two billion people that live in the free world, and I say that we need a new foreign policy that will get other free nations to assume a greater share for the defense of freedom around the world. And I think that is what you want in the way of leadership. I believe that we can have peace; that peace will come through a strong America, an America that will always negotiate but never from weakness, always from strength, and with that kind of strength and that kind of wisdom, I believe we can do it.

	But in order to do it, we must do a number of other things. We have got to restore respect for this country around the world. To do that we have to start right here at home. My friends, as we look around the world today and all its many problems, never forget that there is no ground more important than the ground we stand on. Look what has happened to America over these past four years. Look where we are. Much that is good, because America is a great and a good country, a rich country.

	I see the new buildings in the city of Charlotte, and all the new development around this nation. But the problem is this. With all of our wealth, and with no excuse for certainly the great difficulties that we have, what do we find? I say to you that here we have some of the clearest choices of the campaign. Let me tell you what they are. On the one hand we have the candidate of the other party telling the American people that he is satisfied with the record of the Department of Justice; he is satisfied with the leadership of the present attorney general.

	I want to tell you my views. I say that when crime has been going up nine times as fast as population; I say that when over a hundred cities have experienced riots and burnings in various parts of those cities; I say that when the city of Washington, D.C., which should be an example of respect for law around the world, becomes so unsafe that Charlie Jonas' secretary, Jim Gardner's secretary and Jim Broyhill's secretary can't work after dark and go home because of fear of what could happen because of crime there; I say to you that when we find that kind of a situation in America, it is time for new men and new policies that will stop the rise in crime and also establish respect for law all over this nation. I pledge that kind of leadership. It will be fair; we will have justice with order. But let us never forget that without order you cannot have progress.

	That brings us to the other side of the coin and the other great choice of this election campaign. Progress. Progress in the best sense. A better chance for these children and for their children in the years ahead than we have had. America moving onward and upward. All of us want that for America.

	What is the difference? The difference between the two candidates here is crystal clear. The one says, "Let's go on with what we have been doing." His program always is to say, "Whenever there is a problem, turn to government in Washington." Billions of dollars have been spent over the past few years for government programs, for government jobs and government housing and government welfare, and what has happened? They haven't worked in many instances, and in most instances, as a matter of fact. What we have reaped is still the same problems of frustration, the problems of hatred, the problems of violence.

	I say that when you poured billions of dollars into programs that have failed, you have got to get off that road and take a new road. Let's take a new road for America, all of us.

	Let me spell it out for you. Yes, government will play a great role. Government will provide for the field of education all that we all want for our children, the best education that the world has ever seen. Government will provide for the aged and for the needy and all those that cannot care for themselves. Government will provide that equal chance at the starting line. It will enforce the laws.

	But, my friends, when we speak of how we build America, how all these new centers that I see around here came about, think of how it happened. Remember, America is a great country. We are the richest country in the world. How did we get that way? Because for 190 years we have recognized a great principle, and never forget it.

	America is the greatest and richest country in the world today, not because of what government did for people, but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years. That is why I say let us talk in terms of how people can have a chance. Rather than more millions on welfare rolls, let's have more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. That is the way to move.

	Let us provide an opportunity for all Americans, for white Americans, for black Americans, for Mexican Americans. Whoever they may be, let's see that they have that chance, a chance to go as high as their talents will take them. That is what we stand for.

	Let's speak in terms of opportunity rather than in terms of what government is going to do for people if they don't work. Let's talk in terms of what people can do for themselves if they do work. That is what we need to think about. That is the way for America to go forward.

	My friends, that means that your government has some responsibilities, and I speak particularly in this state on a subject that I have previously covered in a statement. When we think of the great textile industry of North Carolina, the South, and all over the United States, and then we look at our government in Washington, D.C., we think of various problems that have been arising.

	I want my position stated again here as I have stated it previously in a statement issued to your newspapers and television stations, and it is this. I believe in trade between nations. I have always supported it as a short-range and a long-range policy. But, my friends, over the past few years it has been too much a one-way street. We have opened our markets to the textiles of other nations of the world and they have not reciprocated by opening their markets, and it is time for a change. Unless they open theirs, we do not open ours on the same basis. That is why I advocated then, and I advocate now, the enforcement of the International Textile Agreements as well as the extension of those agreements to other textiles.

	It seems to me, my friends, only in this way can we find this part of the country moving forward as it should move, more jobs for people in these new industries.

	Finally, could I leave you with one personal thought. I mentioned at the outset that I came to this state thirty-four years ago. It was in the depths of a depression. Yet, in those three years I felt that I got one of the best educations that could be obtained in America. This great state with its great universities has a reputation that is enviable in the field of education, and I know you are going to continue it.

	But as I look back on that period and as I remember what has happened since then, I realize my obligation as your candidate for president and as your president if I have that opportunity to serve, to the new generation. Here they are, you saw their hands up there. I don't want them to go through a depression or a recession. I don't want them to go through three wars, as my generation did. I want them to have a chance in this last third of a century to live their lives in peace, peace abroad and peace at home. I want them to have an opportunity to go as far as their talents will take them.

	I say, let us do everything that we can in these next four years to knock down the barriers of hatred that divide us at home and abroad. I think it can be done, but I can only do it with your help.

	In this great state, with its great progressive tradition, I simply want to say, as Charlie Jonas indicated, we didn't take it in 1960, but '68 is a different year. I feel, as a graduate of one of your great universities and its law school, that of all the states in this Union, there isn't one from a personal standpoint I wouldn't rather carry, and seeing this crowd I think we are going to do it. Now, let's go on and win.
CRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALTEXTILE INDUSTRYVIETNAM WAR     {H GH AH =H 3H
 *H %H  H H 	H H G G	  	  	 t 	 G 	 2 	  	  e: