

	In a shorter time than we may imagine, the American people will be making a decision that will profoundly influence the future of our nation.  They will be deciding between two men who are asking for their vote for president--two men with fundamentally opposed visions of America and where we want to lead her.

	In making that choice and casting their vote, the American people must ask themselves, which of these men believes in what I believe?  Which of these men will be guided by the same values that guide me in my own life?  And a further question:  Which of these men holds the same hopes and dreams for America and her destiny as a leader in this world.

	It is my belief, that of the two of us, I am the one who shares the hopes and beliefs and values of the American people.  Most basic of all, perhaps, I share the commonsense attitudes of the American people, the views and opinions that one might hear, any evening, in any part of this land, expressed around the family dinner table.

	I have taken it as my task in this campaign to spell out my position in detail on a wide variety of issues, and the profound differences between me and my opponent, from economic growth that provides jobs and opportunity for all, to my conviction that a strong, committed America must lead the world to freedom and peace.

	But perhaps on no other issue is the dividing line so clear, on no other issue is my opponent's philosophy so completely at odds with mine, and I would say, with the common sense attitudes of the American people, than on the issue of crime.

	Let's talk common sense for a moment.  I believe that the first priority of our law enforcement system must be the peace of our neighborhoods and the safety of ordinary law-abiding citizens.

	And I believe that the rehabilitation of the criminal, though certainly a desirable goal in itself, must always take second place.  It is wrong and immoral to take unnecessary risks with the safety of our citizens.  As Cicero said, "The people's safety is the highest law."

	I imagine it would be hard to find a family in America that would disagree with those two statements.  They are no more than plain, old fashioned common sense.

	But there are some--and I would list my opponent among them--who have wandered far off the clear-cut path of common sense and have become lost in the thickets of liberal sociology.  Just as, when it comes to foreign policy, they "Always Blame America First," when it comes to crime and criminals, they always seem to "Blame Society First."

	While they are no doubt sincere in their beliefs, one can't help but feel that theirs is the kind of mind-set that seems to reserve all its compassion for the criminals, with little left over for the victims of crime, and that sees nothing wrong with letting violent murderers--who aren't even eligible for parole--out on weekend passes, with little regard for the innocent people whose lives and safety that policy puts at risk.

	I think most Americans would agree that decades of liberal thinking and experimentation have not made our streets safer, but more dangerous.

	I think that most Americans would agree that it is time for a return to common sense about crime.  Yesterday, I spelled out what I called a five-part common sense program on crime that includes:

	-- A new focus on busting the street gangs that are turning our city streets into battle zones;

	-- Certainty of sentencing, so that criminals know that if they commit a felony crime, they'll do time; along with tough judges who will prosecute to the full extent of the law;

	-- New efforts at rehabilitating first-time offenders, while doubling the federal budget for prison construction so we can keep the hardened convicts out of our communities;

	-- Target career criminals and put them out of business with mandatory minimum sentences without parole;

	-- And last, but not least, the recognition that some hardened murderers are beyond rehabilitation.  I believe that some crimes are so terrible and so heinous that the criminal should pay the ultimate sanction--they deserve the death penalty.

	Today, I want to shift focus--in order to bring into focus the policies of my opponent--because it is my sincere belief that his policies, and his philosophy are far outside the mainstream of thought on the issue of crime.  It is my belief that--despite all the evidence of the last few decades--he still clings to a discredited liberal ideology that blinds him to the true causes of crime, and the often devastating effects it has on innocent people.

	Let me take a moment here to address the issue of "negative campaigning."  I do not believe it is negative to try to clarify the distinctions with one's opponent--that is the business of a political campaign.  It is not fair to our democratic system; it is not fair to the American people, to keep the issues hidden out of sight.  I believe in full disclosure.  Let the American people see where we stand.  Then let them make their decision --that is their right, and they deserve no less.

	Over the last few months, no single case has received as much notoriety as that of Willie Horton.  That case has come to symbolize, and represent--accurately, I believe--the misguided outlook of my opponent when it comes to crime.

	Yes, it is only one case.  There are many others.  And they continue--just this week, a Massachusetts inmate, serving time for armed robbery, was caught again, while out on furlough, breaking into a woman's home and threatening her with murder.  According to the local district attorney, it was the third time this year, in just that one county that a prisoner has been arrested while on furlough or early release.  "The police," said the district attorney, "are even more upset than we are, and the victims can't understand what is going on."

	It may never be easy to understand, but one won't be surprised after one learns the story of Willie Horton.  I want to pass as briefly as possible over the brutal facts of his crimes.  Suffice it to say that Willie Horton is one of those human beings who seem completely devoid of human feeling or conscience.  When he was convicted in 1975 of viciously stabbing and murdering 17-year-old Joey Fournier, and sentenced to life without parole, Joey's family naturally believed that their son's murderer would spend the rest of his life behind bars.

	In 1987, however this same cold-blooded killer broke into the home of a Maryland couple, Cliff and Angie Barnes, sadistically torturing the man, raping and torturing his fiancee and repeatedly threatening to kill them both.  Willie Horton hadn't escaped from prison.  He had simply been set free on an unescorted "weekend pass" as part of the Massachusetts furlough program--and like too many other inmates, he never bothered to return.

	Now I want to be clear.  It isn't that one faults the Governor for making a mistake.  And this certainly was a tragic one.  People, even Governors, are fallible.  We make mistakes.  But what I find so hard to understand, is the Governor's reaction when this tragedy--and the ongoing danger of the furlough program--was brought to his attention.

	At first, when people tried to find out the facts about the furlough program, the Governor's administration stonewalled, citing--and this is no joke--the prisoner's "right to privacy."  Months went by.  Appeals to the Governor were rebuffed.  Though he had met with families of prisoners, he now refused to meet the victims and their families.  Finally, the families of the victims began a petition drive to end the furlough program for the first-degree murderers.  When they tried to confront the Governor during a visit to a local police station, he said they weren't going to change his mind, curtly ending the exchange by saying, " If you don't like the system, you can change it."

	And that's what they did.  But not without unrelenting opposition from the Governor.  When two state representatives introduced a bill to end furloughs for 1st degree murderers, one of the Governor's ardent allies in the legislature, using parliamentary tricks, was able to deep six the repeal.  That same State Senator later got a standing ovation for his efforts from the inmates when he visited Norfolk prison.

	Finally, however, the victims' families pulled together over 52,000 signatures, more than enough to put their repeal referendum on the ballot.  The Governor then "suspended" furloughs for 1st degree murderers, and on March 22, 1988, under the bright spotlight of the national presidential campaign, the Governor finally relented and, soon after, signed the repeal.

	I've gone into such detail because that is the only way I know to paint a picture of the criminal justice system my opponent presided over.  One can only describe it as completely out of whack:  a "Twilight Zone" world where prisoners' "right of privacy" had more weight than the citizen's right to safety.  Where 1st degree murderers actually had the right to vote to keep their weekend passes, murderers in jail were stonewalled, resisted, and outmaneuvered in the legislature by the Governor's political allies.

	As I said, I am not faulting the Governor of Massachusetts for one error in judgment.  But it concerns me, deeply, that in all this time, as far as I know the Governor has never acknowledged that his furlough program was a mistake.

	And what concerns me even more.  Something I don't know how to explain.  While the Governor has shown great compassion for the difficulties of prisoners and their families--and no doubt their hardships are severe--when it comes to the plight of the victims and their families, there is what one can only describe as an astounding lack of sensitivity, a lack of human compassion.

	As far as I know in the year since it happened, the Governor of Massachusetts has never apologized to the Barneses for their ordeal.  After all this, the Governor still stoutly defends his program.  He has said the case of Willie Horton is one tragic incident, and it certainly was tragic, but there have been other tragedies.  And there are still 1st degree murderers let out on various liberal release programs who never came back.

	He says an earlier administration created the furloughs, but by 1975, the legislature, realizing the terrible danger of the program, passed a bill that would have banned furloughs for 1st degree murders.  My opponent pocket-vetoed that bill in his first year as Governor.

	The Governor has said repeatedly during his campaign that his furlough program is little different from those of other states or the federal government.  I'm afraid this is simply not the case.  The Massachusetts furlough program was unique in all the country; the only one to let first degree murders sentenced to life without parole out on weekend passes.

	His talk of statistics makes the victim even madder, said Cliff Barnes; "They told me I was an acceptable statistic and that, had I died, it would still be a successful program."

	But it's not just the furlough program that indicates the Governor's values are misplaced --there are a number of other issues that follow the same pattern.

	The Governor would ban the death penalty in every and all cases.  I believe that some crimes are so horrendous, so brutal, that the criminal should pay with his life.

	I support the death penalty.

	I support mandatory sentencing--the Governor vetoed such a bill.

	It's sadly ironic that only weeks before Willie Horton was convicted for the murder of 17 year old Joey Fournier, the Governor of Massachusetts vetoed a death penalty bill in his state.  To insist over and over again that a death penalty is not a deterrent seems to me to simply defy common sense.

	The issue here is broader and deeper than our specific disagreements--it reaches to the heart of the character of the laws that hold our society together, what sort of government we want to guide us, what sort of America we hope for and believe in.

	I think that many Americans believe that one of the pressing problems in the last few decades has been the character of our courts.  Too often, it seems, they bend over backwards for the criminal, while giving the rights of victims the cold shoulder.  Sometimes it seems their motto has changed from "beyond a reasonable doubt" to "beyond reason."  I have said before, that there seems to be something terribly wrong when the modern day version of a prison break is crawling through a legal loophole.

	We have strived hard these last eight years to put some balance and common-sense back in the courtroom, but it is my great concern that my opponent would reverse that trend and send us right back to the days of liberalism and ultra-leniency in our courts.

	This is why I feel it my duty to draw the distinctions between me and my opponent as sharply and clearly as possible, so that the American people can make their decision.  Because in a very real sense, the election this November is about more than the next four years, it will define the nature of our courts for a generation to come.

	As president, I will appoint judges who understand that it is their job to interpret the law, not legislate from the bench.

	I spoke earlier of a liberal ideology that will push ahead with its social experimentation despite the cost.  Today I've tried to show how this ideology has shaped--or misshaped--our criminal justice system.  At other times, I've spoken about how it applies to other issues, such as taxes and spending, the size of government, and the national defense.

	That's what this election comes down to--two fundamentally opposed visions of America and where we want to lead her.  I have said I want a gentler, kinder nation, where economic growth provides increasing security for our families.  Where prosperity has a purpose--to spread hope and happiness to the least fortunate, and to keep our nation strong, vital and confident, so that we can bring peace and freedom to a troubled world.

	I also want to bring common sense back into our courts and legal systems.  I just feel it's time that the liberal social experimentation comes to an end.  I want to put the scales of justice back in balance.  I want Americans to feel once again that the courts are on THEIR side.  That they are working to protect their rights to happiness, to its peaceful and private pursuit, to the "domestic tranquility" our founding fathers rightly believed to be the benefit of good and just government.

	That is so much a part of the American Dream.  It is my vision.  It is why I am running for president.  And with your vote, with your support, I will win on November 8 and together we will make that vision come true.

	Thank you very much and God bless you.

CRIME VICTIMSCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALDEATH PENALTYELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSLIBERALISMMASSACHUSETTSREHABILITATION OF CRIMINALSCRIME--GENERALCRIME--REPEAT OFFENDERSPRISONS--RELEASE PROGRAMS     ; : : : :
 : : : : : : : y:	  	  	  	  	 p 	 f 	 Y  >  0   e: