

	Mayor Brunton, my distinguished guest, and ladies and gentlemen of Springfield: I am very much flattered by this enormous and warm reception here this afternoon and I am very frank to say that while I have become conscious of the fact that virtually all of the universities of the United States seem to be partial in this campaign, I am delighted to observe here that some of the women's colleges are going along too. I think I like that sign down there, "The Gov. we love." But of course, if they were to give it to me I would like everything that comes with it. I have observed, as somebody pointed out the other day, that there are many sections of the country that have been one-party sections--uniformly Republican for years--until they began to build schools.

	I should also like to thank very expressly evidently some members of a club that I once belonged to when I was in college years ago--more years than I like to remember--and I don't know whether it is even fair or safe to mention Princeton University in Massachusetts.

	I am very much flattered to have here with me this afternoon an old friend from Navy days--a colleague--the great governor of Massachusetts, Governor Paul Dever. It was but five weeks ago that I was last here in Springfield, and I should like very much to take this occasion to congratulate the Democratic County Committee for providing us such a lovely day this time. I remember so well how it rained the last time I was here and how I was interrupted just as I was telling you how much I respected John Kennedy. And I still do--and more so. He is proving one of the most effective young men in public life in this country and I know that you respect him as I do for the way that he sticks up for his principles. And sticking up for principles is becoming one of the most conspicuous differences between the two parties in this campaign.

	I also welcome this opportunity to express my admiration for what I have learned about your candidate for Congress, Eddie Boland. And I know that he will be a worthy successor to Foster Furcolo, who moves on to higher office in the state of Massachusetts. I had not known Mr. Boland personally but I had made it a point to find out about him, and everything I have heard is good.

	So now I have caught up with you. I want to report to you that almost miraculously it hasn't rained a single drop any place on our campaign tour since the day we were last in Springfield, Mass. Of course that might hurt my chances in Texas. I think if I had been able to bring them a few buckets full of good Mass. rain they would have forgiven me for Tidelands.

	I want to report to you too that the campaign has been going just as well as the weather. Indeed, I had a--I don't know whether these fellows will forgive me for telling it--but I had an announcement the other day from a couple--I didn't know who they were--announcing the birth of a baby named James on the 18th of October. And I turned over the little card, and on the reverse side of it was printed, "I was only born yesterday, but I am for Stevenson. Jimmy." I count him a very discriminating young man, of course.

	And I should like to say also that I have been told many times during this campaign that I was talking over the heads of the people.

	Well, I am. Look at you.

	I don't have these opportunities very often and I want to make the most of them. I have come to realize increasingly in this campaign how closely the interests of the American people are bound up with the principles and the policies and the programs of the Democratic party. And when I say I know now that this is going to be another Democratic election, I am only speaking the self-confidence of the American people, and not us politicians. I used to call myself a statesman before I knew anything about this. I don't know whether you know--did you ever hear that definition of a politician? It is a man who approaches every question with an open mouth. That is what I have been doing for two months now. I am getting sick of hearing myself speak.

	Hold your hats now--I am going to make a speech, everybody.

	On issue after issue, as they have unfolded in this campaign, two positions have become clear--that of the people, the great number of people, and that of some special interest or group. I don't need to tell you that the Democratic party has always been, and will always be, I pray to God, the party of the people. That is where it started--that is where it is--and that is where it will always be. And every time it has departed from that cause, it has failed. And that has been true, too, of the Republican party as well.

	I want to test this statement if I can by looking with you, in the all too few minutes that we have here in Springfield, at just a very few of the issues which have arisen in this campaign. Let us look, for example, at the matter of the development and the handling of the power resources which still flow unharnessed down the rivers of this nation, like the Connecticut. I have encountered in most of the states innumerable issues involving the development of water power projects. It seems to me that the pattern of reports about them has always been the same. The Republican leaders are against them and the Democratic leaders are for doing something about them. Now I know that these cases are never entirely black and white. But the position of my party on the general issue presented in these cases is clear. If the serious needs of a community of people would be better served by a project which can be afforded and paid for, that would seem to make the development of that project imperative. If there is private capital willing and able to do so on fair terms, that is the way most of us would like to see it done. But if the people need the new development, and if it makes sense economically, then some vested interest is not enough reason for blocking the project. There are going to be another thirty million people in this country in twenty-five years, within the lives of many of you here. You people in Mass. and in New England generally will be called upon to do a lot of the job of clothing these new members of our family, and of supplying them with many of their wants. You will need more power resources than are now available and one way or another the resources that nature gave should, I think, be developed. There is a common public interest in seeing to it that nature's power resources are unlocked as people's needs increase. It is part of the Democratic program to see to it that these needs do not go unsatisfied when the means of satisfaction have been put beside us by our Maker's hands.

	Now there is no point in going over in detail the whole program of people's legislation which has been enacted in the past twenty years by President Roosevelt, by President Truman, and by the Democratic party. But that program of service to the people--of the meeting of the people's needs--is still far from complete. We face the immediate problem of counteracting the inflationary forces which have driven our cost of living up too high. So, we of the Democratic party support a strong and firm policy of direct and indirect cost of living controls, while at the same time the Republicans in Congress vote to punch holes in the price controls, in the tax laws, and to end rent controls completely.

	Now, there is a problem too of broadening the coverage of the social security program and making certain necessary adjustments in its benefit provisions. Then there is our position on the labor relations law. We have urged that the Taft-Hartley Act be repealed, and that it be replaced with another labor relations act, drafted not in the interests of one group, but to serve the common interests of labor, management, and of the people. And the people always have an interest--the people always have deep personal interest in every wage loss and in every work stoppage in this country. We are accused, when we take this position, of revealing a prejudice in favor of American labor as a special interest group, and of recommending that labor unions be treated as not subject to any law. I have made it perfectly clear that I think that labor unions should be as much subject to the law as any other group of persons in our community. And I think I have made it perfectly clear that resort to violence or force in a labor dispute is as intolerable as it is anywhere else in our society, and should be subject to all of the usual prohibitions and penalties. But the Taft-Hartley Act was passed in political spite. Even the author of the act has publicly recognized the necessity of many minor changes in it. And I have indicated five basic changes which are required by the public interest in establishing industrial justice and preventing the waste of needless work stoppages.

	For some reason there seems to be a continuous sham battle over the issue of repeal versus amendment. But this--and I am sure most of you realize this--is not the real issue. The important thing is that the required changes be made and that we stop kicking this issue around like a political football.

	And let me say right here, as I have before, that while I see inequalities and injustices in this law, and want to see it replaced by a better law, I have not been and I will not be bossed by organized labor anymore than I will by organized business. And I think that is precisely what labor expects. And I think it is precisely what business expects.

	There is a common interest--a public interest--which is the first interest of all of us--management and labor alike, in seeing to it that we have a law which will contribute to labor peace. Labor peace will come in the end only after the efforts of American labor and American management themselves, to whatever extent they can accomplish this design. But if necessary, the government must participate as an unprejudiced third party.

	These points I have mentioned as illustrating my party's recognition of the people's interest have to do particularly with our problems here at home. But I cannot leave you without referring to that other set of problems which strike even closer to our hearts. This nation has been destined, in the divine pattern of things to meet the obligations of leadership in finding for a sorely troubled world the path that leads to peace.

	We are meeting these obligations today. The price of meeting them right now is tragically heavy. Our greatest efforts must be directed toward the accomplishment of this purpose of peace, and they must be directed, too, toward keeping that price as low in terms of human lives and treasury as we possibly can. I know the yearning desire in the hearts of American families that our sons, our husbands and our fathers can come home as soon as possible. Everyone feels that desire, and no one more than I. It is the prayer and the purpose of all civilized peace-loving people everywhere. To speed that day in any measure whatever would be reward enough for any man. I should like to say to you here that your courtesy, your friendliness, your attentiveness, and the large numbers in which you have come out to see us, and interrupted your afternoon, touches me very deeply. I wish you all godspeed.

	I know that come what may the future of our country is safe as long as our citizenry of all kinds and classes, rich and poor, strong and weak, sick and well, take a positive, lively, and continuous informed interest in our public affairs. This is the honor that you are doing me today, and my associates on this platform. This is the honor that you have done my opponent as he has traveled across the country. Of course, we know who is right and who is wrong, but we want you to find out.

	And now, before I go could I have the privilege of introducing to you my youngest son, John Fell, who is being educated in Massachusetts--I hope. He is in favor of politics because he got a day off from school. May I also introduce to you the National Committeewoman--the national vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards. And the National Democratic Committeewoman from the state of Massachusetts, Mrs. O'Reardon. And I also have some other distinguished guests here that I should like to present. The Secretary of Labor of the United States and the former governor of Mass., Maurice Tobin. And may I also introduce my sister, Mrs. Ives. And the national vice chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson and Sparkman, who have done so much to educate the Independents, Mrs. Dick of Chicago.

	We Democrats intend, my friends, to keep on fighting for a better world. And we have confidence in America; we have confidence in her faith, her wisdom and her intelligence. And we have faith that America will use that wisdom, and that intelligence, and that patience, and use it wisely for enormous, frightening tasks that are ahead of us. For this is a time of danger. It is also a time of great opportunity and great hope. We may be on the eve of the golden age--on the evening of great tomorrows. And I know we can go there, but we have to go together.
COST OF LIVINGHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSWAGE AND PRICE POLICY     U4 !4 4 4 4
 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 3	 y 	 k 	 B 	 * 	  e: