

	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Governor Ellington. Thank you, Governor. What a wonderful, wonderful Democratic day this is. The sun is shining in the state of Andrew Jackson, Estes Kefauver, Cordell Hull, Buford Ellington, Senator Albert Gore, Governor Brown, Governor Elements, and thousands and thousands of Democrats. That is the kind of state I like.

	And Mayor Briley, I commend you on this wonderful city of yours and the great work that you are doing here in the development of this magnificent, historical, and yet modern city of Nashville.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel good today. I just read in the paper this morning that there is a possibility that Mr. Nixon might join me in debate somewhere along the line, but the way it read, it said in the beginning, there is a Republican team that has come to Nashville. And I said , "You know, I bet that is the vanguard for the Republican nominee". And then the paragraph, the second paragraph--oh, it broke my heart. The second paragraph said it is the Republican truth squad and I knew that Mr. Nixon couldn't be in that. 

	Well, my friends, I sent my "truth squad" in here about a week ago, just a one-lady truth squad. I had Mrs. Humphrey here.

	I want to thank Governor and Mrs. Ellington, I want to thank all the good people of Nashville and the state of Tennessee for their graciousness, their kindness, their hospitality to my Muriel, Ms. Humphrey. She is my secret weapon, I always say. If you have a little doubt about me, don't worry, she will make a great first lady, and the only way you can get her is to make me the first man. 

	But I thought maybe that I would entice the leader of the Republican party to come out from the shadows, come from under the Madison Avenue confetti parades that he has, and come out and talk, stand up like a man and face the audiences and speak to the issues. Because I told Muriel, Mrs. Humphrey, I said, "When you go to Nashville, now, you set an example, maybe you flush him out, I can't. You stand there, you answer the tough questions, you hold la press conference, you talk about everything from Vietnam to the economy. You show them that two members of the Humphrey family are willing to stand up and face the tough questions."

	But it didn't work. I tell you: all you can do now is compare her courage to Mr. Nixon's lack of it and his refusal to face the American people in debate. The American people aren't going to buy Brand X in 1968, even if it is advertised to TV. I think it is time to strip off the wrapper and see what's underneath. I hear about the new Nixon. Some of you knew the old Nixon. And what you have got to be thinking about is the real Nixon. That is the one that will bother you. 

	You know, I have had a lot of advice about this trip. Some people said, "Do you think you ought to go?" And I said, "Why not?"

	They said, well, that is Wallace country.

	VOICES: No.

	That is what I figured. That is what I figured. Then someone said to me, no, no, that is not Wallace country, that is Nixon Country.

	VOICES: No, No!

	I knew that wasn't true.

	Then, after that, they all ran for cover. Well, my friends, I will tell you what kind of a country I think this is. It is American country and the best country you can find. 

	And I am running for the presidency of the United States and I am running to be president of the United States, all fifty states, every one of the states in this great republic. And I am running to be president of that band over there, that Tennessee State A&I band. And I am running to be president of the United States and those folks over there that are carrying those signs land aren't carrying those signs, and even some that are carrying signs that I don't like. I am running for them, too.

	So I want to talk to you about this American country, because the American people are going to go to the polls in November and it is then when the voice of the people will be heard and they will help you decide two very great questions: which party, which candidates for president can most surely guide this nation down the pathways of peace? This is question number one And last night, I spoke to this nation about the hard facts of war and peace. I gave you a plan for peace in Vietnam and I gave you a plan for peace in the world, and I would like to hear from the opposition what they have in mind.

	I believe that we can achieve a honorable peace in Vietnam and this will be the first priority of a Humphrey-Muskie administration if this tragic war is still being fought when I assume office. I have spoken how I believe this peace can be achieved and now I repeat it. I think the American people deserve equal candor from Mr. Nixon, and I am waiting to hear what he has to say. 

	Unless that was some of his speakers that I just heard a moment ago. 

	Now, the second great decision of this election relates to the kind of an America, the kind of a society that we will have for ourselves, and more importantly, for our sons and our daughters, land our grandsons and our granddaughters. I have come to the South to this great border state, to talk about this issue point blankly, openly, and responsibly. For this is the time to speak the plain harsh truths, not because they are popular but because the price of silence may represent the end of our system of government as we know it and our ideals of a free society and of liberty itself.

	Now, there are forces abroad in this land striving to divide and to embitter our people. There are radical extremists of the right and of the left, white and black, demagogues--demagogues, my friends, who preach fear, who preach hate and who preach division. And I have heard and I have seen these extremists who chant and disrupt meetings and who seek to deny freedom of speech to persons with whom they disagree. And I want to make it very clear from this platform, I think that any man that seeks any office in this land, regardless of the views that he may hold, is entitled to a respectful hearing without disturbance anywhere. 

	The beginning of law and order is right here where we are now. I believe in dissent and I have practiced it all my life. Decent dissent, discussion, dialogue, debate, peaceful dissent, yes. But disorder, no. No disorder. 

	Disorder is not dissent; indeed, disorder, especially organized disorder, is the enemy of responsible dissent and democracy. Destruction is not debate. Indeed, the violence of destruction can only silence the vitality of debate. So I reject these extremists. I want none of them and I call upon the American people to reject them outright. 

	Now, there is another form of radical extremism, just as dangerous just as corrosive to our liberties--the extremism of those who preach disrespect for our courts, for certain laws, who play on the basest fears and the deepest suspicions of our people, the extremists who hate, who hate a man because of his religion or because of his race or because of the way he spells his name. And mark my words carefully: the strategy of organized hate, if left unanswered and unchecked, can lead this great nation of ours to disaster just as surely as the radical tactics of the provocateurs and the shouters and the disrupters can lead this country to the same tragic fate. 

	So let's get down to the nitty-gritty now. Let's talk about it. The former governor of a great state of a great people, former governor of Alabama says he is running on a platform of law and order. I want to talk to you about law and order. When he was governor of Alabama, he gave the American people quite a demonstration of law and order. He decided which courts suited him and he disobeyed the rest. He decided which judges he liked land he insulted the rest. He decided which laws he preferred and he tried to violate the others. Now he proposes teaching the Wallace method to the whole country. We won't take it, and let's make it clear from this audience. 

	He says if he gets to be president, he says if he is president, he will see to it that there is law and order. But in America, the business of law and enforcement, thank goodness, the business of the police, thank goodness, rests with state and local authorities and not with the federal government. I can't imagine la man that believes in states rights who wants a federal police force. I don't want a federal police force. 

	What a president can do is by deed, by word, by conduct to so educate and inspire the American people that they will want to observe the law. A president can go to the Congress and ask that Congress to help the mayor--Mayor Briley here, a great mayor--go to this Congress and help this governor, Governor Buford Ellington, one of the great governors of this land. A president can go and do those things. But the president of the United States is not a sheriff; he is the president of the United States of America and all that that means. 

	Now, Mr. Wallace was governor of the state with the highest murder rate, without bringing that to Washington. 

	But I will say this: If I were a citizen of Alabama and if I worked on a payroll in Alabama, I would surely do everything I could to keep Mr. Wallace out of Montgomery, and certainly out of Washington--both. 

	But, my friends, this is not all. The most serious threat arises from his calibrated campaign to divide this nation, to deliberately inflame the fears, the frustrations and the prejudices of our people and to bring this nation--and it will l--to the brink of broad-scale civil disorder. And my friends, if this was only the problem, I wouldn't speak of it. But these are the tactics that are found in the campaign--Madison Avenue, still--perfumed, deodorized, detergentized, all shined up and polished--of my Republican opponent.

	Very definitely, a man who deliberately courted the most radical extremist elements in his own party and who continues this appeal in his speeches and who will be fully in their debt should he win the presidency--attacks on the courts, vilification of lour law enforcement officials, group against group and race against race. These tactics have stockpiled the ingredients for civil explosion.

	Now, I mentioned the truth squad. They are here and they are listening to what I have to say. Well, I will tell you something: if they will tell the truth, we will win this election hands down, going away. That is what I can tell you now. 

	I hope this Republican truth squad will tell you about those eight Republican years. I hope they will tell you about Mr. Nixon, who wanted to send our armed forces into Vietnam fourteen years ago and that his president had to tell him to shut up. 

	I hope they will tell you the truth. If they do, we can all go fishing. It will be all over. We will win this election. Because what's the truth? The truth is that in those eight Republican years, you had three recessions, and workers in this audience, if you will be honest with yourself, and businessmen, you know that there was unemployment in Nashville and Tennessee, you know that the rate of unemployment in this nation stood at seven percent. You know that it stands at less than 3 1/2 percent today. I hope they will tell you the truth. I hope they will tell you the truth, that the farmers lost $3 billion in net income in those Republican years. I hope they will tell you the truth that not a thing was done for federal aid to education. I hope they will tell you the truth, that the workers' income in those eight years only went up nine percent, and in these eight Democratic years after taxes, after the cost of living, the family income of a working family of four has gone up 32 percent. I hope they will tell you the truth. 

	I hope they tell you that the cost of that unemployment was l$175 million in lost income. I hope they will tell you a lot more truth. I hope they will tell you that when the time came for Mr. Nixon to cast a vote as the presiding officer of the Senate to make it possible to have some help for our children and our schools on a tie vote, Mr. Nixon refused to vote and give the kids a break. I hope they will tell you.

	Oh, there is a lot I want them to tell you. And I hope they will tell you something else. I hope they will tell you that during those eight years, little or nothing was done for Nashville. And I hope they will tell you the truth that Mr. Nixon, who now whistles Dixie--let me tell you, the last Republican that ever did anything for the South was Sherman and you know what he did to it. 

	I hope they will tell you the truth about this Republic candidate land his new-found affection for TVA. 

	Oh, that is as phony as a two-dollar bill. Let's lay it on the line. The Republican party fought the TVA. Mr. Nixon never supported the TVA. He says he doesn't want to sell it. Of course, he doesn't want to sell it. He would rather mismanage it. 

	I will say he is one stop above Barry--Goldwater, that is, I mean. But ladies and gentlemen, it is nothing short of outright hypocrisy for a man to come around and say he now loves the TVA when he spent a lifetime of public service cutting it to ribbons, slashing it, condemning it, and now he claims it for a friend.

	Yes, I hope they will tell the truth. I hope they will tell the truth that during their eight years they didn't do a thing about the impoverished. I hope they will tell the truth that during their eight years with unemployment up to almost eight percent--l7.5 percent--they didn't have one workers program to train workers for jobs. Not one. Not one single worker in the training program.

	I hope they will tell the truth that during their administration, we had the biggest run on the gold supply that we had ever had in lone year. We Democrats are accused of not being very careful about money. Well, let me tell you, those Republicans, they took the padlock off and they went to a Fifth Avenue apartment and the money just flowed out of Fort Knox--almost $4 billion of it in lone year. I hope they will tell you the truth.

	And I will tell you something else: I hope that they will tell you that under these Democratic years, these young men that I see lover here and others have had a better chance for education than lever in their lives--aid to higher education, a million young students today under college loans because of the federal government.

	I hope they will tell you that ten million of our children, men land women have been lifted out of the poverty in the last five years. And I hope they will tell you, Mr. Businessman, that in any one of the last eight Democratic years, you have made more net profit than in all of the eight Republican years put together. Now, that is not bad.

	So, I have decided to tell the truth on the truth squad. All they need to do is to tell you the truth: A 300 percent increase in aid to education; a 300 percent increase in aid to health. I hope they will tell the old folks in Tennessee that the Republican party fought against Medicare and that Mr. Nixon said lit wouldn't work. I hope they will tell the truth, that it was Lyndon Johnson and John Kennedy and Harry Truman that made possible Medicare, too. 

	And I hope they will tell the truth about what Mr. Nixon said about the Peace Corps, the greatest thing that we have had for our country abroad, in which hundreds of thousands of our young people have served humanity. And what did Mr. Nixon call it? A haven for draft dodgers. And there isn't a draft dodger in the entire crowd and he knows it.

	I hope they will tell you the truth about what Mr. Nixon said about the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty that prevents the poison of radioactive fallout from killing off our children and generations yet unborn. He called it a cruel hoax.

	So, ladies and gentlemen, vote your own interest. Vote for yourselves. Vote for your country. You don't want a divided country. I look across this audience and see black and white. You and I know that you cannot judge people by race; you judge them by individuals. There is some good and there is some bad. Neither one has a monopoly on either one. We need an America that works together. We need an America in which the only way you judge a person is on merit. We need an America as we never needed it before, where everybody has a chance to be a producing, self-respecting citizen. We need an America in which our cities are reborn. We need an America in which our elderly are cared for. We need an America in which every child from age four on up can have a chance for the best education that we know how to give him. We need an America, dear friends, that is unafraid. And we need an America that will lead for peace. And we need an America that is strong enough to command respect.

	We need an America, my friends, that has given this nation the kind of leadership that this state represents.

	When I think of Andrew Jackson--way back, to be sure, but he represented the character of the American people--I call to your attention the leadership of this party. In victory or in defeat, to those who are a little older, I ask you to remember Franklin Roosevelt, who really lifted his country when he said, "All we have to fear is fear itself". And I call your attention to that man of indomitable will and courage who they said couldn't win--I have heard that, too--who they said had a lousy campaign--I have heard that, too--who they said was the underdog, and I have heard that, too; who they said six weeks before the end of the campaign was behind in the polls, 16 percent. I have heard that, too.

	But I want to tell you something. I get an inspiration out of the life and the work and the courage and the will and the scrappiness of Harry S. Truman. That is my kind of America. 

	We need an America like John Kennedy wanted it to be when he said let's get this country moving again; when he said to us, "Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country."

	And we need an America like Adlai Stevenson, when he said, "Let's talk sense to the American people." And I have been trying to talk sense to them.

	And we need an America like President Johnson, who has told this nation what it needed in terms of its children and its health, of its consumers, of its environment, of its cities, and of the world in which we live.

	I stand before this audience today proud to be a Democrat, but prouder to be an American. And I stand before this audience today asking you but one thing: If you want a united America, if you want a country that is one nation under God, indivisible, and with liberty and justice for all, if you want it, we can get it.

	I ask you to help me get it. I need your help. I ask your help land I say to you that together, together we can make this country sing. We can make this country realize its dream. We can do everything that we want to do that needs to be done, and we are not going to listen to the voices of reaction. We are not going to listen to the people that say stand still. We are not going to listen to the slick salesmen of phony goods.

	We are going to listen to the truth, we are going to act on it, land we are going to be unafraid. And we are going to make this what Lincoln said it was: the last best hope of Earth. So let's get on with the job.

	Thank you very much. 
CIVIL DISORDEREDUCATION--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNFREEDOM OF SPEECHHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSRACE RELATIONSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVIETNAM WAR     M L L L L
 L L L L L L L L	 	 		  	  	  	  	 } 	 c 	 C 	 . 	   	  e: