

	I am grateful for the loan of your capitol steps to make this speech. I expect to return them in good condition to my friend and your governor, Earl Warren. Earl Warren is a Republican leader I respect--an honest, wise man who knows that the purpose of government is to serve the people.

	This is my second trip to California as a candidate for president. I am exactly the same candidate who was here in California early in September. I have not changed my position on anything, and I have not had to change my friends either.

	I find this comforting. It is a comfort that has been denied my opponent. He seems to have felt it necessary to be a Taft Republican in Ohio, a Dirksen Republican in Illinois, a Jenner Republican in Indiana, a McCarthy Republican in Wisconsin--and here in California he has tried the delicate job of being both a Warren Republican and a Nixon Republican.

	As a result, by now it is hard to know just what kind of Republican the General really is. When principles become a matter of place and personalities, the principles are apt to get a little blurred. He may believe that news does not cross state lines--that his speeches and the pictures of his handshaking are stopped at the state line and confiscated.

	Well, there is no such luck. The people know what is going on in the world, and they have watched with mounting dismay as the General has steadily lowered the qualifications for command in his crusade. I know this is true because independent voters and liberal Republicans have been writing to me to say they have changed their minds about whom to vote for in this election. They have seen this "change for convenience" become too much of a habit.

	Incidentally, my opponent's running mate, the junior senator from California, is also an outstanding exponent of the doctrine that there's always a time--and a place--for a change. He went through the Central Valley here a few weeks ago praising to the skies the great work the federal government is doing in bringing water and power to farms and cities. He must want the people of the Valley to forget that one of his very first acts as a congressman, in April 1947, was to vote against funds for the Central Valley Project.

	To be blunt about it, the Republican leaders this year are spending most of their time trying to make people forget about the Republican record in Congress. I can understand this: they could never get elected on that record, and it has to be swept under the carpet for a while.

	The General was trying to make people forget the record the other day in Fresno when he said that he and the Republican party stand behind the present 90 percent price support law for cotton, and rice, and wheat, and other basic commodities. I wonder if the General knew that just four months ago, in June of this very year, a majority of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against 90 percent price supports. Maybe he didn't know, although I've been reminding him about it for six weeks, but the farmers know.

	Senator Taft, who would be the leader of the Congress if the Republicans win this fall, has told farmers very plainly that he is against 90 percent price supports--now and in the future. The senator says he is sure the General will agree with him on this. After seeing some of the things the General has agreed to recently, I am inclined to think Senator Taft is right.

	Another odd thing the General said in Fresno is that the Republicans "insist"--that was his word, "insist"--on extending support programs to perishable farm products. Well, the Republicans have an odd way of insisting.

	The Republican platform says that perishables should be handled by locally controlled marketing agreements. I take this to mean that producers of dairy products, chickens, and eggs, for example, are supposed to get together in small groups in each producing area and try to do something about prices set in markets hundreds of miles away. That won't work, as farmers well know. I wish it would.

	Furthermore, when the Republicans in Congress had a chance to vote for price protection for perishables, in 1949, did they "insist" on giving such protection? They did not. The Republicans in the House voted 40 to 1 against it--and they did not propose alternatives.

	The General, it seems to me, ought to acquaint himself with facts like these before he goes around making these statements about where his party stands and what it will do. Farmers are smarter than his advisers. They know the Republican record, and they apparently know it better than the General does.

	Farmers know that the majority of Republicans in Congress have been voting against the farm program ever since 1933, when the House Republicans voted against the original triple-A. They have been voting that way ever since.

	California farmers remember how the Republicans in the Eightieth Congress prevented the Commodity Credit Corporation from acquiring new storage facilities so farmers could get price support loans and what this did to your barley producers. They also know the Republicans tried to cut funds for the school lunch program in half--and California producers of turkeys, apples, pears and other perishable crops know how this program helps lighten the burden of temporary surpluses, and how it improves the diet of school children.

	It is far from clear, either, that the Republicans understand or accept the importance of the farm co-ops, such as those of your growers of prunes, almonds, raisins and many other crops. The Democrats have frequently had to rally to their defense against legislative attack; and only constant vigilance has preserved their capacity to contribute to the agricultural health of the nation. 
	Above all, California farmers need people in Washington who will work for the expanding domestic markets that come with full employment, and the expanding foreign markets that come with broader and freer world trade. The Democratic party has worked for these objectives in the past, and we will continue to work for them in the future.

	It may surprise you to know in view of all the Republican propaganda to the contrary, that if I am elected this fall I intend to run a clean, honest government. What is more, I know what I am talking about; I have cleaned up a lot of evil Republican practices in Illinois and cracked down quickly and ruthlessly on misconduct wherever I have found it. I even have a trained investigator in my office whose job it is to look for it all the time. And I have, frankly, been amazed by the self-righteous way the Republicans in the national campaign arrogate all the simple virtues of honesty, decency, indeed loyalty, to themselves while resorting to every device to corrupt the minds of the voters.

	I also propose to run an economical government--which is not a Republican monopoly either. And I know something about that, too. I have run a thrifty, careful government in Illinois--and I had to do it, incidentally, without much help from a Republican legislature.

	Incidentally, when it comes to economy in government, I will gladly weigh the experience and training of a governor any day alongside that of any military man. Until this campaign began I had not heard that generals were exactly celebrated for their devotion to economy.

	But honesty and economy are only a part of good government. Government exists for a purpose, and in our country the purpose of government is to preserve the rights and advance the well-being of all our people.

	That is the kind of government the Democrats have been providing, and that is why we keep getting elected.

	Finally, I pledge you a government in Washington dedicated to the great human goals of advancing the prosperity of our people at home and peace in the world.

	We know the tasks that lie ahead of this country--the tasks of building homes and raising food, of educating our children and assuring their good health--the tasks of building a better, more humane, more equal society in which discrimination and poverty will be banished--above all, the tasks of building peace in a world torn by conflict and menaced by ruthless tyranny.

	We are blocking this evil menace with arms in Korea. We are also steadfastly resisting any temptation or provocation to turn a small war into a big one. We are building the barricades in Europe with our allies.

	These are problems that can only be solved by courage and energy and faith--the qualities that brought pioneers through the inland deserts and over the Donner Pass to reach this spot. These are the qualities that have brought our country through depression and war and an era of social progress that has no counterpart--and under Democratic leadership all the way.

	We offer you no trick slogans, no magic solutions. We offer you a proven record of imaginative leadership and of service to the people.

	We are ready to go forward. For this country there is no other way to go. I want your signal on November 4th.
AGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORAGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSILLINOISPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS     $ $ $ $ $
 r$ m$ h$ ^$ T$ R$ # #	  	  	  	 [ 	 : 	  	  e: