

	I am delighted to be here in Tampa. In fact, I wish I could just unpack my luggage and sit down right here in the sun and stay. And there may be some Republicans around the country who would think well of that idea, too!

	This is my second trip into the South during this campaign. I understand my opponent has been down South too. During his own private march through Georgia he had some rather harsh things to say about us Democrats. And he seemed alarmed about the condition of the people of the South. He spoke of the crushing load of debt supposedly resting on the shoulders of every newborn babe; he told the people that they were losing their freedom and going bankrupt. This struck me as peculiar, since I know for a fact that no part of the United States has partaken more fully of this country's prosperity than the South. So I wanted to come down here to find out what all the shouting was about.

	I must say I'm still puzzled. You don't look downtrodden or bankrupt to me.

	However, perhaps by examining more closely the plight of the South, you and I can discover some evidence that will help support the sad story of the General of the Army.

	Let us first examine the plight of the farmer around here. What have these terrible Democrats done to the farmer? Why, right here in this area during the last twenty years, the value of the oranges, grapefruit, tomatoes, and strawberries he raises has gone up fourfold--up to $16 million.

	I guess that won't work. The farmer doesn't seem to have a plight.

	Well, let's turn to industry: the Democratic party must have done something terrible to Florida industry. But the records seem to show that Florida had little industry at all twenty years ago, and has quite a good deal now, most of it based on the farmer's prosperity--for example, the manufacture of cans for juice concentrates that go to every state in the Union--including, I think, California!--of course, I mustn't be quoted on this.

	Well, let's try this--I have it on the highest authority that there's an arm of the federal government in Florida, known as the Citrus Products Laboratory of the Department of Agriculture, over in Winter Haven. And we all know the terrible things bureaucrats do. But it turns out that these sinister bureaucrats, working with the Florida Citrus Commission, helped in the basic development of the frozen citrus concentrates I've just been speaking of.

	Well, I don't know just where to look. Of course it is just possible the General doesn't know prosperity when he sees it, or doesn't want to see it--which should not surprise us. For the General is now the spokesman of the Old Guard of the Republican party and those fellows have been perpetually frightened--or should I say professionally frightened--about as long as we can remember.

	When the Old Guard talks about prosperity, they have in mind something quite different from the kind of prosperity we see all around us today.

	Our well-being today is the well-being of all the people.

	But the Old Guard's dearest memory is of the boom that came to Florida in the 1920s--came to it and just about ruined it forever. You who were in Florida remember what happened. And you who have come here since remember how other parts of the nation suffered. And you all know how America found a new leader and a great one--Franklin Roosevelt. I need not remind you in detail of what he did.

	I would only say two things: that the prosperity you are enjoying today is not the gift of the Democratic party; what the Democratic party did was to release the energies and restore the confidence of the people.

	And I would say this: Since 1932 the Democratic party has written into the law of the land some insurance policies against depression--a minimum wage law, the right to collective bargaining; price supports for farmers; and social security.

	We, the Democratic party, are pledged to keep them in force--to extend them. But nobody knows what the Republicans who are seeking your votes this year would do to them.

	Of course, we know what they say they would do. This month and last month they have been going around the country, saying that they too are in favor of farm price supports and fair labor laws and social security. They do this for two months out of every four years.

	What do they say--and more important what do they do--the rest of the time?

	I can tell you. I will use a single example: Social Security.

	My opponent said the other day that he is one hundred percent for Social Security. He said, "We must improve and extend it. This is a matter that is much on my heart."

	But--before he became a candidate for public office--he said what he really thought about Social Security. He said, in Galveston, Texas, in December 1949, "If all that Americans want is security, they can go to prison. They'll have enough to eat, a bed and a roof over their heads." Let us make no mistake about this. This was no slip of the tongue. He said the same thing in September 1949, in a speech at Columbia University: "I should think the best example of perfect security would be a man serving a lifetime in a federal prison."

	The General of the Army--on Social Security I call him the General-come-lately--said in Los Angeles that an overwhelming majority of his party had supported Social Security. But I am afraid he hasn't been doing his homework very thoroughly.

	The fact is that while a majority of Republicans in Congress voted for the original Social Security bill in 1935, they did so only after they had tried to cut the heart out of the bill, its old age insurance provisions, which they called "unconstitutional." They made this attempt in an off-the-record vote. Only when this failed and they realized that we had the votes to pass the bill in spite of them did they jump on the bandwagon.

	The General said in Los Angeles that Social Security was a "bipartisan issue." Has he forgotten--or didn't he know--or would he rather you'd forget--that the Republican presidential candidate of 1936 didn't consider it bipartisan. He called the Social Security law a "cruel hoax" and campaigned for its repeal.

	The General said that the Republican platform pledges the extension of Social Security to millions of people who are not now covered. He said he stands by that pledge.

	Well, the Republicans made the same pledge in their 1944 platform. But two years later when they gained control of the Eightieth Congress they not only did not fulfill that pledge--they actually took Social Security coverage away from more than a half million people. One of the Republican leaders in Congress that year was the present running mate of the General of the Army, the Republican candidate for vice president of the United States--and he voted with the majority. Has the General forgotten--or didn't he know--or would he rather you'd forget?

	The General said in Los Angeles he had received a letter which shows "how a poor woman's security in old age has been turned to insecurity by administration policies that cut in half the value of her pension dollar."

	But it was the Republican Old Guard in Congress that led the fight to scuttle price controls. Nobody likes controls of any kind, but when we must spend--to defend ourselves against Communism as we must today--we must also fight that other deadly menace--inflation. Senator Taft led the fight to wreck price control. Senator Capehart wrote the amendment that raised prices by a billion dollars. Has the General of the Army forgotten--or didn't he know--or would he rather you'd forget?

	Only five months ago the House Republicans killed a bill raising social security benefits by five dollars a month. Subsequently, when the Democrats brought the bill up again, the Republicans saw they were beaten and once more jumped on the bandwagon.

	I could go on and on with this dismal recital. But I think the truth is inescapably plain: You cannot trust these men whose campaign story seldom coincides with the record.

	Now I have a lot of Republican friends back home. And I say to you as I have said many times to them: They deserve better leadership than they are getting--better and more trustworthy.

	What do the Democrats say about Social Security? We say--and I am quoting the pledge written into the 1952 Democratic party platform:

	"Our national system of Social Security, conceived and developed by the Democratic party, needs to be extended and improved."

	That is our pledge. And you know we mean it, for you know that it was under the Democratic leadership of FDR that the great Social Security program was written into the law of this land. And you know what we've done in recent years.

	During the last two years we have raised benefits and extended coverage--in 1950 more than ten million additional workers were brought under Social Security--housemaids, self-employed persons, and some farm workers. Furthermore the beneficiaries of Social Security now may if they wish continue to lead useful lives of work and still retain insurance benefits--the limit on earnings was $15 a month in 1950; it is now $75.

	We have made progress, yes, toward the day when no man or woman or child, because he is aged or infirm or bereft, shall live in want or in fear of his future.

	And we are determined to work toward a longer, healthier life for our older citizens. Raising the income tax exemption for medical expenses of people over sixty-five was one Democratic contribution. As governor of Illinois, I took the first long step in a program of basic research in geriatrics--the study of the processes of aging. Under our reformed Department of Public Welfare we have established a large hospital at Galesburg, Illinois, concentrating on basic research in geriatrics. The state is doing that, and we need more of this sort of thing.

	The protection of persons living on fixed incomes is one of our great problems. For no man living on a pension, no woman living on the proceeds of life insurance, no man or woman living on Social Security payments, can today be truly secure so long as inflation continues. During this campaign I have spelled out a four-point program for fighting inflation. I think it will work--if it is given a chance to work.

	And we have to maintain full employment. There are sixty-two million men and women at work in the United States today--and full employment means a bountiful economy strong enough to aid those who need help.

	To you and to me, Social Security--the rightful recognition for a life of hard work--is now firmly established as a part of American life. The whole object of a lifetime of toil is to accomplish our tasks in life and then be able to say: Now, my time has come to rest, to put to use the wisdom of my years--and to be free to do it, not as a public charge, but as a respected citizen who can accept the poet's invitation:

	Grow old along with me,
	The best is yet to be,
	The last of life
	For which the first was made.

	With a Democratic administration in Washington for the next four years our Social Security program--this essential part of our national strength--will go forward.

	Can you entrust this program to the Republicans? I don't want to be an alarmist like my opponent. But I doubt if the Republican leadership has ever really understood that our Social Security program was a response to a real need of the American people. The Democratic party, on the other hand, has always been the people's party and responsive to their needs.

	That is why this year we stand for repeal and replacement of the Taft-Hartley Act with a better, fairer law; for firm farm price supports at ninety percent of parity; for all the rest of our forward-looking domestic program, and for the foreign program of resistance to Communist aggressors and assistance to our friends abroad.

	Let us make no mistake that the world struggle today is the struggle between Christianity and Communism. And let us make no mistake either about our duty to each other here at home.

	Wherever we in America strengthen the individual, and lift him up, and offer him the surroundings in which he can flourish in his own way, by that much we strengthen ourselves and the world. We say that the human individual is our most precious resource. We say the American future is brightening every day. We say in the name of our children and our children's children: What is past, is prelude.

AGRICULTURE--GENERALECONOMY--DEPRESSIONHEALTH CARE--SENIOR CITIZENSINFLATIONMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCESSENIOR CITIZENSWAGE AND PRICE POLICYSOCIAL SECURITY     1 1 1 1 1
 1 |1 w1 r1 k1 i1 *1  1	  	  	 q 	 U 	 L 	 3 	 $   e: