

	Ladies and gentlemen:  Before this vast audience which has made me such a signal honor by coming here in the middle of a busy day to listen to the few thoughts I may have to give you, I want to pay my tribute to your great governor and the honor I feel in his introduction of me.

	I should like also to pay my respects to your congressman, Mr. Angell, and more particularly because of the identity of your mayor, I want to speak for just a second about my earnest belief, my deep conviction that we should have more women in public life.

	It is not only, ladies and gentlemen, that we have two million more of them than we do of men.  I have a deeper reason, a rising out of my conviction that our civilization, our form of government, has its roots firmly based in moral and spiritual values, in a deeply felt religious faith, and I have the further belief that women, as the homemakers of our nation, are more concerned with the preservation and the strengthening of those values in our conscience all the time than do the busier men in their preoccupations with making a living.

	I do not mean to say that we have not had great leaders, inspirational leaders in this field of moral value and moral worth, but I think by and large we would all agree that women pay more attention to such values than do men and I should even be bold enough to say this:  I feel today we probably have the greatest group of Republican governors that we have ever had at any one time in all the history of the United States, and we have more than half of them.  And I think that their caliber might even be enhanced if we could include--an additional one or two of them--women next time.

	I am joined together with many thousands of Americans, indeed millions, who believe that it is time for a change in our national administration.  We are conducting a crusade, and the first purpose of that crusade--not the ultimate one but the first purpose-- is to get rid of men who are too small for their jobs, too big for their britches, and too long in power.

	That is only the first objective, because what this crusade seeks to do during the next four years, is to bring back a situation in America where every single one of our citizens can have pride in his government--can have that kind of pride, ladies and gentlemen, that makes us want to unite behind our national legislative and executive leaders to promote these basic purposes for which America has stood in the past and stands for now at home and abroad:  peace abroad and the welfare of 155 million people here at home.

	I am, for a few moments, with your indulgence, going to extend some remarks I made last evening in Seattle.  I talked there about the "whole-hog" interest in our government; the "whole-hoggers" who want to seize upon every resource, very possibility in our whole nation to extend the powers of federal government over our lives.  I addressed myself mainly last evening to water, water conservation.  I emphasized the importance of partnership among the federal and state governments and the people in the development of water resources.

	The people of the area must have a strong voice in the planning and the administration of these great projects.  We don't want federal domination of the people through federal domination of their natural resources.  Now in the wise use of our public lands and forests this is especially important because the federal government holds so much of your western land in trust for the people.  The people of Oregon, I know, are really qualified for this partnership because they themselves have made much progress in establishing tree farms, the principle of sustained yield, and the financing of forest research at their own expense.  That goes for the state of Washington, too.  Your two states have been leading the way for the country.

	Now, for many years the national administration has been trying to corrupt the purposes of our forest and land management agencies despite the devoted service of the thousands of fine people in those agencies; but the political bosses of these people in Washington have departed far from the purposes laid down by that great Republican conservationist, Gifford Pinchot.  They have reached out to acquire more and more private land with more and more dominating control.  They have preached federal control over private lands with rules written in Washington and administered from Washington.

	Nowhere has the administration shown more clearly this desire to regiment our people and our resources than in this field of public land policy.  Your only clear assurance against such control is to elect a national administration which is friendly to the states, which will come to you as a partner, not as a patron or a boss. 

	Washington, D.C., today knows nothing of partnership, even in its own family.  Two federal agencies for years have been fighting a squabble over which should supervise forest lands.  In another bureau actual fraud and favoritism have crept in.  Only last summer in your own state a federal court canceled the sale of Indian timber as fraudulent and ordered its resale to the highest bidder, not to a favorite.

	Let me assure you that the new administration will not play favorites.  Our renewable resources must be harvested on a scientific basis.  The diversified need for the great variety of forest products must be recognized.  Our federal land managers should not be local dictators.  Our national forests should constitute a timber resource to provide the products needed in time of crisis or severe shortage.  They should not be turned into a vehicle for federal control of the nation in their forest economy.

	The administration should get busy and show by example how the principle of sustained yield can work.  We should have full cooperation between the federal and state and local governments to attain the best possible multiple use of public lands.  We must be watchful that no special interests do irreparable harm to our watersheds by improper exploitation.

	Let us see today that when interests clash, decisions shall be made on the basis of the greatest good to the greatest number in the long run.  That has been the Republican policy for half a century. 

	And now, ladies and gentlemen, with those ideas placed upon the record, to extend the thoughts I expressed last night about conservation, I want to talk to you a little bit about the Republican Party; the party which will return the federal government to the people next year. 

	Now while we do this through the medium of a party, I want to make quite clear that no one in the leadership of this crusade is appealing merely to Republicans or to people as Republicans or as anything else except as American citizens.

	We believe that to accomplish the purposes of this great crusade it is necessary that all people who believe in certain broad principles or broad objectives which must now be accomplished in the interests of our country, band themselves together.  They may differ widely in method; they may differ widely in their ideas of the right procedure to follow.  But if they feel--if they support basic principles, basic aspirations as of today, then they are, for the purpose of this election and for the next four years, all the same party in conducting the crusade.

	I don't label them.  I merely say they are a great army carrying on a necessary purpose.

	These diverse elements are many sorts.  They include people of every race, color and creed, and that is as it should be; because, ladies and gentlemen, if there is any one thing that has made our government work during these years with such vast benefits to so many people, it is our faithful adherence to the principle of the two-party organization.  If we should attempt to break up any of these great organizations into parties, depending upon the peculiar or particular beliefs of each group, we would certainly have an innumerable number of parties.

	In France, for example, if someone disagrees with the Social Democrats he goes to the Christian Democrats, or if he disagrees with the Radical Socialists he goes to the Socialists; if he disagrees with General de Gaulle he goes to another party.  Finally, of course, you have at the extreme end of the scale the Communists; but due to this splinter party system, government is paralyzed.  It finally cannot serve the people, even in cases where the very interests, indeed sometimes it seems the very life of the nation, are at stake; these little differences are nursed so tightly to the breast, their mutual hatreds are so valuable to them, that they cannot act.  Now that must not happen in America.

	I say, again, this crusade welcomes and insists that it must have people of many diverse beliefs in every form of human endeavor and activity, so long as we have certain ideals, aspirations and purposes which we commonly support.

	Now, the opposition party finds it hard, they profess, to understand how this can be.  You know, they are the party who wanted to demand a loyalty oath.  At their convention they wanted to make each member there swear, take an oath, that he would support the party nominee, regardless.

	Now the Republican Party and its associates, its independent and enlightened Democratic associates, do not believe in party oaths.  Indeed, we want differences of opinion to keep us healthy and on our toes.  We do not believe in thought control.

	And the opposition party is finding that it has many people who are rebelling from the mental yoke, the intellectual yoke, which it has tried to place upon them.  Indeed, even in the South that they have traditionally called their own, an area where they thought they had a mortgage that was biding forever and forever, they are getting frightened.

	So, then, we believe in unity but not in uniformity.  We believe in cooperative work, but not in regimentation.  Senator Vandenberg's fight carried on for many months was against factions and classes in our political life.

	Now, let us talk for just a moment about these goals that all of us who are in this crusade are supporting.  Now, I do not mean just the purpose of supplanting a worn-out administration in Washington.  That is merely the first step.  This crusade of cleaning out an inept and bungling administration will take as its first job that of cleaning out corruption.

	It is absolutely unthinkable that an American citizen has to be worried as was a lady who recently wrote me a letter.  She said:  "General, I should like to vote for you, but, before I do, will you give me your promise that more of the tax money I pay will actually get to Washington!"

	We have descended a long, long way form the dream of our forefathers when a hard-working American taxpayer has to exact a promise from a prospective officeholder.  "Will you please see that the sacrifices I make in order to pay my taxes will not be exploited by someone who is lining his own pockets!"  That, then, is the first purpose of the crusade; high taxes and prices.

	Now, of course, with the expenditure programs that are required today for necessary purposes, there cannot be any escape for the moment from high costs and high taxes and high prices.  Which makes it all the more necessary that we watch with a jaundiced eye anything that is unnecessary--all of the waste, the duplication, the inefficiency that we know about, and which you would not expect me here today at this time to enumerate.  That must be eliminated and it is the second purpose of this crusade.

	Just one example of what this double-squeeze of high prices and high taxes is doing to us:  the ordinary wage earner of America in 1945 earned a pound of coffee in eighteen minutes of work; today it takes him thirty-four.  Now, that is not just because of some unusual or unexpected shortage of coffee.  That is merely a measure of the cheapening of your money, which means a cheapening of your insurance policy, of your savings account, of your pension, everything that you have put aside to do your part in making sure your old age is a comfortable one.  So, that, I say, is the second step and objective of that crusade.

	To eliminate disloyalty from this government, no matter what else may be necessary.  How difficult it may be to find the disloyal in our government, this much is certain.  In the high policy positions we have the answer in establishing a government that we command the services of the ablest, finest Americans that there are in this whole country.  If we can bring men and women to Washington, and we can--if we have the kind of government that Americans respect--because that American will be proud to serve his country under such conditions, we will have incorruptible men and women in the top positions. 

	And how will they choose their principal assistants?  Why, from among the men and women that they know to be incorruptible.  And so it will go.  And we will have the policy-making positions of the United States filled with people who are loyal, dedicated, devoted to the Constitution of America and the 155 million they serve.

	Now, with our objectives of corruption, unnecessarily high prices and taxes and disloyalty, the next is decentralization of power, of which I spoke to you briefly in the prepared part of my talk.  We must keep the long nose of government out of private business.  We must earnestly and conscientiously combat the theory that the only ability in the United States is found among the bureaucrats sitting behind desks in Washington.  We must have the faith of our founding fathers, that the more responsibility we keep close to home, responsibility in the individual, in the family, in the community and in the state, in that measure will be the success of our country, not in measure by which it centralizes power and makes us all creatures of a state.

	Indeed, don't forget this:  the essential challenge that Communism makes to free government is this:  free government has failed, it cannot rule people, they cannot rule themselves because they break up into pressure groups, there must be central control and then it says, we control it through a dictatorship of the proletariat; but, to most Americans, dictatorship is dictatorship, and just because you put a four-dollar word behind it, it doesn't make it any different.

	And the final and the great objective of this crusade is to bring about peace.  Peace in the world.  Now there are several reasons that I put this last.  Not only is it the most important:  the first requisite to peace is a strong, solvent prosperous United States.  Only that kind of United States can lead the free nations of the world into a voluntary association which will bind them together firmly in opposition to the spread of Communism.  Therefore, if we are going to be strong, which means united; if we are going to be prosperous; if we are going to be leaders; we must have a government that you respect.  When 155 million people can respect their own government we need not be afraid of its prestige and its power of leadership abroad.

	Now under such conditions, ladies and gentlemen, the next part of the program would be to develop prosperity without war.  It would be to develop true equality of opportunity in our country regardless of race and color and creed; to make certain that those great aspirations noted in our Constitution and in our Declaration become a living fact, a shining face for all to see and so bind us more closely and closely together in our moral support of these great principles.

	Finally, such a government would be one that could say, after four years in power, and at a meeting such as this--and we could put representatives of that government on this stage--its ambition would be that you could turn one to the other and say, why, during those four years those people didn't have a lot of promises to give us, to catch our votes.  Actually, of course, all the promises, the political promises, have long been worn-out.  But those people lived up to their pledge to give us a fair government and a just government, so far as God gave them the power to determine what was just and what was fair.

	And finally they gave us a government that was friendly, that wanted to be helpful among us; that did not come in a domineering fashion to tell us what we must do and should do under their wise leadership.  It merely came to help.  It was friendly.  If we can--if we can make that pledge, as I do now, and the many people who have joined this crusade, from the left to the right, from the top to the bottom, if we can come at the end of four years and have you say that, there is no ambition among any of those men and women who would be a member of that government that would not be satisfied.  There is no longing here for power, for domination or for dirty dollars.

	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
BIPARTISANSHIPCOST OF LIVINGGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYTIMBER INDUSTRY/RESOURCESWOMEN CANDIDATESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION--PUBLIC LANDSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT     C aC [C WC MC
 ?C :C 5C -C 'C %C C C	  	  	  	  	  	   x  `  :   e: