

	Mr. Steinemann: I can't tell all of you people how grateful I am to you for coming down here in the middle of the afternoon to greet us. I should like to think that your being here was something more than curiosity about a candidate for president--a candidate who certainly never has won, or has any prospect of winning, any beauty prizes. I think what is happening all over the country is that people are thinking more and more about our public problems, and that's why they turn out in such large numbers everywhere to see these candidates. I like to--I had a letter from a woman the other day from somewhere in the East whom I didn't know. She was commending me on some speech I made, and she went on to say, "You know, Governor, I respond to emotion very readily, unless I think--which I sometimes do."

	I have a feeling that people are thinking, and thinking more and more about our problems. And it is well that they do, because they are vast problems. Some of these issues come as close to home as the price of groceries; whether the baby is going to get a new snow suit this winter. Some of them drive as close as our heart--to our hearts as whether our sons are going to live normal lives or have to dig their homes in foxholes and in trenches. And some of these issues drive as far into the future as whether civilization itself is going to live or die. So, I am glad you are interested in this business that we have before us. And I like to think, too, that there are many of you who indicate by your presence here and by the warmth of your greeting as I go about the country, your feeling that it is important that the nation's business continue to be handled by the Democratic party. I wish I had the time to discuss with you some of these many problems, these many issues, that have emerged in this election campaign, to suggest the arguments on both sides.

	As a matter of fact, the basic decision is just a common-sense decision. It sort of reminds me of an old judge we had in downstate Illinois years ago who used to make his decisions very rapidly, particularly in the case or cases in which someone had been killed, and when he was asked how he made his--how he could reach his conclusions so quickly, the old man said, "Well, I just set here after hearing all the evidence and I say to myself, 'Should this here deceased have went?'"

	Now, these issues before the people of America can't be handled quite that simply. And yet I submit that what is required to decide them is just a little common sense applied to an overpowering lot of evidence. We have established the right of working men and women to join labor unions and to bargain collectively; the right of farmers to get a fair price for their basic crops; the right of people to live in dignity when their life's work is done. We have established programs for replacing slums with decent homes, and for building more schools and hospitals. Business throughout our country is good. We think, we Democrats, that we have looked at people's needs--have thought only of their freedom and their welfare--that we have earned the right to call ourselves today the people's party, which has been the historic role of the Democratic party in this Republic since the days of Thomas Jefferson.

	We need badly, it seems to me, the leadership of a party which is for things instead just against everything.

	Let's look, if we may, at just one of these problems. America is asking today, particularly the housewives of America, what the two parties propose to do about the problem of rising prices. The Republican answer to that question is clear from its record. The answer is nothing. Four years ago a Republican senator from this state told us what he would do if prices go up. His answer was a simple one: "We should," he said--and these were his words--"eat less." And he and the Republican Old Guard forces have voted against almost every measure which has been introduced in Congress to keep prices down. The Republican position is that rising prices just aren't the government's concern. Now, we Democrats reject this kind of thinking. We say that rising prices are caused by forces individual people cannot control; that they hurt all of the people badly--and very badly, ultimately; and that the government is, therefore, obligated to do what it can to stop it consistent with a sound economy and with our many obligations.

	We have spelled out a program of governmental action which will do this job. It will take the strictest economics as far as the government's own budget is concerned. I have been practicing up on that kind of job for the past four years, and I hope you won't mind my bragging a little that I fired more officeholding parasites and vetoed more spending bills than any governor in the history of Illinois--and I am very proud of it. But this job of keeping prices from licking us, particularly those who are on fixed incomes or in white-collar jobs, will take more than a cutback in government expenditures.

	It will take some real tightening of our pay as you go tax policy, some further restraints on private borrowing and credit and for a time yet, at least, some even more vigorous application of price and wage controls.

	And bear in mind, my friends, that this is not a one way street. You can't be against inflation and against higher costs and also against the controls when they apply to you. That is too much like the legislature--legislators in Congress and in your state legislature here in Ohio, the type who vote for every appropriation and against every tax bill to raise the money to pay for it, and meanwhile, all the time they holler their heads off about waste, extravagance and the debt.

	I will tell you one thing you could do to help meet this cost of living problem; you people have a man here in this state who knows this problem and he knows it inside out, and I mean of course, Mike DiSalle, and you can send him to the United States Senate, and you might tell him, incidentally, that if he goes down there, there is no obligation to lose his sense of humor. What's more, he wouldn't do it anyway. And I hope too that you here in Erie County and in the Thirteenth District will send us in Washington your friend and neighbor Judge George Steinemann. I know something of his record as a judge and what he stands for and it is men like that that we need more of in the House of Representatives.

	I have talked to you entirely too long. Our train is a little behind schedule and I regret very much not being able to discuss with you at all what is of course the biggest problem that we face. In its immediate form, this is the problem of winding up the tragic business in Korea and getting our boys home. I think that can be only part of the much broader job of restoring sanity and peace in this world. Our only purpose nowadays is not to win wars but to prevent them, to find the way to stop them forever. No one man--not even the president of the United States--can begin to achieve this purpose. I can only tell you that, as a father and as a candidate that may win or lose, my all consuming purpose--besides which everything else is entirely secondary--is to help in some measure to contribute during my lifetime to that goal which all men and women the world over reach for today with their hearts but have not yet been able to grasp.

	You have done me a great courtesy by coming here this afternoon. I think that everything is going well in our campaign. I even find I have the babies' support. I had an announcement through the mail a couple of days ago of a couple who were announcing the birth of a baby in their family, and they said, "Mr. and Mrs. so and so announce the birth of their son James on October 18, 1952," and inside was printed, "I was only born yesterday but I am for Stevenson."

	I can't but think, my friends, that that was a man of most discriminating judgment, considering his youth.

	And now, if I may, before we pull out, I should like to introduce to you my sister, Mrs. Ives. We also have with us the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, a famous American, Mrs. India Edwards. And I should also like to introduce to you, lest you think that this train is comprised entirely of bachelors--Mrs. Edison Dick, who is the national co-chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson.

	Good-bye, God bless all of you, and my everlasting thanks for coming here this afternoon and listening to me so patiently and so attentively.

	My friend down here from the newsreels asked me if I had any secrets. Well, I have one that I think I can impart to you if you would like to hear it. We think that the campaign is going well, to be sure, but that the Republicans still have a chance--we think they have an outside chance of carrying Maine and Vermont.

	Bye, bye.
COST OF LIVINGINFLATIONWAGE AND PRICE POLICY     !# " " " "
 " " " " " " " "	 , 	  	  e: