

	Senator Myers--Senator Myers and Judge Bard, distinguished guests and my friends of Philadelphia"

	Speaking here in Philadelphia I hope you will forgive me if I publicly acknowledge that I am surrounded here by the shadows of my past. All of my maternal ancestors were Quakers from Chester County, Pennsylvania. And they moved to Illinois more than a hundred years ago. I am surprised that you are not still cheering. One of them was Lincoln's friend, to whom he addressed his famous autobiography, who played a conspicuous part in the foundation of the Republican party in Illinois; who proposed the Lincoln-Douglas debates and took a large part in his nomination for the presidency.

	I have been very proud of my Pennsylvania forebears in spite of his Republican activity, for the origin of the Republican party was in protest to the equivocation and to the compromises of the Whig Party. Were he living today, as the humorist said, he would be rolling in his grave, and I would have to ask you good Democrats to give him refuge in the Democratic party.

	I am deeply grateful to you for your reception--more grateful than I can say. But I know that there is in your cheers much, much more than a greeting to me. In America's voices this week--the hundreds of thousands of them that I have heard these past few days--there is the great message that the people of America are ready now to fulfill their role as the real, the only, guardians and the leaders of the republic. In their enthusiasm this evidence that the people are fully alive to what is at stake in this election is all that we who believe in the principles of the Democratic party need or want to know, for ours is, in a very real sense, the party of the people, dedicated to meeting people's needs--to serving their highest hopes and aspirations. We know now that on next Tuesday the American people will reaffirm their faith in the party which has faith in them.

	This city calls by its oldest tradition and by its most recent action upon two qualities in those who seek a nation's trust. It is the spirit of the Declaration of Independence which calls from me the statement to you in plain, blunt words, that I shall go to Washington, if that is your decision, wholly independent of any person, any class, or any interest. I have refused in this campaign to barter my principles and those of my party for the support of any politician or any political boss, and I didn't need to. We have not had to make promises of huge tax cuts or quick and easy solutions to the problems of Korea--which we know could not be kept. I have supported only those interests of farmers, of labor, of businessmen, which it is clear contribute to the paramount interest, which is the public interest.

	There used to be talk in this campaign, from those who professed the Republican faith, about captive candidates. That was before the Republican candidate went hunting for votes and came back with both hands and feet in bear traps. It was before it became completely clear that the Democratic position on civil rights was to be stated the same in all parts of the country. It was before it became completely clear that the Democratic Party would not bargain away the tidelands, or anything else, to catch votes. And, if I may, I declare here in the city of the fathers of independence, at the end of a campaign which is an open book, my independence of any lesser bosses than 156 million men, women, and children of America. I am the captive, if they will have me, only of all the American people. And I pledge, too, my dedication to the spirit of Philadelphia's current all-out campaign for clean and honest government.
	
	These are not hollow words. You know perhaps that in Illinois, as here in Philadelphia, people have become so content, that their government became incompetent and corrupt. They rose up four years ago, as you have here, and this nation has, and demanded a cleansing of the public house. I suspect that I stand before you tonight as the candidate of the Democratic Party because word somehow got around that we cleaned out Illinois after eight years of Republican rule, like a housewife going after a closet full of cobwebs.

	I am under no illusion that good government is a one-man job. It reflected no superhuman qualities in me as an individual that we simply swept out all of the officeholders and employees who were bad, or useless, or both, and replaced them with men and women who were good and did well--did well for the taxpayers, not for themselves.

	It is when the people rise up and demand, and then support, good government that they get it and keep it. I have previously in this campaign referred to Bernard Shaw's words to the effect that democracy is a device that ensures that we shall be governed no better than we deserve. Today, however, this nation demands--our demand for good, clean, honest government has been made completely clear. I simply say, standing on a record of actual accomplishment, that I shall, given your trust, meet those demands to the letter and to the limits of mind and heart. It will be my purpose so far as is humanly possible to fill every office with the best men and women available up and down the line. And it will be my purpose also to see that no office or desk is kept unless a full day's work is to be done there, and done every day.

	Probably we will stumble occasionally and make some mistakes, but as Justice Holmes once said, if you set out for any great end worth reaching, all that is asked of you is that you go there as fast as you can.

	As I look back now on the course of this campaign, having in mind the representations of both parties, I realize that once again America's choice is basically between those who would stand still, or even move backward, and those who envision new frontiers. I think of this particularly as I hear the Republican candidate speak recently of the social gains of the past twenty years. He guarantees, as he puts it, that the clock will never be turned back. Me thinks he protested too much--and at the same time, that he protested not nearly enough. There is huge irony in the fact that the party which entered this campaign flying under the banner of change, at the head of a crusade, ends by promising not to turn back the clock. The general seems just to have discovered that all those things he said in September about our economy being weak and our prosperity false are nonsense, and that the American people are not going to be fooled.

	He faces belatedly the solid fact that the American people have man for man, woman for woman, and child for child done infinitely better for themselves under these Democratic administrations and policies than they did under the preceding Republican policies. And so, frantically, they say that they won't let anybody turn the clock back.

	You know, it sounds to me like the prowler who called from the chicken coop, "There's nobody here but us chickens." And now an alarmed voice reassures us by calling out that, "There's nobody here but us Republicans." The general is right. We don't want it taken away. We never did have it so good. And these aren't slogans--these are hard facts. The Republican candidate has told us that we are worse off than before because a dollar buys less than it used to. But he always leaves out the fact that we now have, almost all of us, so many more dollars than we did before, and jobs--and jobs, and security, and education, and savings in the bank.

	Now let there be no mistake about it. I pledge to you the most vigorous programs to stabilize the value of the dollar and to check inflation--the very programs which the Republicans in recent years have nearly wrecked. But a sound dollar can exist only in a sound economy. And gold cannot be valued more highly than flesh and blood. By putting the people's welfare first we can, within this decade, cross great new frontiers. It is against this prospect--a prospect unlimited--that we must compare the Republican candidate's reluctant concession that our clock shall not be turned back. He has changed his mind and the clock says that it was time for a change.

	Now let us look, if we may, at Korea. Has the general changed his views on what lies ahead in Korea? On June 5, shortly after he returned from Europe, the general said this, and I quote him: "I do not believe in the present situation there is any clear-cut answer to the present Korean War. We are there to support a principle. I don't think it would be possible for our forces to carry through a decisive attack, but I do not believe that we can, in the ideological war we are waging, retreat from the area we occupy. And, therefore, I believe we have got to stand firm and take every possible step we can to reduce our losses, and stand right, and try to get a decent armistice out of it." That was June. He was right in June. Now it is November--almost November--with the campaign drawing to its close, and evidently the tide running adversely--and he makes one last desperate bid for your support. "Follow me," he says, "for I can settle this problem"--and I quote him--"with speed and with honor."

	The Republican six-star general is more candid--and I refer, of course, to Field Marshal Senator Taft. Speaking in Montana the day before yesterday about the general's trip to Korea, Senator Taft said, "I don't think Eisenhower or anyone else expects his presence would make the North Koreans fall over backwards."

	And now let's take an inside look at how all of this happened. Here is a story from this morning's New York Times. It is quite revealing. Let me read you some interesting paragraphs: "The general got one good break a little more than a month ago," it says. "He got a new speechwriter, one of the senior editors of Life magazine. He produced the idea that the general should promise to go to Korea personally, if elected, in the hope of ending the war there. Harold Stassen took this speech to General Eisenhower, and the nominee agreed to the idea immediately." The story goes on, "the general's aides feel that this idea gave their campaign the lift it needed in the critical closing days of the race."

	Well, there you have it. A speechwriter from a slick magazine cooks up a slick idea to catch votes by playing upon our hopes for a quick end of the war, and the general accepts it immediately. And now the general's handlers think that an idea so conceived can give their campaign the lift it needed--and it sure needed one.

	I hope, my friends, that this is not a fair example of the responsibility and the reasoning that underlie their thinking, if it can be called thinking, about how to resolve America's many problems. Such a cynical search for votes will neither solve our problems nor win the election.

	I certainly couldn't object to the general's going to Korea. What worries me is what he will do when he gets there. Certainly the other voices with which the general has spoken in recent months don't know--the voices of Jenner, and Kem, and Martin and Taft. One thing is clear to me. So far as settling the Korean War is concerned he is taking the wrong bus. The war won't be settled in Korea; the right address is Moscow. We all know, or ought to know, that the Korean War is part of a larger struggle; that it is but one aspect of the Soviet drive for world domination. This struggle is directed from Moscow. The men in Moscow are not yet ready for an armistice. And why do you think that is? I think I know the reason. They have been following our election campaign, too. They have heard the Republican candidate and the highest Republican leaders say first one thing about the Korean War and then another. They have heard, in other words, sounds of disunity--and disunity means weakness. They want to exploit that weakness by holding out for better terms--terms which should give them a better chance for the victory in Korea they have not won. They do not like an armistice on the honorable terms we have offered; for an armistice on those terms would mark a big setback in their drive for world domination. And just as the Korean War is part of their larger struggle, so does an armistice in Korea have implications for them that spread far beyond Korea. What America and our allies need above all at this hour is unity of purpose, for that is the only road to peace. It is tragic--it is tragic, it seems to me, that the Republican party has chosen to divide and to confuse for political purposes, and so to injure our chances for an early peace. We can restore that unity on next Tuesday--and I believe it will be restored.

	This nation has never been faint of heart. We may have had other faults, but nobody had been able to accuse us of deserting our principles because the going was hard. We have changed the whole course of modern history by accepting world responsibility after World War II. Instead of fleeing from it, as we did after World War I, we have undertaken to pluck the nettle of Soviet aggression. Shall we stop now because it pricks our fingers? Shall we leave it half uprooted and still able to thrive? Or, shall we pull it out slowly and carefully, until the roots are dragged up from the soil and the field of human endeavor is left clear at last for the cultivation of peace?

	My friends, I have traveled today through the great state of Pennsylvania. I have visited some of your towns, some of your cities and I have been accompanied in my journey by a new-made acquaintance--Judge Guy Bard. Because he shares convictions which are mine--convictions which I believe are yours--I bespeak your most sympathetic consideration for his candidacy for the United States Senate. You will have that opportunity on next Tuesday, and it appears from what one observes, that Pennsylvania could improve its representation in the United States Senate.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSKOREAN WAR     7 6 6 6 6
 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6	 E 	 '  
 e: