

	Tuesday will be a great day for Illinois--and for the nation.

	We are going to send to Springfield men who will restore decency and dignity to our state government--yes, and old-fashioned honesty. The reputation of Illinois, which with all the sorry revelations has sunk so low, will be raised once more by the Democratic state ticket, headed by our candidate for governor, that man of granite integrity, Judge Richard Austin.

	We are going to send to the United States Senate a man who will help restore our state's reputation for responsibility in national affairs, a man of experience, intelligence, and dedication--Dick Stengel. When Dick Stengel goes to Washington, Paul Douglas will have the kind of partner he deserves. And let's send along with them the finest congressional delegates Illinois has ever had. And if you don't mind my saying so, when that new Illinois delegation arrives, Estes Kefauver and I plan to be there to greet them.

	This 1956 campaign is now drawing to a close. It has been a long haul, and hard work. But I've enjoyed it because Estes Kefauver and I have done what we said at the start we would do. We have carried the campaign to the hometowns of America. We have talked sense. We have faced the hard issues.

	On the age-old questions of justice and freedom, I think we have kept the Democratic faith. And on the new and burning issues of our technological age, we have refused to be intimidated into silence.

	All this, in my judgment, is the right way to conduct a political campaign in a democratic society. For it is by discussion that you decide what is right and wrong in a democratic society, not by dictation.

	But it has been a strange campaign, a one-sided campaign, for, to every Democratic proposal, every Democratic criticism, every Democratic idea, the Republicans return but a single answer--"Trust Ike." And to this we Democrats reply--"Trust the people." And that is the difference between the two parties.

	In all his speeches and telecasts and public appearances, the Republican candidate has told you almost nothing about the serious issues of the campaign. If he has anything on his mind to propose to Congress in January, it must be a military secret. He is fearlessly in favor of national unity and good government; but no one knows what he proposes to do about the school crisis, about housing, about civil rights, about restoring our farm income, about the conserving and developing of our national resources, about medical care, about Taft-Hartley, about peacetime uses of atomic energy; no one knows what he proposes to do about prosecuting the Cold War, about taming the hydrogen bomb, or about rebuilding the crumbling alliance on which our security and freedom depend.

	I say to you that it will be a sorry day for this nation and for popular government when we replace responsible political debate with a personality cult. An American presidential election is not a sort of beauty contest; it is a solemn irrevocable decision about the direction in which the greatest democracy in the world wants to move, because we can't stand still.

	And I suggest to you that the Republican campaign--"Trust Ike, and ask no questions"--really means something else. It means: Trust the men around Ike--trust John Foster Dulles, trust George Humphrey, trust Ezra Benson, trust Charles Wilson, trust Richard Nixon. What it really means is: Give the Old Guard of the Republican party a blank check for four more years.

	And what does a blank check for Republicanism mean? They tell you it means peace and prosperity; and they hope that if they say it often enough, you will come to believe it. They have tried to sell Republicanism like cigarettes, soap, and cars. But I don't believe this is even good politics. I don't believe you can win an election that way. And I know you can't win the future for America that way, because it doesn't pass the first test. It doesn't fit the facts.

	Just take a look at the Republican record of peace and prosperity over last week. On October 25th, the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the cost of living had reached a new all-time high. On October 30th, the Department of Agriculture announced a new drop in farm prices. And, of course, on October 29th the outbreak of war signaled the total collapse of our policy in the Middle East. This was one glorious week of Republican peace and prosperity. How many more weeks like this can you stand?

	And all those things--the economic squeeze at home and the continuing deterioration in our position in the world--are part of the same thing. They are the consequences of part-time government--of government in which the chief executive has never had the inclination and now lacks the energy for full-time work at the world's toughest job.

	They are the consequences of single-interest government--of government in which the men around the President who make the big decisions and formulate the policies come largely from a single sector of society--big business--and, with the best will in the world, feel they serve the nation best by serving the interest of the rich and powerful first.

	They are the consequences of government which does not keep faith with the people--which does not give the people the full facts and does not trust them with the decisions.

	And they are the consequences of government by a Republican party which is so deeply divided over domestic and foreign affairs that any strong policy--liberal, conservative, or reactionary--would tear it apart.

	So long as we continue to have part-time government in Washington, so long as we continue to have single-interest government, so long as our government in Washington refuses to entrust the people with the truth, so long as it represents a party with a split personality, then all the problems which torment us--from the Middle West to the Middle East--can only get worse.

	The tragedy in the Middle East is a perfect example of the Eisenhower administration in operation. Last September when asked by the press to express my views on the crisis in the Middle East, I declined in order to avoid embarrassing the administration. I had hoped that this issue might be kept out of politics. But President Eisenhower came along on a political broadcast and brightly reported that the news from Suez was good. He followed this later by assurances that he knew of no trouble with our allies. Then last Tuesday war broke out in the Middle East.

	After the President made his political pronouncements, I began to express my views about our disastrous policies of provocation and appeasement, vacillation and deceit which have contributed in such great measure to these tragic developments. I am opposed to the involvement of American forces in the Middle East, but I believe that our country has a great deal to contribute in the way of responsible leadership.

	And while I am on the subject of responsibility, I proposed at the University of Virginia a year ago that the United Nations patrol the borders to preserve peace between Israel and her neighbors. Canada is now making the same proposal in the United Nations, and the newspapers report that Mr. Dulles has expressed his complete approval. If the administration is for it now, why wasn't it when I proposed it? Or was it irresponsible because it came from a Democrat?

	And my comments about the Middle East are not the only instance in which the administration responds to truth with epithets and to serious proposals with derision. I am proud of having brought squarely before you in this campaign the issue of how to tame the hydrogen bomb.

	I was warned that it would be hard in a political campaign to get a new truth across, and surely Mr. Eisenhower and Mr. Nixon have made it infinitely harder by their accusations and distortions. The President even called my suggestion the we take the lead to eliminate the menace "a theatrical gesture."

	But, my friends, this bomb, if ever used in war, will kill millions, and, if it is not used, could still injure all mankind in the testing. The poison from the test explosions will injure our children most of all. Let others, including the President, argue about whether these bombs are filling our bodies with 15 percent or 10 percent or even 1 percent of the amount of radiation they can take. Over 300 scientists have testified to the hazards, and only this week one of the most respected doctors in the country warned that the bones of today's children may already be imperiled.

	Again, I have proposed that in order to strengthen our armed forces we investigate better methods of recruiting and retaining the skilled manpower we need in our armed forces. The draft is undemocratic, it takes only one boy out of eight; it is expensive and it is inefficient because of the rapid turnover. Certainly there is no sin in trying to do things better. This is not a political issue and President Eisenhower's attempt to twist suggestions that many of our military leaders approve may be smart politics but it is no service to our country whose security depends upon the strongest possible defenses.

	And so it has been. New ideas are dismissed with epithets, abuse, and distortion.

	Government which does not tell the truth cannot inspire the confidence of its own people or of people anywhere else in the world.

	There is only one way to arrest the decay of American influence--only one way to revitalize the coalition of free nations which has been the shield against Communist expansion--only one way to push ahead in the fight for peace--and that is new management in Washington.

	And the Eisenhower administration is no better equipped to deal with our affairs at home. I have told the people from Arkansas to Michigan and from Florida to California that I think the decision of the Supreme Court on desegregation of the schools was inevitable and right. And I have said that force and violence must have no part in working out this great social adjustment. I think people respect candor in a candidate even if they don't agree with him. Meanwhile, the President has done nothing to exercise any leadership in this field, nor has he ever disclosed his opinion of the decision.

	Nor has the President Eisenhower's leadership met the problem of enough school buildings and teachers for the children of America. 

	It has failed to maintain a decent level of income and livelihood for our farmers.

	It has made no serious effort to wipe out the slums and give every American family the chance to grow in health and sunlight.

	It has failed to provide an adequate system of medical care for its sick and ailing.

	It has failed to offer a tranquil security in the evening of their lives to our older citizens.

	It has failed to defend the Bill of Rights and it has thereby betrayed the spiritual essence of the American faith and tradition by abuses of our security system.

	The Republican party has no program to offer America, no policy, no philosophy. In fact, it seems to have little else but President Eisenhower--who in the next years would inevitably recede more and more from the picture.

	The fact is that the Republican administration has taken everything from the Democratic past--and offers nothing to the American future.

	Oh yes, it has one thing to offer to the American future: It has the vice president of the United States.

	Every consideration--the President's age, his constitutional position under the Twenty-second amendment--makes it inevitable that the dominant figure in the Republican party under a second Eisenhower term would be Richard Nixon.

	The emergence of this man raises grave questions.

	Do you trust Richard Nixon to be fair to labor--or to the farmers--to the children who need schools--or to the poor and unemployed--or to our elder citizens?

	Do you believe that Richard Nixon will work to restore the Bill of Rights to the center of our life?

	Do you want this man as Commander-in-Chief to exercise power over peace and war?

	Do you want to place the hydrogen bomb in his hands?

	Do you believe that Richard Nixon has the confidence of other countries--the sort of confidence necessary to recreate the coalition of freedom?

	Yesterday he hailed our break with our allies as "a declaration of independence that has had an electrifying effect throughout the world." Perhaps the first electrifying effect it had was to embolden Russian troops to reenter Hungary to crush the forces from freedom.

	Somebody said there's only one thing about him you can be sure of--if you get Eisenhower, you also get Nixon.

	But when you think of the Democratic party, you think, not of one or two men, but of thousands.

	I came to you tonight not as a man alone, but as a man borne onward by the thousands in the hall tonight and millions across this nation--men and women believe in the principles of the Democratic party.

	Our strength is the strength of the democratic tradition and the democratic faith in our national life--a tradition and faith that stretches back to Thomas Jefferson; a tradition and faith which have been responsible for nearly every step ahead in freedom and welfare in modern history of our nation.

	We live in a time of revolutionary change. Before our eyes, in the very headlines of our daily papers, a new world is being born.

	In Eastern Europe, in Asia, in Africa, the rigid structure of the postwar world is crumbling. Stalin is dead, the long night is lifting in the satellite countries, the Middle East is shifting like the desert sands, the peoples of the underdeveloped world are struggling for dignity and equality.

	Here at home, too, great changes are taking place. Our population is growing, a technological revolution is transforming our economic life, our quest for equal opportunity imposes new goals and new responsibilities.

	This is a time for new ideas, for boldness, and for another great thrust ahead in our national life. And we know that only the Democratic party has the vision and the vigor to make that thrust effective. Under Democratic leadership, we can win the fight against poverty and injustice. Under Democratic leadership, we can build a New America in a world of justice and peace. The New America is an affirmation of faith--faith in our land, faith in ourselves, faith in our future.

	It is also an affirmation of reality. For the New America exists already--in resources, in machines, in ideas, in hopes, in the hearts of minds of men and women. It is here--today --within and around us. All we need is to awaken to what lies within our grasp. All we need is to arise from our slumbers. All we need is for America to be herself again.

	With the courage and vision to summon a great people to great deeds--with, above all, a prayer for the guidance from the God we love--our beautiful land will proudly enter the gateway of the future.
BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONMIDDLE EASTMILITARY RECRUITMENTNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     G; ; ; 	; ;
 : : : : : : : :	  	  	 j 	 Q 	 F 	 2 	  e: