

	I hope you saw the debate the other night. How'd I do?

	But I think we have reached a point in this historic election where we ought to stop for a moment--slow down for a moment--and think about the meaning of this great endeavor.

	We are choosing a president.

	We are picking the man who will lead us the next four years. Who, in crisis, will pilot the plane with his hand on the stick--and who, in times of calm, will shape our future by choosing, from all the many options, the program to pursue, the path to take, and try to rally the people to follow. A president represents America to the world--and reflects America to itself. It is a hard job; about as hard as your job this November 8th.

	For it is up to you, the people of America, to weigh the evidence, apply your judgment, follow your instinct, listen to the arguments--and pull the lever for one candidate or the other. For some it will be difficult.

	But one way to judge, one way to clear the air, is to look at the two candidates and ask: which of these men believes in what I believe in? Which of these men will be guided by my views and values? And once you have that answered to your satisfaction there is another question. It is: Does this man have dreams for America that I share? Is the America he imagines and hopes for the America I want?

	I do believe that in this election, of the two of us, I am the one who holds to the views of the people. And I do it with no great effort, with no strain, because I share the commonsense attitudes of the American people. I hear America's hopes because I share them.

	Thanks to those cameras back there, thanks to television, one of us will be a regular guest in your home most nights for the next four years. And while you're considering which of us you'd like to have sitting across from you at the dinner table, I thought I'd give you some reasons why you should set a place for me.

	Take an issue like defense--turn it into a question, such as: Is it really necessary that America be number one militarily? I say yes--as do the people. Do we feel this way because of some kind of jingoism? No. A false and boastful pride is pointless and unhelpful. We feel America's strength must be unsurpassed because we know a strong America has, historically, been a force for peace in the world. We know America can be trusted with power. We know America can be trusted with power. We know that America, as an economic giant and a nation morally committed to political freedom, has the will and the wherewithal to lead the west.

	Does my opponent share our views? I honestly do not feel he does. There is an ambivalence there, an ambivalence born not of thoughtfulness but doubt. I believe he tends to be more skeptical of American power than trusting of it, and I believe that in this he reflects an academic liberalism that is out of touch with real world concerns. Academic liberalism isn't a bad thing in the abstract, in the classroom, but it can be a very bad thing in the real world when faced with real challenges. I believe my opponent sees military strength not as a first priority but as one item of many on a long agenda.

	On domestic issues, again, I believe my views are in line with the thinking of the American people.

	Taxes? Read my lips.

	Spending? Do it wisely, and when you vote for a program act as if it's your money you're spending.

	I have, frankly, more sympathy for the victims of crime than the criminals who commit them--as do the people. I believe in "the forgiveness of sin and the redemption of ignorance," but I also believe society has the right and duty to permanently protect itself from those who are so far incorrigible.

	I do not recoil in horror from the idea of a child saying a prayer in a school. I support a moment of voluntary prayer or silent prayer. I know this is a difficult issue for some people. But the intellectuals have, in my friend Bill Bennett's phrase, "fastidious disdain" for public expressions of religious sentiment that is, to my mind, unreasonable and ungenerous. The overwhelming majority of the people feel a moment of silence or silent prayer is a legitimate right. And I agree with them.

	I believe the American people are, by and large, a moderate people. We are passionate about abstractions such as freedom or opportunity, but we tend to pursue them in a practical manner. We are skeptical of radicalism; we trust God and common sense, and we have quietly concluded that a prime lesson of the 20th century is that the state often causes more problems than it cures.

	But we also believe the state--the federal government--can, if watched closely and controlled, be harnessed to do good. Government can help us do certain discrete and specific things. And so we believe that programs such as Head Start are good programs, and a good investment. We believe that everyone deserves an opportunity.

	Compassion is a tradition in America. So is a certain amount of trust--an assumption of good will and honesty on the part of our neighbors. One of the differences between my opponent and I is that I have an optimistic view of human nature and the American people. I believe that people are basically honest.

	We believe, we Americans, that you can't ask everything of government, you can't ask for a million new programs, because the cost will prove overwhelming. You have to make your choices, establish priorities.

	We refuse to keep raising taxes, because that's giving Congress a blank check to keep coming up with programs that please their constituencies and assure their re-election.

	I want Congress to control spending. I know you share my view.

	That's the way to cut the federal deficit--by controlling spending, not by raising taxes and killing off the economic recovery.

	There is a step we can take--now--to gain better control over our long-term economic future, and that is to increase savings. Americans have increasingly gotten away from the sensible frugality that says, "put some away for a rainy day."

	Today, I would like to announce my support for a plan to increase savings by low- and middle-income Americans. I propose that we create a new Individual Savings Account, or ISA, in which interest would accumulate tax-free if the funds were committed for at least five years.

	Under my plan, taxpayers could contribute up to $1,000 a year to an ISA. By doing so, they will be helping themselves become better able to afford a home, pay for college, or start a business, and they will be helping America--by increasing investment and economic growth.

	Savings is the flip side of investment. Investment creates jobs. The Bush savings plan will help keep this economic recovery going while making our future more secure. The ISA is a building block for a better America.

	I said when I began that there's a key question you should ask as you make your decision this year. It is: Does this man share my hopes for the future? Is the America he imagines the America I want?

	I believe my hopes are in line with yours, but you must be the judge.

	The America I imagine--the one I will work for--is an America in which the old dreams pertain but there is new hope for all. The America I will work for is a nation of literate, well-educated people who feel a common bond.

	We are changing demographically, and in some ways culturally. But in the America I will work for the old traditions will remain. We will know our history. We will continue to love freedom. We will continue to believe in hard work and personal striving. And we will believe in the dominance of the individual while acknowledging--happily--that we are a nation of communities spread like stars.

	The America I imagine, the America I will work for, is a nation of people who hail from all the nations of the world and who bring to us their hopes and habits, each adding to the sum total of what we mean when we say "American."

	We will continue to be the land of opportunity. We will institutionalize our prosperity by keeping in place and putting in place those programs that ensure it. But we will continue to know, as our ancestors did, that wealth is not the measure of a life well lived.

	We love our prosperity; some of us even remember to thank God for it. But for all our wealth, I think we also feel a certain unease.

	Those of us who are more than 30 or 35 years old remember another America. And we know that while economically things for Americans have improved since we were young, it's an irony of our time that the quality of life has in some ways gone down for some.

	Divorce, latchkey children, TV, drugs, the end of the innocence we once, as a nation, knew. We wanted to be modern and we are, and it's been in some ways a mixed blessing.

	To me it seems that now more than ever we must hold together and hold fast. We need to strengthen the values I spoke of the other night. We need a greater cohesion in our society, and more generosity toward each other. I am talking about something big. I'm talking about who we are as a people.

	The Americans of the 18th century were a revolutionary people--they invented a great nation. The Americans of the 19th century were a fearless people--they built that nation. The Americans of the latter part of the 20th century--what will they say of us? That we were fat and happy? Let's hope not. "Purposeful and happy" has a nice ring, "idealistic and happy" even better.

	We have to remember that prosperity has a purpose, and it's to pursue the better angels of our nature. To make greater strides in improving education and cleaning up the environment, in building the arts and sciences and the things of the spirit--to give a helping hand to a fellow citizen who need it. To help those with disabilities fit into the American mainstream.

	I said recently and I will say again that I find myself haunted by the lives being lived by the children of our inner cities. Children growing up, some of them, in a loveless environment, growing up amidst horror and violence. What will become of them?

	There was a time, and not so long ago, when we thought with hope that government could solve this problem, government could make it all better. Lord knows we tried. But government, we found, after taking huge amounts of money from individuals in the private sector and transferring it to this public effort, was incapable of solving it--and often made it worse. Government has a place, but not the central one.

	The answer is up to us. The answer is in each individual act of kindness multiplied by thousands and tens of thousands. The answer is in a new engagement in the pain of others. That's part of the answer to how to encourage a greater cohesion among our people.

	This is something I intend to devote my time to as president. I intend to see what I can do as a leader. I've already suggested a beginning--a childcare plan for low-income families, an increase in Head Start, help for poor mothers with infants. But beyond that, I will work as a gentle persuader, to rally our people to help our children. Because here's the funny thing: when we find those lost children we will find ourselves.

	And so the America I imagine, the America I will work for, is quite a nation. In the world, to be an arm to lean on, and to have a fist that is slowly made but, when made, used with great effect. At home, a heart that does not bleed but feels--and that has a moral intelligence to which honest appeal can be made.

	A great and striving people in a kind and gentle nation. That is my dream. That is the America I imagine.

	I know that many of you share this dream.

	I believe that these hopes are your hopes.

	And I ask, as we enter the stretch run of this long and very important campaign, that you help me.

	It will be a hard fight, but with you on my side I cannot lose.

	And now it's on to November, and the first of many victories together.

	Thank you, and God bless you.

CHILDRENLIBERALISMMILITARY PREPAREDNESSPOVERTYSAVINGS, PERSONALSCHOOL PRAYERVOLUNTEERISM     / W/ Q/ M/ C/
 ;/ 6/ 1/ )/ %/ #/ 	/ .	 X 	 P 	 F 	 1 	 * 	  	  e: