

	RICHARD NIXON: Thank you very much. As I stand here before you I want to express my appreciation for this wonderfully warm welcome you have given us on a beautiful Iowa day. I want you to know that as I speak in Iowa for the first time in this campaign, my memories are many and always pleasant because they go back many years.

	I remember the time that we were stationed in Iowa, I was stationed here and my wife and I were in Ottumwa for four months, so we belong to Iowa. I can say "fellow Iowans" to you today. That was twenty-five years ago, incidentally, and I see many young people. How many people here were born after that time, twenty-five years ago? How many?

	So you see all of us who are older than that, a whole new generation is here. We speak to them. We speak to you. We speak to the future of America as we think of them and all of the problems that we have.

	Another reason that I am so glad to be here in Iowa is that I too am proud to be on a great team. I am delighted to see Bob Ray, a young, vigorous, articulate man, a man who is going to be governor and a man that I am going to work with as President of the United States for the good of Iowa and the good of America.

	Now we have some celebrities here today. One you have already heard from, Rudy Vallee. How about a hand for Rudy Vallee. But we also have a great political celebrity. You heard of those thirty-seven out of a hundred Republican Senators. One of them comes from the state of Massachusetts with the biggest majority given to a senator from that state in years, and before that the biggest majority given to an attorney general: Senator Ed Brooke from the state of Massachusetts.

	I know that he would agree with me when I say that we need and welcome the opportunity to work with Dave Stanley as a new young voice in the United States Senate, down there to work with him.

	I cannot overlook, if you will permit, my colleagues in the House of Representatives. I say my colleagues although most of them came there--all of them did--after I served in that body. The state of Iowa sent many great congressmen to Washington. There are three of them here today, Fred Schwengel Wiley Maine and John Kyle. All stand up and take a hand. My friends, we want to carry that House of Representatives because we not only need a new president, we need the men to back them up in the House and in the Senate.

	Now for the candidates for the House who are here now. You stand up and take a bow. Don Mahon over here. Let's give him a hand.

	Now, my friends, I want to talk to you about the most important choice you will make in your political lifetime. In my view this election, 1968, gives to the American people the clearest choice between two candidates ever made to the American people in this century. I want to tell you why.

	I will tell you why I sense that it is that kind of a choice and how I know the American people, as you seem to know it today, feel that they have that kind of a choice. Look at this crowd. This is a beautiful Saturday afternoon. As I went by the golf course and saw the people out there, I said, "There is not going to be anybody out here. They are either going to be playing golf or out fishing or watching a baseball game on television or something." And yet here you are, by the thousands. Let me tell you what has happened. In the last week I have seen the most exciting crowds that I have seen in twenty-five years of campaigning across this country. Six hundred thousand in the streets of Chicago a week after the other fellow got out of town. Believe me, it was a marvelous crowd. Then the next day 300,000 in San Francisco. Thirty-two thousand in Santa Clara that night. Forty-five thousand in Houston the next night. A huge crowd in Pittsburgh the following day. Then in Westchester County, in New York State, a rally in that county, when Governor Rockefeller introduced me, he said it was the biggest and most enthusiastic crowd they ever had in Westchester County. And that means we are going to carry New York and carry the nation in November.

	So the story goes. The same was true in North Carolina, and then yesterday in Indiana. Then today in Iowa--now, today, in Iowa. And a great tidal wave sweeps across this country and a great voice sweeps across this country, and it is a new voice, a voice that hasn't been heard over these past four years.

	I want to tell you what it is. The people in these audiences who are coming out and shouting, you are the people who are the forgotten Americans. You are the people who have not been breaking the laws, who have not been rioting, who have not been engaging in violence. You are the people who have been paying your taxes and going to work and raising your children and sending them to school, supporting your churches. You are good Americans, you are decent Americans, you care about your fellow Americans. You want the best for your own family, but you know that this great country of ours cannot be a good place for any of us to live in unless it is a good place for all of us to live in. These are the Americans that I have been speaking to.

	You inspire me and it means that you are going to give us the great overwhelming majority that we need to give America the new leadership that this great country deserves. Let's look at these forgotten Americans, who they are again, a bit further. They are Republicans, they are Democrats, they are Independents. They are young and they are old. They are black and they are white. They are people who represent all segments of our society, and they know as I said a moment ago that this is the year of choice.

	Once this moment in history passes, unless we step up to it, the chance will be gone, and America will continue down a road that could lead us to disaster. That is the choice. When you say "prove it," I will prove it to you. If you watched the two conventions you saw it. But let me put it in more precise terms. The convention in Chicago nominated a man who has supported and helped to make the policies of the last four years, and who finds nothing to disagree with in those policies, and who says to the American people, "Elect me and I will continue for four more years the programs of the past, except I will put more money in them." That is what he says.

	And this is my answer. I say that isn't good enough for the American people. I say the American people can't afford four more years of the failures of the past four years. We need new leadership. We need new vision, and we are going to provide that.

	Look at the choices that you have here, these very clear choices. The choice of what we do about our policies abroad. All of these young people bring those policies to mind. We think of the men of the past, the man for whom this great supermarket area was named, a veteran, the first Iowan veteran to be killed in World War I. We think of the men that died in World War II. We think of the men that died in Korea. We think of the over 200,000 casualties killed, wounded and missing in Vietnam. And I would say that the most important responsibility of the next president of the United States is to bring an honorable end to the war in Vietnam, and let's get a new policy so that we can avoid more Vietnams in the future.

	My friends, I pledge to you that as a candidate for president I will say nothing that would jeopardize the possibility of success of the negotiations going on in Paris that might end that war. But if it is not ended on November 5th, then the American people will have this choice, and it is a clear one. If after four years of the greatest military power in the history of the world on their side and in their hands, four years of the richest power the world has ever known in their hands, four years of the support of the loyal opposition, four years of the sacrifice of the finest young Americans I have ever seen on a foreign battle field, if after all that time and all that money and all that sacrifice there is still no end in sight, then I say they have had their chance. Get them out of there and give us a chance and we will bring that war to an honorable conclusion.

	But, my friends, we must look beyond that. We must look over this great world. You know what you find? I left office with General Eisenhower in 1961, January. Think back to then and look at the world today. In every area of the world, America is worse off today than it was eight years ago. So we look at America, we find that we need new leadership so that the young Americans, the brothers, the fourteen and fifteen year olds and the sons of those fighting in Vietnam, won't go fighting someplace else.

	I want to tell you how I feel about that leadership in one word, very briefly. For the past twenty to twenty-five years the United States has furnished most of the money and most of the arms and most of the men to help other nations defend freedom. First in Korea and then in Vietnam. Now we are a rich country, we are a strong country, and we are a populous country. But there are 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world. It's time that we had a foreign policy that got other nations to accept their fair share of the defense of freedom around this world.

	We can have peace, but that peace will come from strength. It will come from rebuilding the great alliance that we have in Europe. It will come from negotiating from strength and it will come, my friends, from restoring respect for the United States of America.

	I tell you that when respect for this great country falls so low that a fourth-rate military power like North Korea will seize an American naval vessel on the high seas, believe me, we should have new leadership and we will restore respect for the United States of America.

	My friends, what a president can do, firmness without belligerence, strength, negotiation to reduce tensions, that is one thing. But if we are going to have respect for this great nation abroad, we have to reestablish in America those great values that I see represented in this audience, that I sensed in that farm family and the neighbors of that farm family that I visited a few hours ago.

	My friends, America is not going to be entrusted with the task of keeping the peace abroad unless we can keep the peace at home, and let's make freedom from fear a reality in America again right here in the United States of America.

	Here again, the choice you have to make is very clear. You've got on the one hand a candidate who says the President of the United States hasn't been breaking the laws, the Vice President hasn't been breaking the laws, the Attorney General hasn't been breaking the laws, you can't blame them for what is happening.

I disagree. Of course, the President and the Vice President and the Attorney General of the United States are law-abiding people. But, my friends, I say that when we find that looking back over the past four years that crime has gone up nine times as fast as population; when we find looking back over the past four years that we have had in 300 of our cities violence that has resulted in 200 deaths and 7,000 wounded; when we find as we look back over those years a decline in respect for law to the point that streets are no longer safe, not only for white people but for black people, for all people; then I say it is time for a house cleaning. Let's get some leadership and a president that will provide the leadership that you need to restore respect for law and justice in the United States.

	I trust that everybody here heard what Bob Rays said a moment ago. It is something that I have said in every speech that I have made. We must establish respect for law. We must see that the laws are enforced. We must see that the first civil right of every American, to be free from domestic violence, becomes a reality again.

	But my friends, remember, all the laws in the world, all the police in the world won't make any difference unless people have justice, unless they have hope, because they will explode, and on that score, let me say I believe that we can do what this administration has failed to do. We can provide the new leadership for all Americans particularly for those forgotten Americans that, that will mean justice.

	Let me speak for one moment about the farm families of this country. Oh, they are not rioting, they are not breaking the laws. But when we look at them, what do we find? Over the past four years, farm income going down, going down as costs go up, and what we find on the part of the present candidate on the other side is simply this, he not only defends the man who has been making those policies, he puts him in one of the top positions in his campaign.

	I simply want to tell you this. As far as I am concerned, I think we need a change. I think that instead of having a secretary of agriculture that speaks for the White House to the farmer, but a secretary of agriculture who will speak to the White House in Washington, D.C. for the farmer, and that is the kind of a secretary of agriculture we shall have.

	My friends, we all know that the great commercial farms of this land produce so much for America and for the world. But we all know that rural America is also important. We know that in rural America there is also poverty and that unless you deal with the poverty there, the pressure on the urban American is going to become greater.

	So our programs in this field, that I have put out in a major statement that I have issued while I have been in Des Moines, look to that fifty million people that live in what we call rural America. We say that as we look at America, all of America deserves attention. Rural America hasn't had its fair share. I will see to it that it has its full share of attention and responsibility, you can be sure of that.

	When we speak of justice, may I also refer to those who are attempting to keep the family budget, to the millions of people in this land who are on social security, who are retired, trying to eke out an income on the basis of their savings. What do we find? Over the past four years we have found prices going up 10 percent, and that has meant that the average family in America who has savings of $10,000 have lost $1,000 in the last four years. It also means that the prices of everything you buy in this great supermarket have gone up 10 percent. It means that the workers of America who have had their wages go up in the last two years have lost more in increase in prices and taxes than their increase in wages.

	I say let's get an administration in Washington that will remember that the spenders in Washington have got to start thinking of the savers in the country, and that's the kind of administration we are going to have with your help. Government will do everything that it should do. But, my friends, there is nothing more important for government to do than to preserve the value of your dollar so that the dollars you earn today will be worth a dollar when you retire four, five, ten, fifteen years from now.

	Then another point that I would urge upon you: when we speak of justice in America, it is the difference that is offered by the two candidates with regard to how we have progress. Let's look over this great land. Here in Iowa, a good state, a good place in which to raise the family, we do not have the problems of poverty that we see in some other areas, and particularly in our great cities. But I know you are good-hearted people, I know from having lived with you, and I know that you think of those problems, and so the question is what do we do? What do we do about the problems of the unemployed, and those who haven't had an equal chance at the starting line?

	So there are two choices, and let me put it out really clear for you. On the one hand, the other candidate tells the American people, "Put me in and I will spend billions of dollars more for federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare." My friends, we have been down that road. It has failed. What we have found is that we have poured billions of dollars into rural programs that have aggravated the problem in most cases rather than helping to solve it.

	I say that at this time, rather than having millions more on welfare rolls, that our goal be to have millions more on payrolls in the United States of America. That is why I say, let government play its role and play it generously for education, for taking care of the aged, for taking care of those who are in need. But let us remember that the great engine of progress in America is not government but private enterprise. Let us remember this is a great country and let us never forget how we became great. We are great, we became great, not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves. Give people a chance in America, a chance to make their contribution to the future of this land.

	My friends, in Iowa, in this great campaign, all of you will make a choice which goes beyond your partisan affiliation, and I ask you to think that way. The problems we face today are too big for Republican solutions or Democratic solutions. They require the best thinking that all of us as Americans can apply to those problems.

	As I indicated to you the directions and the problems, I would not want to leave this great audience without indicating to you the promise and the hope of America, and particularly with all of this great throng of young people here.

You are going to hear a lot in this campaign from the candidates about this is wrong and that is wrong, and sometimes you may go home and wonder, well, what a poor time to be alive in this country. Don't ever believe it. Look, I have traveled to most of the countries of the world, and I have seen many great countries and many great people. [missing text]
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALPOVERTY (RURAL)PRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALVIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWELFARE      G F F F F
 F F F F F F vF lF	  	 ~ 	 p 	 b 	 N 	 ? 	 ( 	  	  e: