

	You have been very gracious to me to invite me to have breakfast with you this morning, and your introduction is both heartening and also an unhappy reminder of the fact that, while today is Sunday, and a day of peace and rest, tomorrow is Monday, and I shall become a partisan candidate for public office again. I think it is desirable to have these days of rest, so-called. Some days in a campaign are about the most precious we encounter, and I like to avoid, if I can, breaking the peace by not speaking about anything in a partisan way. So if you will permit me, I won't make any partisan talk here this morning, and just give you some desultory views that are wholly unorganized, of my own, about matters that I assume are of mutual interest. I often wish that on Sundays in campaigns both the press and the photographers would take a day off, too.

	During all that noise about us, I don't know whether you remember the story of old Clemenceau, of France, in his later years--early in the morning--I was going to say at a time similar to this, but it isn't so early any longer; it just feels early to me--he was saying good-bye on a railroad station platform in Paris to a very tiresome minister of the French cabinet who was talking to him most emphatically and most tiresomely, and he saw a man way down the platform all of a sudden yawn like this. So, he turned to the minister and said, "Sir, I am afraid we are overheard." We may be overheard here this morning a little bit. I have, like you, been in a veteran's organization, in organizations--the Legion, and so on, for many years. I haven't been, shall I say, a very good practicing member, due to a variety of circumstances. In the thirties, yes, to some extent, and then beginning in the early forties, I went off to the wars in Washington and was there off and on--and subsequently have been in government for some twelve years. In that interval, of course, the Second World War was fought. The veteran's organizations have had an enormous expansion in membership, and therefore, in potential utility. The character is changing somewhat. The older boys--the old crocks--from the first war are moving on. I see a few of them around here. And younger men are inevitably going to move in to take their place.

	This has created various complexities, of course. The continuity of leadership has been, at least in my state, largely in the older group. It has been harder and harder to animate the younger group, but that is beginning to emerge, and I believe it is important. And they serve a very useful purpose. Not just in promoting their self-interest in the veteran's legislation, either at the state capitol or the federal capitol level, but they can also serve an enormous purpose locally which is in the sort of thing you people have worked in, in your immediate communities.

	Mr. Chairman, I just happened to run across one thing that a group was doing in some town in Illinois which is illustrative of what I mean by the variety of possibilities. They were merely beautifying the state highway at the access point of the city, where it began to come into the city. And where it had been shabby and ugly and messy they were cleaning it up around there and developing a picnic area--that sort of thing--and an infinite variety of things. Also, of course, from the point of view of the public official, it is a wonderful access point to communities.

	I have had my troubles with them, I am frank to say. I think I vetoed more than half of their legislature at the last session of the Illinois legislature. I might as well come clean here before somebody comes up with the record.

	I have had a devilish time, as many of you here know, in the problem of the enforcement of the gambling laws. Here in Illinois we had shamefully neglected any pretense of enforcing the anti-commercial gambling laws throughout the state for many years. It had gotten bad. The same old things that have always happened in the normal evolution had happened there. In the good spots, the big syndicate operators in Chicago had begun to move in and muscle out the local operators and take over. This sort of thing is a dreadful cancer in the American society, as I think we all know. Local officials were largely supported, I mean, by campaign contributions in many cases. And the principle source for both parties was by the sheriff and the state's attorney. Not that they didn't want them to do a good job in enforcing criminal law, but just leave gambling alone. This is nothing new. It is a familiar story to many of you, and it has gone on over much of our country. It has been particularly bad in Illinois they say. I have been told that. I don't know how much worse it was in other places. At all events, it clearly degenerated to a point where something had to be done; and, starting about three years ago or more, I began to use the state police in cases where the local law enforcement officials--the sheriffs and state's attorney, and so on, would not cooperate and would not do their own job. We began to do it for them, and it worked. It worked in two ways. In the first place, it did the job because when they made the raids they could only be effective, of course, against visible objects under the law--slot machines, gambling devices, and bookies, and things like that. But it also had the effect of stimulating activity by the local law enforcement officials, in anticipation of the fact that we might strike them and discredit the fellow locally. So he would go ahead and do his own work.

	I am frank to say we have had very little cooperation from some of the veteran's posts. They are awful keen about this law enforcement, but they continue to use all these devices in their own posts. So it is a little incongruous. They say, "By gosh, we are going to clean up crime in this community and get those slot machines out of that corner saloon. But of course, as far as our Legion Post, or VFW, or whatever it is, that belongs to us and it is certainly a different situation. And after all, the device is set to give the fellow at least a sixty to a hundred chance of winning as against one chance in a hundred in the commercial device; and, after all, we own the machine, and it is not owned by a syndicate of operators and placed on a rental basis." And so on and so on.

	Well, you are all familiar with all that. I don't know what the answer to it is. But in the course of time I think it is improving. We have certainly seen many veteran's posts in country clubs and fraternal lodges and things like that who have gone along, and observing the inconsistency in operating themselves while they won't countenance it down the street, and they have voluntarily discontinued it.

	Well, there are other things that are, of course, of great importance. I think veterans groups, for the most part, whether it is due to the fact that it is the older group, or because they are solid and intelligent and usually represent the leadership in a community, are basically conservative financially. By that I mean to say that they look at our federal government, as well as our state government, from a conservative point of view of fiscal responsibility--if I may use that overworked phrase. And in that respect they can be very helpful. But there again you run into the problem of mutuality of treatment. We had this--I will be very frank with you--we had a practice that grew up in Illinois over a period of many years. I wish you would pull my coattails when you want me to sit down. 

	We had a practice of state contributions to private organizations. I don't know what the situation is in Massachusetts, and perhaps it isn't relevant in any event. I found in my first year as governor that the state was appropriating on the order of $275,000 a year in little gobs of 10,000 up to 25,000 dollars to all kinds of private organizations--setting up state appropriation bills to private organizations, most of them for veteran's organizations, and all of them worthy. I never questioned the merit of them--but all of them illegal. I mean, illegal in the sense that the state can't appropriate for a private purpose. Also, it raised a great question. If you appropriate to the Bee Keeper's Association--and that was one of them--the Vegetable Growers' Association, the Past Commanders' Summer Camp for Children, and things like that, why shouldn't you make a state appropriation to support other very good philanthropic activities? Well, I said--this was known as the Christmas Tree Fund, and every organization in the state particularly the veteran's organizations, were trying to get a larger appropriation off the Christmas Tree from the legislature. I let the bill pass the first year--these bills to pass, all of them without my signature, and issued a statement saying while I realized they had become accustomed to this, and needed the money, therefore, I wasn't going to veto them this year, but I would give them the time to get other sources of money and then veto them two years hence. But they didn't literally believe me. They passed them all and in the next two years, after the House and the Senate of the legislature voted for them unanimously--and, you know, there were a lot of worthy organizations--well, I vetoed all of them. And political leaders all said, "You can't do this. Everybody in these groups will vote against you. You can't antagonize all of these people. They have been our friends." Well, I vetoed all of them. And I found that meanwhile many of them had taken me seriously--the organizations had taken me seriously the first time and had gone out and found equivalent funds from another source. Then, just because one put in his bill, the other fellow said he better put in his bill, and so on. And they all got in again. That is the sort of thing. The organization was fully willing to cooperate on them. Some of them complained. Even the Purple Heart Association was one of them. They would come and complain and say, "It is going to be hard for us to find the money, but we can find it if you think that is the way we should run our government." And they agreed it was, and said, "The only reason we did this was because some other organization did it." But the politicians were saying, "You don't dare touch this. The only thing you can do is increase them every year."

	That is illustrative of what I mean. That sort of business should not have started. I don't doubt it will start again in Illinois if they get too soft a head of government, and they are very likely to sometime.

	But you fellows can do so much in the way of influencing public officials, and particularly politicians who are apprehensive and anxious about the vote of the veteran. Just stand fast and be strong and stiff-backed about these things and don't permit us to be raiding the public treasury to serve our own ends all the time. I don't think government is a grab-bag, either at the state level or at the federal level, and I don't think any of you fellows do so. I don't think you would have much respect for a public administrator who treated them that way and was always trying to satisfy the needs of isolated and separate groups.

	I have talked much too long, and I haven't said anything yet, but I have kept the Sabbath. But I do want to express my great gratitude to you for affording me this opportunity of coming here and talking to you.

	Basically, it is this. We are in a time now, from the point of view of the federal budget, of extreme exertion--extreme pressure. I am not sure how long it is going to last. Presumably through fiscal 1955. In that interval, we have got to restrain ourselves. Probably we are going to have to find, I should imagine, substantial cuts, and yet it is terribly difficult to find them, as you all know. I would hope the veterans might be one of the leaders in ways and means of reducing federal expenditures or, at least in sharply controlling them at a time like this when the disaster of inflation or overexpenditure strikes evenly. Nobody escapes. You don't escape even if you are getting larger veterans' benefits, or one thing or another. The veteran himself, the beneficiary, everybody ultimately is the victim of a dangerous inflation. I don't believe that ours is dangerous, but certainly when we have got our tax levels up to 30 percent of the national income, it is a serious thing. And we ought to look forward with religious fervor to the time when we can begin to reduce that level of expenditure and therefore, the level of taxation.

	It is so easy to say, "Well, what is a hospital here and a hospital there. It doesn't amount to anything. That is just the matter of a few million dollars in a budget of billions and billions. Statistically it is inconsequential. Therefore I think we ought to go ahead." And we give the congressman in that district a kick in the tail and tell him "You had better go down there and fight for that--or else!" What do you expect him to do? He goes down and fights for it. You have to multiply that. It is the cumulative effect of countless of those examples that do add up to a ponderous load on the public purse.

	Well, I have been lecturing. Here I am, a Democrat, lecturing you guys about economy.
GAMBLINGILLINOISVETERANS     4 {4 u4 q4 i4
 \4 W4 R4 L4 ?4 =4  4 3	  	  	  e: