

	It is a pleasure to be here today with men and women who are both my long-time friends and leaders in their communities.

	And the pleasure is even greater because the National Association of Retail Druggists has shown the wisdom--and the sense of sound precedent--to choose a man from Minnesota, my good friend George Wilharm, as president.

	With so many friends in this audience, I was a little surprised to read a poll the other day, which said that Richard Nixon has the edge among the nation's pharmacists.  Don't worry.  It's just a temporary indisposition, and I have a remedy, which works pretty well.

	First, just ask yourself what Richard Nixon has ever done for the small businessman.  Then think about those three job-killing, profit-cutting Republican recessions in the 1950s.  You and I know that the people--the workers and housewives, the pharmacists and small businessmen--are the ones who feel the pinch in a recession.

	By now you're beginning to feel a lot better about the Democrats--well enough to start asking some questions about what Mr. Nixon is prescribing this year.  I've been trying to find that out myself--without much success.  He won't debate the issues.  He won't even discuss them in public.  Where does he stand on that treaty to keep atom bombs out of the hands of the Nassers and Castros of this world?  Where does he stand on fiscal reform to ease some of the burdens of the local taxpayer and the middle-income taxpayer?  Where does he stand on small business?

	Take the Robinson-Patman Act, for example.  That law seeks to protect the small businessman against abuses of economic power by the big chains, but it needs revision and modernization.

	I stand ready to reexamine the problem of price discrimination and update the Robinson-Patman Act for the protection of small business.

	What about Mr. Nixon?  Have you received one of his private letters?  I think Mr. Nixon has an obligation to speak out--publicly, and not in secret letters slipped under the door--especially when the interests of millions of small investors are involved.  I'm beginning to think Mr. Nixon is taking the American people for granted--and I say that is no way to run for president of the United States.

	Today I want to talk to you about a problem of real concern to the small businessmen, to all of us: the problem of crime.  And I want to talk about it soberly, constructively, and I want to tell you how we can get results.

	Crime is something Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace talk about all the time.  With considerable skill they appeal to the fears and emotions of the American people, and with equal irresponsibility, they neglect to spell out what they intend to do about the serious problem of crime in our society.  I understand the growing concern, the deep unrest, which the American people feel over the rising crime rate in America.  I know the dangers which small businessmen like yourselves must face every day, the constant worry that perhaps your store will be held up today, or that your place of business will be burglarized at night.  I know your courage and your determination to stay in your place of business... to serve your customers, to play your vital role in your respective communities.  And I salute you for all of this.

	As businessmen you have every right to ask:  "Okay, what are you going to do about it?"  That's what I intend to spell out today.  Mr. Wallace says a lot about crime.  But he has, to the best of my knowledge, never bothered to say how he would fight crime as president of the United States.  I don't accept his oft-repeated solution of running people over with his automobile as an adequate answer.

	Last week Mr. Nixon made a statement on crime.  It contained four major recommendations.  Mr. Nixon's advisors forgot to tell him that three of them--a "cabinet-level council" to coordinate federal policy on the control and prevention of crime, a National Coordinating Center and a National Academy of Law Enforcement--were already part of the federal government's program to fight crime.  The only new recommendations made by Mr. Nixon--the only recommendation he had not copied, from existing programs--was to suggest a series of nationwide town hall conferences on crime prevention.  This sounds like either a call for the vigilantes or for more talk about crime.

	America doesn't need either one.  The time for talking is over--we need action.  And that's what I will give you as president.

	No, we don't need any more studies, commission reports, conferences, seminars, or bull sessions on how to fight crime.

	And so when Mr. Nixon forgets in his statement to talk about the additional resources urgently needed by state and local police, he fails totally to spell out a responsible program to reduce crime and violence in this country.
I think the bumper stickers are right--"Support your local police."  And I say that he who refuses to support your local police with additional money, that man refuses to support them at all.

	In present circumstances, these additional resources must come primarily from the federal government.  As you know well, our states and municipalities simply lack the tax base to support major increases in their law enforcement budgets.  When we look at our local police, what do we find?  We find that we have neglected and overlooked and shortchanged our policemen for decades.  Our police forces are undermanned, and the men are underpaid and often undertrained.  We give these brave men one of the most important jobs in our society.  Then we pay them on the average of two-thirds of what is necessary to support a family in moderate circumstances.  We make them the agents of social order, and rightly demand that they behave lawfully in the face of extreme provocation from lawbreakers.  But we rarely give them the kind of quality training they know they need to do their jobs effectively.  We don't give them modern technical equipment.  We even tie them up with clerical work unconnected with the business of preventing, deterring, and detecting crime.

	To wage war on crime in our modern society, we need professional people whose training combines the highest standards and the best interdisciplinary training in crime prevention, crime control, and the protection of human rights.  That means professional programs in our colleges and universities--too few have them today.  I believe it also means new federally supported schools of criminal justice--like schools of law or schools of medicine.

	As president, I would propose the assistance necessary to bring the vital work of law enforcement and crime prevention to professional standing.

	My Republican opponent has also avoided any discussion of one major issue, which relates directly to reducing terror on our streets, protecting merchants from violence and murder, and innocent citizens from brutal attack--the issue of firearms.

	We neither protect ourselves nor support our local police by condoning the easy access to these weapons by criminals, assassins, snipers, the mentally disturbed, and narcotics addicts.  Congress has finally acted to ban the mail order and interstate sales of rifles, shotguns, and ammunition.  If the states do not act promptly to pass registration and licensing laws, the next Congress must do so.  This has been my position--I now repeat my support for such action.

	But where does Mr. Nixon stand on this important question?  He says he has spoken out on 167 major issues.  Gun control is evidently not among them.

	Finally, rioting in American cities must stop.

	If there is looting and burning it must--and it will--be punished according to the laws against theft and arson.  As president, I would provide additional training for National Guard units in riot control, teamwork and planning.  I would maintain small, highly-trained National Guard riot control units on continual alert, for short-term service in any community.  And I would stand ready to respond to any legitimate call from states or cities for military manpower in the event of massive disorders.  These are the specific actions I would take as president to reduce crime and stop riots.

	I could give you figures to prove that the top seven crime states in the country have Republican governors--and law enforcement in this country is primarily a state and local matter.  I could give you figures to prove that Governor Agnew's Maryland leads the nation with the highest murder rate in the nation.  But governors, or attorneys general, or presidents do not commit crime.  Criminals commit crime.  Campaign oratory never caught a thief or stopped a riot.

	So let's talk sense about this issue.  The only question about civil peace in America is this: how do we best get it?  I have given you a specific, straightforward program.  People must obey the law.  And the law must be enforced.  At the same time, people must feel that the society of law in which they live offers them justice in the true sense.  So we have to keep moving on both fronts.  We can't let down on either.  And so I appeal not to your fears, but to your reason.  I ask you to vote your hopes, not your hates.  I ask you to join me--with faith in the essential greatness of this country--in building in America a society where the rule of law is supreme, and where the people live by that law--because it is just.  

	I ask your help.
BUSINESS, SMALLCIVIL DISORDERGUN CONTROLLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONCRIME--GENERAL     % x% r% n% f%
 Z% U% P% J% =% ;% % %	 P 	 A 	 3 	 (   e: