

	My very dear friends: It looks to me as though New Haven was doing better business than usual. As a Princetonian, I hadn't expected this reception at New Haven, and I can attribute it very largely, I think, to the influence of the Yale Daily News, which is a great newspaper. There was a time some years ago when I didn't think so much of it, but everything has changed. As I came into the station downstairs, somebody was going to present me with an Irish shillelagh. I thought perhaps it was in self-defense, but I don't think I will need to use it.

	I am glad to be back in New Haven again. It has been a month since I was last here, and I haven't been exactly wasting my time. That, if you will recall, was the time when General Eisenhower had just become an assistant professor on the staff of Dr. Taft. It has been a busy month, a productive month and an infinitely heartening month for me. Aside from abuse and epithets, and slander, and mistrust, there is little left of the Republican campaign except the everlasting refrain, "It's time for a change." And when they change from the general to the specific which they do occasionally--about the only change they ever mention is a change from Democrats to Republicans.

	Many say, I am told, that we must let the Republicans win so as to rescue that honored old party from the clutches of the Old Guard. I think this is the first time in history that it has ever been contended that now is the time for all good Democrats to come to the aid of the Republican party.

	You know our Republican friends accuse me sometimes of talking over the heads of the people. Well the only times I do ever talk over the heads of the people are on occasions like this when they put me on a balcony. I have a higher opinion of the people. I don't think you have to talk to Americans in words of one syllable or in generalities like some generals.

	I haven't time of course in the brief moment here to take up all of the problems that concern you. I wish I could, for example, talk about the Republican record on inflation. But I have talked about that before, and I will talk about it again. Today in the time that I have, let me talk about something else.

	First let me talk about the Republican record on the overshadowing question of war and peace. This is by far the most serious issue that we all face. War in Korea already shadows thousands of American homes. The outbreak of another general war might destroy everything in which we believe. And if we have learned anything about Communism, we have learned that there are no magic tricks by which we are going to make Soviet Communism disappear. I don't believe in the theory of peace by miracle. What I do believe is that we can restrain aggression and avoid a third world war by systematically, patiently, creatively building strength and unity in the free world.

	I used to think my distinguished opponent believed that, too, but that was before he began recommending great budget cuts which could only come out of our strength or the strength of our allies. And before he began demanding that the American people return to the Senate the worst collection of reactionaries and isolationists this country has known for many years; and before he asked the American people to believe that he could settle the Korean tragedy by going to Korea when all the world knows that the source of the Korean tragedy lies, not in Korea--it lies in Moscow.

	Let me say this: I am glad that the general shares our profound and passionate desire to end the war as soon as we honorably can. But I would have thought he would know that the best way for us to end this war is for all Americans to stand united on a policy of firmness and strength, opposed both to retreat and surrender on the one hand, and to expansion of the war on the other.

	I wish very much that the general would join once again in asserting a united American position on this matter. I think he used to know that this would be the best way for our nation to achieve our common objective of honorable peace. I think he must know that this is above and beyond politics. But I am frankly concerned not only in what you hear and suspect, but what some of them say. Only the other day Senator Capehart of Indiana said, and I quote him, "In another two weeks General Eisenhower will be thinking and talking on foreign policies just like Senator Taft. He has already come a long way toward our thinking."

	We Democrats have believed in the policy of strength for a long time. When they took over the country twenty years ago, the Democratic party found our Army and our Navy starved and feeble. Under the leadership of a great and a gallant America, we commenced to rebuild our strength--and I mean, of course, Franklin Roosevelt.

	Within my own memory I recall the autumn and the winter of 1943 when I was privileged to head the first economic mission that went to Italy behind the advancing army. The object of that mission was to see what could be done to provide for a half-starved, disordered, ungoverned civilian population; and also to see what the ultimate requirements would be in reconstruction and in rehabilitation of the Italian peninsula. I have many warm memories of that lovely land and of its fine people. And I have no warmer memories than of the way in which the Italians responded to the chance to build their own economic strength.

	They well knew that weakness would only mean Communist revolutions, while every night, the hammer and the sickle appeared on more walls as we moved up the Peninsula--and many of you in this room probably worked your way up in the dreadful winter and recall the evil sign, just as I. By helping the Italians get up on their feet, we averted what would have been both revolution and disaster in Italy, and by building strength in other parts of the world, we are fighting Communism here, too.

	It has always seemed strange to me that these Old Guard Republicans who spend all day denouncing Communism are generally found to be voting against the measures which will really stop Communism.

	I never thought so many people could get in this much space before in my life. Has everyone stopped breathing down there?

	Let us look at something else. Last April, it was my privilege, as one of the thirty-six governors, who had established state displaced persons resettlement agencies to welcome to Chicago the last displaced person to immigrate to America. This man was a Pole, and I told him that I hoped that President Truman's proposal for a new refugee program would be carried out to help others as he had been helped.

	I regret to say that the act controlling our present immigration policies is in some way a very bad act. It is unfair to many people, such as the Italians and the Poles, and as a Democrat, I regret that the act bears the name of a Senior Democratic senator--even though it did get the enthusiastic support of the Republican Old Guard--or at least Senator McCarran used to be a Democratic senator; but in his own state, he is now backing isolationist Old Guard Republicans against a fine and progressive young Democrat, Tom Mechling.

	We believe in fighting the menace of our time by deeds, and when it comes to doing concrete things to stop the spread of this evil poison, there is no senator who has done more than Connecticut's Bill Benton.

	Do you want to say a few words, Senator, or shall I go on?

	He has fought to build strength at home and strength abroad, and he has fought to keep to keep clarity and sanity in our land too because he knows that if we succumb to the accuser and to the demagogue, we will lose our own freedom and Communist conquest will be all the easier.

	Abe Ribicoff, in the House of Representatives, has stood for strength and for economic and efficient government.

	And let me say here while we are talking about these things that I am told tonight that the intellectual, the moral poverty of the Republican campaign will reach its culmination when, with General Eisenhower's approval, Senator McCarthy will jump into a breach to save the campaign.

	Against the possibility that there are some advanced Yale students here who read Aristotle, I should like to read you a quotation; this is what he said over two thousand years ago: "History shows that almost all tyrants have been demagogues who gained the favor of the people by their accusations of the notables."

	Nothing has changed. You will need Abe Ribicoff and you will need Bill Benton in Washington in the next few years, and I might as well confess to you that I am planning to live there too and I need them too.

	And while you are doing all this, I hope you will return John McGuire to the House of Representatives; and you can give him a fine new colleague in the Fifth District, John Speziale.

	Of course, modesty forbids me to say very much about the presidential choice, but I will say this: people started off in this campaign knowing a great deal about my distinguished opponent and nothing about me, but I don't think today that many would dispute the fact that the more we hear the general, the less we know where he stands on anything. And whatever else you may think of me, I hope you will concede that at least I know my own mind, I think I know it, but I can't guarantee how long I can keep it in this campaign business.

	I got a telegram the other day that pleased me a great deal. It said "I like Ike but I believe in Steve."

	I don't think the Democratic party has tried to fool you in this election. We have not talked one way in the North and another in the South. We have not been Vandenburg internationalists in Michigan and Chicago Tribune isolationists in Illinois.

	The Democratic party has, I hope, a presidential candidate and not a man on a flying trapeze. We have not changed our ideas to suit our itinerary, and we would rather lose the election than mislead the people. But we are not going to lose the election and for that very reason.

	I have just one further word for you before the conductor pulls my coattails. It is a clipping from a Boston paper this morning that somebody showed me. It reads this way: "An elderly woman who had been following Governor Stevenson and saw him for the first time observed, "I just don't think I will vote for him. He is far too nice a man to give that nasty job to."
COMMUNISMIMMIGRATIONITALYKOREAN WARWORLD WAR II     2) ( ( ( (
 ( ( ( ( ( ( ( (	 / 	 & 	  	  	  e: