

	[Missing text]...who do you trust? Who do you trust? A lot of time--a long time ago for many of you here, who...[missing text]...used to be patients in Battle Creek Hospital and come to Kalamazoo on the weekends to have a good time. Remember those good old days?

	And I must say as I look back on those days--I remember a lot of other things, too, about all the great people in this part of the country, how generous you were, how you took care of us and helped us. We've never forgotten that. We're fighting for America again and we want you to join this fight for America November 5, 1996.

	And let me welcome you to this big, big, big--this big, big retirement party for Bill Clinton.

	I'm sorry my wife, Elizabeth, cannot be here but she'll be a great First Lady. Make no mistake about it. She is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her. That's how talented she is.

	And I've been described in my lifetime as the most optimistic man in America. On the morning of November 6th Bill Clinton will be the most surprised man in America.  All I want in this area is the same number of votes as Fred Upton gets.

	All right? I'll take it. You've got that Kansas style...[missing text]...Kansas right now at the bottom...[missing text]... they're the last ones--there--leading the way--right. All right. We've been with Governor Engler today--he's done a great job in Michigan. I want to do for America what John Engler's done for Michigan.

	I want to cut your taxes. He cut taxes 21 times, created 500,000 new jobs, about 100,000 off the welfare roles--he's made Michigan go again. The economy's going in this state because of strong leadership. Some governor, he was behind in the polls--remember those polls--oh, John Engler can't win because he wants to cut taxes. He won, he cut your taxes--he kept his word. It's all about trust--t-r-u-s-t--who do you trust?

	Spence said--my good friend, Spence Abraham said--this is a very important election. I've been privileged to, to serve in the United States Congress, and left there on June 11th because I wanted to make a statement to people across America--I know there's a lot of cynicism and skepticism about politicians, and some people believe and maybe some in this audience, that we never really want to give up anything. We always want to get more--so it occurred to me that if I wanted to demonstrate my willingness to sacrifice, then I had to put something on the line.

	So I gave up the majority leader's office. I gave up my seat in the Senate, and I looked the American people in the eye and said, "Okay. I put my career on the table, because I think the future of America is on the table, and if we don't have strong leadership going into the next century, a lot of our young people aren't going to have jobs--they're going to be using drugs, they're going to be doing just exactly the wrong thing in America. And I want to provide that leadership for young Americans and people all across America."

	The truth is, you can boil it all down--the truth is the federal government is too big and it spends too much of your, your money. It's your money. It's your money.

	In many families one parent works full time for the family; the other works full time to pay the taxes, works full time for the government. That should not happen in America. But it's a reality of the Clinton economy. He talked about and bragged about the number of jobs created in the last few years. One guy said, "Yeah, I met a guy the other day that had three of them. You've got to have two or three jobs, both the husband and wife have to work just to make ends meet, because now about 40 percent of what you make is going down in taxes.

	We want to move in the other direction. And on his way to the Democratic convention, Bill Clinton stopped here in Kalamazoo in that train. We call it the tax hike express. Every time he stops, it costs the taxpayers on that train trip about $12 million a mile. He was dropping goodies everywhere, everywhere, everywhere. And it was your money. It wasn't his money. It was your money. It was your money.

	And while here he made another of his big spending promises. He promised to spend $2 billion cleaning up toxic waste sites and redeveloping abandoned factories and new businesses. The problem with that promise is, that Michigan was already way ahead of him, way ahead of him, creating jobs and promoting economic growth with tax cuts and less regulation and cutting back on frivolous lawsuits. Don't forget that one, either. So--

	The result is under Republican leadership Michigan had already found a way to attract investment and jobs and areas where there once were abandoned factories. By taking on the trial lawyers and changing the liability laws, Michigan has been able to develop abandoned sites without more and more and more federal spending. And in just six years these legal changes alone have helped clean up the environment, attract $220 million in new investment, create more than 2,000 additional jobs in cities all over this state. Maybe it's time Bill Clinton stopped talking about spending your money, and started paying attention to what's happening in the great state of Michigan under the leadership of John Engler.

	Thank you. Thank you. I believe it's time to give working people a break. It's time to give working people a break. And under our tax cut plan, 15 percent across-the-board, $500 per-child-under-eighteen tax credit, cut the capital gains rate in half so you can create more jobs and more opportunities--provide estate tax relief. If you work all your life and your family works, and somebody passes on, you shouldn't have to sell off half the property to pay the estate tax. We're going to start providing relief. But for the average family in Michigan, if you're making $30,000 a year, a family four, the tax cut's $1,261, which is an 86 percent tax cut.

	The President says, "Well, the government can't afford it." Well, let me say again--it's your money. It's not his money. It's your money.  When he raised taxes in 1993, did he come to Michigan and ask you if you could afford a tax increase?

	Of course, it, it only applied to the rich--70 percent of that $265 billion tax increase, the largest tax increase in the history of America, paid by small-businessmen and small-businesswomen, and by senior citizens who had their Social Security taxes hiked, and by other people out there who drive a car--$32 billion in new gas taxes, not for highways, but to go into the general pot, where he and Vice President Gore can play around with it--and do these little spending programs.

	We have a Main Street tax cut for families. We're going to make it work. You've got my word. Democrats and Republicans alike will tell you that I keep my word.

	And if President Clinton, or former President Clinton leaves his change of address---If he leaves his change of address, he'll get the tax cut, too. We'll mail it to him.

	And in our first debate, he said he needed a tax cut. Well, he's making $200,000 a year. Now, if he needs a tax cut of $200,000, I think a lot of people in this audience are making a lot less--you need a tax cut, you're going to get a tax cut. You haven't had a tax cut for ten years from the federal government.

	And that is only Phase one. In Phase two we're going to flatten out this--we're going to make it fairer and flatter and simpler and we're going to end the IRS as we know it.

	You know the average regulations cost the American family, just an average family, about $6,000 to $7,000 a year. We know we have to protect the environment. We're going to get back in--the Republican Congress--the last two years, first the Democratic Congress--they passed one environmental bill in the Republican Congress. We passed ten. We passed ten in the last two years, environmental bills signed by the President, and he's out there complaining about the environment.

	But we're going to make it work. We're going to have common sense regulations--in my state of Kansas--it certainly is true in Michigan, because I know a lot of people in Michigan have for a long time--when everything else fails, just try a little common sense, just a little common sense here and there--protect our water, protect our air, protect our food and also protect our pocketbooks from all these bureaucrats. Try to figure out more ways and more unnecessary regulations. They've added 220,000 pages to the regulation file in this administration, in just forty-five months.

	We're also going to change the legal system--stop some of these frivolous lawsuits that put you out of business and put a cap on punitive damages. I don't have any problem with lawyers. I'm--my wife's a lawyer. We're the only two lawyers who trust each other. But beyond that, it's all right.

	I've said, in jest, when I, when I fell off that little platform out in Chico, California, on the way down my cell phone rang. It was a trial lawyer saying, Bob, I think we've got a case here. You know, that's the way it works.

	We've got to stop some of the frivolous lawsuits. They've breaking up small-businessmen and small-businesswomen. They have to lose their business because of all the legal fees they have to pay.

	We're also going to declare a war on drugs. I tell all the young people in this audience, and their parents and their grandparents--we're going to cut down drug use.

	Now keep one thing in mind. From ages twelve to seventeen in the Clinton administration, since it started, drug use has doubled. Drug use has doubled--marijuana up 141 percent--He had a surgeon general who said maybe we ought to legalize marijuana. Cocaine use is up 160 percent, a lot of it coming from Mexico, a lot of it coming across the border. In my administration we'll use the National Guard if necessary to stop it at the border, stop it from coming into America in the first place.

	And let me conclude by talking about--just one more minute about something else that's happened here the last few days--you know, I've been in--oh, I see a Russell, Kansas, out there...[missing text]... but a long time ago, we started giving foreign aid to countries all around the world. And I get a lot of mail saying, "Why do we deliver all this foreign aid? We never get any." Foreign aid is finally coming to America from India, from Indonesia.

	The President shakes hands, and here's $300,000. He shakes hands again and he gets the...[missing text]. He sent Albert Gore out to the Buddhist Temple in Los Angeles. They all signed a vow of poverty to get in there, and he raises $122,000. I don't know how they do it. I don't know how they do it--it just turns into money, wherever they go--everything is green. Everything is green.

	So finally, foreign aid has come to America. Aren't you tickled about it? Aren't you pleased about it?  We should have a law--and we will have a law that if you're not a citizen and you don't vote, you can't contribute in American elections.

	And we will do some other things in campaign finance reform--I would say to all those people who are concerned about it--the Perot voters and Ross Perot himself: We are the party of change--we are the party of the working people in America. We are the party of the future. We are the party that looks to the next century for a better America.

	I'll tell you one thing we need. We need to keep this Republican Congress--Fred was right, and Spence was right--we need a Republican Congress. We need to elect Ron into the United States Senate. I need some help in the United States Senate.

	We also need an honest, ethical administration in the White House, in the White House, in the White House, in the White House. We do not need an administration--we do not need an administration that goes out and hires some guy who used to be a bouncer in a bar, to be the White House security chief in charge of nine hundred FBI files. How would you like to have somebody rummaging through your FBI file? You wouldn't like it. I understand mine was so dull he went to sleep. But otherwise it was all right. So.

	That should not happen in the White--I know somebody who went to jail for looking at one White House file on Watergate, and they've got nine hundred in the White House and nobody knows how they got there. They just showed up one day. Nobody's ever looked at them--the same way the files show up in the living quarters--"Oh, we don't know how they got there."

	The same way about the pardon. Why does the President say he will not pardon Susan McDougal or anybody else who might implicate him in Whitewater? He owes it to the American people.

	And why doesn't John Huang...[missing text]...this guy that made, raised four or five, who knows how many million dollars, from all these foreign sources--have a press conference--tell the American people where the money came from. First they said they would. Now they say they won't. First they said they would. Now they say they won't.

	They'll never explain anything. They're going to stonewall it. They're going to stonewall it. They believe the American people are not going to revolt between now and November 5. They're sitting on a little lead, but they don't know the American people. They don't know the American people.

	If I know the American people at all, I think they want us to set a higher standard, not a lower standard. And I can quote some commentators who said things yesterday on talk shows that Bob said--they said Bob Dole is partisan or whatever--I'll tell you. It's shameless. It's shameless what's happened in the White House. He has a public trust. When I'm elected president of the United States I'll have a public trust. And if I don't keep that trust, I shouldn't be there very long. If you don't keep your word, if you don't tell the truth, if you don't say it's my mistake, the buck stops here as Harry Truman said--in this administration the buck stops nowhere. Nobody's responsible for anything, and we think it ought to be changed. And I will not sell access to the White House. So...[missing text]...and they even had rumors--I don't know, it may be true--they had this--it cost you--for $100,000 you could sleep in the Lincoln bedroom. If I paid $100,000 I wouldn't be able to sleep anywhere. No. You wouldn't either.

	The final word is this: you're going to make the decision. In two weeks you're going to decide. And I think you just have to think about--well, now, who is this Bob Dole and who is this Bill Clinton? Is it about them or is it about me? Is it about my family? Is it about my business? Which one of them do I trust? Which one of these men do I trust? Which one of these men do I want to be president?

	And will I be proud of my vote? Will I be proud of my vote next year and the following year and the following year and the following year? Will I be able to look back--if I look back in my voting for Ike, Eisenhower--I'm proud of my vote. I thought he was a great American, a great hero, a great general--and a lot of other things, and he meant a lot to America. We're going to get it done. Don't watch the scoreboard, watch the game. We're gonna win.

	Thank you. God bless America.
BUSINESS, SMALL--TAXATIONCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTGASOLINE TAXGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSINHERITANCE TAXLITIGATION REFORMREGULATION/DEREGULATIONTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERAL     < < < < <
 < < < z< r< p< e<	 	 	  	  	  	  	 { 	 o 	 R 	 C 	 2 	  	  e: