

	Governor Warren:  My fellow Californians and our neighbors in Oregon and Washington:  You haven't seen much of me out on the Pacific Coast recently.  I haven't been there. I have been on a tour of the country in the interests of General Eisenhower and Senator Nixon.  This is the fifteenth state that I have visited, and I have just returned from one of the greatest political rallies I
have ever witnessed in my long experience.

	There was a tremendous outpouring at the Chicago Stadium.  Thousands and thousands of people gave General Eisenhower one of the warmest welcomes that I have ever seen given to a public figure.  It is a great pleasure for me to be in the same studio and on the same television program with this great leader of ours.

	General, it is good to see you.  I flew here today from California to bring you the greetings of the millions of friends you have out there on the Pacific Coast--not just the ones you and I saw when we traveled the length and breadth of the state, but millions that you have not yet had an opportunity to see.  General, they are all happy to see you and to know that you are going to be our next President.  One of the greatest reasons that they are is because of
their concern about security and because they feel you have been giving so many of the years of your life to the security of our country, and can look to the security out there in the Pacific.

	General Eisenhower:  Well, Governor, of course, it is always fine to see you.  When you return, I hope you will give my greetings to the great people you have out there.  I loved every minute I was there.

	Of course, they are right to be concerned about security, not only because they are a part of these great United States which has such a terrific problem in its own security and leading the free world into collective security, but because in their specific situation they have so many sensitive points in their area, specifically their defense industries, the destruction of which in time of war would be calamitous for us.  So anybody who is studying the defense of the United States must give particular attention to that area--all the way from Seattle right on down to the southern border of our country.

	With respect to the aviation part of this thing, there is probably no greater authority than an old friend of mine, Jimmy Doolittle.

	Governor Warren:  You know, Jimmy is a Californian and went to the University of California.  He is a friend of mine.  I happen to have a letter from him.  He said something in that letter I think would be of interest to you.  I know it would be to a great many people out in California.  He said:  "The biggest thing that could be done for aviation, for the nation, and for the world, today, is to elect Ike president."

	General Eisenhower:  Well, I tell you, Governor, you have to excuse the exaggerations of friendship.  Jimmy Doolittle and I are old and warm friends.  But I, in spite of my embarrassment about the things he said, do most sincerely concur in his great interest in aviation, because aviation is not only one of our greatest defense weapons, it is going to be part of that glorious future of America we are certain to have.  Our scientists, and all the rest of the people who produce and lead us forward in this country, are going to bring about something here that our imaginations cannot even picture.  Aviation is going to be part of it.  That means there are going to be thousands and thousands and tens of thousands of jobs for men who, today, probably have not even heard of an airplane.  It is going to be something.

	Governor Warren:  General, I cannot keep from thinking that when Jimmy Doolittle said what he did about you, he was thinking of this Korean War across the Pacific.  You know, everybody out West, as they are in every part of the country, is interested in that Korean War--not interested as much as they are concerned.  They got a tremendous uplift the other day when you said, if you were elected, you would go out there personally and see conditions on the field.

	I know there was some criticism about that, General.  It might be that some people could not learn anything about going over to Korea, but I will bet my money you would learn something about going to Korea.

	General Eisenhower:  I know this:  I know that during the war I never failed to learn something every time I went forward.  By the way, you know both prime ministers and presidents came to visit my theater of war and they thought they learned something.

	Now, I want to point out that there is no patent-medicine way of winning the Korean War.  It is a difficult situation.  To my mind, therefore, that is all the more reason for someone bearing very heavy responsibilities with respect to that to go out and see.  I cannot imagine any problem, today, that is of more interest to the American people.  Therefore, my feeling was and is I want to learn, I want to know--particularly I want to find out how far we can go in getting support right there on the spot where the soldiers of the Republic of Korea covet and deserve the honor of taking the maximum part in their own defense.  That, I believe thoroughly.

	By the way, while we are on this business of fighting, you probably heard some of these political opposition rumors out there that I would cut the pay of soldiers, I would lengthen their tour of service--I would do everything that is bad for men in the service.  I just do not believe that men who have known me through these forty years, men who now are veterans or in the service, would
believe that I would turn on them and do anything except advance their best interests.  That goes for veterans.  I believe that every single program for the veterans that takes care of the disabled, looks after the widow and the orphan--all that sort of thing--is something that the heart of America demands, and we must do it.  The only thing is, we must do it efficiently and in the interests of the veteran and not of some politician.

	Tied to that problem is this one of Civil Service.  "You put Ike and his friends in the administration and they will fire civil servants by the scores."  That is just bunk.  I have lived with those people a whole lot longer than some of the people who are now criticizing me and I like and admire them.

	Governor Warren:  General, I don't think our people are very much concerned about that subject-- really I don't--but we do have some things we are interested in out there that are a part of this same campaign of fear that you are talking about.  They tell us out there, of course, that if you become president, all development of the West will stop and we will have no more river basin development, no more dams like the Grand Coulee and Hoover Dam and the Shasta Dam in the Central Valley.  They tell us that we will have no more forest conservation or soil conservation or rural electrification.

	I can't believe that they even know when they said those things that you were a man of the West yourself--born out there in Kansas, having married a girl from Colorado and having had your heart and soul in the West all of these years.  You know, we are just tremendously interested in those things.  Would you say a word about that to our friends?

	General Eisenhower:  First, the story you tell just shows the length that fearful politicians--fearful of losing their jobs--will go.  Actually, of course, I made quite a speech on this at Seattle, parts of which I have repeated often since.  Now, here is a fact that some people forget.  The population of our country increases six-thousand per day.  Where is the great resource of territories that we can reclaim and use that is going to feed this population ten, twenty, or thirty years from now?  It has to be in the West.  Back in the East, everything is crowded up.  Back there are the opportunities.  That means conservation and these multiple-purpose dams.

	Here is the big difference between the administration and me.  I say, give the locality, the municipality, the people who live in the states, a dominating influence in these projects--in devising the plans and in operating them--and keep Washington out of the roll of just what I call whole-hog bossing.  Just let it be a partnership.  If we can do that, then the federal government comes in the right way--supporting, helping, making studies, doing research, but giving local authorities a full partnership.  It goes for agriculture in the same way.  These fearmongers say that we will rip out the supports from under agriculture, the stable crops.  On the contrary, we not only say we support these stable crops and we mean it, but we will extend it to include the perishables--try to
give those fellows a break, to work out the thing with their aid so that no one is being gouged but so that we all prosper together.  Research, study and cooperation--those are the things we must do. I believe in them.

	Governor Warren speaks:  I am sure of that, General, and I am sure that you wouldn't have the ten Republican governors in all the western states supporting you as loyally as they are if any single one of them had any suspicion that you might not be interested in the development of the West.  Now, out there in the West, General, we are very warmhearted people and we are interested in the welfare of everyone, as you are.

	They have also tried this campaign of fear.  So far as programs of social welfare and things of that kind are concerned, they would have us believe that if you are president, all of the gains that the working man has made will be rolled back--that there will be no more social security, there will be no more unemployment insurance, that there will be none of the humanitarian aspects of government that both of us are so interested in.  Really, I don't know that it
is necessary to say you are not going to do that, but do you want to make any comment on that situation?

	General Eisenhower:  You know, Governor, you used an expression I like - warm-hearted government.  I like that expression.  Warm-hearted government means a government made up of men and women who are interested in people's problems.  But I believe in hard-headed operation, hard-headed efficiency in saving the money of those people, so that we can cut down expenditures in government, eventually cutting down taxes.  We have got to have concern for the
aged.  We have got to have concern for our workers, the producers, our young who are going to school, the sick and the helpless.  No nation like ours can desert and ignore those people.

	That includes, by the way, this great class they call the white-collar class, and which everybody always takes for granted.  Right on down through the land, we need good steady jobs at good pay.  We need strong unions.  We need social security programs.  And above all things, what we are going to do that these people have never tried to do is to have a stable dollar so that these programs will help the people when they finally begin to get the benefits and use them.  Their dollars will still buy a few potatoes and some meat, and won't be good just to start a fire with.

	Good bye.  I have got to go and catch a plane.

	Governor Warren continues speaking.

AEROSPACE INDUSTRYAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONKOREAN WARMILITARY PERSONNELNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTREGIONALISM--WESTVETERANSWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     j- 6- 0- ,- "-
 - - , , , , , ,	  	  	  	  	 u 	 k 	 Y 	 < 	 + 	 # e: