

	You have waited a long time but it is a little bit late to get what you were asking me to give them.  I will save that for an afternoon meeting.

	First, I want to thank my friend Walter, Walter Burke, and I want to thank Bill Title for greeting me here, and all of the members of the labor movement of this great county, Allegheny County, particularly the city of Pittsburgh.

	We have some good candidates behind us here.  And I like to have them behind me, working with me all the time, none other than your friend and my friend and one that has really stood with you all the way, Senator Joseph Clark, and I know you are going to give Joe the kind of help which he richly deserves.

	You have a remarkable man that has, I think, a tremendous future in this state and is on the ballot again and that is Bob Casey.  Bob, are you here?

	And, we have our friend, Judge Circone, right here.

	And you all know Grace Sloane, I know.  Gracie, come right up here.

	I mention him because I am proud of him and I am proud to be on the ticket with him.

	I want to get right down to cases.  I am talking to the people that are going to help decide this election and you may very well be decisive.  You are the kind of people that can take it as the kids say.  You can say it like it is, take it like it is.

	We are in difficulty in this election unless we buckle down and do something about it.  I am not going to try to play games with anybody.  If we do not step up our efforts to take this message, the message of social progress and of liberal programs, and we can go and spend the time tonight and go over them, I just ask you to take a look at the platform we adopted in convention.  Most people stopped at Article 1 and never got through the rest of it, but take a look at it.  It is a charter for social progress in this country.  And if we do not get down to business in the rank and file of the union membership, if we don't get out into the precincts where the people live--suburbs, and inner city and rural areas--this election can go by default because we didn't do enough to win it, and I don't think you want Richard Nixon to have this election because we didn't do our job.

	And he is putting up a rough fight and a hard fight.  I told you that before I ever got this nomination.  I never thought it would be easy.  And there is a third-party candidate and he has an impact in the union movement.  And all I am asking every union officer, every trade union person, every industrial worker, every person that has a leadership responsibility, I ask you to judge these three candidates on the basis of their record and I want you to examine that record.

	I want you to take a look at mine.  I want you to take a look at the Republican nominee.  I want you to take a look at the third-party nominee.  I want you to see who was for right-to-work laws.  I want you to see who is for the Federal Aid to Education.  I want you to see who was against it.  I want you to see where we have stood.

	Now, my friends, unless we do this and get that message out to your cousins, your nephews, your aunts, your uncles, your sisters, your brothers, your mother, your father, your relatives, unless you do that you are gong to wake up on the 6th day of November and you are going to have a man elected that started his political career downgrading Franklin Roosevelt, that spent his early days in the Congress of the United States attacking Harry Truman, that spent his time in the middle fifties demeaning Adlai Stevenson, that spent his time in 1960 fighting John Kennedy, and has spent his time the last four years attacking the Democratic administration that is now in power.

	Now, if you want that, we can get it by inactivity.  But, we have the tools and the means and we can win it honorably.  We will win it on the basis of the record.

	I know the American people want their children educated.  Higher education shouldn't be just the privilege of the rich or the fortunate; it ought to belong to every young man or woman that wants a college education.  And I know that we can help provide a better living environment in this country.

	Listen, if we can put a man on the moon as I have told you a hundred and one times, and spend the billions of dollars that we do in doing that, we can help put a man on his feet right here on Earth, one of our fellow citizens.  There is no reason we can't do that.

	VOICES:  We want Hubert.  We want Hubert.  We want Hubert.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I want you to take a look at the difference.  I said to another group here in the other room that one of the candidates said, Mr. Wallace said, "There isn't a dime's worth of difference between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Humphrey".  Well, I want to tell you, my friends, there is $175 billion worth of difference.

	The Republican nominee said that if you have this man, Mr. Humphrey, you will get four more years of the same.  I guess he means that if you are vice president, whenever you are vice president, you get what you had during the vice presidency.

	Well, I want to remind the workers in this room you had three recessions in eight years.  It cost you $175 billion of lost income.  Pittsburgh had unemployment--you know, you were around here--unemployment compensation, trying to find jobs.  The revenues of this city were down, and of this state, and there were 101 things that went wrong.

	All I am saying to you is that if you want this, you can get it again.

	Mr. Nixon is an intelligent man.  He would like to have you believe that he monopolizes the field of law and order and respect for the law.

	Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me say in the presence of my friends from the labor movement, I was elected mayor of my city, the city of Minneapolis, with the support of organized labor and I gave the city of Minneapolis the best law enforcement program that city ever had and it is a matter of public record, and when Mr. Nixon talks to me about being, he says--he says the Vice President is naive about law and order.

	Well, now, I want to tell you something.  I doubt that he has even got one of those Cracker Jack badges that you set for law and order.

	Sometimes when you go through--sometimes when you go through town and you are a dignitary they come up and make you an honorary sheriff.  That doesn't make you a man of law and order.  That doesn't make you a law man.  It just means you have got another trinket.  They are nice to have.  I have got a whole lot of them myself.  I enjoy them.

	But, I want to tell you the problem of law and order is essentially the problem of local government and state government and backed up with what assistance the federal government can give, and this government of ours and our administration has passed the Safe street bill, the law and order bill, and we passed it with very little help from some people we could have used help from.

	There is no monopoly upon wanting a safe community.  

	I don't know a single mayor or governor, Republican or Democrat, that doesn't want to see the law enforced.  But if Mr. Nixon wants to play games with law and order, then let me remind him in the states that have Republican governors there is more lawlessness than in the states that have Democratic governors.

	I want to make it crystal clear, I don't think that is the Republican governors' fault at all.  But if you want to play games, we can play them, too.

	I don't intend to--and I want to make it very clear, crystal clear to you--that I do not hold a Republican governor accountable for crime that takes place in his area.  I know that the problem of crime and violence and lawlessness is a serious problem and I know that there are two ways to do something about it:  One is to mobilize the law enforcement instrumentalities of this country in cooperation, federal, state and local, to improve the quality of our police, to pay them, and pay them well--they are the most underpaid of public servants--to give them training, to back them up, and to teach them and train them not only in law enforcement techniques but in community relations and race relations and teach them their rights as well as the rights of the citizens.

	That is one way.  And I am for it and I did it.   I didn't write a pamphlet about it or a speech.  I performed it.  And it is a matter of record, and every citizen in my state knows it.

	Now, what is the other way?  It just so happens, my dear friends, that the greatest amount of crime is found in the areas of the poor.  I don't say that poverty makes crime.  I simply say that poverty is an environment in which criminal activity regrettably finds a very fertile soil and that is a fact.

	Mr. Nixon says we ought to double our convictions.  We ought to have strict law enforcement.  It may mean more than double, I don't know.  But, I know that America is not going to be a better country just because you build a new jail.  You may need a new jail and you may need a new penitentiary and you may need to fill it up.  But I hope that when we fill it up we try also to have some rehabilitation of those who get there.

	Four out of every five that go to jail are repeaters which tells us that we haven't done very well in that area.

	But, what America needs is not merely civil order--and that is important, to have civil order--that is peace in our communities.  But it needs also civil justice.  Justice for you and justice for everybody else.

	I do not want one person to go out of here misunderstanding me for a minute.  If I am president of the United States and violence infects this country, I will use all the power at my command to suppress it.  I want you to know it right now.

	No monkey business.  I have done it before and I can do it again.

	But I did not have my city known for the fact that it only had a police department, even though I believe in honoring the work of those frontline fighters for safety and security in our communities.  I believe that every city ought to have an honor day for its police department.  I really believe that.  Give these fellows support.

	But, I wanted my city known for good labor management relations.  I wanted it known for jobs.  I wanted it known for education.  I wanted it known for parks.  I wanted it known for housing.  I wanted it known for slum clearance.  I wanted it known that we had families that lived a decent life and had a chance, and when Mr. Nixon parades around telling me that all Humphrey wants to do is double the poverty program, let me tell you that every time a family comes off from poverty, this is a better America, and I know it and so do you.

	And the way we fight this poverty program is through the union movement where they get a decent wage, too.  That helps fight the poverty problem.  And we win this war on poverty with new business and new investment.  We win it with private enterprise and we win it with government.  No one has a monopoly on this.  But, I am not going to let this nation go by in this election without making a choice.

	We are not electing a sheriff to put in the White House.  We are electing a president of all of these people of the United States.

	And, we need a president that is firm and compassionate.  We need a president that understands the law and understands human nature.  And we need a president that cares for the people.  Cares for the people.

	I will leave with this.  Please go on out and go to work.

	VOICES:  We will.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I know you will.  Bless your hearts.  Let me tell you, if we don't, something is going to happen in this country that you don't want to have happen.  I don't think that you want to turn your backs upon the memory of the men that I have mentioned.

	I want to tell you I have been reading about the new Nixon.  Some people tell me about the same old guy.  The one you have got to be concerned with is the real one.

	VOICES:  You'd better believe it.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I am not talking about Mr. Nixon as a person.  I am talking about his policies.  I have never indulged in politics of trying to tear down a man on his character.  He is a good man.  He is a decent man.  I am not worrying about that.

	I am talking about his policies and all I am telling you, my friends, is that it is up to you as well as it is up to me.

	I have people say, "Well, Mr. Vice President, go to it, give it to him," you know, and I say I am going to do it until I drop if I have to.

	But, this is your country, too.  And this is your family, and what happens in the White House is going to affect you as well as me and it is going to affect the world as well as Allegheny County, and you better make up your minds tonight that you have got the fight of your life on your hands.  You had better make up your minds that you are going to fight for the Union, and you had better work for it.

	That is all I have got to tell you.  I just want you to get out of here now and bestir yourselves.  Don't depend just on everybody is going to do it.  We are going to do it together.  I have been together with you all my public life and we are going to stick together; and let's go on out now and finish this job.

	Thank you.

CRIME--GENERALLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPOVERTYREHABILITATION OF CRIMINALS     4 ]4 W4 S4 K4
 ?4 :4 54 +4 4 4 4 4	 b 	 T 	 : 	 " 	  e: