

 	I cannot speak tonight in this tabernacle without an awareness of the links between its history and that of the state from which I come.

 	Many of us who reside in Illinois have tasted the wholesome tonic of humility in contemplation of the mistakes to which our history bears witness at Nauvoo--the beautiful place--in Illinois where your forefathers stopped on their long journey and built another temple.

 	It was 106 years ago now that there were those "burnings," the persecution, the mob violence and the murders which finally drove the men and women of the Mormon faith on westward.
 
	When the caravans of those who today seek public office in this nation stop here with you, to meet with you in this, your tabernacle, they stop their clamor and haranguing. They seek the response of your hearts and your minds rather than of your hands or your voices.

 	I wish that all of our political campaigning could be conducted in the spirit which this meeting place inspires. It is a spirit of faith, a faith that triumphs over any obstacle.
 
	And tonight I want to talk in this temple to the great confident majority of Americans--the generous and the unfrightened, those who are proud of our strength and sure of our goodness and who want to work with each other in trust, to advance the honor of our country.
 
	Needless to say this includes many millions of Republicans. If all virtue were in one party the nation would be in a sad way. But this confident majority, I am sorry to say, does not include the Republican speechmakers of this campaign. How do they picture our magnificent America?
 
	Sometimes they whine about our troubles--describing us as half-defeated, half-bankrupt and wholly self-pitying.
 
	Sometimes they boast about our self-sufficiency--describing us as choosing to live alone, friendless, on a remote island, indifferent to the fate of man, a huge hermit crab without a soul.
 
	Sometimes they call large sections of us dupes and fellow travelers--a people without a purpose and without a mind.
 
	But at all times they picture us unworthy--scared, stupid and heartless. They thus betray the conquering, hopeful, practical yet deeply moral America which you and I know.
 
	We all know it is nonsense, and that in fact the reverse is true. To the dismay of the enemies of America we proved after 1945 that we have learned in the last twenty years not only to produce mightily, but to distribute among all our people an increasingly fair share of that production. We have evolved a stronger and a better form of economy, which makes nonsense of the Russian textbooks.
 
	The friends of freedom everywhere have rejoiced. They have noted our rising and widespread wealth and well-being. They have noted that we had no depression and no unemployment at the end of the war--in spite of headlong demobilization and disarmament. And remember that all this happened before the Marshall Plan, before the revival of our armed might, before Korea. Every liberty-loving European gave thanks that we had showed ourselves not only strong but stable.
 
	Must this inspiring record now be ridiculed for campaign purposes? Must our credit for using our capitalist system wisely and humanely be undermined in Europe--and by General Eisenhower of all men? Must our proud all-American achievement be pictured as a Democratic party plot?

	During the war, you remember, when we all knew America was in danger, we only wanted the best, the most unselfish. We had no time for building political mantraps or for inventing derogatory tales. It was a heart-lifting moment.
 
	But a cold war leads the timid and the discontented into frustration. And out of frustration comes pettiness--the niggling, pitiful picture of a confused, divided country which these office-seekers are now painting. And this, of course, was the very purpose for which the Russians invented the cold war and imposed it upon us.
 
	They hoped we would feel frustrated, shackled by circumstance. They hoped we would fall to quarreling among ourselves and thus betray our mission.
 
	But the American giant will not be shackled!
 
	We shall not be tempted by the cold war to be half-regretful, half-ashamed of our strength--or frightened of it, which is worse. Regretful--God help us--in the face of the stirring truth that Lincoln's vision has come true, that now we are indeed the "last, best hope of earth"--so recognized by all the free world, which implores us to be great, to lead with magnanimity and, above all, with patience. The very powerful, if they are good, must always be patient.
 
	And still some of us regret it! Some of us say: "Why can't life leave us alone? We don't want to lead. We want to be undisturbed."
 
	What would our fathers have said to such talk? From the dawn of our revolution they saw America as the savior--not merely in terms of power, but in terms of goodness.
 
	They knew that Providence had given us this empty, unexploited continent for a purpose. And they knew that it must be a purpose which includes all men--for the same God made us all.
 
	In 1787 George Washington said: "The preservation of the sacred fire of liberty, and the destiny of the Republican form of government, are justly considered as deeply, perhaps as finally staked, on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American people."
 
	At that time we had less than four million inhabitants. But there was no doubt, no fear, in Washington's mind regarding our destiny.
 
	In 1858 Abraham Lincoln said: "Our reliance is in the love of liberty which God has planted in us. Our defense is in the spirit which prized liberty as the heritage of all men, in all lands everywhere."
 
	At that time there were about thirty million Americans. And we were threatened with civil war. But there was no doubt, no fear, in Lincoln's mind. He saw the war and the dissolution of the Union as a threat to the new, revolutionary idea of the free man and to democratic aspirations everywhere.
 
	In 1915 Woodrow Wilson said: "The interesting and inspiring thought about America is that she asks nothing for herself except what she has a right to ask for humanity itself."
 
	By that time we were a world power, about to enter into a world war. But there was no doubt, no fear, in Woodrow Wilson's mind. He knew, as in truth we have always known, that we were destined to be an example and to assume the burden of greatness.
 
	So we are marked men, we Americans at the mid-century point. We have been tapped by fate--for which we should forever give thanks, not laments. What a day to live in! What a flowering of the work and the faith of our fathers! Who in heaven's name would want America less strong, less responsible for the future?
 
	And precisely because we are trapped by fate, we must be wise and patient as well as strong. This means that we must live, intensely live, the faith which has made us free and thereby invincible. "Despotism may govern without faith, but liberty cannot."
 
	American power is not just coal and iron and oil; cotton and wheat and corn. It is not just our forests and our mountain ranges, and the huge meandering rivers of our central plains, and the high dry cattle country, and this lucky land of yours between the mountains and the sea. It is not even all these things plus a hundred and sixty million people. It is these things, plus the people, plus the idea!
 
	So a second temptation of the cold frustrating war--which we also proudly reject--is to become so distracted by our troubles that we take this faith too much for granted, that we salute it--as some of us salute our religion--and then go our own way unchanged. If we do not make it part of us--keep it forever before us, intense and demanding and clear--the faith might die and we should then die with it.
 
	What is this "American idea" which we so justly venerate? I suggest that the heart of it is the simple but challenging statement that no government may interfere with our conscience, may tell us what to think. All our freedoms, all our dynamic unleashed energies, stem from this.
 
	We Americans just naturally talk like this: "No government can tell me what to think. No government can tell me what to do, unless it can prove that the common good is served by such interference." This is the American way of living.
 
	Yet the same Republicans--the dinosaur wing of that party--who object to service from our government--who call everything "creeping socialism," who talk darkly of "dictatorship"--these same men begin to hint that we are "subversive," or at best the tools of our country's enemies, when we boast of the great strides toward social justice and security we have already made, and of the still greater strides we plan. They laugh at us, superciliously, when we say we are the political party with a heart.
 
	To honor and uphold our faith, therefore, we must never let them confuse us about the difference between what government should do, if possible, and what it must never do if America is to survive.
 
	It should strengthen us in our freedom by fostering widespread ownership and as much economic independence as possible. In the towns and counties, in the state capitals and in Washington, that great work goes forward today.
 
	But never must government step across the line which separates the promotion of justice and prosperity from the interference with thought, with conscience, with the sacred private life of the mind.
 
	If you like, this is the distinction between the things that are God's and the things that are Caesar's. The mind is the expression of the soul, which belongs to God and must be let alone by government. But farm prices, minimum wages, old-age pensions, the regulation of monopoly, the physical safety of society--these things are Caesar's province, wherein the government should do all that is humanly possible.
 
	But those among us who would bar us from attempting our economic and social duty are quick with accusations, with defamatory hints and whispering campaigns, when they see a chance to scare or silence those with whom they disagree. Rudely, carelessly they invade the field of conscience, of thought,--the field which belongs to God and not to senators--and not to protect the republic, but to discredit the individual.
 
	Let us remember also that the first of the seven deadly sins is spiritual pride: the sin which assures me that I know and you don't, so that I give myself permission to use any dubious or dishonest means to discredit your opinion.
 
	Because we have always thought of government as friendly, not as brutal, character assassins and slanderers in the Congress of the United States have a free hand in the methods they use. We never foresaw that the cult of thought control and of the big lie would come to America. So if their conscience permits, they can say almost anything. And if my opponent's conscience permits, he can try to help all of them get re-elected. But will he have strengthened or weakened the American idea?
 
	This is no small thing, this remorseless attack upon freedom of conscience, freedom of thought. A few peddlers of hate and fear would be of little consequence if they had not been welcomed as satellites by Senator Taft and included in the leadership of this strange crusade. And none of them would be significant if the General--who was implored to come home by Republican leaders so that they might be quit of Senator Taft--had not yielded to the demands of his beaten foe. But because of that surrender, because of those strange allies in his queer crusade, our role in world history, our faithfulness to the men who made the United States is challenged in this election.
 
	Finally, then, let us recall that our basic faith in liberty of conscience has an ancient ancestry. We can trace it back through Christian Europe, and through pagan Rome, back to the Old Testament prophets. It is by no means exclusive with us. It is in fact our bond of unity with all free men. But we are its ordained guardians today.
 
	Let us lift up our hearts, therefore--glad of our strength, proud of the task it imposes. So far from being half-defeated, half-divided, half-bankrupt--while we are true to ourselves, we can never be defeated; while we accept the honorable burden of leadership, we can never be divided. And in the name of that burden we shall find the means and the determination to spend in money and in labor and in hard thought whatever is needed to save ourselves and our world.

DEMOCRACYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALINTELLECTUAL FREEDOM     1 Z1 T1 P1 H1
 ;1 61 11 #1 1 1 1 1	 5 	 , 	  e: