

	There are many reasons why I am happy to be here again in California.  I shall not waste compliments on the natural beauty and natural wealth of your great state; these blessings speak eloquently for themselves.

	I must, however, pay tribute to another and greater richness that you enjoy.  I am speaking of your richness in leadership.

	Yours is the home state of my running mate--a young man whose courage and forthrightness have stirred admiration and approbation all over our country--your Senator Dick Nixon.  Yours is also the home state of another man whom I greatly admire, Governor Earl Warren.  Your governor combines personal and political gifts of a high order into a fine blend of common sense and humanity.  Beside these two men stands a third to match them.  In the last three weeks of our close association I have really come to know your senior senator and to appreciate the fine quality of his mind and spirit--Senator Bill Knowland.

	So it is not simply with respect, but also with gratitude, that I pay tribute to California's greatest wealth--the leaders chosen by its people.

	My fellow Americans, no state or nation can ask for a greater blessing than leadership of wisdom and courage.  With this endowment--subtle but decisive, intangible but indestructible--free nations have a strength no tyranny can match.

	Tonight I am going to speak to you about some of the calamities that have come to our nation because of lack of this kind of leadership.  I am going to speak of ways to discover and display that leadership in the years that lie ahead.

	There was a time when your great Pacific coastland was rightly called the safest place in the world.  But the vast Pacific Ocean is no longer the sure guardian of your homes that it was in the last century.  The same forces which threaten the east and the north and the south are an equal danger to the west.  In America today we have a common need for a common defense.

	Just north of where we are gathered tonight passes a historic line that encircles the globe.  This line is invisible in America, but in another land it is traced in blood.  It is the 38th parallel, the line which divides North and South Korea.

	Today this bloody line marks the "defense perimeter" of our country in that part of Asia.  Yet scarcely more than two years ago, the present administration announced its political decision that the "defense perimeter" of America in that part of the world was a quite different line.  That defense line did not touch Korea--or indeed any part of the mainland of Asia--but ran through islands well off the continental shore.

	Many an American family knows only too well how history has dealt with this policy decision of our government.  The Communists hastened to exploit it.  And we Americans are still paying dearly to redeem it.

	There has been a lot of public discussion lately about this matter.  Perhaps intentionally, this has obscured the basic fact.  The basic fact is that this decision was political in nature--a matter of high national policy.  The making of such a decision, in our American scheme of government, rests exclusively with our civilian officials.  The military may be called upon to advise, to give counsel, to appraise the strategy.  But so long as we have been a nation, the military has never decided questions of foreign policy.  And if we are to continue to be free, the military never will.

	I remember well, of course, that in 1947 the joint chiefs of staff made a secret military appraisal of the strategic importance of Korea to our armies in the event of a general war in the future.  I was chief of staff of the army at the time.  As always, the joint chiefs were careful to refrain from political judgments that were beyond their authority.

	But there were some things, back there in 1947, that I didn't foresee would happen.  First:  I didn't foresee that--three years later the secretary of state would translate that strictly military appraisal for war conditions into a peacetime political decision.  Second:  I failed to anticipate that--three years later--the secretary of state would make public this political decision to a potential enemy.  Third:  I certainly failed to foresee that--five years later--this military assessment of a possible war situation would be used by a desperate administration as the excuse for the political decision which it took, in exercise of its civilian responsibilities, entirely on its own initiative.

	Yes, I failed to foresee that there would be such a lack of courage and candor in high public office.

	Let me also set the record straight on another matter.  The always-right-and-never-wrong chief of the party now in power has made fantastic charges against me because of something I said in 1945.  After the war's end, I voiced an optimistic hope and belief that the Russian foreign policy was not then hostile, but was influenced by a desire for workable friendship with the American people.

	That hope--shared by our whole nation--was quickly proved to be in vain.  Yet in that hope there then seemed to be the last best chance for world peace.  Had we not striven for it then, how bitterly would we condemn ourselves now.

	This man who recalled the hope that I expressed in 1945, conveniently forgot the circumstances under which I expressed that hope.  I was testifying at the time before a Congressional committee.  I was then urging the maintenance of American armed strength and the proper training of American boys to bear arms.  My testimony amounted to an appeal to the Congress to take every military precaution against the day when our most optimistic hopes--mine and my fellow countrymen's--might be shattered in disillusion.

	Looking backward from 1952, I'm mighty glad that I supported in 1945 a policy of hope for the best and prepare for the worst.  My statement was made before the Kremlin tipped its hand.  But now  listen to the man who is decrying this 1945 position of mine.  In 1948, three years later and after repeated instances of Soviet duplicity, the same man said, "I like old Uncle Joe Stalin.  Joe is a decent fellow."

	I hope you will bear with me for having called history to the witness stand.  It's probably not very important that these particular charges against me are false.  But it is important for people to decide whether they want to continue in power an administration that will make such charges to cover its own tragic mistakes.

	I have spoken enough about the past.  Today, most Americans agree that our defense of the peace, since 1945, has been careless and dangerous.  Now I wish to speak of the future.

	I first refer to Korea--there we are engaged in a shooting war.  Our bill for that war already adds up to 120,000 Americans killed, wounded and missing.

	Here is what I pledge you:  without weakening the security of the free world, I pledge full dedication to the job of finding an intelligent and honorable way to end the tragic toll of American casualties in Korea.

	No one can pledge you more.  Nor can there be a more solemn pledge.  For this war is reaching tonight into the homes of hundreds of thousands of American families.

	I do not believe that Korea must forever be a part of our American daily life.  The South Korean Ambassador has recently said:  "Give us guns; spare your sons."  Here one way is pointed.  I shall never say, as the present administration says:  because the problem is tough, the problem can't be solved.

	Today this world dwells in a twilight zone between peace and war--a zone we call "Cold War."  What courses of action lie before us in shaping national policy?

	One is to appease:  that is a proven folly.

	A second course would be to adopt a stupidly aggressive attitude and so markedly increase the risk of global war.  Modern war is not a conceivable choice in framing national policy.  War would do unthinkable damage to every moral and material value we cherish.

	War is the last desperate resort when freedom itself is at stake.

	The third course is to prosecute the "Cold War," in which we now find ourselves, with vigor and wisdom.

	The prerequisite to winning any victory is a single-minded determination to get the job done, a single-minded dedication to that job.  Without such determination and dedication, there can be no victory, but only a stalemate, only a road uphill paved with excuse and evasion.  So to our task we must bring the quality of vigor.

	Now let us talk about the wisdom and skill which we need to prosecute this "Cold War" that infects nations all around the globe.

	Remember this:  We wage a "Cold War" in order to escape the horror of its opposite--war itself.

	In "Cold War," we do not use an arsenal of arms and armaments.  Rather, we use all means short of war, to lead men to believe in the values that will preserve peace and freedom.

	Our aim in "Cold War" is not conquest of territory or subjugation by force.  Our aim is more subtle, more pervasive, more complete.  We are trying to get the world, by peaceful means, to believe the truth--that truth is that Americans want a world at peace, a world in which all peoples shall have opportunity for maximum individual development.

	The means we shall employ to spread this truth are often called "psychological."  Don't be afraid of that term just because it's a five-dollar, five-syllable word.  Psychological warfare" is the struggle for the minds and wills of men.

	Many people think "psychological warfare" means just the use of propaganda, like the controversial "Voice of America."  Certainly the use of propaganda, like the controversial "Voice of America."  Certainly the use of propaganda, of the written and spoken word, of every means known to transmit ideas, is an essential part of winning other people to your side.  But propaganda is not the most important part in this struggle.  The present administration has never yet been able to grasp the full import of a psychological effort put forth on a national scale.

	What would such a peacetime or "Cold War" national strategy mean?  It would mean, in the first place, the selection of broad national purposes and the designation within those purposes of principal targets.

	Then it would mean this:  every significant act of government should be so timed and so directed at a principal target, and so related to other governmental actions, that it will produce the maximum effect.  It means that our government in this critical matter will no longer be divided into air-tight compartments.

	It means that, in carrying out a national policy, every department and every agency of government that can make a useful contribution will bring its full strength to bear under a coordinated program.  We shall no longer have a Department of State that deals with foreign policy in an aloof cloister; a defense establishment that makes military appraisals in a vacuum; a Mutual Security Administration that, with sovereign independence, spends billions overseas.  We must bring the dozens of agencies and bureaus into concerted action under an overall scheme of strategy.  And we must have a firm hand on the tiller to sail the ship along a consistent course.

	In past years, we have lacked leadership to develop such a strategy.  The administration in power has failed to bring into line its criss-crossing and overlapping and jealous departments and bureaus and agencies.  It has failed to follow up the policies made by the National Security Council.  Were they uniformly carried out or were they carried out at all?  Too often the answer is that no one knows.  That is why America's great power, in its exercise, has so often failed to get the most beneficial result.  The administration hasn't brought to bear all our forces at the same time under the same plan on the same target.

	It's time we did!

	While we have been dozing at the gate, the psychological strategists of Communism have crept into our citadel.  Let me cite on example of their effective political warfare.

	In June of 1951, when we were driving back the Communist forces in Korea, the free world was electrified by what appeared to be a genuine offer by the Soviets to cooperate in reaching a peaceful solution in Korea.  We and our allies eagerly met them half-way.  But as month after bloody month dragged by, we came to realize that we had been swindled.

	Now, a year and three months later, we have learned a bitter lesson in "Cold War" strategy.  We know now how all this time has been spent by the enemy.  The Communist military position has been repaired.  Beyond that, it has probably been made half again as strong.

	The Soviet trap was perfectly conceived, perfectly timed, perfectly sprung.  For fifteen months now free world diplomacy has been trying to climb the walls of the bear-pit into which it fell.

	This lesson in the warfare of the mind can be fully appreciated only by contrast with American performance.  Just consider, as an example, the State Department's declaration on our Asiatic "defense perimeter."  There is psychological strategy in reverse.  By it we managed to worry all our friends in the Far East and to encourage, if not invite, the ordeal in Korea.

	If we are to prevail in this "Cold War" struggle for the minds and wills of humanity, we must do better.  We must be worthy of respect and regard.  Because we are known abroad by the character and ability of our national government, it must be one that inspires world respect and regard.  When we ourselves can take honest pride in our national leadership, people in other lands will wish to share that pride.

	There are many peaceful tools that must be used in the waging of this fight.  Diplomacy, the spreading of ideas through every medium of communication, mutual economic assistance, trade and barter, friendly contacts through travel and correspondence and sports--these represent some of the political means to support essential programs for mutual military assistance and collective security.

	If we can use these peaceful tools as well as we use our great skills and great power in industry and on the field of battle, we can win our first objective.  This first objective is to render unreliable, in the minds of the Kremlin rulers, the hundreds of millions enslaved in the occupied and satellite nations.  Peace will then have her triumphs no less than war. 

	If we can use these peaceful tools as well as we use our great skills and our great power in industry and on the field of battle, we can win our first objective.  This first objective is to render unreliable, in the minds of the Kremlin rulers, the hundreds of millions enslaved in the occupied and satellite nations.  Peace will then have her triumphs no less than war.

	This is how I would go about this business.

	First:  we must adapt our foreign policy to a "Cold War" strategy that is unified and coherent.

	Second:  in spirit and resolve, we should see in this "Cold War" a chance to gain a victory without casualties, to win a contest that can quite literally save peace.

	Third:  we must realize that as a nation everything we say, everything we do, and everything we fail to say or to do, will have its impact in other lands.  It will affect the minds and wills of men and women there.

	Fourth:  we must choose a man of exceptional qualifications to handle the national psychological effort.  He should have the full confidence of and direct access to the chief executive.  I have suggested in other talks that this function may be best worked out through a revitalized and reconstructed National Security Council.

	We must, of course, continue to help free people stay free.  We must prevent further conquests by the Communists that would increase their strength and weaken us.  We must also give to those already enslaved hope that will enable them to continue resisting the oppressor until his hold can be gradually weakened and loosened from within.

	In all these undertakings, the decisive fact will be the spirit, the resolve, the determination with which we bend to our tasks.  We are not going to win the struggle for men's minds merely by tripling Congressional appropriations for a super-loud Voice of America.  Rather, it will be the message which we give the voice to speak.  Rather, it will be the spiritual strength, the understanding, and the compassion which we Americans can summon to put into that message.  Rather it will be the planned and effective use of every means to appeal to men and women everywhere.

	In this enterprise which I describe, we are not trying to remake the world in the image of America.  We are not trying to force any man to our way if it is not his.  We are not trying to buy peace or bring peace with the sword.

	But we are a people who are strong in faith and purpose and moral courage.  And we have an appointment to keep with history.

	If we can show to all the peoples of this earth, by measures like those I have described tonight, that their hope is our hope, that their goal is our goal, then we shall keep that appointment with history.

	And that appointment is the most important that history has ever made, for it can bring peace on earth.
KOREAN WARSOUTH KOREASOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     C C C C C
 C C C ~C tC rC rC hC	 0 	 &   e: