

	My friends:  This has been a great day for me.  Many fine things have happened.  For example, at my last stop, I got this lovely message from Mrs. LaGuardia that the governor just read to you.  She just sent me a scarf, and as long as it was chilly this morning, I wore it.  For her thoughtfulness I am really grateful.

	As for this group, you know I was told not to come down on 7th Avenue by people who are supposed to know politics.  They said, "General, there won't be a corporal's guard out to hear you."  Now, the great majority of you belong to a political organization of which I am not a part.  That doesn't make the slightest difference to me.  Let me tell you something:  I have gone through this campaign, so far, without asking a single person to vote for me.  I have asked them to try to get an understanding of the issues and the personalities involved and then go into that secret ballot booth on election day and vote their conscience and nothing else.  That is all that any man could expect.

	I do want to say this:  I didn't come here to address you as Republicans or Democrats or Independents or what have you.  I am an American citizen, the proudest thing I can say about myself.  You are, also, and you give me the privilege of coming and speaking to you face to face, and I am grateful.  May I remark, ladies and gentlemen, if this throng in this day and time is a corporal's guard, then the corporals are getting bigger commands than they were when I left the forces just a few months back.

	When we started this political campaign some time back, I didn't have many promises to make.  I don't know anything about political promises.  A lot of them have been used up in the last seven years and a lot of them have never been kept.  But I do know this:  I know what I believe, myself.  The first thing I believe is that every man should have certain convictions, certain things in his heart and mind.  He should believe them; he should act by them.

	Then there was designed a new term.  I was somebody's captive.  Let me have a few seconds to speak about that.  Most of you here have memories that will reach back four years.  If you haven't gone back to the files of your own newspapers along in June and July of 1948, look at the numbers of political leaders of the opposition party who, unable to reach me directly because I had written a letter that I thought removed me from politics forever, were sending me messages through the open columns of newspapers, telegrams--insisting, in no uncertain terms, that I make myself available to lead the administration party in Washington.  If they couldn't make me a captive, what business have they got calling me a captive of somebody else?

	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a thousand things that I should like to talk to you about as we have these few brief moments.  Obviously, I can't.  Because I knew of this great meeting, I wrote down a few thoughts and with your permission, because I want to say them exactly as I mean them, I would like you to allow me to read for two or three minutes some of these thoughts that I wrote down yesterday.

	We can build in this country for peace only on the foundation of a strong, productive America.  The greatest problem of our time is to build intelligently for peace, which means that the first thing we must have is a strong, productive America--and that means with all working men and women at a high level of employment at high levels of wages. I want to make it clear that I am pledged to just that. That means jobs, jobs at good pay, for all our working men and women. It means jobs without the fear of depression.  It means enlisting all the resources of private industry and mobilizing all the resources of government to hold the economy on an even keel whenever that is necessary. It means that the black days of unemployment must never again return, and it means that any self-respecting political group will dedicate themselves to that purpose, and I so pledge myself.

	Now to achieve this goal, everybody associated with me in this campaign has agreed that we would mobilize every single resource in this country, if there were any faint signs on the horizon that such a catastrophe was ever again about to return.  I would like to say here also what I have been saying all over the country, that we cannot tolerate in America any trace of second-class citizenship.  Second-class citizenship is a reflection of second-class Americanism.  We have got to get rid of bigotry.  May I pause here to remark, my friends, that one of the gravest and what I thought the lowest accusations made against me in this campaign was that I was a bigot, that I believed in the master-race theory--I who had three million men and women of your associates, some of you are here, to conquer the last vestiges of Hitlerism and to rescue millions of people who were enslaved under the master-race theory.  What right have they got to call me a bigot?  And I am very proud today that hundreds of thousands of those people we rescued are happy citizens of this land or of Israel or of other places in the globe, and I don't think they call me a bigot.

	I am very proud also that I had wonderful friends who jumped into the breach to defend me against this charge.  I didn't have to do it myself.  Rabbi Silver and Bernie Baruch and Cardinal Spellman took care of that one, and Judge Reynolds and a few others took care of it.  I more than ever pledged myself to see that we remove the remaining stains of discrimination from our national life.  We can do that if it isn't made a partisan issue, but we must have the aid of men from both parties--if they are men of good will and that is what I intend to do--and what I say I will do I will do.

	I believe also that we need to rewrite the unfair provisions of the McCarran Immigration Act to get the bigotry out of it.  Don't forget that a vote for my opponent is a vote to continue the Democrat author of that bill as Chairman of the Senate Immigration SubCommittee and also as Chairman of the powerful Senate Judiciary Committee.

	Let me point out, I have been asked why I didn't repudiate a lot of people who are in the Republican Party.  "Why don't you throw them out, General?" they say.  Well, they have been in the Republican Party for quite a long time.  Maybe they would have something to say about it.

	But let me ask a question.  Ten of the Democrat chairmen of the fifteen standing committees that voted to override the veto of the president against the McCarran Bill, what about them?  Why aren't they thrown out?  Why aren't they purged?  Why doesn't someone disavow them?  They will be right back there.

	In 1945, with millions of other American soldiers, I saw what bigotry means.  I can never erase from my mind the sight of those concentration camps at Dachau and Buchenwald.  Our soldiers won no more stirring victory than when they brought out of those wretched places the tragic victims of the Hitler theory.  The hearts of the American Army gave immediate response.  Everyone jumped into the job of feeding those people, caring for them, relieving their distress, ministering to their pitiful needs--and pardon me for saying so, but I was there, I directed it.

	Now here at home, ladies and gentlemen, we can move forward on many fronts.  We know that in this day and time we have to have a splendid social security program, and that social security program, with its insurance policies and so, on must be kept valuable.  We must stop having an administration that lets our money get so cheap that our social security is no good.  My associates and I are pledged to keep your dollar worth a dollar so that when you go to spend your money, it will be worth what you put into it--not half of it.  Any housewife here knows when she goes to the corner grocery here and buys the basket of groceries that in 1939, only twelve years ago, she bought for ten dollars, now she pays twenty-four dollars and fifty cents for it, exactly.  How much further are we going to let this go?  We are pledged to stop it.  That is what we say we are going to extend in the improved social security, and then keep your dollar so that it means something.

	Finally, in all these charges and counter charges that have been thrown at me, the next thing that I want to speak to you about for just a moment is Korea.  Frankly, I think there are a lot of ways that a president of the United States can waste his time away from Washington, but I don't think one of them is by going to Korea to see what is going on there.  I don't see why I should be so severely criticized because I said that if the American people wanted to place upon me the responsibility of the chief executive, that I would take an early opportunity to go to Korea and see whether there wasn't some way that Washington might help--Washington might learn something that would help us reduce the casualty list and find a way out of this terrible mess eventually.  No man has ever heard me say there is any easy way out of the Korean War.  It is a long, hard, weary way, and I have never said anything else.  But all the more reason when we are bleeding, when American youngsters are dying to defend our rights, that we should realize in the highest places that the Korean War is one of the most tragic, most urgent problems that is to be solved--and why shouldn't somebody spend a few days to go see what it is all about?

	I have been accused of being a grandstander about this.  I have been accused of not even knowing that the headquarters of Communism is in the Kremlin.  Ladies and gentlemen, President Roosevelt visited me two or three times during the war to come and see how we were getting along, to see the soldiers, and he went with his jeep up and down pretty close to the lines.  But he didn't go to Berlin.  Did you ever stop to think of that?  You go to where the fighting is and try to find out about it, do something to stop the killing of the soldiers.

	Now, I have already used up more than my allotted time.  You people have been very patient, but let me bring you one message from my Mamie.  We got in from a long trip yesterday morning and she has been given a lot of chores to do and, therefore, was not able to make this trip--one of the first ones she couldn't make with me in this campaign.  So she asked me to extend to everybody I met--our old neighbors whom I met four years ago when we came to this city and who welcomed us--wouldn't I please extend her greetings to each of you.  And for my own part, thank you a lot for coming out.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--BIGOTRYCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALFOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAHOLOCAUSTIMMIGRATIONINFLATIONJOB GROWTH/CREATIONKOREAN WARWORLD WAR II     * * * ~* t*
 f* a* \* T* L* J* 0* %*	  	  	  	 j 	 F 	 = 	 2 	 ) 	  	  e: