

	If you treat me this well, you may never get rid of me--so, look out. I have read a lot of stories about the time when my grandfather campaigned in the state of Washington for the vice presidency, exactly sixty years ago this month. The big issue, I am told, at that time was whether your majestic mountain was to be named Mount Tacoma or Mount Rainier. Apparently, that was the only subject of interest in Washington at that time. Anyway, the views of Seattle and Tacoma were in violent disagreement and it seems that my adroit grandfather solved this difficulty by giving each audience from the rear platform of his train an eloquent speech about the beauties of the mountain, and then went on to say, "And I want everyone to know, all of you good people, that I emphatically agree that this magnificent mountain should be named"--and just then they pulled the whistle on the train and it started with a huff and a puff, and the old man bowed to the audience graciously and they cheered ecstatically. 

	Well, I tell you that story just to indicate that times have changed in political campaigns and I've got to come clean. 

	Tonight I find myself at the halfway mark in my first old-fashioned campaign trip. It seems a lot longer than four days ago that we left Springfield, Illinois, where my campaign headquarters, by the way, still are. We left there for Denver, Colorado, where my opponent's headquarters used to be until he suddenly left to find the fountain of truth in New York. Of course, last Friday may seem so long ago to me, mainly because we have covered so much ground since then. I think my party is perhaps the first in history that ever went from Denver to Cheyenne by way of Minnesota. Before I got to bed at Billings, Montana, on Saturday night, I had abused the hospitality of Cheyenne by making a speech after I arrived. 

	I had some fun at the great roundup at Lewiston, Idaho, on the way; I might say that the other people there also had some fun because I didn't make a speech. 

	Today I spent with your great neighbor to the south, Portland, and tomorrow we go on to California and then home to Springfield by way of Arizona and New Mexico. Now, if you don't like to travel, I suggest that none of you run for president, but if you do like to travel around this incomparable land of ours--and I do, whatever the voters may decide next November, I have had a rich and satisfying experience that I wish every single one of you could have. You have to see this country to believe in it and the more I see of it, the more I believe in it. 

	Although my trip is only half over--this first trip--I think we have in the last few days gone considerably beyond the halfway mark in trying to see what the issues are between the general and myself and what they are not. 

	In Denver, I pointed out that there is no issue between us in corruption in government; he is against it and so am I, and so far as I know, nobody is running on a pro-corruption ticket. What's more, I was against it in 1948, and that is the main reason the people of Illinois elected me as their governor. 

	In Denver, I also said that there is no issue between either the general or myself or President Truman on the question of "time for a change." There could be no issue on this because the Democratic party is the party of change--change for the better, change in men, change in methods, but not in the forward direction of policies which have produced a better life here at home and raised the hopes of free men for peace in the world at large. 

	In Minnesota, the general and I both spoke about farm policy from the same platform, a few hours apart. I couldn't but wonder why I had taken the trouble to make that long trip, all the way back to Minnesota from Denver since I found on my arrival there that the general had been expounding the Democratic farm plank. Evidently, the Republican plank was lost by the movers somewhere between Denver and New York. However, it turned out to be a good thing that I did go to Minnesota because the general had given the Democratic plank such a warm bear hug that he cracked it, and I had to go back and do a little bone setting. 

	In Cheyenne, on Saturday night, I noted that the general's foreign policy, as he has so far unveiled it, resembles our own in every important respect--except, of course, the Democrats are administering it instead of the Republicans--except in one respect, and that is the early liberation of the enslaved peoples of Europe behind the Iron Curtain. 

	Now, the general has since been at some pains to say that he didn't mean it just that way. I hope so, but it seems to recur. At best, it may be only a little vote catching, this talk of liberation, cruel as it may be in terms of the illusory hopes it creates, but at worst, it has somber military implications when measured against the hard facts of life in Eastern Europe today. In any event, that is an issue between us and it will stay joined until the counsels of reason really prevail. 

	Now, I am told, my friends, that when Paul Bunyan reached the Northwest, he retired. The reason is easy to understand; he evidently couldn't stand the competition out here. Everything in the Northwest is built bigger or grown faster or produces more kilowatts than anything anywhere else in the world. At least so I have been confidentially informed by everyone I have met the last several days and I am willing to accept the statistics. I hope you will give the same treatment you have given to me to some of the Republican orators who are glooming around these days saying that the country is coming apart at the seams; I see no evidence of it out here. 

	The rapid growth of the Northwest is very significant for the future of the United States. It means that what used to be essentially a colonial domain, run by absentee industries, is now coming of age and playing its full part in the progress of our nation. A great part of what is going on here has been due to what my opponents are fond of calling a centralized, despotic bureaucracy, the federal government. Year after year we have been told how this ogre has been wasting the taxpayer's money in the Northwest on a series of fantastic projects. 

	This process of bankrupting the United States by wasting money on the Northwest has had a long history. I can trace it at least as far back as 1867 and a certain secretary of state who was denounced for being soft toward Russia. At this moment we can hear--or could if an accustomed mood of silence should come upon us--we could hear the whistles of steamers bound north for Seward's Folly. The development of Alaska has meant traffic, commerce, profits, population for the Northwest. Now, if you and I have our own way, Alaska will soon become a state in the Union. 

	The profligate waste of the taxpayer's money by a spendthrift bureaucracy has paid off. Seward's Folly has become both our wealth and our northern security outpost against the Russians. 

	Now, I draw a moral from this story, if I may. The moral is that the people who conduct the nation's business sometimes do know what they are doing, partisan assertions to the contrary notwithstanding. 

	Not far to the east of us tonight is that notorious white elephant, Grand Coulee Dam. Our atomic weapons would not have been developed without the power generated by Grand Coulee and Bonneville on the Columbia and by those other white elephants in the Tennessee Valley. The water stored in Grand Coulee is beginning to make fields and orchards of the barren land in the Columbia Basin. 

	In some people's view, you will remember, Grand Coulee and Bonneville were not only a waste of the taxpayer's money, they were--and it was still a worse crime--they were an interference with the sacred right of private monopoly to leave a region undeveloped. I will tell you what they were; they were Homer Bone's Folly, Charley McNary's Folly, and Franklin Roosevelt's Folly. 

	Thanks to the faith of men who could see future cities instead of present sagebrush; thanks, if I may state the blunt fact, to the courage of Democratic politicians, supported by a minority of progressive Republicans who in twelve years of Republican rule after 1920 had broken their hearts in fighting their own party's lethargic and hostile attitude toward Western development, these dams were built. One of them commemorates Senator McNary who, like another Republican Senator from the same state, Wayne Morse, never let his Republican friends stop him from voting for Democratic policies. 

	Now, I observe that far from diminishing, stifling or crippling private enterprise, these activities of the federal government have multiplied, stimulated and strengthened private enterprise in the Northwest and in the rest of the country too, for you cannot enrich one section without enriching all the others. 

	So I draw another moral. Works like Grand Coulee and Bonneville were beyond the capacity of private enterprise to undertake. If the government had not built them they would not have been built at all. Hard American common sense concludes that where private enterprise is unable or unwilling to develop our resources, the government should. 

	That is what we have been doing, usually against the opposition of the Republican leadership. And that is what we must keep on doing. 

	The battles in this field are by no means over. There will be opposition in the future as there has been opposition in the past, but the resource development in the West will go on because the people--not just the people of the West--the people of the whole country want it to go on. 

	When we invest in projects that more than pay for themselves, we act as prudent trustees of the public wealth, and our heirs will profit from our wisdom. But it is public funds we invest. The return on the investment must be real, not hypothetical, and the gains must be national and not merely local. 

	We must be eagle-eyed and we must be tight-fisted about these expenditures, and the blessings of the local interests are not enough to justify a public project. It must pass the harder test, it seems to me, of comparison--would this money be better spent on rehabilitating eroded farm land in the South or exhausted range land in the West, rather than on reclaiming a desert? And it must pass still another, more immediate test--is the coming fiscal year the one in which to start this investment of public funds at all? 

	These are hard, practical questions that must be faced. I have faced them in my own state. I know how complicated they are on a nationwide scale. Projects and proposals from all parts of the country compete for public investment. I am not sure that the office of president is well enough equipped, as things now stand, to praise them with detachment and critical authority. The Hoover Commission has made suggestions for increasing the effectiveness of executive review; it may be that even better means can be devised, and I propose to find out. 

	Building a public project, however, is only half the story. Bitter battles have been fought--and many of them are still unsettled--over who gets the good from public investment. There are always plenty of private interests that want to appropriate the benefits for themselves. 

	There are examples of power. In an unbroken line from the turn of the century the policy of Congress has been that the benefits of power produced from public funds shall be spread widely, especially among domestic and rural consumers, and shall be sold at the lowest possible rates that will repay the investment with interest. To accomplish this, the laws provide that preference in the sale of public power should be given to cooperatives and public bodies and that public transmission lines may be built where necessary to reach them. 

	Here in the Northwest you have seen these policies work and work well. Your REA cooperatives, your public-utility districts and your municipal systems, as well as private utility companies, are tied in with the power-producing dams by the government's backbone transmission system. Your power rates are low; your homes and farms use two or three times as much power as the average for the nation. Yet these federal power policies are being fought right now as hard as they were ever fought in the past. 

	A second illustration is the national forests, whose protection and development by the federal government was once fought bitterly as interference with the rights of private enterprise and a waste of public funds. Today, the national forests are a vast resource of virgin timber and reforested area. They are increasingly valuable to private timber operators, as the last available replacement for logged-out areas, and to all the industries that depend on a supply of forest products. They are of increasing value too for recreation, as the population of the Northwest increases. 

	Many forest problems remain to be solved; access roads for logging operations, fire-protection roads, trails and access roads for vacationists, loopholes in the mining laws that permit people who do no mining to cash in on time or recreation. These must be solved, but there is a much bigger problem. 

	The greatest importance of the national forests is the protection of our watersheds. In many parts of the West, protection of the forests and of the grasslands means the difference between healthy streams and destructive loss of the water, dependable water supplies as against floods, silted-up irrigation systems and dams filling with sediment. That is why we must resist efforts to take away from the public the control of our forest ranges. 

	These battles for the public interest in our rivers, in our forests and our other natural resources must be won here on the spot and they must be won in the Congress. 

	We are only at the beginning of a long-term effort to make our resources match our needs. Just recently President Truman's Materials Policy Commission made some careful estimates about how much power, fuel and raw materials of all sorts the nation will need twenty-five years from now when its population is likely to be thirty or forty million larger. Their figures are startling, my friends. They estimate, for instance, that we may need four times as much aluminum as we are producing today and three times as much electric power. 

	To meet such demands will require our best efforts. We shall have to import from abroad large additional amounts of many materials, and that, incidentally, will have the helpful effect of gradually building a firmer basis for workable economic relationships among nations. 

	But we will have to do better than we have been doing with the resources within our own borders. Soil and water, fish and wildlife, forests and grasslands, minerals and waterpower--they are all related to one another in nature's order and we cannot separate the problems of one from those of all the others. Our approach must be unified on a wide front by integrated plans, by cooperative effort. This means better administrative arrangements within the federal government and intelligent and better coordinated action by states, by localities and by private enterprise. Most of all, it means better cooperation among all the agencies, public or private, that deal with natural resources. 

	I have emphasized these public policies tonight, because I am a candidate for office and I want to make clear where I stand on the problems a president must deal with. But I believe with all my heart that the job of wisely using the resources with which nature endowed the United States is very largely a job for private action. It requires every private landowner, every mine and timer operator, every man in private enterprise, to act with an eye for the public good as well as private gain. Because unto us much has been given, of us much shall be required. And I thoroughly believe that the generality of Americans are men of good will, who put the public good before their own gain. 

	There will always be selfish people; there will always be groups who try to turn our common inheritance to their private profit, and it will always be the job of government to restrain them. But there is too much talk of conflicting interests. The natural wealth of the United States is our common trust. We must husband and increase it for the future, and our emphasis must be not on rivalry or conflict but on cooperation. 

	In the United States we have always made our bet on tomorrow. We have always believed that the developing economy would make America steadily wiser and more powerful, and would spread the benefits of a rising standard of living more widely among our citizens. Generation by generation we have won that bet. 

	Now, in our time we confidently believe that there will be no halt in the process that has made us the richest and the most powerful nation on earth. We must be faithful and wise stewards of the riches we have inherited. We must imagine greatly, dare greatly and act greatly. For on what we do now the future will depend--the future not only of our people but of the whole world. 
CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHEASTERN EUROPENATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTTIMBER INDUSTRY/RESOURCESWATER RESOURCESHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSREGIONALISM--NORTHWEST     dD 0D *D &D D
 D D D  D C C C C	  	  	  	 | 	 c  T  +   e: