

	It is always a real pleasure to be in the South.  It is special to be here in New Orleans tonight.  I wish I were going to be here long enough to sample again the superb cooking in your favorite restaurants.

	Louisiana has a unique place in my affections.  It was in Louisiana, during Army maneuvers in 1941, that I was launched on that stage of my career which finally led to my part in a great crusade--the liberation of Western Europe and the conquest and destruction of the Nazi legions.  With me in that crusade were many sons of Louisiana.  They fought bravely and successfully from the beaches of Normandy across Europe to ultimate victory.

	I am back in Louisiana tonight to enlist your support in another great crusade--a crusade to end corruption in the government of the United States, a crusade to replace cynicism with sincerity.  This is a crusade to challenge the arrogant complacency of the present administration that says the South is in the bag, that says all that is necessary to keep it in the bag is a paternalistic pat on the head once every four years.  Along with that quadrennial pat, the administration always repeats its lofty admonition that all the South's blessings flow from Washington.

	You know--and I know--that is plain bunk.

	The fact is that the South has emerged in richness, in imagination, in vitality, as an area equal to any area of this great country.  You are about your work, your play, and your voting, with no Washington leash around your necks, and no administration label pinned on your backs.

	I have read in newspapers that another candidate has been this way.  He has proved to the hilt what I called administration arrogance toward the South.  Here in the South, he said what he thought of those of you who might not vote for him.  He called you "embittered apostates."  As you know, an apostate is one who has turned away from his faith.

	How can you be expected to have faith in this discredited regime?

	Are we ready here in America for a political halter and a one-party system?

	I know we're not.

	The courage of your own governor is witness.

	I want to say a special word to you who have ties to France--a land and a people closest to my heart.  On an August day in 1944 just eight years ago, American and British armies, moving across France at my command, came to a halt.  Through our lines filed the heroes of General LeClerc's French armored division.  These heroic sons of France had fought all the way from Lake Tchad in Africa to be the first to enter and liberate their beloved Paris.  I have never been more deeply moved or more aware of the high order of French courage.  As an American I am proud that this heritage of courage has been planted here.

	In New Orleans last Friday, the administration candidate had something to say about your condition of 1933.  He described it as being "little better than that of the natives of India."  He likened your state to an "American India." Then, warming to the theme, he indicated that, through the magic wand of the administration, oil began to flow, sulfur appeared above the ground, the Mississippi enriched the farmers' land, the port of New Orleans became mighty and powerful, International House became a symbol of a great trade with the world, factories sprang up.  In short, what had been in his view, a poverty-stricken, disease-ridden, uneducated, groveling mass of Louisiana humanity became the miracle of the South, thanks to a fairy godfather in Washington.

	That is just sinister nonsense.  The administration did none of these things.

	Who then did these things?  Who worked these wonders in Louisiana?  You did them yourselves--some of them in spite of Washington bureaucracy and corruption.

	I want to pay tribute to what you have done with your own brains and your own energy.  And I want to ask you to join with me to get an administration in Washington that will refuse to put a "made in Washington" rubber stamp on every Louisiana accomplishment.

	The same administration that claims to give everything also aims to take a lot away.

The attack on the tidelands is only a part of the effort of the Administration to amass more power and money.

	So, let me be clear in my position on the tidelands and all submerged lands and resources beneath inland and off-shore waters which lie within historic state boundaries.  As I have said before, my views are in line with my party's platform.  I favor the recognition of clear legal title to these lands in each of the forty-eight states.

	This has been my position since 1948, long before I was persuaded to go into politics.

	State titles in these so-called tidelands areas stand clouded today.

	The Supreme Court has declared in very recent years that there are certain paramount federal rights in these areas.  But the Court expressly recognized the right of Congress to deal with the matters of ownership and title.

	Twice by substantial majorities, both Houses of Congress have voted to recognize the traditional concept of state ownership of these submerged areas.  Twice these acts of Congress have been vetoed by the president.

	I would approve such acts of Congress.

	My opponent has announced that he agrees with the president's veto of these laws.  Last week, here in New Orleans he amplified his views.  As I understand his plan, he would have the federal government take over and dole out to the tin cups of the states whatever part of the revenues Washington decided might be good for them.

	This I would call the "Shoddy Deal."

	State ownership of the lands and resources beneath inland and off-shore navigable waters is a long recognized concept.  It has not weakened America or impaired the orderly development of such resources.  The states have administered the development of such resources in these areas from the beginning.  And let me point out that this development has been carried on by state officials without scandal, fraud or corruption.

	The policy of the Washington power mongers is a policy of grab.  I wonder how far a consistent pursuit of this policy would take us.  If they take the Louisiana, Texas and California tidelands, then what about the Great Lakes.  They have been held to be open sea.  A good part of Chicago has been built on lands once submerged by Lake Michigan.

	What of the inland lakes, rivers and streams in Oklahoma, Iowa, Illinois, and Kansas?

	What about the iron ore under the navigable waters of Minnesota and the coal under the waters of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and other states?

	What of the fisheries in Florida; what of the kelp in Maine; what of the real estate built on soil reclaimed from the once submerged areas in New York and Massachusetts?

	The Washington power grabbers say, "Oh, we haven't tried to move in on any of those other states."

	My answer is they didn't move in on you in Louisiana until the submerged lands became valuable.

	So I repeat for the benefit of my opponents who have gone out of their way to misrepresent my views:  I favor the recognition of these ancient property rights of the states in submerged lands.

	Here are my reasons:

	First, I deplore and I will always resist federal encroachment upon rights and affairs of the states.

	Second, I am gravely concerned over the threat to the states inherent in the growth of this power-hungry movement.

	Third, the resources of these submerged areas, though still owned by the states, will be available for America's defense in time of national emergency.

	Fourth, the orderly development of these resources under the states need not interfere with any valid federal function.

	Fifth, I believe the law twice passed by Congress which would recognize these state titles is in keeping with basic principles of honest dealing and fair play.  These things are important--they are vital, in government as well as private dealings.

	This problem, like many others, is too important for strictly partisan handling.  The bipartisan approach to American welfare has been most clear in our bipartisan foreign policy.  But it has also been at work in other less conspicuous ways.  And in one particular instance, it was at work for the direct benefit of the farmers of Louisiana.  I am referring to the Sugar Act of 1948, a bipartisan act of Congress.

	By law, the secretary of agriculture is responsible for the fair administration of this act.  How fairly has he protected the welfare of your sugar farmers and farm workers?  While the price of the sugar they work so hard to grow and process has fallen, the cost of everything they have had to buy has risen fantastically.  They, like all the rest of us, have been caught in this squeeze. 

	The foundation for a healthy agriculture in this country is not mere partisan Washington farm programs.  It is not mere Brannan Plans.  What we need is to start from here and build a better program based on more farmer participation and more federal, state and farmer partnership.  The farmers of America are entitled to their fair, full share of the national income.

	And under your new administration they will get it!

	But farmers and particularly Southern farmers know how closely their prosperity is tied to foreign trade.  Much of what Southern farmers produce goes into foreign markets.

	I believe that while we talk about economic interdependence within America, we must never lose sight of the essential economic interdependence between ourselves and those in other lands.  That interdependence increases year by year as our need for raw materials grows, as science increases our agricultural yield, and as the looming menace of Russian Communist imperialism makes it imperative that we should have not weak, but healthy and strong allies. 

	If there exists a city in the United States which has grasped the significance of world trade, that city is New Orleans.  International House is a majestic and tangible symbol of your understanding.

	In the seven years since its founding, it has become known all over this country and abroad as a successful clearing house for healthy, two-way international trade.  To me, it has an even greater symbolism.  It represents community action without government money--community action arising out of private thinking and local planning.

	This is the kind of thinking and planning which this administration knows nothing about.  But I assure you it's something you'll hear more about in the next four years.

	International House, and your great port, look out upon the whole world, but particularly upon the southern half of our hemisphere.  You know and appreciate the importance of better understanding and more trade with our neighbors to the south.

The present administration bewails some of the things that happen to the south of us.  But a large part of these developments is due to the loss of confidence, the loss of respect, of Latin American countries in their northern neighbor.  Here too, our policy has been stop-and-go, zig-zag and zig.

	That's another policy that's ripe for a change.

	With the coming of war, we frantically wooed Latin America.  Then came the end of the war, and the administration proceeded to forget these countries just as fast.  Terrible disillusionment set in throughout Latin America.  There was no mutual working out of long term economic problems.  As a result, a buying spree on the part of Latin Americans rapidly liquidated their dollar balances.  Resulting economic distress was followed by popular unrest, skillfully exploited by Communist agents there.  Thus, a good neighbor policy has become by drift and neglect a poor neighbor policy.

	That too will change after you give the command on next November 4.

	Under your orders this is what we will do:

	We will end corruption and restore common woodshed honesty to government.

	We will end this era of waste with an administration that gives you a full dollar's worth of service for every tax dollar.

	We will reduce the double toll of high prices and high taxes.

	We will build a prosperity not based on war.

	We will improve and extend our social security system.

	We will fight to make equality of opportunity a living fact for every American.

	We will root out every vestige of disloyalty from government and we will do it by fair American methods.

	We will work without resting to end the war in Korea, to get our boys home, to prevent future Koreas and to lay the foundation for a just and lasting peace.

	Those are the aims of our crusade.  It is not one man's job or one party's job.  It is the job of all of us working together.  That is why, tonight, I call on you to join with me to enlist in that cause.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALBIPARTISANSHIPCOAST/WETLANDSCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALLATIN AMERICANATURAL RESOURCES--FEDERAL VS. STATE OWNERSHIPREGIONALISM--SOUTHWORLD WAR II     2  2 2 2 2
 s2 n2 i2 ^2 U2 S2 S2 I2	  	  	  	  	 o 	 Y 	 L 	  	  e: