

	I was born in Los Angeles. I have often thought that if my parents concluded to remove me at a very early age that the least they could have done was to endow me with some Los Angeles real estate, which might have been an easier way to earn a living than running for president.

	The last time I was in this room was in May of 1942--ten years ago--with my beloved and celebrated boss at that time, Colonel Frank Knox, the secretary of the navy. He made a much better speech to you at that time than I will today, and I know because I wrote both of them.

	Now, I am persuaded that congenitally, as well as a candidate, I talk entirely too much. I think of those imperishable words of Disraeli when a callow, new member of the House of Commons approached him and said earnestly, "Mr. Prime Minister, do you think I should participate very actively in the debates?" and Disraeli gave him an appraising glance and said to him, "No, I don't think you'd better; I think it would be better if the House were to wonder why you didn't talk, rather than why you did."

	Personally, I couldn't agree more, but a candidate has to talk, I suppose, and I think he should talk as plainly as possible about public questions, and admit what he doesn't know and what he can't answer. If he purported to know the right answer to everything he would be either a knave or a fool. If he even had an answer to everything, he would probably be just a fool. If he had no emphatic views at all, he would probably be just as unworthy, and if he were evasive, he would probably be either cunning or a political coward, of which we have altogether too many. And, finally, if he should arrive at election time with almost everybody satisfied, then you should, by all means, vote against him as the most dangerous charlatan of them all. In other words, you of Town Hall who try to vote intelligently have quite a chore.

	From my brief experience in Illinois, I am persuaded that forthright discussion of the real public questions is neither beneath the dignity of political candidates nor above the intelligence of the American people. And it most certainly is the condition precedent to any intelligent choice, except by the faculty of intuition which is by no means infallible in these days of ghosts and press agents.

	I wanted to talk to you about politics and I suppose I'm qualified by ignorance to talk about politics because I have been in politics barely four years. There are some politicians who don't think I'm in yet, and others who expect me to be out of it very soon.

	Andrew Oliver said in Boston more than 150 years ago: "Politics is the most hazardous of all professions. There is not another in which a man can hope to do so much good to his fellow creatures; neither is there any in which by a mere loss of nerve he may do such widespread harm; nor is there another in which he may so easily lose his own soul; nor is there another in which a positive and strict veracity is so difficult. But danger is the inseparable companion of honor. With all the temptations and degradations that beset it, politics is still the noblest career any man can choose."

	Now, I emphatically agree to the hazards and the dangers part of that quotation from Oliver, but how about the honor and nobility. That "politics" and "politicians" have become words of disrepute and abuse, epithets if you please, instead of words of honor and respect is nothing new, but it seems to me paradoxical and very sad in a republic governed by the governed.

	More recently than Oliver's comment of 150 years ago, Bernard Shaw said that democracy is a device that insures that we shall be governed no better than we deserve. Whose fault is it, then, that we get what we deserve in government and that the honor and the nobility of politics at most levels are empty phrases?

	Well, having asked you the question, I shall hastily answer it myself by saying that it isn't the lower order of the genus pol, but it is the fault of you, the people. Your public servants serve you right; indeed often they serve you better than your apathy and indifference deserve.

	But I suggest that there is always time to repent and mend your ways. However, you won't mend your ways just by redoubling your resolve to help your favorite candidate for president, including even the governor of Illinois. No, repentance of your sins is much more difficult than that because there are the little matters of precinct committeemen or state committeemen, state's attorneys, sheriffs, county commissioners, aldermen, councilmen, mayors, governors, congressmen, judges and all the elaborate paraphernalia of our democratic system of popular choice. The whole is the sum of the parts and the whole will be no better than the parts. So I say to you, look to the parts, not just to the major parts, but all the parts in this elaborate mechanism. It will keep you busy a lot of your time, but it will be worth it. You might even end up by getting infected yourself and running for something, and that would be a very good thing indeed.

	It seems to me that government is like a pump, and what it pumps up is just what we are, a fair sample of the intellect, the ethics and the morals of the people, no better, no worse.

	Well, you say that this sort of pious preaching about better citizenship is grammar school stuff and that everybody has said the same thing since Plato did, and so they have. And also we have been complaining about government ever since Plato--at least when the human race has dared to complain about its managers. Here and there, now and then, we do something, as you have done in California under your honored and esteemed governor, Earl Warren. Indeed, I'm optimistic that things are getting better on the whole, especially since we have been slugged in that most sensitive of all our parts--the pocketbook--as never before. But there is a very long way to go.

	So I should like to lecture to you a bit about the self-education of voters who want to expiate their sins, if any. I mean if there are any such voters, not sins.

	In the London Times Literary Supplement, I recently saw this in a review of two American books:

	"The cleaning up of American civic and political life is the prerequisite of any cleaning up of crime and criminals. It is no use blaming the police for winking at the bookies when the elected sheriff and a whole raft of elected judges are paid from their takings. It is no use blaming the law enforcement officers if the mass of the people do not respect the law, do not want it for themselves and their families and pay to break it, which is what happens with gambling, slot-machines, liquor in dry states and so on and so on."

	I agree with that quote emphatically. You are not going to clean up crime and corruption until you clean up American civic and political life. And who is going to do that? You are, or it isn't going to be done.

	In Illinois, I've moved against the slot machine and local gambling by using the state police where local officials refused to do their duty. The good people applauded, but they went right on playing the slot machines in their country clubs, lodges, and veterans' posts.

	But, my friends, if it is against the law in the corner saloon, it is against the law in the country club, too. And how much respect and how much leadership are the citizens going to have who practice a double standard of law observance? They have stopped their own mouths and tied their own hands, but they still complain about law enforcement.

	And what would you think about the banker who complains when you clean up gambling in his town because it reduced bank deposits? Or the real estate owner who complains that the tenants don't pay as much rent when the restaurant or tavern on the ground floor has to stop gambling? I've had those experiences and many more besides, including all of the varieties of businessmen who will corrupt a state inspector to disregard some law violation. I can fire the inspector if I can catch him, but I can't fire the businessman.

	Corruption in government is the only issue in this campaign, according to my very distinguished opponent. I think he means it is the only issue that the various factions of the Republican party can agree upon, probably. But, my friends, it should be an issue in every campaign for every office from top to bottom of our elaborate political hierarchy, not just this year but every year, because whether you believe in the pump analogy in our political life or not, the responsibility for our moral standards rests heaviest upon the men and women in public life, because public confidence in the integrity of the government is indispensable to faith in democracy. When we lose faith in the system, we have lost faith in everything we fight and stand for. And then there is always that sinister man on horseback waiting in the wings to ride in when we get so discontented that we look for the ultimate solution, and the solution always has its lamentable and inevitable consequences with which we are so familiar, or should be.

	As a Democrat, as an office holder, an aspirant for the greatest office on earth, I do not, I have not, I will not condone, excuse, or explain away wrongdoing or moral obliquity in public office, whoever the guilty or wherever they are stationed. What's more, I have had the satisfaction of firing and prosecuting a good many. One dishonest public official is one too many. A dishonest official is as faithless to his party as he is to his office, and our political parties must never founder on the rocks of moral equivocation.

	There have been cases of corruption, of bribery, and of venality involving a minute fraction of all of the tens of thousands of people in federal service. Many of these cases have been discovered and exposed--I am happy to say, by Democrats--especially by Democratic senators and congressmen keeping watch over the spending of the public funds. I need only mention here such names as Senator Kefauver, Senator Douglas, Senator Fulbright, Stuart Symington, your own Congressman Cecil King of Inglewood, Congressman Frank Chelf of Kentucky, and many others. In fact, I induced an old personal friend of mine, Steve Mitchell, who as a public service--one of many--has lately been counsel to the Chelf Committee conducting the investigation of the Department of Justice, to let me nominate him for chairman of the Democratic National Committee.

	And I am reminded of what Justice Charles Evans Hughes said during the Harding era scandals. He said this: "Neither political party has a monopoly of virtue or of rascality. Let wrong be exposed and punished, but let no partisan Pecksniffs affect a 'holier than thou' attitude. Guilt is personal and knows no party."

	But there is a great danger in this very healthy public discussion of corruption in government which I hope gentlemen like you do not overlook. The problem of government is the problem of recruiting first-rate personnel. Basically that is the problem, just as it is the major problem in your business. The reward for honest, able public service is too often complaint, criticism, abuse and ingratitude. It would be a tragic disaster if we forgot the tens of thousands of honest, conscientious public servants. Generalities about crime and corruption in government which embrace the many good with the few bad can only make it harder to induce good people to enter public service. We do not lose faith in the banking system because a few bankers turn out to be embezzlers. When you realize that American private business is swindled out of more than a billion dollars each year by its employees, from clerks to executives, it is not too remarkable, however deplorable, that government should occasionally be swindled.

	For the information of the public and the morale of the multitude of decent, faithful men and women on whom government depends, it is just as important to recognize and support the good as it is to root out and to punish the bad. It bodes no good for the public service where recruitment is none too easy anyway, what with the salary competitor of private business, when honest, conscientious public servants quit, because they don't care to be abused and ridiculed any longer. I know what I am talking about. I am the governor of one of the largest states in the Union, and I have had my recruitment problems.

	Only last week a very good friend of mine--a Republican from Chicago--told me that a revenue agent had been in to audit his return. He fell into conversation with him, and this able young lawyer, a recent graduate from a well-known law school who was doing this work for experience, said, "I am going to quit. I have been treated by businessmen and taxpayers as though I might be a thief, not they."

	Look at it not alone from the point of view of its mischievous effect on a gullible public, but also from the point of view of the consequences to the public service as a whole. I wonder how much the people know of the stifling, the choking effect of irresponsible witch hunting, the paralysis of initiative, the hesitancy and the intimidation that follow in the wake of broad, generalized accusations and inhibit the bold, imaginative thought and discussion which is the anvil of public policy.

	I'm frank to say I get a little confused about corruption in politics. We tend to think of it as something so simple, in the unsophisticated terms of graft--of cash on the barrelhead. But its forms are many, and I think of another which we witness every day, and to which I have become acutely sensitive in my brief experience in public service.

	Perhaps the proper description is not "corrupt," but "expedient" for the legislator, be he in Sacramento, in Springfield, Illinois or in Washington, D.C., who will vote for all kinds of special interest bills to catch or to hold some votes while he prates piously about economy and indignantly about waste. Call that what you will, condone it as you please, even profit from it as you do now and then, its cost to you is infinitely greater than the thievery and rascality that capture the headlines.

	Have you ever heard of a candidate who was against economy and efficiency? Of course not. It is part of the standard repertoire. Everybody is for economy, efficiency and honesty, and against waste, sin, corruption and Communism. But how about the logrolling, the lobbying for laws or their repeal to serve the interest of some group at the public expense? To catch some votes, or for fear of losing some, many things are done which seem to me hard to distinguish from outright bribery. Yet, we will condone the one and condemn the other. I have seen many legislators vote for every appropriation during a legislative session and against every tax, and babble about economy and fiscal responsibility at the very same time, and so have you.

	And, what's more, they will be elected over and over again.

	In the last session of my legislature in Illinois I presented a very tight budget that called for no tax increases, in spite of all the cost increases in the previous two years. And I called upon the legislature not to add to that budget without subtracting from it in order to keep it in balance. What do you think they did? They subtracted $300,000 and added $50,000,000. I hope it isn't indelicate to advise you that it was an overwhelmingly Republican legislature in both houses.

	The Republican leader, in that session, sponsored and passed a bill to increase all old-age pension allotments 10 percent automatically, although we have a system of automatic adjustments in accordance with living costs. The cost of that measure we estimated at roughly fourteen million, but he made no effort whatever to provide any of the money with which to pay for it. I noted in my veto message that they had omitted from the bill the dependent children and the recipients of general relief--I suppose because they were not organized politically.

	I could entertain you at some length with the difficulty I had to get one Republican vote to cut a large appropriation and thereby balance the budget at all, in the previous session. Indeed, if I recounted all my experiences of this kind I am afraid you might get the impression that I am slightly partisan. But I am sure you will forgive me if I say that from where I sit the carefully cultivated impression that Democrats are all extravagant and Republicans are all provident is a fairy tale and part of the phony folklore that a careful citizen will examine carefully.

	And perhaps you will also, on closer consideration of the performance--timid, expedient, demagogic, or worse--of a lot of people in public office, share with me the growing confusion about ethics and morals and corruption in our public life. Surely there must be some higher standard and some better test than simple bribery for cash.

But I dare say that the only way that we will attain some higher standard of ethics and of responsibility and courage in public life will be compounded heavily of forbearance yourselves from exerting pressures for selfish ends, plus some positive applause and tangible support for the guy who is playing it straight, morally and ethically, as well as legally, in spite of the fact that you will probably not agree with him on the merits of issues and actions many times. Indeed, sometimes he may not even bear your party label.

	And, bear in mind too, that the special-interest people, especially what we call the hoodlums and the gangsters, are always very free with campaign contributions for the right candidates at the right time.

	But, enough of this. Just remember that all that's gold to a politician does not glitter, and that to be good and stay in office he needs a lot of help--from people who don't want anything from him except to be good.

	For far too many of us the presidential election is a quadrennial orgy of absorption in political matters, all centering around the single issue of the identity of the man who will serve as president for the next four years.

	It seems to me to contain some subconscious element of expiation for past sins. It is as if that large percentage of us who pay no attention to politics and to government for three years remorsefully seek to repair this deficiency by talking the longest and the loudest in the fourth year about the importance of electing the right man--our man--to the highest public office of all. If the people at large can only be brought to understand the wisdom of what we are shouting, and elect our man, then the nation will be safe for at least four more years; we have discharged our responsibilities as citizens--a little tardily perhaps, but nonetheless adequately and effectively--and can then turn exclusively to other concerns until the time rolls around again when we must once more clamorously assure the national salvation.

	Now, I say we must rid ourselves of the easy notion that the right man in one job solves all of our problems. We need to level out this sharp but narrow peak of citizen interest in politics and government in presidential years with the long and deep valleys of apathy that lie in between.

	There are other pitfalls to be found in our traditional habits of thinking about politics and about party leaders. We like to reduce complex issues to simple slogans. Better still, we like to deal in personalities to the exclusion of issues. And, to the extent we must unavoidably get into issues at all, we like to weave them all into a single sort of brightly colored cloak which will cover our man completely and distinguish him clearly from his competitors. This creates the comfortable delusion that we have not subordinated principles to personality, and that we know exactly where our man stands on everything.

	Most importantly, it lends itself beautifully to the oversimplified kind of argument we love so much, in which we can throw around freely the short, sharp, fighting--and meaningless--words like "liberal," "conservative," "leftist," "rightist," "socialist," "fascist," "communist," and all of their shopworn and barren brood.

	These are all conventions which afflict the laymen as well as the party professionals.

	Another conventional belief of politicians is what I call the myth of monolithic voting--the idea that all the votes in a bloc go one way or the other in response to the candidate's willingness to go along with the official positions of the bloc.

	I think it's myth and, if I am right, I believe this to be one of the most hopeful and reassuring elements in our democracy. The myth operates to frighten and to stampede many office holders into doing things against their own inclinations and their own better judgment. Its exposure is the beginning of real statesmanship for many who have been taken in by it.

	Large organizations of Americans simply do not vote uniformly in support of what are represented to be their special interests or predilections. And that is true whatever the nature of the tie that binds the group together and apparently sets it apart from its fellow men, whether it be religion, economic circumstance, geographical attachment or other divisive factors.

	The senatorial election in Ohio in 1950 was a most persuasive demonstration in this important regard.

	I had a similar experience in Illinois with the State Federation of Labor in 1948. Last year I vetoed five of the nine bills passed by the Illinois legislature and included within the official legislative program of the Illinois Department of the American Legion. I vetoed special-interest bills of all kinds calling for more than $40,000,000 of appropriation. And I was solemnly warned in every case that I would lose all of the votes of the groups affected.

	Probably it's a mighty good thing I didn't run for governor. I wouldn't have gotten a vote in the state!

	Well, my friends, I didn't believe it in 1948, and I don't believe it now, although if I should return to Los Angeles as a private citizen after the first of the year, I should be glad to have lunch with you again--and eat crow.

	In any event, and whatever my own fate as a politician, I do know that sound government ends when the leaders of special groups call the tune, whether they represent capital, labor, farmers, veterans, pensioners, or anyone else. And I am convinced that the public servant who does the right thing, no matter whose toes are stepped on, does not lose all of the votes of the hands which go with those toes.

	Now, there is something else I should like to mention. The twenty years since the Japanese invaded Manchuria and the Democrats invaded Washington has been a period of change as rapid and as violent as any in our history. The forces that demanded change shattered many societies. We have contained them within the American system of democratic government, popular control, and civil liberty.

	There has been no break in the continuity of our institutions. The United States has held to the course of development which it has been following for 150 years. This triumph of stability in a time of world revolution was not accomplished by pretending that there were short cuts to safety, and to prosperity, to freedom, or social justice, or that they could be bought at a discount. And we must not minimize the difficulties or dangers now in the presidential campaign year.

	I say this to you, in conclusion, because I would not have you think that I believe that all there is to good government is honesty and efficiency. These are only means to an end. In the tragic days of Mussolini the trains in Italy ran on time as never before. I am told in their way--in their horrible way--that the Nazi concentration camp system in Germany was a model of hideous efficiency.

	The really basic thing in government is policy. Bad administration, to be sure, can destroy good policy; but good administration can never save bad policy.

	So, what I beg of you to ponder in all your governmental judgments is not just how to do a job, but--and far more important--what to do.

	And, if you can find a man who knows both what to do and how to do it, well, you are very lucky indeed.

GAMBLINGSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSVOTINGGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     _ S_ M_ I_ A_
 4_ /_ *_ _ _ _ ^ ^	 B 	 : 	 #   e: