

	From the earliest days of this nation, home ownership has been among the foremost values of the American people. Owning one's own home means far more than merely having shelter. It is a concept deeply rooted in the hearts of our people, for it carries with it a whole constellation of values--family, neighborhood, community, independence, self-reliance, citizenship, faith in our country and its future.

	Home ownership means that a family has a real stake in the American system. For in every community, those with the deepest and most permanent roots, those with the greatest investment, naturally tend to give greater service to their community. It is not only in their self-interest to do so, but it is a fulfillment of their duty to a society which has given them the chance to work, save, invest, build, grow, to live the fullest and freest kind of life in a great and proud country.

	And throughout our history the dream of home ownership has been within reach. It has not always been easy, but it has always been possible. A young family would save as much as they could of their earnings, putting them aside in a savings institution at interest, until they had enough to make a down payment. And it was a great and exciting day when they first set foot in a real home of their own.

	But today that dream of home ownership has been shattered for millions of Americans; shattered by soaring costs, high interest rates, and gross mismanagement of the economy by the present administration in Washington.

	In August 1977, just seven months after Jimmy Carter took office, a new house sold for an average price of $54,900. With a $40,800 mortgage loan for thirty years at a rate of 8.75 percent, a homebuyer paid $321 per month.

	Just three years later, in August of 1980, the cost of that house had soared to $88,700. With a $62,000 mortgage loan for 30 years at the average prevailing rate of 12 percent, a homebuyer would have to pay $638 per month just to pay off the mortgage. That's an increase of almost 100 percent in just three years of Carter economic policies.

	Even for used homes, the national median price has shot up so much it takes an annual income of nearly $29,000 just to be able to qualify for the home loan to buy it.

	Maybe these statistics explain why there are some 250 homes under construction in Brown County upon which work has been stopped because there is little prospect of finding buyers who can afford them.

	Even the President's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development observed earlier this year that "for many hardworking people, the American dream is denied because housing is growing beyond their reach."

	This critical housing shortage comes on us at the worst possible time. During the 1980s, an estimated 41 million Americans will reach the prime home buying age of 30, and these young people will face a really desperate housing situation. Many will have to make sacrifices if they are to become homeowners which would have been unthinkable over the last thirty years.

	The same economic policies that have plunged the nation into the worst recession since World War II; the same economic policies that have put 2 million Americans out of work this year alone; the same economic policies that have brought us the highest average peacetime inflation rates in living memory; the same economic policies that have driven home mortgage rates as high as 16 percent--these are the economic policies which have produced this explosive crisis in American housing.

	In view of all this tragedy, isn't it time we reversed the absurd and. dangerous policies that produced it? Just yesterday, prime interest rates went up again to 13.5 percent; mortgages in my home state of California jumped to 14-1/2 percent. Here we go right back on Jimmy Carter's roller coaster--heading for another term of wildly tight credit and unavailable mortgage loans.

	I don't think we reward these kinds of policies by returning to office those who brought them upon us. I know it won't surprise you to learn that I think we need to elect a new president on November 4th who will work to put an end to America's housing crisis.

	The next president will have to act to sharply increase incentives for people to save once again--to put their money to work through their local banks, savings and loans, and credit unions, for these are the institutions that supply the mortgage loans that Americans so badly need.

	The next president will have to act effectively to roll back the excessive regulation that drives up housing costs unnecessarily.

	The next president of this country must be someone who realizes that Americans really need new and better housing--lots of it; he must be someone who knows that behind today's statistics there are real people, real families, who are suffering and who need help.

	The next president must be someone who understands what America can become again, and what its people can achieve when their government gets off their backs and out of their pocketbooks.

	Well, it's no secret I'm trying to be that someone. I think I understand those problems, and if I'm elected, I'm going to start doing something about them.

	Starting next January, I would launch an economic revitalization program to undo the damage done to this country over the last four years.

	I will ask Congress to cut individual income taxes across the board. I will ask for new depreciation rules for business, to spur new job-creating investment. I will root out wasteful government spending and bring inflation under control. I'll adopt policies which will bring interest rates down, so that the average family can once again afford to buy a home of their own.

	There are eight million Americans out of work. I want to put millions of them back to work, bringing home decent paychecks they can cash for honest money.

	In addition, we will explore reasonable alternatives to traditional mortgage financing instruments and, where they meet the test of financial soundness, we will urge federal regulatory boards to permit lending institutions to offer them to homebuyers. The creative use of a variety of home financing tools can be useful in opening up opportunities for home ownership to certain homebuyers.

	A Reagan administration will undertake a thorough review of all federal regulatory programs--particularly those which affect housing and housing finance--and those with little or no real value to the public will be eliminated. My appointees will move forward with deregulating lending institutions, but in a way that allows an orderly transition to new market conditions, not a sudden, desperate scramble that will disrupt the availability of credit to consumers.

	Starting in January, the first $200 of interest from a savings account--$400 for joint returns--can be tax-free. That's a step forward and I welcome it. I would ask Congress to increase those amounts as soon as fiscally possible. This will particularly benefit working people and retirees who have traditionally been the mainstay of savings and loans and mutual savings banks, the nation's principal home mortgage lenders.

	I will name a Secretary of Housing and Urban Development who can and will straighten out the serious management problems in that federal agency.

	These are things that can be done relatively soon by a new president and a new administration. In the longer run, we have to search for a way to end the roller coaster nature of the housing industry. Exactly how to do this is not yet clear, but I intend to call upon some of the brightest minds in the lending industry, the home building industry, and construction trades, and the economic and public policy professions to come to grips with this question.

	We don't have to go on suffering the present housing crisis. We can overcome it by bringing back sound money--by providing real incentives for families to save--by reducing the tax burden that kills productivity and investment--by relaxing the grip of regulation upon our productive people.

	But it will take an administration that is committed to the proposition that the answer for America's problems is not higher taxes, higher inflation, higher unemployment, more regulation, and bigger government. That has been the Carter answer so far.

	My answer would be precisely the opposite: lower taxes, lower inflation, lower unemployment, less regulation, and smaller government. Come next January, I intend to get started with just that program. I hope you'll help me.

	
BANKING/LOANS/CREDITHOUSING AND REAL ESTATEINCOME TAXINTEREST RATESREGULATION/DEREGULATIONSAVINGS, PERSONALHOME OWNERSHIP     9" " ! ! !
 ! ! ! ! !	 y 	 e 	 N 	 D 	 6 	    e: