
	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Aziretto. And ladies and gentlemen, thank you for that enthusiastic welcome. We also had a lot of people on the outside of this hall to say hello. Some of them were kind enough to engage me in the debate that so far he has refused, and I enjoyed that very much. And the thing I liked best about it was there was opportunity for follow-up. 

	I want to talk today, and I have prepared some remarks about what I consider the fundamental differences in my approach and Mr. Bush's approach to the economy and to the role of government. But, before I get into them, I want to try to set the stage.

	Our country has been in the grip of declining productivity and therefore declining wealth generation compared to other major countries for nearly two decades now, brought on in the early and mid-seventies by the explosion of oil prices and by our being forced to compete with other countries around the world. That was a fact of life beginning in the mid-seventies. There was a general consensus among Republicans and Democrats alike, from Richard Nixon to Jimmy Carter, that something had to be done about it, that the national government had to respond to it, that there were differences in kinds of response, but most people acknowledged even then that the path that had been taken in the past would not be enough to steer America into a global economy.

	Twelve years ago, when Mr. Reagan was elected, the United States decided to set forth on a political and economic experiment that was unprecedented in the world of advanced countries, trickle-down economics, a very inactive government in most areas in which other countries, even those governed by conservatives, were active.

	Today, we are called upon to make a decision which will characterize whether that approach should be given four more years or whether the approach that I have taken should be given four more years. The President, Mr. Bush, has gone out of his way to try to characterize this choice in ways that I think are not accurate, and the major purpose of my presence here today is to try to tell you and, through you, the entire electorate of this country how I think this choice should be characterized. We are, after all, not choosing just between two people in the next thirty-nine days, but between two very different philosophies, two different ideas of the presidency.

	George Bush says there is a Grand Canyon between us, and in that, he is certainly right. There is a gap--there is a gap between his economic policies and mine, between his philosophy of government and mine. There is also, in fairness, a gap between his rhetoric and reality; the reality of his positions as opposed to what he says, the reality of my record as opposed to how he characterizes it, and most importantly for you and your children, the reality of what I have advocated as opposed to what he says I have advocated--a gap so great that it seems to me that we're really in a canyon, because I so often hear the hollow ring of the other side's rhetoric. I believe that my opponent is out of touch, out of ideas, and out of time. Instead of debating me in East Lansing, he has run all across this country, flailing away at an imaginary opponent. Instead of a great debate about the future of our nation, Mr. Bush desperately wants this election to be a rerun of the past. He sincerely and passionately believes, however, in trickle-down economics. He really believes that the way to make the economy grow is to keep taxes as low as possible on the wealthiest Americans, concentrate as much wealth there as possible, and then let them make investments that will trickle down to the rest of us.

	The problem is that that leaves very little room for tackling the real problems of our country, and this experiment has not worked. So when there is an emergency, or if the people who are supposed to be giving us the benefits of trickle-down need a reaction, then the government swings into action, whether it's the S&L bailout, or another tax break for the wealthy. But mostly the government stands on the sidelines, when other governments around the world are moving aggressively on issues of economic development, preserving the industrial base, educating all the people of the country, controlling health care costs, dealing with the problems that people face in new and innovative ways.

	I want that kind of government, a government that invests more but wastes less. I believe first and foremost the way to make an economy grow in a global society is to invest in our children's education, our workers' skills, our families' health, so that our people can be the most productive on earth. Not trickle-down, but not tax-and-spend. Invest, educate, innovate, partnerships between government and business, doing what works.

	We've tried it their way for twelve years now. In a way, what they wanted to do did work. Almost all the economic gains of the last twelve years have gone to the upper 20 percent of our people, and most of that to the upper 1 percent. Indeed, for the first time since the roaring twenties, the top 1 percent of our people now control more wealth than the bottom 90 percent. Now, we would perhaps accept that in America because all of us want to be rich or want our children to grow up to be rich. I wouldn't mind trying it myself some time. We would accept it if it worked. But the problem is we have tried it for twelve years and it doesn't work.

	One of the reasons that my opponent has tried so hard to divert the attention of the American people from the problems before us is that he's having to run on the worst economic performance in the last fifty years. In the past two years alone, average family income has declined by almost $1,600. And while Mr. Bush has been in the White House, three people have gone bankrupt for every one person who has gone to work. Ten years ago, our nation was first in the world in wages. Now we're thirteenth and dropping. And the United States Census itself, concluded during the Bush administration, shows us that two-thirds of our people are working harder for lower wages, when adjusted for inflation, than they were making ten years ago.

	With a record like that, Mr. Bush wants to run against an imaginary opponent with two diametrically opposing aspects. To hear him tell it, one day I'm a hayseed, the governor of a small southern state. The next day I'm an Oxford man who has an enormous advantage in a debate. To hear him tell it, one day--to hear him tell it, one day I'm a big spender who would endanger the stability of the republic. The next day I should be attacked for not spending enough money on problems at home when we didn't have the money. To hear him tell it, one day I am an environmental extremist, depending on what state he's in. The next day I'm a big polluter. One day I'm reckless about Bosnia. The next day it turns out they all agree with my position. At the core--[interrupted by applause.]

	But make no mistake about it, at the core of the argument my opponent is making against this candidacy is the position that beneath our southern accents and mainstream roots, Bill Clinton and Al Gore are yesterday's Democrats-old-style, tax-and-spend, big government, anti-enterprise; people who have hidden their true impulses for twenty years in public life waiting for that moment when they could burst on the American scene and drag our country down. That is their argument.

	But if and when Mr. Bush does actually debate me, he'll find that he's facing a different challenger, a different kind of Democrat who understands that the great issue of this election and our time is how we can help America in a global economy to build a society where the power of government is used to help people and to help the private sector create jobs and increase incomes, to solve problems like the health care crisis instead of just talk about them, and to do it in ways that promote more innovation and less bureaucracy, and, finally, to educate and empower people to take responsibility for their own lives and their families' futures.

	Mr. Bush says this election is a choice between private enterprise and big government, but there is a Grand Canyon between his rhetoric and the reality of his own record on that subject and my record, between his proposals and my proposals. It's a fact that during the Bush presidency, the United States lost almost 40,000 jobs in the private sector, according to his own government's reports, last month, including 1.3 million jobs in manufacturing. It's a fact that during the Bush presidency for the first time in the history of this republic, we have more people working for the government he deplores than we do going to work in factories every day. It's a fact that during the Bush presidency, according to the conservative Heritage Foundation--not the Democratic party, the Heritage Foundation--government regulation by the executive branch has gone up more during this presidency than in the previous twenty years under any president.

	And for all Mr. Bush's talk about downsizing the government, the fastest-growing part of the executive branch, the White House staff, is up by 56 percent. Indeed, between 1990 and 1991, the budget increased by 23 percent, ten times the rate of revenue growth. Maybe he should take the beam out of his own eye before he plucks at the sty of others.

	I know that the Democratic party in Washington has been in the past too identified with tax-and-spend, big government, bureaucratic solutions, and I know that too often in the past twelve years, members of my own party have forcibly or willingly cooperated with the Republican presidents on failures ranging from the budget deficit to the S&L mess to allowing special interests in our nation's capital too much influence. But I have worked hard to be a different kind of Democrat and to give the American people a different kind of Democratic party. If you want some evidence of that, look at the fact that we're proud this year to run on our platform, and they're running from theirs.

	My fellow Americans, contrary to the rhetoric of my opponent, the issue is not more or less government; the question is what kind of government. I want a government that works to spur growth, create jobs, increase incomes; a streamlined government that still plays a central role, because in every advanced country in the world, whether governed by conservatives or liberals, there is an aggressive role for a government working to promote private-sector economic growth.

	I want a government that, in the words of the author David Osborne, who has become something of an expert on what kind of government we need to create, "a government that steers more than it rows; a government that is a catalyst for action by others; a government that is market-oriented, less bureaucratic, and more entrepreneurial; one that favors empowerment over just handing out benefits; one that believes in opportunity and responsibility more than entitlement." That is the kind of government I want.

	That's why I believe in solving the health care crisis through a system of managed competition and innovation and less regulation by government, but more cost control.

	That's why I believe that we need fundamental changes in our education system that change the incentives for people to improve their own lot in life and give them the power to do it. That's why I support things like boot camps for first-time, non-violent offenders, and innovative programs to regenerate free enterprise in our depressed urban areas by setting up new banking systems that will actually work for profit to loan money to poor people to go into business. I could give you example after example after example. That's why I have offered a national security plan that won't just downscale defense but will give us a new and different kind of defense adequate for the twenty-first century.

	And because of that, this campaign, in the last several weeks, has moved beyond the traditional bounds of party. Look what has happened. In Chicago, 400 business executives, a third of whom were Republican, endorsing the Clinton-Gore ticket. In Northern California, twenty-one executives of some of the most fast-growing companies in this country, high-tech companies, endorsed our ticket. Two-thirds of them were Republican. Last weekend, Admiral William Crowe, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed Bill Clinton for president.

	Why? Why? Why did this happen? And when you talk to these people they all say pretty much the same thing: "We are tired of a do-nothing president who refuses to acknowledge our problems. We want someone, not that we agree with on everything, but someone who will roll up his sleeves, get up and go to work every day and face problems, whether it's national security or AIDS or education or job growth." That is what they're saying.

	Now the other day--last week, when I went to Michigan for my debate--or earlier this week--Mr. Bush took an airplane and had little airport rallies in every stop around my state to tell everybody how bad Arkansas was. But you know, there are some things he neglected to tell all those voters.

	He didn't tell them that since he's been President and I've been governor, my state has created 72,000 private sector jobs, while America has lost 40,000. He didn't tell them that his own Secretary of Labor, Lynn Martin, had to admit that our job growth in Arkansas--and I will use her word--was "enormous." He didn't say that US News and World Report noted that not only did we lead the country in the last year in net private-sector job growth, but that we had the third best overall economic performance in the country. He didn't say that Time magazine a year or so ago said that Arkansas was one of two states showing the most improvement in its public schools in the last decade. There were just all sorts of things that he didn't say.

	And while he railed about taxes, he didn't put out that, by his analysis, he's raised more than I have, and Arkansas still has the second-lowest tax burden in the country after he signed the second-biggest tax increase in history, after saying, "Read my lips." He omitted to say all those things.

	And amazingly enough, in the face of all this evidence that people who understand the economy know that what he is saying defies reality, from the eight Nobel prize winners who have endorsed my economic program to all these Republican businesspeople, he just offers us four more years of the same. He's been making and retracting promises about tax cuts again with the speed and agility of an acrobat. It reminds me of what Franklin Roosevelt once said about his Republican opponent. He said, "He seized the trapeze with the greatest of ease, and reversed himself in midair."

	In the State of the Union address--listen to this: beginning early this year in his State of the Union address, when Mr. Bush was being sorely pressed by Pat Buchanan in New Hampshire, he asked Congress to raise the personal tax exemption for middle-class people by $500 per child. But just fifteen days later he presented his real economic program to Congress, and guess what? The proposal from the State of the Union address was nowhere to be found. And when reporters asked what happened to his middle-class benefits, one of his political advisers said, and I quote, "That was just a proposal for New Hampshire."

	Two weeks ago, while campaigning in New Jersey, Mr. Bush said he was not going to raise taxes, quote, "again ever, ever." Just a day later, his press spokesman said that wasn't a pledge, no. No? Only in Washington can someone tell you that never, ever, is not a pledge.

	The next time Mr. Bush promises to cut taxes on the middle class or hold the line for the middle class, the people should ask him is this a promise for New Hampshire, New Jersey, or November?

	Mr. Bush would have you believe that he's the candidate of fiscal responsibility in this campaign, but there again, the Grand Canyon between his rhetoric and reality is as big as the trillions of dollars of debt that's been piled up in the last twelve years. The fact is--and listen to this--the fact is that if every penny of the budgets that George Bush has recommended since he became president had been adopted by Congress, rubber stamped, the deficit would be a billion dollars bigger than it is. But he's tried to convince the American people that he was out there cutting spending and the Congress forced him to do it. The fact is that he's never balanced a government budget, he's never come close to presenting one. He tells Congress there are all sorts of hard decisions they could make, but he doesn't want to advocate them. And interestingly enough, in the last year--now listen to this--three-quarters of the Republican Members of the House of Representatives voted against the Bush budget. It was so bad, so ill-prepared, so incredible.

	I say this just to point out that you cannot permit this election to be about false choices from America's past, about the same old categories and the same old boxes we try to put people in. We are living in a new world at the end of the Cold War, and we have new challenges, and new opportunities, and we had better seize them, and we'd better be willing to park all this aimless hot air rhetoric at the door and deal with the people's problems and the people's potential. That's what this election ought to be about--taking a new direction.

	The central issue is this on the economy. I do not believe, as my opponent does, that creating economic growth is a game played only by the favored few with the rest of us on the sidelines. I believe that in an international economic arena we must become one team, a dream team, a team of business and labor, of education and government, a team of men and women in which everyone has an important role to play, and we do not have one person to waste.

	I believe that our economic future must be built, yes, on the trading floors of Wall Street, but also on the factory floors of Main Street; yes, in the corner office, but also in every office; yes, in the board rooms, but more importantly, in the classrooms. Whether you're a parent who helps your child with homework, a worker who strives to make a better product, provide a better service, or upgrade your own education and training, an entrepreneur struggling to build a business from a dream, all these people have to be key players in our team and a crucial part of our economic future.

	The differences are clear. Look what Mr. Bush offered when he finally came out with an economic plan fifty-four days before the election, but 1,327 days after he became president, during which time he denied that a recession existed. And then he said there is one, but it's all an attitude problem on our part.

	Compare those election-year promises with the economic plan that I began with last October, that I've worked hard to refine for months and months and months, that I have involved hundreds, indeed thousands, of Americans who understand our economy and its challenges, the one that I have put before the American people. It's not based on expedience in the final weeks of a campaign, but on my experience as governor for twelve years in a state where we're working hard to improve our schools and restructure our economy, to create new jobs and empower people to seize their destinies.

	Mr. Bush's most important priority is still a short-term, across-the-board capital gains tax for those who already have significant wealth. His important priority makes no distinction between investment and consumption by upper-income people. His capital gains tax would give the average millionaire a hundred thousand dollar tax break and make the average family pay for it with cuts in government services.

	If this were going to create jobs, we might buy it, but we have tried it their way. If this tax cut were targeted to long-term investments that actually create new businesses, new technologies, and new jobs, I would say hallelujah. But the tax cut doesn't distinguish between building a business and buying a race horse. It's just more of the same trickle-down economics like the past twelve years of windfalls for the wealthy and stagnation for the nation. I don't want to give anybody something for nothing, but I want to give everybody the opportunity to make something for himself or for herself.

	Therefore, I support incentives for upper-income people, but targeted ones for their own incentive to create jobs. Let me just give you a couple of examples. I want an investment tax credit, like the one John Kennedy put in in 1961, one which you can only claim if you buy a new plant and new equipment and you start new enterprises, and you either preserve jobs in a competitive global economy by doing it or create new jobs. That can only benefit people who invest in America.

	I want to give people a long-term capital investment break, a 50 percent reduction in income for those who take risks to start new businesses or to expand enterprises and hold those investments for five years. There's a big difference between putting people to work and taking money in a short-term cash out for things that don't have anything to do with helping the American economy. 

	I want a permanent research and development tax credit to reward companies that invest in ground-breaking technologies, from high-definition television to high-speed computing. I want investment, but no deductibility for irresponsibility. You can measure the difference between Mr. Bush and me not only by the tax incentives we support, but by those we oppose. For example, I don't want any more tax breaks for dismantling our economy. I want to get rid of those tax incentives that literally offer small manufacturers more encouragement to shut their plants down here and move them overseas than to modernize plant and equipment and make them productive here. Why should we do that?

	And I don't think the rest of the taxpayers should pick up the bill when we provide unlimited deductibility for executive salaries in companies, no matter how exorbitant, even when the companies are losing money. Now let me make this clear. I don't care how much people make in a free enterprise system if the companies are making money. But tax deductibility means the rest of you pick up the bill. In the 1980s, executive salaries went up by four times as much as workers' salaries went up, and three times as much as profits went up--profits. What does that mean? That means people who are supposed to be setting the example are not.

	I admire people like the head of Delta the other day who said, "We're having a lot of trouble in this company, and I'm going to give back my pay raise." And I'll tell you what, I'll bet morale when through the roof in that company, I'll bet it contributed to productivity, I bet they'll have a better year next year, if they possibly can, because of that kind of example.

	The tax code today makes no distinction between a board's ability to reward somebody who is doing a good job or to subsidize someone who isn't. And you pick up the bill. We ought to make a distinction. We ought to be giving people more incentives to pay people more who are making money, raising wages, increasing products, and putting the American economy on the right path.

	Now, Mr. Bush really doesn't believe this. On inauguration day, he said he would use the power of government to help people. But it turned out that he had a very narrow idea of what that meant. He really doesn't believe that he should do anything. Even when the economy sank into recession, I don't know if you remember this, just a few months ago and he acknowledged finally that there was a recession, he said he wanted the Congress to pass his economic growth package with a capital gains cut, but if they didn't do that, the next best thing would be to, quote, "do nothing." That's exactly what he said.

	Now he believes that, he believes that. But I think we have learned, not only from our own painful experience but from what works in other countries and what has worked for America in the past, that government cannot do everything, but neither can it do nothing. And I believe we have to make investments to make our economy grow and to create an environment in which the private sector can flourish. So when it comes to investment, again there is a Grand Canyon between the two of us.

	Mr. Bush and his predecessor have given us a dozen years of disinvestment. It is amazing to contemplate that we have quadrupled the government deficit in the last twelve years, but actually reduced in real dollar terms national investment in infrastructure, and research and development, in education, in environmental technologies, in the kinds of things that build a growing, high-wage economy and give people more opportunity. That is our challenge. We've got to find a way with discipline to bring the deficit down but to increase investment at the same time. Otherwise, in this critical last decade of the twentieth century, our competitors will run away with the new technologies and the high-wage jobs of tomorrow. We cannot permit that to happen, and government has a critical role to play.

	When you look across the world at the high-wage nations that are spending a higher percentage of their gross national product on their infrastructure, on research and development, on kindergarten through twelfth grade education, when you consider the fact that we are the only advanced nation that has no systematic plan for the people who don't wind up at UConn or the University of Arkansas, or Harvard, or someplace else--that is, those who do not go to four-year colleges, we have got a lot of investing to do.

	When you consider the fact that we are the only nation that would have even dreamed of cutting defense as much as we already have with no thought to what would happen to the scientists, the engineers, the technicians, the factory workers from Connecticut to California, and when we need them to build the new economy based on new environmental technologies, new infrastructure investments, new communications and transportation systems, it is truly amazing.

	I have an investment plan. It will conservatively create 8 million jobs in the next four years by rebuilding America, from our roads and bridges, to high-speed rail and high-tech fiber optics. It will give us a national information network linking our homes, our businesses, our classrooms, our labs, our libraries by the year 2015. It will hook into the vast and mushrooming global market for environmental technologies. It's amazing to me that this president went to Rio to the Earth Summit, for example, and devoted all of his energies to making sure we did not sign a global warming treaty or a biodiversity treaty. Meanwhile, our major competitors--Germany and Japan--signed off on them, and were there hawking their new technologies for the twenty-first century to other countries, so much so that now two-thirds of the American market in environmental technologies are occupied by foreign companies and foreign products, while we've got scientists, engineers, technicians, and factory workers walking around without a job in the aftermath of the Cold War. It is wrong. It is wrong.

	But let me remind you that there are also limits on the ability of governmental policies and the private sector to create new high-wage jobs if our people are not able by the standard of global competition to perform high-wage jobs.

	Make no mistake about it: one of the reasons for declining incomes of Americans over the last twenty years is that too many of our people were too uncompetitive if their job's income was set in a global marketplace rather than an American marketplace. We still have way too many adults in the work force who can't even read. We still have too many adults in the workforce who are not capable of being retrained every year, even though we know that the average eighteen-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. We still have no system for moving people from high school to work with at least two years of training in a community college or a vocational program or on-the-job training. These are investments and opportunities we have to seize.

	Now, our people are ahead of the politicians and the policy-makers on this. Every community college in the country, just about, is oversubscribed. Older people are flooding back into educational institutions, including four-year institutions. The average age of a college student today is twenty-six or twenty-seven. So intuitively people know this, but we have no system to do things like teach everybody with a job to read in the next five years and give them all a chance to get a high school diploma in the work force wherever possible, take care of the kids that don't go on to a four-year college, and open the doors of college education to everyone. Those are the investments that I want to make in education, because if we don't, it doesn't matter how good our economic policies are, our own people will not be able to get their incomes up.

	And remember, there are two huge problems with this economy: unemployment is too high and too many people are insecure about keeping their jobs. But the other problem is the American Dream is literally threatened when two-thirds of the people get up every day and go to work and think their wage is going to be lower today than it was yesterday, no matter how hard they work. So we have got to raise the skill levels of the American people, and we have got to have a system to constantly retrain our people. We've got to do it.

	You know, the college dropout rate in this country today is two and a half times the high school dropout rate, as bad as the high school rate is. Why is that? Number one, too many people go to college without the real skills they need, which means we need to raise standards there and intensify our effort to get them ready to get in.

	Number two, cost of a college education is the only essential thing that's gone up faster than health care in the last decade. That's why I favor the national trust fund to replace the student loan program. Give anybody the money they need to go to college, no questions asked about income. Give them the option, including those of you who are still here, the option to pay it back either as a small percentage of your income after you go to work, at tax time so you can't beat the bill, or even better by doing, depending on how much money you borrow, one or two years of service to your country either before or after you go to college.

	Now, consider this. If every person in Connecticut who wanted a college education signed up for the national service trust and paid the money back before or after, depending on what kind of job you want, by working a year or two as a teacher, a police officer, in a housing program, keeping kids out of trouble and being good role models for them, helping the elderly, helping people with disabilities, you just think about it. We could solve the problems of this country, not in a bureaucratic way, but from the grassroots up, and educate a whole generation of Americans. And it would be totally voluntary. But I think if you open that voluntary door, a flood would come through of Americans who want their country to work again.

	I also want to emphasize--want to emphasize this one more time. Working people's wages are going down. We have got to have a system, and I have offered it in this plan, where the federal government provides some money to incentives to every state to teach everybody with a job to read in the next five years and give them access to a high school diploma.

	My little state has 2.4 million people. We spend slightly more money than Texas next door, six times our size, on adult education. It's the best money we ever spent, sending people into these workplaces, teaching people to read, giving them their high school diplomas, making them at least have access to training.

	I also think we ought to have a system in which we give companies incentives to retrain their workers, and if they refuse to do it, we exact a small fee from them so that we can do it when those people are unemployed. We have got to retrain America's work force continuously. We cannot let this country go through another decade where people work harder for lower wages. It devastates the whole idea of what it means to be an American. And it is very, very important.

	Let me just mention one other thing that I think is important, and a big difference between me and Mr. Bush. Since he's been president, 100,000 Americans a month have lost their health insurance. Now, the cost of health care is now responsible for 80 percent of the strikes in America. It is a major deterrent to American manufacturing being competitive. It is a back-breaker for small business, most of whom actually cover their employees at enormous cost. It's killing family farmers. It is the number one headache in every state budget in the country today. The cost of health care.

	I have spent over a year studying this on behalf of the governors. I've talked to literally hundreds and hundreds of providers and sophisticated consumers of health care. I am absolutely convinced that if we do not move to have a national solution to controlling health care costs and providing basic health care to all Americans--and you can't do one without the other--that we will never get the government's deficit under control and we will not restore our manufacturing health, and we will not be able to compete in the global economy.

	Now, let me just give you one example. In Germany, they kept health care costs under inflation for five years in the mid-1980s, and that's one of the reasons their factory workers make 20 percent more than we do for a shorter work week with a four-week paid vacation and family leave. We have got to address this. Does that mean the government should provide health care? No. Does it mean we need a lot more bureaucracy and regulation? Lord, no. That's one of the reasons we're so expensive in this country. We have the most inefficient system of finance in the world. What it means is we have to have a national strategy to cap costs at inflation, giving states the opportunity to fill in the details, and a national requirement of a basic health care policy that has to be offered by everybody so you can simplify the enormous administrative cost.

	In this country, eighty-four cents on the dollar goes into health care, sixteen cents to administration and profit, because we have 1,500 insurance companies writing thousands of policies overlaid on Medicare and Medicaid that have blizzards and blizzards of rules and uneven application. This is a nightmare. We have got to have a simple system. Once you do that, you can then give incentives for people to be in flexible managed health care networks, and the government can regulate less than it does today; less regulation, more innovation. But you've got to keep the lid on costs. If we don't do it, we're going to bankrupt the country. And you've got to require that everybody gets some health care.

	And let me say that we estimate that the private sector will save hundreds of billions of dollars in the next ten years. More than a capital gains tax, more than an investment tax credit, more than any government spending program, bringing health costs in line with inflation would unleash capital to put the American people back to work. It is our most urgent spending priority.

	Now I want to give you one last example of the difference in our philosophies. Last week, I went to Silicon Valley, and then I went down to the Sandia National Lab in New Mexico, one of our nation's major national laboratories, along with Los Alamos in New Mexico and the Livermore Lab in California, used in the buildup of our capacity as a nuclear power, used to make us a great defense power. This country has incredible brilliant minds in our national labs. And finally, because Congress has forced it--something they've done right--the labs are beginning to do more joint ventures with the private sector in new technologies for the twenty-first century to generate high-wage jobs and economic horizons that we can't even dream of. This president fired the head of the Defense Advanced Products Research Agency because he wanted to do more of that. He wanted to find ways for government to contribute to research and development in technologies that had national defense applications but could also create jobs for you here at home.

	In my technology policy, we say we're going to spend 20 percent of all the money we give to government labs to let them work with the private sector on priorities determined by the private sector to generate jobs and new technologies for the future. That's a big difference in a small area of real significance.

	Now, again I will say every time I talk about this, Mr. Bush says, "Well, Bill Clinton wants to give us a health care system with a compassion of the KGB and the competence of the House Post Office." This is from guy that's been on socialized medicine for twelve years. And then he says, "This is all heavy-handed government. This is what they got rid of in Eastern Europe." Let me read this to you. Sixty years ago, here's what Herbert Hoover said about Franklin Roosevelt. He said, "He has the same philosophy of government which has poisoned all Europe, the fumes of the witches cauldron which boiled in Russia." These guys haven't learned any new lines in six decades.

	My view is it is time to try something different--not trickle-down, not tax-and-spend--invest, innovate, cooperate, compete, quit getting beat, let's start growing again, let's get jobs and incomes going again. This has always been a "can do" country where we tried things, and where the power of government was used to help people, not to be a heavy-handed bureaucracy, but to give some zip to our country, some direction, some drive. I am tired of being told what we can't do. Every one of our competitors controls health care costs better than we do, and provides health care to everybody. We're told, "Can't do it." We need to put another $100 billion in the same broken system, that's his plan. He told us the other when he vetoed the family leave bill that we weren't as good as seventy-two other countries-seventy-two countries have figured out how to give workers a little time off when there is a baby born or a sick parent. Have you ever met anybody that lost their job because there wasn't family leave? I have. I met a young couple in my state in a homeless shelter because they both had to give up their jobs because they had a child with cancer at our children's hospital. And they thought that child might die, and they wanted to be there. And so would you.

	When Al and Tipper Gore's son was hurt so bad in a car wreck, he went to Johns Hopkins Medical School. They became friends with a young couple from the South who had to bring their child to Johns Hopkins to deal with a serious health problem, and they lost their jobs and their income.

	I think this is a can-do country. This should not be an election about the stale, failed political rhetoric of the past. If we let this be about tax-and-spend and trickle-down, we ought to be ashamed of ourselves. This is about whether we have the courage to face up to the realities of modern life. That is what has brought new support to this campaign.

	It's not about Bill Clinton and Al Gore. This is bigger than us. It's why Republicans and Independents and former Perot supporters and people who were military officers under Bush and Quayle and Reagan, people that care about their country and want to see something done for a change, are taking our course. So I ask you in the next thirty-nine days, make that the choice in this election--not four more years, but a whole new future for America. Thank you very much.
ARKANSASEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--PRIVATE ENTERPRISEENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYEXECUTIVE COMPENSATIONGLOBAL ECONOMYGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINFRASTRUCTUREINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYTAXATION--GENERALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWEALTH DISTRIBUTION         
       z p &-	 X	 P	 0	 	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	 h 	 P 	 : 	 ) 	  e: