
	Mayor Robert Youker, distinguished guests, citizens of Texas: on my own behalf, on behalf of Ambassador Bush, and in the name of our families, I express to you my deepest appreciation for your resolution of welcome, and for this opportunity to address you on a day of honor for every American of Mexican descent.

	One hundred seventy years ago today, in the village of Dolores, Mexico, a brave Mexican priest, Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla rang the bells of the village church to announce the Mexican people's desire for freedom. He did not live to see his victory. But the sound of those ringing bells is, today, in the hearts of all those who love and desire freedom, all over the world.

	The heritage symbolized by those ringing bells of freedom is, I know, a great source of pride to Americans of Mexican ancestry, as is the rich and ancient culture from which it has grown.

	That heritage is not a relic of the past, but a vital force in American life today. Americans of Mexican ancestry have honored the values they cherish, and, in doing so, have made a significant contribution to the growth of our nation.

	You have preserved the fundamental values of the Hispanic community--not merely the immediate family, but the extended family linking the generations.

	Hispanics in Texas and throughout this nation have not only preserved strong family ties, but have also maintained a deep and active concern for their parishes and neighborhoods. Strong ties of language, religion, culture, and family combine to build communities of shared values, communities organized for public service--for better housing, for improved education, for recreational opportunities, for activities that enrich life on the small, human scale where people live their everyday lives.

	Hispanics have a deep and abiding belief in the value of work--not useless make-work, but real work that produces things of value. There is a firm attachment to the great human right of property ownership, and you have labored long and hard to own your homes, your farms, your business enterprises, your own piece of America.

	And when our country has been threatened with the dark clouds of war, none have been more dedicated in their patriotism, none more willing to risk their lives so that the banner of this republic can float free under the heavens.

	For eight years I served as governor of a state with more than four million Hispanic citizens. I'm proud that during those eight years I appointed more Hispanics to important state positions than any other governor of California. During those eight years Spanish-surnamed state employees increased from 2,382 to 5,477--an increase of 129 percent. That was more than one-half the total increase in the number of employees.

	I signed legislation that expanded bilingual study programs that helped Spanish-speaking students get the most out of their educational opportunities. The driver's handbook, our consumer brochures and park guidebooks were made available in Spanish. In counties with 10 percent or more Spanish-surnamed residents tax exemption notices were sent out in Spanish as well as English.

	And I am here to testify to you today, that everything the state of California did to help its Hispanic citizens was repaid many times over.

	Family--Neighborhood--Work--Peace--Freedom: those values are dear to you and to me. I deeply believe those values must be given new life, for the sake of our country.

	We have always believed that in this land of freedom, men and women could grow and create wealth and prosper and build a better life for those who came after. Today, however, there are doubts about our economic future. And well there should be. In the past three and a half years of Jimmy Carter's economic failures, consumer prices have increased at an average rate of more than 10 percent a year. As inflation increases, working people are driven into ever higher tax brackets when their income goes up, leading to a bigger tax bite.

	And, as you know, the failures of the Carter Administration have brought us to a point where eight million Americans are unemployed. You know and I know that in an economy like this, members of Hispanic, Native American, black and other communities are the last hired and the first fired. There is no greater tragedy than that of someone eager to work, willing to work, but unable to find work because of Mr. Carter's economic policies. And you know this tragedy is today all too real in the Hispanic community.

	The question facing every Hispanic is whether the values cherished by this community are going to undergo another four years of indifference and insensitivity and inflation, or whether there is a chance for a new beginning.

	I'm convinced that our problems can be solved. I say we can do better than eight million Americans out of work. I say we can do better than inflation rates soaring as high as 18 percent in recent months. I say we can do better than 17 percent interest rates. I say we can curb inflation, we can bring down interest rates, we can keep more money in the pockets of workers, we can put millions of Americans back to work. And starting January 20, 1981, I plan to do just that.

	But rescuing the American economy from the Carter collapse, important as it is, is not the only task facing the next president.

	I need not remind you that in the field of foreign relations, as in so many important areas of government policy, the Carter Administration has been sadly lacking in vision, in understanding, and in sensitivity. Nowhere has this been more evident than in our relations with Mexico during the past three and one-half years.

	You know that the Carter Administration, in a series of diplomatic blunders, failed to come to an agreement with Mexico on energy matters. You know that Mexico set out to reduce its dependence on our nation as a trade partner.

	For years the United States had supplied over 60 percent of Mexico's imports. During 1978, thanks to the foolish Carter policies, that share slipped to 54 percent. And finally--after lost energy, lost sales, lost jobs, and lost friendship--Jimmy Carter finally got the message. It was time for a new Mexican policy.

	May I pause here and say that every time Jimmy Carter blunders he tells us he is going to have a "new" policy. He has had five "new" economic policies in three and one-half years. He has had various "new" energy policies. And so the fact that he had a "new" policy toward Mexico is not surprising.

	It didn't work, of course--he has yet to learn that what the American people want is not a series of "new" policies, but good policy, policy that works the first time.

	To emphasize his new Mexican policy Mr. Carter appointed Patrick J. Lucey as ambassador. This spring Ambassador Lucey, having resigned, stumped the country for Jimmy Carter's primary opponent with the statement, "I have traveled across this country and I have seen the human wreckage Jimmy Carter's presidency has left in. its wake." Nowhere have Ambassador Lucey's words been more true than in Mexican-American relations under President Carter.

	It is time for a new policy toward Mexico, a policy steadfastly based on good will, mutual respect, fair treatment, and dignity.

	If Mexico and the United States are to speak frankly with each other, the sensitive question of immigration is one major area where we must begin. This is a matter that demands the utmost sensitivity and spirit of cooperation on both sides. We are talking here not just about statistics, but human beings, families, the hopes and dreams for a better life.

	The ultimate solution, it seems to me, is to help our friends in Mexico push forward with their great national project of creating an agricultural and industrial base that offers better opportunities for all the Mexican people.

	In the meantime, however, the most important elements are mutual concern, mutual respect, and cooperation between Mexico and the United States.

	I spoke, in my announcement speech last November, of a North American Accord, a developing closeness among the great nations of North America. But closeness and accord do not imply dependence of one nation upon another or integration of our separate economies or a blurring of our borders. Each nation of North America has its unique needs, its unique heritage, its own unique role to play. But we must face mutual problems together, in an atmosphere of mutual trust and respect.

	The way to a true accord lies through consultation, cooperation, and in President Lopez Portillo's words, a commitment to "keeping insensitivity, ambition, fear, or self-seeking manipulation of illusions from casting a shadow on a relationship founded on friendship."

	Together Mexico and the United States can, in time, solve problems that today seem so intractable. Together we can, in time, build a new relationship of trust that allows both peoples to take advantage of mutually beneficial opportunities.

	Let us work together, as members of the North American family, to shape a new accord between nations and peoples, an accord which will usher in a new and bright era of cooperation, prosperity and dignity, under God.

	Today, here in the Valley, we honor Father Hidalgo and the brave men that set a great land free.

	Today we honor the values of the Mexican-American community, values that have for too long been neglected or ignored, values attacked by high inflation, high taxes, and high unemployment.

	On this day, dedicated to the spirit of freedom, let us dedicate ourselves to a rebirth of economic freedom and the defense of freedom, so that all Americans can have a new beginning.

	Let's get America to work again.

	The time is now. 
BILINGUALISMGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCAL--APPOINTMENTSGOVERNMENT APPOINTMENTS--HISPANIC AMERICANSIMMIGRATIONINFLATIONUNEMPLOYMENT--MINORITIESFOREIGN TRADE--MEXICOHISPANIC AMERICANSMEXICO     -' & & & &
 & & & & & & &	  	  	  	 Y 	 N 	 E  -     e: