

	Mr. Mayor, Senator Benton, my friends of Bridgeport; at least the school children of Bridgeport are glad I came here today. You know, I seem to have been getting advice in Connecticut most all my life. I went to school down here and they did their best to educate me, and now, as soon as I come to town, somebody said, "You've got to wear your hat in Connecticut all the time; this is the Hatter's State." I always felt a debt of special gratitude to your neighbors in Norwalk and Danbury for what they do to us people who suffer from corrosion of the hairline--or whatever we have.

	I want to talk to you this afternoon, if I can, a little seriously for a few minutes. I just met for the first time your candidate for Congress, Joe Lyford. I know he is entering politics, not for what he can get out of it, but for what he can give to it. I know that he feels the same convictions that I do, that our party, the Democratic party, is honestly dedicated to serving all of the people and that working for good government is about the most satisfying job that a man can do.

	Now, it is about this matter--good government, so called--that I wanted to say a serious word to you in Bridgeport. You know, there have been a lot of people that say I am not serious enough. The fact of the matter is if I was imperishably wedded to some of the folks that they are to, I couldn't be very humorous either. I always thought it was New York, but apparently it is going to be called Munich from now on in the Republican party. Let me just talk to you seriously if I may. There has been a lot of talk in this campaign about good government and of course that is a very healthy thing. It takes honest public servants to give you good government but it also takes real grass root consciousness of the belief in order to have good government and have it permanent. I think we have this public awareness in the United States, now, perhaps, more than we have ever had it before, and there isn't any reason why we can't have in this country the kind of government that we are all talking about all of the time, and I am talking from experience, not abstractly, but from experience as governor of one of the largest states in this Union.

	In Illinois, we cleaned up, we disinfected, we fumigated a state government that had been the victim of eight years of magnificent rascality--and I mean Republican rascality. Now, actually it doesn't make any difference whether it is Republican or Democratic rascality; a bad public servant is a bad apple and you throw out a bad apple whatever its variety. That is what I believe and I think that is what we are going to do at every level of our government, if the people are conscious enough of what their responsibility is. But rascals in government are only the uglier practices of wasters in government. Economy is just as important as honesty--for a taxpayer's dollar that is wasted is just as bad as a taxpayer's dollar that is stolen. And here again I lay what I hope is not an immodest claim to some hard and educational experience in making both ends of a government budget meet, in keeping a government lean and trimmed down to an efficient size. I have some idea about that; as the product of practical experience in Illinois, I have learned that economy in government isn't just something that you say you are going to have. You have to grind at it all of the time. You have to grind--everybody--up and down the ladder; the purchasing officers who spend millions of the taxpayers' money, the fellows who deal around in government orders, even the girls who want to use a fresh carbon every time they want to write a letter. It is the same old business day and night. You've got to live it yourself twenty-four hours a day.

	They make fun of me in Illinois because I go around the executive mansion switching off the lights. Well, I am not ashamed of it--I am not a bit ashamed of it. It isn't important in itself. What is important is that we establish firmly that public servants must exercise a higher standard in spending taxpayers' money, other people's money if you please, than they do in spending their own. I think we attempt in government administration to let the incentives work the wrong way. We follow sort of an Army system. We give the most rank and prestige and the highest needs to the man who commands the most troops, but in civilian government the greatest honor and the most rapid promotion must go to the man who can do the biggest and best job with the fewest employees. Any reference to the Army is purely coincidental here today. But the most important step in getting an economically efficient government is to get men of high principle, of high intelligence and of absolute integrity in all of the key spots. It isn't easy to get men like that and one of the things that makes it difficult is the reckless attack upon all public servants. When broadside irresponsible, indiscriminate charges of dishonesty, of disloyalty are unloosed against public servants as a whole and they hit the good men as well as the bad, you can imagine what it does to the morale of people working in government, such men who have been the honest responsible public servants, who constitute the greatest majority of them by far have earned your respect and gratitude--instead of that, for the most part, they get epithets and abuse and ingratitude.

	I am glad to see that my opponent in this campaign, who spoke originally of clearing out Washington from top to bottom, has changed his mind and now concedes that the vast majority of public officials are loyal and honest, decent people, just as the vast majority of his soldiers were not black marketeers or looters. Good government is efficient, economical and honest but it is also compassionate. It seeks to know the people's wants and it knows that money costs must always be weighed in the balance against human costs. A good government does not waste dollars, but it knows, too, that it is waste when men who want to work are idle, when children are not in school, when the sick are not cared for and when the aged are left in poverty. Government has to be efficient but that too is not enough. Government must have a purpose and in our country the purpose is to advance the freedom, the welfare and the security of our people. This is where the main dividing line comes between the Republican party and the Democratic party. When the Democratic leaders say, "This is what the people need," the Republican answer has been for twenty years, "Well, maybe so but our principles won't stand it." They have opposed most every single program that we have put through in all these years. They just seem to figure that if you drag your feet, perhaps, problems somehow will disappear.

	Well, I deny that you get different answers depending upon whether you face a problem in terms of principle or in terms of people. The trouble comes when you let your mind get so set on an old statement of principle that you refuse to think of it in terms of people at all. Take the social security system; if you look at it in terms of how it fits in with the ideas of one hundred years ago, well, it isn't very good, and that has been the Republican answer until very recently. Now they say it is altogether out of politics. But if you approach it by getting in your mind the picture of a man and how he feels the morning after he is laid off and looking at his children and wondering how he is going to feed his wife and family, then you get quite a different picture of social security. The Democratic party, I say, believes in government with a heart and believes in America with a soul.

	Now, my friends, it helps quite a lot that there is just one Democratic party. We don't all agree on everything or we wouldn't be Democrats, but we all have the same basic approach and we are not sitting around at breakfast dividing up the pie of party patronage and matching principles against pennies.

	Now, I know that many Connecticut Republicans worked hard in Chicago to win what appeared to be a victory over the forces of reaction and of isolationism at that Republican slaughter, and I know that Connecticut Republicans and Independents must have been startled and dismayed when the Republican candidate abjectly surrendered the other day in New York to the leader of the Old Guard, Senator Taft.

	I have a letter here that I thought might amuse you. It was a letter that reached me yesterday in Springfield before I left, and came from Greenwich, Connecticut--I don't know the author--it was dated the 15th of September, shortly after the ceremony on Morningside Heights, and the author refers to what he called the distraught mental condition of my distinguished opponents and then he recalls these lines from James Russell Lowell--you school children will probably be familiar with them, even if you parents are not. It goes this way:

	"He stood a spell on one foot first and then stood a spell on t'other, and on which one he felt twerst, he couldn't have told another."

	And the best thing about that verse is that it comes from a poem of Lowell's entitled "The Courting." That seems to me very appropriate of what happened over those scrambled eggs. Well, standing on one foot first and then the other, that isn't Mr. Ribicoff's way; that isn't my friend Bill Benton's way; that isn't John Sparkman's way and that isn't my way. We are going to stand with two feet firmly planted on the proven record of the Democratic party, on a platform of the people ready to move straight ahead in 1953 toward a new horizon of human freedoms, of welfare and of accomplishment. We ask your help; we ask you to help us not just in November but in the years that lie ahead of us. I also ask God's blessings on you, on all of you Republicans and Democrats alike and I appreciate your courtesy in coming here this morning; you have done me great honor. I should like to talk to you for a long while but you can see, as it is, I am a little intemperate with the use of your precious noon hour. 

	Thank you.

GOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYSOCIAL SECURITY     :( (  ( ' '
 ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '	 Z 	 = 	 " 	  e: