
	My friends, I have one point to make tonight. That's not many, but it is one more than is made in some political speeches--and that includes some I have delivered myself. The point that I'm going to make tonight has to do with responsible political leadership. And I think Missouri is a mighty good place to make this point.

	Here in Missouri you have one of the most distinguished and responsible partnerships in the Senate of any state of the Union, in my two good friends and your two great Senators, Tom Hennings and Stuart Symington. The word of Tom Hennings and Stu Symington has the mark of true responsibility, it seems, not headlines, but truth and service to the important things, like the vitality of our Bill of Rights and the enrichment of life for all our people.

	Tom Hennings is a man of responsibility. Missouri needs him. The Senate needs him. The nation needs him. We count on you to send him back to us in November.

	We count, too, on your returning, yes, and enlarging, what is surely one of the strongest delegations any state has today in the House of Representatives.

	--From Kansas City here, this extraordinarily competent, and effective young man who has won the profound respect of his colleagues and all who know him--Dick Bolling.

	--From the nearby Fourth and Sixth Districts, the vigorous and responsible leadership of George Christopher and William R. Hull.

	--And the other members of the Missouri delegation--under the distinguished deanship of America's beloved No.1 parliamentarian--Clarence Cannon.

	Indeed, Missouri appears to be overflowing with responsible political leadership--and I have in mind the forthright and forward-looking man who has served you well and who we are confident will be Missouri's next governor, James Blair.

	I repeat that Missouri is the place to talk about responsible political leadership. Above all, this is the home territory of the man who rose with all the Missouri toughness that is in him to meet the greatest responsibility on earth--Harry Truman. The point I want to make tonight is one that President Truman has made both by word, and, more significantly, by historic deed. It is, very simply, that in the United States, the President cannot--in Mr. Truman's language--pass the buck. I know that is his language, because he always used to have on his desk a sign that said: "The Buck Stops Here."

	And it did.

	When the time came to make the great decisions--dropping of the first atom bomb, the Berlin airlift, the Marshall Plan, the Truman Doctrine, etc.--he made them, himself. And when the criticisms came in from his opponents, he took them--himself. He did not believe in the delegation of presidential authority and responsibility.

	It is no secret that Mr. Truman and I have sometimes disagreed. When that has been the case we've said so pretty bluntly. And I hope it is no secret that I have often said and repeat now, in his presence, and along with millions of other Americans and millions of citizens of the world, that we know a strong president when we see one.

	And that's a very important matter to every one of us. For, if the president of the United States does not lead, our system cannot work effectively and every American citizen will suffer.

	The framers of our Constitution thought--to quote the words of the Federalist Papers--that "energy in the executive is a leading character in the definition of good government."

	The president is the only executive officer chosen by all of us. He represents every section, every faction, every racial group and economic interest, every American citizen. He--and he alone--can execute the great common purposes of the nation.

	When the president is weak, and when he does not fight relentlessly for the public welfare, then the cause of public welfare loses its greatest champion. Politics, like nature, abhors a vacuum. When the public interest moves out of the White House, the private interests move in.

	But, when the president is strong, there is no limit to what America can be.

	Now the Democratic party has always believed in a strong presidency and has produced most of our strongest presidents--because it has always advocated the cause of the people and has realized that a strong presidency is essential to that cause. And the Republican party has most often been the party which believed in a weak presidency--because after its radical Civil War period it fell progressively under the influence and control of special interests, which can find other champions than the President. And what has been true in the past by and large has never been more true than today.

	Let me make it completely clear that, when I speak of the need for a strong Presidency, I am not talking about the President's health or any personal aspect of the situation in Washington. I am talking about the conception of the Presidency that Mr. Eisenhower has announced publicly and followed in practice. And I am not "attacking" the President, as the newspaper headlines so often say. I am talking, rather, about what has seemed to me his philosophical attitude toward the office and his consistent rejection of the positive responsibilities of leadership--a rejection that began not last fall, but in January 1953.

	Let's look at the record.

	In 1953 and 1954, Republicans were in control both in the Congress and the White House.

	But although President Eisenhower asked Congress to enact legislative programs that looked good on paper, he did little to get them enacted. The Republican Congress tore the Republican president's State of the Union message into little bits and pieces and scattered them to the winds--and the president watched in silence, at least public silence.

	Then, while President Eisenhower declined to exert presidential leadership, Republican Senate Leader Knowland carried on his personal--and belligerent--foreign policy.

	Republican Senator Bridges rallied Republican senators in a fight against the Republican president's own nominee as Ambassador to Russia.

	Republican Senator Bricker pressed his amendment to cripple the Republican President's control over foreign policy.

	Eighty-four percent of the House Republicans voted against the President's position on housing.

	Senate Republicans voted 100 percent against President Eisenhower's trade program.

	We know now, from a book written recently, with White House help from White House sources, that the President was so discouraged with the Republican party that he began to talk of forming a third party. And yet, despite Mr. Eisenhower's own private dismay at the Republicans' behavior, the President soon let it be known that he "favored the election of every Republican over every Democrat for every office any place."

	Fortunately for the President and for the country, you voters did not take his advice too seriously in 1954. You returned the Democrats to the control of Congress, and they helped him get things done. He ought to be out today campaigning for a Democratic Congress.

	But even with a Democratic Congress, the problem of Republican irresponsibility remained.

	Republican Senate Leader Knowland kept right on with his personal--and belligerent--foreign policy.

	Republican Senator MacCarthy kept right on trying to be the national bully, even though the American people, with the aid of television and such Senators as Missouri's Symington and Hennings, soon thereafter found him out, and the Senate called his bluff.

	Republican Senator Bridges kept rallying Republican senators against the Republican administration--this time against the Republican president's desire to send aid to Yugoslavia.

	And Republican Senator Bricker kept right on plugging away at his amendment to cripple the Republican president's control over foreign policy.

	The President said he wanted a school bill. Sixty-one percent of the House Republicans promptly voted against federal aid to the schools.

	And on and on, up to the present moment.

	But there were exceptions to this rule. The White House was most certainly not passive and indifferent on every issue. Far from it. For example, when the Hells Canyon project was before the Congress, the White House exerted vigorous pressure to kill the bill so that the great power site could be turned over to a private utility company.

	And the same was true in the Congress on the tax bill for the benefit of the corporations and well-to-do.

	Let me say it again: when leadership moves out of the White House, the special interests move in.

	And it was not just that the President has had trouble getting the Republicans in Congress to do what he wants. He has had just as much trouble with the men he appointed to lead his own administration.

	In fact, a typical scene in the last four years has been the President's efforts to repair the damage done by his own lieutenants--the farm policies of Mr. Benson, the foreign policies of Mr. Dulles, the conservation policies of Mr. McKay, the defense policies of Mr. Wilson, the monetary policies of Mr. Humphrey.

	This would be fine--except the more trouble his Cabinet members cause, the more they evidently grow in the admiration and affection of the President. When the Secretary of the Air Force hurriedly returned to private life after certain disclosures by the press, the President thanked him warmly for his services and he was decorated. It is as if the hero in an old-time melodrama, having set forth to rescue the girl who was tied to the railroad track, suddenly paused in order to give the culprits a raise.

	The President said he was against book-burning, but he couldn't quite convince Mr. Dulles--and he ended by calling Mr. Dulles the greatest Secretary of State he had ever known.

	The President was against making Communism an issue in the 1954 campaign, but he couldn't quite convince Mr. Nixon--and he ended by writing Mr. Nixon a letter commending him for his campaign.

	In fact, many people have wondered how much President Eisenhower has to do with the Eisenhower administration. Sometimes the President seemed to wonder himself.

	Everyone understands that no executive can be held morally responsible for every act of every subordinate. But the American people have always assumed that the presidents were responsible for the important acts of their administrations.

	Harry Truman thought there was only one place for the buck to stop.

	When Mr. Eisenhower's Secretary of State boasted--in a magazine--that he had three times led the American people to the brink of war without telling them, the President said he had not read the article and know nothing about it.

	Yet the Yalta papers were released over Winston Churchill's objections. Mr. Eisenhower's Press Secretary said that the responsibility was not his, but the State Department's.

	When his Attorney General impugned the loyalty of a former President in a formal speech, Mr. Eisenhower was content to say that he had not seen or approved the speech.

	When Edward Corsi was forced out of our Refugee Relief Program, Mr. Eisenhower's Mr. Hagerty said that it was someone else's responsibility.

	When the Dixon-Yates Deal was proposed, Mr. Eisenhower fought hard for it. But now that the Department of Justice has finally admitted what the Democrats has been saying from the start--the whole thing was illegal--it doesn't seem to have been the responsibility of anyone.

	There is only one question to be asked about the Eisenhower administration. That is: "Who's in charge here, anyway?" Who, in this businessmen's administration, keeps the store?

	And there is nothing abstract or remote about this question either. The difference between weak leadership and strong leadership is the difference between direction by a few strong men who serve the interests of a few most of the time, and firm direction which serves all the people all the time.

	You who live on the Great Plains understand the difference that positive national leadership can make in your lives. Let us look at one set of problems with which you here are necessarily much concerned--problems having to do with water, the disastrous cycle of drought and flood.

	Now I am not going to blame the Republicans for causing the floods or the drought--or even for hurricane Flossy. But there is a responsibility in the government, which we have previously recognized, to do all that is possible to channel nature's forces, to prepare against natural disaster, to do what can be done to prevent it, to help repair against its ravages. The Republican approach to the national water problem has been to chop the Truman flood control budget in half, drag their feet on drought relief, and cripple the Soil Conservation Service by closing down many of its important operations, breaking up its regions, and splitting teams which had been working together for years on soil and water problems.

	Why, the Republicans ask, should the people of California or Connecticut be concerned about the flood that swept over Kansas City, for example? Why, they ask, should the people of Ohio or New York be concerned about the drought that now spreads its parched and withered fingers across so much of the Great Plains regions that I have flown over the past few days? Well, let's answer that question. Let's say straight out that all Americans must be concerned with the devastation of massive floods and massive droughts--because we're one nation and one people; because catastrophe anywhere weakens us everywhere, and its costs should not be borne by one vulnerable section alone.

	We Democrats have a strong historical belief in local action and local responsibility, and we believe in doing what needs to be done. In part, at least, that is why so many cities and states have been turning to Democratic mayors and Democratic governors in order to get strong local and state government that gets things done. But there are some problems which local and state leadership cannot wholly meet. The problem of water is one. It is a regional problem and a national problem. Localities and states trying to deal with it are inevitably driven into conflict with each other over water supplies, flood control, and the location and type of dams, and so on. This is exactly the kind of problem that requires comprehensive regional thought and planning and forthright national leadership.

	The Republicans, of course, complain that the national government is somehow the enemy of the people. But we Democrats reply: the people in local communities elected the government, and if it doesn't serve them well, they'll get rid of it.

	We say that is the responsibility of leadership--national, regional, state and local--to meet our needs and rise to our opportunities--whether better water policies, better schools, better housing, or better medical care.

	We say that while the want of funds may sometimes delay us, we cannot surrender to the frustrations of jurisdictional conflicts of leadership. And we say that where there's a will to get things done, there's a way. The history of this century is bejeweled with examples--from Bonneville Dam on the Columbia to the Everglades Canals--of great achievements--under Democratic leadership.

	We Democrats acknowledge a national responsibility in all areas of national concern. We Democrats believe in strong and responsible leadership to make sure that the whole nation pulls together to achieve our goals and that the whole people enjoy the benefits.

	We want to march forward now, all of us, into the land of freedom, justice, and abundance which lies ahead--into the New America.

	For the New America is, above all, a challenge to leadership. Drift cannot lead us to it, nor smug complacency, nor fear of change, nor slick slogans and advertising arts, nor pious homilies and campaign promises. Only the strength of a united American people can achieve it--and only effective leadership can concert that strength and make it effective.

	Today we have reached a great divide in world history. Man now has the power to achieve unimagined miracles of abundance--or the power in a final holocaust to destroy humanity forever. And it is of America's national leadership that all mankind asks today: "What shall we do with the power unleashed in our laboratories and workshops? Shall we use it for man's salvation? Or for man's annihilation?"

	These are some of the reverberating challenges of our time. I do not know--no one can know in advance--the precise form in which they will be met for it will be a people's will--a people's judgment--by which they will be met. And yet I do know, and it humbles me, that it is the President's task in our system of things to unlock the people's judgment, and to carry it out.

	And I shall submit that, on the record, it is the Democratic party that has by its basic principles and purposes given the presidency the nobility of resolve and the strength of spirit to make itself the instrument of the national will--which alone can meet the awesome and exhilarating crisis of our age. And I submit, too, that the American people know this--which is why the Democrats are going to win in November.
CABINET OFFICIALSCONGRESS--MAJORITIESDISASTER RELIEF--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEPRESIDENTIAL POWERREGIONAL PLANNINGSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWATER RESOURCES     GD D D 	D D
 C C C C C C C C	  	  	  	 v 	 ^ 	 I 	 7 	 & 	  e: