

	Bon giorno.  Somebody told me if I really wanted to feel good, come to South Philly.  And I feel good.

	Well, we had a big debate last night.  And my question is this: Who's going to win this election?

	This is a brand new race.  From now on, everything is wide open because, now, the American people know the stakes in this election.  It's about future.

	Americans remember what John Kennedy once said when he said, "America is a great country, but we can be greater."  We know as Americans that it's not just enough to congratulate ourselves, although this is the best country on earth.  We must also challenge ourselves to be even better.

	We know that we don't solve our problems by pretending they don't exist.  We must know it, look at them, solve those problems.  In short, we don't need a cheerleader; we need a quarterback to lead this country.

	Well, we have four weeks to go, and I'm here in South Philly to get your help to win Pennsylvania, to win the nation, and put a people's president in the White House.

	The Republicans don't want you to think about the high stakes in this campaign.  They want to trivialize this election.  But this election isn't about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's about toxic dumps that give cancer to our children.

	It's not about banners and balloons.  It's about old folks that can't afford to pay for medicine.

	This election is not about who is proud of our athletes in the Olympics.  We all are.  It's about the civil rights laws that permitted all of our young people to participate so we could beat the world.

	This election is not about sending a teacher into space.  It's about educating our children here on earth.

	This election is not about the sound of my opponent's voice.  It's about the unsoundness of his deficits.

	We know that those debts do many things at once, and all of them bad.  How would we look at a father and mother who lived beyond their means and saddled their children for life with enormous debts?  We wouldn't permit it.

	The same is true of our country.  Today we are loading this young generation with a trillion dollars worth of bills, to pay for our costs of living in our time, plus interest.

	Any young American that votes for this crowd--the cameras are here so I won't go further--don't do that.  Young Americans should all be with us because we're against those debts.  This election [MISSING TEXT]  I like these people.

	Now, this election is not about train rides and whistle stops.  It's about the ninety-thousand profitable corporations that don't pay a dime in taxes.

	Let me just stop here a minute.  One of the key issues in this campaign is not whether Mr. Reagan is going to raise taxes after the election because he is.  The question is, who's going to pay them?  And the difference between that administration--the Republicans, and Walter Mondale and the Democrats is that we think middle and moderate income Americans are paying enough.  We think the others ought to join us in paying for the cost of American society.

	This election is not about country music and birthday cakes.  It's about Jerry Falwell picking justices to the Supreme Court of the United States.

	This election is not about my standing in the polls.  It's about my stand against the illegal war in Nicaragua and against sending the arms race into the heavens.  Yeah!

	Now, folks, you've got to hold on tight for the next four weeks because the Republicans are trying to steal our heroes.  They've been grave robbing, to tell you the truth.  They said, they quote Harry Truman.  They take the Harry Truman whistle-stop.  They can quote Hubert Humphrey.  They can quote Jack Kennedy.

	But I've got a message for the Republicans.  You don't honor Lebanon by passing the buck on--you don't honor Truman by passing the buck on Lebanon.  You honor him by fighting terrorism and protecting our brave people abroad.  That's how you do it.

	You don't honor Franklin Roosevelt by trying to destroy Social Security.  You honor him by making sure that that Social Security system is sound.

	You don't honor Lyndon Johnson by giving tax breaks to segregation academies.  You honor him by enforcing civil rights so that all Americans have a chance.

	You don't honor Hubert Humphrey by cutting help for students who want to go on to college.  You honor Hubert's memory by making certain that every young American has a chance to go on to college or vocational school and achieve the fullest of life in this good country.

	No, Mr. Republican, you leave our heroes--Roosevelt, Truman, Kennedy, and Humphrey--alone.  They belong to us.  They belong to us.

	Now, today, we just came from the largest Italian American Columbus Day parade in the history of New York.  You never saw a crowd like that in your life.  And every place, every step we went, they were with us.  Mondale-Ferraro signs, cheering us on, moving us forward for victory.

	And I believe I know why--because I think the debate last night helped Americans understand what's at stake here.  They know.  They know.

	Let me just tell you one true story that I think tells the whole difference.  Two weeks ago, the president and I appeared jointly at the Italian-American Foundation dinner in Washington, D.C.  In his remarks, the president gave a moving account of how his life was saved by Dr. Giordano, whose parents had come here penniless, helped him get through medical school, and then one day permitted him to help save the life of the president.

	When the president said that, we were all moved.  Two days later, Dr. Giordano wrote a letter to the editor that went something like this:  He said, "Mr. President, I was proud to help save your life.  But you should know that I was able to get through medical school because I got the help of a low-cost federal loan."

	Then he said, "Almost everyone who practices with me and helped save you got more help than I did."

	"Secondly," he said, "most of the medical knowledge that allowed us to save your life and save the lives of millions of Americans is the product of research financed by their National Institutes of Health, our great centers of research and excellence that tap the minds of the American people and made us a healthier people."

	He said, "Finally you should know that my father and my mother are both on Social Security, and my dad has had to use Medicare on more than one occasion."

	He concluded his letter with something that defines the difference, the choice that you have as Americans as to the kind of leader you want.

	He said, "Mr. President, it is true that some Americans can make it entirely on their own and don't need help, but," he said, "for a lot of Americans, just like myself [missing text] you need a little help."

	That is the difference.  I understand that.  I don't think America is some kind of jungle where, when you're in trouble, you're alone and on your own.

	I think, in America, we are a nation, a community, and a family, and while we honor independence and self-reliance and work, we also realize that, once in a while, we have to care for each other.

	That's what this election is all about.  It's not just a choice between two parties.  It's a choice between values.  I would rather fight for the heart and soul of America than for the bonuses of the Fortune 500.

	I would rather lose a campaign about decency than win a campaign about self-interest.

	Together, we will win this campaign about decency.

	At the end of my first term as president, I want to walk into any public health clinic in America and hear doctors tell me that they haven't seen a hungry child all year.

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any school in America and talk to the brightest students and have many of them say, "I want to be a teacher."

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any store in America, pick up the best product at the best price, and turn it over and read, "Made in the U.S.A."

	By the end of this decade, I want to meet with the richest, most successful business leaders anywhere in America and see as many minorities in that room as there are in this room here today.

	By the end of this decade, I want to raise my right hand and swear to preserve and protect and defend a Constitution that includes the provisions of the Equal Rights Amendment.

	By the end of this decade, I want to ask children about their dreams and hear not one of them mention nightmares about nuclear warfare.

	Help me here.  Help me win this campaign.  Let's put this election over.  Let's put a people's president back in the White House.  Let's show that we understand our future, and we want it again for the people of this country.

	Thank you very, very much.

BUDGET DEFICITEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMEDICAL PROFESSIONMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCES     l# 8# 2# .# &#
 # # # # " " " "	  	  	  	 e 	 C 	 + 	  e: