

	I am here tonight to say that this country belongs to the people who build it and support it, not to a handful of executives in the boardrooms of Wall Street and the backrooms of the White House.

	I am here to ask for your help in this people's campaign to defeat Richard Nixon, and restore power in America to the people of America.

	Richard Nixon is the nominee of a stage-managed, push-button convention. He speaks for the financiers, the big money, and the special interests. I am the nominee of the Democratic Party. I am proud to speak for workers and housewives and for each of you.

	No political party can serve two masters--the people and the privileged. By heritage and by choice, this is the fundamental difference between the Democratic party and the Republican party.

	Of course, there is a group called Democrats for Nixon, run by John Connolly, who recently said that today's tax giveaways are fair and that full employment is a myth.

	When Connolly was Nixon's Secretary of the Treasury, workers got their wages frozen, and big business got a $9 billion tax cut. How many of you got a tax cut last year? Raise your hands.

	How many of you think you'll get a tax cut next year if Mr. Nixon is reelected?

	Well, you should vote Republican.

	The Republicans are welcome to Mr. Connolly and his exclusive club of oil millionaires. I want the oil workers, the steelworkers, the machinists, the teachers, and millions of other Americans who live on the wages of their work instead of tax loopholes.

	Let us separate fact from fear and look at the real choice before the country.

	The real choice is four more years of secret plans to end the war, or an open plan to bring our sons home from the jungles and the jails of Indochina.

	We must end the bombing and killing now, and we must learn the lesson of Vietnam. We must resolve that never again will we commit the young life of America to the defense of a corrupt dictatorship ten thousand miles away.

	The real choice in this election is also between four more years of inflation and four years of stable prices.

	Whenever you shop at the local grocery store, you find out that Richard Nixon costs more. The Nixon inflation is ground into every pound of hamburger you buy.

	The Nixon policy puts no controls on the dividends and profits of the special interests, because they have a friend in the White House. As president, I will adopt an evenhanded policy to stop that inflation--and the corporations and the rich will bear their fair share of the burden.

	And we have another choice in this election between four more years of the welfare mess, and a job for all who are able to work.

	In a statement yesterday, Richard Nixon talked about the "work ethic" and denounced the "welfare ethic." But it is Richard Nixon who has forced millions of Americans onto welfare because of his mistaken economic policies.

	Nixon's the one who has created record unemployment and done more to undermine the work ethic than any president since Herbert Hoover.

	Nixon's the one who stood by while welfare rolls skyrocketed from nine million in 1969 to fifteen million in 1972.

	Nixon's the one who stands for the welfare ethic in this election. I stand for full employment and national income insurance which will reduce the number of Americans on welfare by 30 percent in 1975.

	And when this difference becomes clear, it will not be the American people, but Richard Nixon who has something to fear in 1972.

	And perhaps the most important choice in this election is the choice between tax favoritism and tax justice.

	Last week I went to Wall Street and told the truth about our tax system.

	The Republicans say I want to soak the rich. What I really want is to stop soaking rank and file taxpayers.

	You pay for every tax loophole. You pay for every Martini lunch that a business man deducts, while you eat a bologna sandwich. You pay every dime the oil companies don't pay. You pay the taxes Ronald Reagan manages to avoid.

	When a businessman travels to London for a convention, you pay half of his airplane fare. When a couple of television executives eat crepe suzettes for dinner while they plan the Nixon-Agnew TV commercials, you pay half of their bill. When a stockbroker buys a yacht to entertain his clients, your taxes pay for the paint, and the sails, and the salary of the crew.

	Money made by money should be taxed at the same rate as money made by men. Tax justice demands equal treatment for Americans who earn their living in a shop and Americans who collect dividends in the mail.

	I have demanded a program to close $22 billion in tax loopholes. It will not take one extra cent from any American whose income comes from wages or salaries, or from investments that are already fairly taxed.

	None of you will pay more, but corporations and the wealthy will finally pay what they owe to their country.

	Richard Nixon also has a plan for your taxes. It is a secret plan--which is the same kind of plan he promised for peace in Vietnam four years ago.

	But I know what the secret plan is. Richard Nixon intends to wait until after the election, and then push a national sales tax that will dig even deeper into the worker's pocket. He'll put on a new tax--a Nixon National Sales Tax--that will take two hundred dollars a year from every family in America.

	And if that is not his plan, then I challenge him to repudiate it now.

	The Republican tax philosophy is plain. Richard Nixon shoved through $9 billion in unjustified new corporate tax breaks last year.

	And that giveaway was stacked on top of a tax structure that already works like a sieve for the rich and a sponge for the worker.

	When the public outcry for tax reform took hold, Mr. Nixon sent out a team of Treasury Department officials to do a public relations job on the people--complete with visual aids, and at taxpayers' expense. The message was that the loopholes are just fine.

	His National Sales Tax--the so-called VAT--is in the same tradition. While he defends tax loopholes that we all know are an outrage, he wants still more new taxes to soak working people, and poor, and the middle class.

	You won't see the Nixon sales tax on big investors' capital gains. Instead, you will find it on the meat counter and in the potato bin at the grocery.

	It won't affect the money that corporations make when they run away overseas to exploit cheap labor. Instead, it will be added to the cost of clothes for the kids.

	It won't apply to the earnings of big oil companies. Instead, it will ring the cash register up higher on drugs for the elderly, and on virtually everything else they buy.

	I favor tax reform to help the ordinary citizen. Richard Nixon favors bigger tax breaks for the wealthy.

	These are the choices Sargent Shriver and I are taking to the country. And we need your help.

	We have no secret $10 million fund from the powerful and the privileged--and we are proud that we don't.

	We operate differently than the Committee to Reelect the President--which should actually be named the Committee to Protect the Special Interests.

	We are a people's campaign. We have disclosed every single dime we have raised and spent.

	And what I am looking for is a million Americans who will contribute twenty-five each, or whatever they can afford, not because they want favors for themselves, but because they want a better land for us all.

	Republican politicians may call our campaign "radical." But I come from South Dakota--and we are not in the habit of electing radicals to the Senate.

	What is right has always been called radical by those with a stake in things that are wrong.

	The Republicans called Franklin Roosevelt radical in 1932 because he thought human beings should have enough to eat--but Franklin Roosevelt won the election.

	The Republicans called Harry Truman radical in 1948 because he stood up for the rights of labor--but Harry Truman won the election.

	The Republicans called John Kennedy radical in 1960 because he demanded a $1.25 minimum wage--but John Kennedy won the election.

	The Republicans called Lyndon Johnson radical because he fought for full employment and quality schools--but Lyndon Johnson won the election.

	Now in 1972, the Republican scare tactic is that we are radical--and we will win this election.

	Richard Nixon calls all his opponents radicals. He did it to Congressman Jerry Voorhees in 1946. To Helen Gahagan Douglas in 1950. To Harry Truman and Adlai Stevenson in 1952 and 1956. To John F. Kennedy in 1960. To Pat Brown in 1962.

	But I don't need to tell you about Richard Nixon in California. You caught on to him ten years ago. That's why he moved to New York.

	I was a bomber pilot in World War II. And I still remember the day when our plane was hit so hard that we were all ready to bail out over Germany. I was scared, but I thought we could make it back. So I gave this order to the crew: "Resume your stations, we're going to bring her home."

	We have had a difficult and trying month. But here tonight, I say to you and to workers across America, to Democrats who are fainthearted and to those who are anxious to fight on, and to people everywhere who share our cause:

	"Resume your stations, we're going to bring America home."

	Thank you and God speed.


CAMPAIGN FINANCECONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSSALES TAXSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSBUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESTAX REFORM     % |% v% r% j%
 ^% Y% T% I% ?% =% %% %	  	  	  	 _ 	 V  ?  "  
 e: