
	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Wow! Thank you. Thank you. Twelve more days. Thank you very much. Wow! I'm glad to be here. Thank you very much.

	My fellow Americans, I'm glad to be here at UNLV. I want you to know that a couple of years ago, I watched your basketball team come into Arkansas and beat the Razorbacks. And I can't say that I really liked it then, but now, Al Gore from Tennessee and I are running all over the country trying to throw George Bush out of office, and we've become the Running Rebels of this campaign.

	I want to thank Jim Morrow and the young Democrats here who have worked so hard for us. I want to say how honored I am to be here in this state where you have Senator Harry Reid, whom I hope you'll reelect; and Senator Dick Bryan; Congressman Jim Bilbray; and my good friend Governor Miller; your mayor in Las Vegas, Mayor Jan Jones; your attorney general, Frankie Sue Del Papa. These people represent the Democratic party that I want to take to Washington, a new Democratic party for a new America.

	I want to thank Pete Ferazza for being here today, and ask those of you who come from his district to support him. We need to go forward together.

	Let me tell you folks, I've been going around the West the last couple of days, going to Pueblo, Colorado, and Billings, Montana, to Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Eugene, Oregon, to Seattle and to the Irvine Center in Orange County, California last night, the heart of the Republican party, we had 24,000 people in an arena and 10,000 more outside.

	I want to thank you because we are saying the Democrats now want to win the West because the Democrats would be better for the West in the next four years. We don't need four more years of Bush and Quayle. We need four years of a new direction.

	I also want to thank Thomas "Hitman" Hearns for speaking today. I hear he gave the best speech of the day. I may need his punch in the next eleven days.

	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear choice to make. We offer a new direction for this country. I got into this race because I was tired of seeing my people work harder for less, because I did not want my own daughter and the young people of this country to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents, because I believe that the end of the Cold War offers us an opportunity that is unparalleled in the history of America, but also presents us with challenges which today we are not meeting, and you know we're not. The issue in this election is whether we have the courage to go from fear to hope, from the status quo to change, from proven failed ideas to new ideas.

	We offer a new direction: A belief that the economy is fueled by private-sector growth, but that the government has to be on the side of the American people, working to promote that growth. A belief that we live in a world in which what we earn depends on what we can learn, and we need a genuine education president to provide opportunities to all Americans. A belief that America must go beyond where we are in health care and become the last advanced nation to finally, finally control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans. I'm tired of being told we cannot do that.

	A belief that we can protect the environment and promote the economy at the same time if we do it in the right way. We'll create jobs by preserving the heritage God has given us here on this earth.

	The symbol of what I seek for the new economy might be found here at UNLV in the supercomputing center on energy and the environment. That's the kind of thing you'll have more of in America if you vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore, jobs for the future.

	We believe there are some things that government cannot do except to promote more individual responsibility. We should say to people who are running our biggest companies, we want you to make more money, but we want you to make it the old-fashioned way. If you want to lower your taxes, invest in a new plant, in a new business, in a new technology, in housing. Put the American people back to work and make money. That's the way we used to do it.

	We believe the people of America have to be told the truth, which is that no one can guarantee anybody an opportunity that that person is not willing to seize, that everybody, everybody, will have to be willing to constantly be reeducated and retrained and become more productive so that we can compete and win in the global economy. And that includes all of you. Your lives will be more exciting, but they will have more change than any generation of Americans the world has ever known.

	We believe people who are on public assistance, on welfare, should have investments made in them for education and support for their children. But then they should be required to work when they can. The government must make welfare a second chance, not a way of life.

	And we believe that we are one nation. We are tired of the division of America by race, by region, by income, by gender. I am sick and tired of people being divided. We don't have a person to waste in this country and it's about time we started acting like it.

	I say to you, my fellow Americans, since we're here on this college campus, there is one proposal I have made which more than any other symbolizes what this new direction is all about, and that is our program to open the doors of college education to all Americans.

	We propose to replace the wasteful student loan program with a national trust fund, out of which any American can borrow the money to go to college and then pay it back either as a small percentage of their income after they go to work, or even better, by giving a couple of years of service to our country before or after college as teachers, as police officers, in rural health clinics, working with people with disabilities, working with the elderly, working in housing programs, working with kids in trouble. You think about it. Without a government bureaucracy we could solve the people problems of America from the grassroots up and educate a whole new generation of Americans. It would be the best investment this country ever made!

	My fellow Americans, I do not seek a victory of political party. I want a victory for the people of America. I know that most people out West can't imagine voting for a Democrat for president. When I was a kid in Arkansas, most people in my state couldn't imagine voting for a Republican. And one of the first political stories I ever heard was about a ninety-year-old woman who was on her deathbed and had never missed an election, never voted anything but Democratic. And she sent for the county clerk and changed her registration to Republican. And her son was in tears, and he said, "Mama, you taught me to always vote for Democrats and you've never missed an election. Here you are at the end of your life becoming a Republican. I just don't understand it." She said, "Son, I'm about to go, and I'd rather them lose one than us."

	Now, I know a lot of you feel that way, but let me tell you, in times of change Americans have to go beyond the bounds of party. Look at what has happened to this campaign just in the last few days. Twenty-four retired admirals and generals, including the deputy commander of Desert Storm and a chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed the Clinton/Gore ticket because they want a change in this country.

	Over 400 business leaders from all over America, including over 100 Republicans, including twenty-one high tech executives from California, whose companies have created more jobs in the private sector than have been created in the entire country under Bush and Quayle, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want a change. They don't care about party, they want America built up.

	The Portland Oregonian, for the first time in its 142-year history, endorsed a Democrat for president a few days ago.

	When the three economic plans were analyzed by unbiased economists, in one of our major news magazines they said Clinton's plan will promote more jobs and higher incomes. That's why our plan, which reduces the deficit by 50 percent in the next four years and increases investment, has been endorsed by ten Nobel Prize-winning economists, over 550 other economists, and why others know that if you vote for the other alternatives you're going to have more unemployment and more deficit and more trouble. You have got to grow your way out of this crisis.

	But let me tell you folks, the famous people who have endorsed this campaign are not the ones who touch me most. The ones I've been most moved by are people like the mother I met in Pueblo, Colorado the day before yesterday who said she had seven children between the ages of eight and fifteen and it was all she could to feed them, and she was going to vote for a change.

	I met a woman this morning outside the hotel who said her mother lived in my state, was very elderly and had not voted in nineteen years, but she registered again to vote because she believed that her governor could help to change America.

	I met an eighty-three-year-old woman in Orlando, Florida, who had never voted in her entire life--eighty-three years old. She said, "I have registered to vote because I know we've got to change this country and I'm going to give you a chance."

	In Orlando, Florida--I mean in Ocala, Florida in a rodeo arena--you folks out West know about those. In a rodeo arena, a couple came up to me and gave me a button with their son's picture on it. And they said, "I want you to have this because our son here in Ocala, Florida, died of AIDS. And we want a president who will talk about that problem and face it every day, not just at election time, and who will deal with it. We are tired of ignoring it."

	I met a woman in her late fifties, along the side of road in a little community in Wisconsin, who threw her arms around me with tears in her eyes and told me her husband had worked for twenty-seven years every day for a company and has just been fired and thrown onto the street as if his contributions amounted to nothing, and all he could get was a minimum-wage job, and for the first time in their history as a family he couldn't really support them. I am tired of those stories.

	But I also see in America's winners the sense that we must do more. When those high-tech company executives in California came to our campaign, many of them had never before voted for a Democrat ever, but they said, "We understand. We don't need more government, but we need better government. We need somebody who's our partner. We need somebody who's on our side. We need somebody who's trying to lift us up and move us forward." That's what this election ought to be about.

	I just want you to think about this. Look what's happened in the Bush campaign in the last few days. These are the people that ask you to trust them with four more years. This is the crowd that said, "Read my lips: I'll give you 15 million new jobs, you'll be better off in four years than you were when I took office." How you doing, folks?

	And now look what they've done. This person who says, "Trust me, I am a great leader," has a Justice Department who's investigating the FBI, while the FBI is investigating the Justice Department. No time for crooks; they got to look into each other. And then they got the CIA and the Justice Department fighting between themselves about which one of them lied to a federal judge in Atlanta over the Iraq scandal. They know somebody lied; they're just arguing about whose fault it is. Now they've got the State Department with its political appointees looking into my travel files and my passport files over twenty years ago, which is all right with me. But yesterday, it kind of turns out they're looking into my mother's files.

	You know, my mother was out here a few weeks ago on a trip. She likes to come out here, and she also loves to go to the horse races. I told them that if they were looking for her subversive history, she was giving the communist leaders tips on the races on Oaklawn Park in Arkansas twenty years ago.

	You know, this would be funny if it weren't so pathetic. Today there's a story in the Washington Post that says Bush's high-level political appointees were rifling through the files in the night, looking into my mother's files, and they were terribly disappointed they couldn't find anything. Let me tell you something, folks. Let them worry about what happened twenty-three years ago. I'm worried about the twenty-three-year-olds of today and what's going to happen to their future. If this crowd in Washington had spent half as much time investigating the lives of the American people as they have their political opponents, this would be a better country today, and that's what I'll do if you give me a chance to be president.

	I want you to think about this: I need your help in the next eleven days. I want you to go out across this state and say, "Give Bill Clinton and Al Gore a chance. Give them a chance to make a new America, working with us." We didn't get into this mess overnight, and we're not going to get out of it overnight, but we can do better.

	I have worked hard for a dozen years. My state ranks first in the country in job growth this year, has the second-lowest tax burden and the lowest per capita state and local government spending. You can't tag me with that old "tax and spend" label. But I'll tell you this: I know one thing. We do need a government that's on our side. That's what the Germans want. That's what the Japanese want. That's what the other countries that are educating people and growing their economies want.

	And I am tired of seeing the American people work harder for less. I am tired of seeing people not be able to get bank loans to start good businesses. I am tired of seeing people drop out of college because they can't afford to stay in.

	I am tired of seeing 100,000 Americans a month lose their health insurance. And I believe we can do better. We can do better. We can do better.

	For all of you young people in this crowd, I was raised to believe that this country was always young, always in the process of becoming, always in the process of growing and deepening and broadening its involvement in other people's lives so that all of us could be lifted up. And I am tired of being told "we cannot". This is a "we-can" country. This is a "we-can" country. And together, we can make America what it ought to be.

	Thank you, and God bless you all.
EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--GENERALENDORSEMENTS--PRIVATE ENTERPRISEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVES     B: : : : 9
 9 9 9 9 9 9 9	  	 | 	 g 	 G 	 