

	Thank you, thank you very much, Congressman Pepper and my good friend Mayor Tanyler, Governor Bryant and Governor Burns, distinguished fellow citizens.  You know, I have never had so many people behind me as I have here today.  I want to thank them very, very much.

	And look at this wonderful, wonderful audience on all sides, with the most beautiful array of signs that I have ever seen.  I want to thank you.  

	Each one of them reminds me of what I might talk about today. But, my dear friends of Jacksonville, Florida, how proud I am to be here, to be in this great city.  I noticed your Florida Times--Union of Jacksonville for Wednesday, October 2nd.  "Great new city is born here" and it is perfectly obvious today that it has many wonderful children and many wonderful people that I see here today.  

	So, Mr. Mayor, I am proud to be the first candidate for the presidency in the United States in the history of this country to visit the largest city in the free world and to stand here on this platform with Hans Tanyler, the largest mayor of the largest city in the free world. 

	Stand up, Mr. Mayor.  Look at that.  A man that looks that good, is that big and strong, just has to be a Democrat.  No doubt about it.

	Now, this is my kind of a meeting.  I like to come to these good street meetings where we can talk to each other and I like to come to the bold--and it is--bold and the great new city of the South.  And that is what this America of ours is all about--a bold, new great America that we see right here in Jacksonville, Florida.

	Now, you are going to have a visit very shortly from a little group of men that come around, and they have got an airplane.  They call themselves "The GOP Trust Squad."

	Well, everybody has a right to play on words these days. For awhile, when I saw that they had a special plane and it said "GOP," I said to myself, you know that fellow, that Republican nominee, at long last he is going to accept my invitation to debate.  They are bringing him in here, special cargo on a special plane."  And then I saw that it said "truth squad," so I knew that Nixon wasn't aboard.  I just know it. 

	By golly, that Nixon sign went up and down four times back there.

	Well, friends, I want you to know that their plane broke down this morning up in Knoxville.  First of all, they had engine trouble.  That is normal for a Republican administration.  They run for awhile and then they conk out, you know.

	Then the next thing that happened, they got the thing airborne and they couldn't get the landing gear up.  Just the way it is--for example, the minute you trust them with something, either one of the engines goes out and you get a recession or when you get going, you can't get down.  They just don't know how to do it.

	So here's what I am doing.  I am offering the Republican truth squad to join our happy family aboard my airplane, where all three engines work all the time.   Besides that, they will get a little truth. That won't hurt, either.  Now--well, I am about to--but it is too good for them.

	Now, friends, at a time when complainers and doubters dominate the headlines, right here in Jacksonville a group of citizens sat down and did some hard thinking about tomorrow.  And very quietly you put into effect what this newspaper said--a bold and progressive plan to make a better community and a better city for the hundreds of thousands of people that are here.  And hardly a ripple in the sea of public clamor.  And yet, with one stroke, you have put an end to a whole era of old-fashioned local government and you have replaced  it with modern local government such as you have here, which is the way that America must go ahead. 

	But I knew it would happen, I knew that it would happen because it had the guidance of a fine Democratic administration here in Jacksonville.  Things happen that way and I am proud that the Democratic party, with men in Congress like Claude Pepper, Charlie Bennett, Senator Smathers, Senator Holland, and others have been in the thick of the action in climbing for the tomorrows of our state and our country as a whole.

	And your congressman tells me that the first fellow to propose a canal across Florida was a Spanish conquistador back in 1564.  I haven't his name, but I have it on good authority that a man with that kind of vision had to be a Democrat.  There is no doubt about that.  But even if we can't take credit for the idea, you know who got the across-Florida barge canal started.  You know who got it started and you know who is going to finish it--John Kennedy.  John Kennedy--John Kennedy came to Florida in 1960 and he promised to get this vital program underway, vital to the defense of our country, vital to the northern, to the economy of Northern Florida.  And he said he'd get it through the Congress.

	Well, now, he delivered on that promise and I am proud to say that I had a little hand myself in passing that bill through the U.S. Senate.  Then Lyndon Johnson came to Jacksonville in 1964 and he promised to get construction of that canal underway.  And he delivered on that promise.

	Well, here I am, another Democrat in Jacksonville, in 1968, and we are going to get the wheels unstuck in Congress and we are going to finish that canal. 

	Now, the Army Engineers say, they say that it can be done by 1974; they say it can be done. Well, let me tell you something, I think it can be done before then and I say that it will be done--not can be done, it will be done. And it will be done not one day later than 1974, and if you put me in the White House, we will get a little action and get it done sooner. 

	And now let me tell you something else:  I see my friends from the National Maritime Union around here.  I want you to know I am going to have a special speech for you one of these days on American's Merchant Marine. But I want my friends to know that when I am your president, the United States of American will have a Merchant Marine of which you can be proud--ships--American ships, American flags, ships built in American shipyards by American workers.  That is what you are going to have. 

	Now, a word about Cape Kennedy.  I have been Chairman of the Space Council.  My friend, Governor Burns, is here and we worked together.  I have worked with your congressional delegation.  We have built some new bridges, we have done a lot of things.  But I want this great Florida audience to know that when Hubert Humphrey is president of the United States, Cape Kennedy is going to be a flourishing installation for the Space Program.  We are going to keep it operating.

	Let me take off this coat.  It is a little hot up here.  Not only that, I intend to level on these Republicans and others.

	Now, here's the question, my good friends.  Which party, which candidate for president can more surely guide this nation on the pathway to peace?  This candidate, the Democratic candidate..

	I happen to believe that we can achieve, as Claude Pepper said from the podium, an honorable peace in Vietnam.  And this will be the first priority of the Humphrey-Muskie administration.

	Now, I have spoken out on this issue and I believe that this peace can be achieved.  And I think it is now time for Mr. Nixon to tell the American people what he has in mind.  I think he owes it to us.

	Now the second great decision of this election relates to everyone of us in this audience.  It relates to the kind of an America, the kind of a society that we are going to have here for ourselves, for our children, for children yet unborn.  I come to a great part of American to talk to you about your country.  "This is my country" says that beautiful song.  This is our America and quite frankly, I get a little weary of some of the people that complain about it.  This is without a doubt, as Lincoln put it, the last best hope of earth, and I intend to help keep it that way, with your help. 

	And I have come here to the South, I have come here to the South to talk about this issue, and I know that I am talking about an issue that many people tell me this is the wrong place.

	I was told by all of my advisors, don't come down here and talk about equal opportunity; don't come down here, they say.  They say it is Nixon country or it is Wallace country.  I say it is American country--American country. 

Yes, I say it is an American country and I intend to talk to you as a fellow American, and I intend to talk to you about the kind of an America that we need.

	Now, there are forces abroad in this land, dangerous forces, that are striving to divide us and striving to embitter our people.  There are radical extremists of the Right, of the Left, of the white, of the black, demagogues who preach fear, violence, hate, and division.  And I call upon the American people, no matter who you are or where you live, to reject these extremists, to let them know you want no part of them.  Turn them away, my friends. 

	Now, let me make it clear from this platform--I think that any candidate for any office and particularly for the highest office of this land, whether it is George Wallace or Richard Nixon or Hubert Humphrey, is entitled to be heard, and free speech for every man.

	It is fact, my friends, not only do I think they are entitled to be heard, but I have been trying to get them to stand on the same platform with me day after day.  I think you ought to have these three candidates at every meeting.  I think we ought to go across this land telling our story to the American people, individual by individual.  I don't want the presidency to go to the man with the biggest advertising budget.  I think it ought to go to the American people on the basis of facts.

	But I can't get Mr. Nixon to come out of the shadows.  He is in so many parades, he has so much confetti coming down that he hasn't apparently come out yet from under that avalanche of ticker tape and confetti.

	Well, I want to let you know something, friends.  I used to do a lot of pheasant hunting up in South Dakota and Michigan, do a little quail and partridge hunting, and I have flushed many a bird out from under many a bush, and let me tell you, I can hit a moving target if I can get him out.  And I will tell you, we have got some birds. And I am going to get 'em.

	Now, my friends, I say every man has the right to be heard, every group the right to assemble, every man and woman in this country of voting age the right to vote without disturbance.  Yet we have people who say they are not going to let us vote.  We have people who say they are not going to let us meet.  We have people who try to break up meetings, not only mine but others.

	Ladies and gentlemen, disorder is not dissent.  Dissent in a democracy is legitimate. Disorder in a democracy is intolerable.  Dissent, yes; disorder, no.  And we are not going to have any of it in this country. 

	Destruction is not debate.  Indeed, the violence of destruction can only silence the vitality of debate.  So I stand before you to reject this form of extremism.

	Now, there is another kind.  There is another form of radical extremism every bit as dangerous as those of the Left, every bit as dangerous as those who seek to break up a meeting and holler you down, just as corrosive to our liberties.  That is the extremism of those who preach disrespect for our courts, disrespect for our laws, and who play to the basest fears and the deepest suspicions of our people.

	Mark my words, my fellow Americans, that strategy of organized hate and fear if left unanswered and unchecked can lead America to disaster just as surely as the radical tactics of the shouters and the disrupters can destroy our democracy.

	So let me talk to you, then, about the candidates in this election and their programs.  Let me first mention the candidate of the third party, the former governor of Alabama.

	He says that he is running on a platform of law and order.  Well, my friends, let's take a look.  When he was governor of Alabama, he gave the American people quite a demonstration of law and order.  He decided, for example, which courts suited him and he disobeyed the rest.  He decided which judges he liked and he insulted the others.

	He decided which laws he preferred and he tried to violate the others.  Now he proposes teaching a lawless method to the whole country.  Well, let me say to you, my friends, it is a strange thing that a man who stands for states' rights and whose ads say "Send me your money for local government" is the very man who today says that if he is president, that he will see that there is law and order out of Washington, which means what?  A national police force.  We don't need that in this country.  Why would we voluntarily do that?  Law and order belong here.

	Law and order--let me say, my dear friends, law and order rests with the governors and it rests with the mayors.  It rests at the local level.

	Now, Mr. Wallace was governor of the state with the highest murder rate in the nation.  Do you call that law and order?  He could not maintain order in his own state where had the power.  Now he promises to maintain order in every city in every state where he will have no power to do it. My friends, it is counterfeit currency.  Law and order belong to this mayor.  Law and order belong to this governor in the state.  The president of the United States is not your sheriff and he is not a super chief of police.  The president of the United States, however, can help.  And how can he help?  By what he says, by how he conducts himself, by encouraging respect for the law and by going to the Congress to ask that Congress to help every mayor and every governor and every county sheriff in the United States to have the tools to do the job for law and order.

	Now, my friends, I was mayor of a great city.  That is why I love to come to these modern cities of today.  I served as mayor of the city of Minneapolis, a city the size in population of Jacksonville and this new government of yours.  I have had problems of law and order and the record is there.  And let me tell you, if the record wasn't there, they would be tearing me to bits.  But I fought organized crime and licked it and I kept peace in my city.  I brought law and order to Minneapolis and as mayor I compiled a record for law and order which received a national commendation form the FBI.  Mr. Wallace can't claim that, I will tell you. 

	Now, I am ready to do something about law and order.  We are not going to condone violence.  We are not going to condone riots.  Make no mistake about it.  Let me tell you--that is no way to have it.

	All right, cut it out over there.

	My friends, the way to do something about it is to back your police with money, with training, with equipment and with support and not just with bumper stickers.  And that is what we are going to do in this country.  

	So I say to you, I say to you the job can be done and I intend to do it.

	Now, let me say something else about this candidate.  For someone who calls himself a friend of the little man--by the way, the action is up here.  Don't pay attention to that.  That happens in every town around the country.  That is nothing new.  Pay no attention, there are always a few.  But thank God for the overwhelming majority of American people.  

	Now, let's talk about our families for awhile.  Let's talk about where we stand in this campaign.  Let's talk about this man who says he is the friend of the working man, the friend of the little man.  Let's see what he did as governor. 

	Alabama housewives paid the highest sales tax in the country--six cents on the dollar.  Wages for the working man, Mr. Worker, and I want to talk directly to you, you have an obligation to your wife and your children, to yourselves.  Wages for the working man in Alabama were the third lowest in the nation.  In education, there are only two states that spend less per pupil.  You have an obligation, Mr. Voter, to think about that child and that family.

	And in that state of the governor, it had the lowest workmen's compensation system of any state in the union.  Do you call this a friend of the little man?  I say to you, my friends, it is nothing more or less than sheer outright reaction.  And we can't afford that in this country.  

	But there is even a more serious problem and that is when we deliberately try to inflame the fears and the frustrations and the prejudices of our people.  And these are tactics found in this campaign.  They are found not only by one but by two.  They are found in the campaign of my Republican opponent, the man who deliberately courted the most extremist elements in his own party and who continues that appeal in his speeches and who will be fully in their debt it he gets into the presidency.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, you don't get law and order by attacks on your police, your courts, your law enforcement officials or setting up group against group and race against race.  These tactics stockpile the ingredients for a civil explosion and we can't afford that in our country.  

	Now, let me talk a little bit about the Republican candidate and the Republican record.  Is the Truth Squad around?  I imagine they have arrived by now.  I hope so, because I want them to tell you the truth.  And when they tell you the truth, here is what they are going to tell your:

	In the last eight years of Republican administration, three recessions that took the jobs of millions of workers.  Let them tell you the truth, that Mr. Nixon said that until you got over 4.5 million unemployed, it wasn't dangerous.  

	Let them tell you the truth, that they did nothing for these cities like Jacksonville.  Let them tell you the truth, that they fought Medicare, they cut benefits on Social Security.  Let them tell you the truth, that there wouldn't be aid to higher education for your great universities and colleges in this state had it been for Republican votes.  

	Let them tell you the truth, that they fought against, they fought against federal aid to elementary education, secondary education, and higher education.  Let them tell you the truth, there wasn't one single job training program in America under a Republican administration--not one. 

	And Mr. Mayor, I have here a report on some of the things in your city.  Your neighborhood health centers, your community action programs, your housing for the elderly, your programs in Project Head Start, your manpower training programs--four pages of programs in this city and not one of them, not one of them was ever sponsored by a Republican administration. And you didn't get a dime from them.

	Now, let's look at the truth on the other side.  Oh, I wish that Truth Squad would turn up.  I tell you, they have got a lot to talk about.  Let me tell you, my friends.  Let them tell the truth about us: Aid to Education up 300 percent; 10 million people brought out of poverty in the last five years; a minimum wage law of $1.60.  Cities that are getting help for the first time in many years; consumers that are getting protection, health care, Medicare, and income--income, my friends.  Under those eight years of Republicanism, family income went up 9 percent after taxes. After the cost of living rise.  Under eight years of Democratic administration, income for the same family has gone up 32 percent.  In other words, it has gone up enough for you to send your son and daughter to college and still be as well off as you were under a Republican administration.  

	I am proud of this record.  I am proud of the fact that this party of ours, this Democratic party has given this nation the things that have made it great, has given this nation security for the elderly, has given this nation health for the young, yes, the barge canal that you want right here, under this present administration, has given this country housing, has given this country profits, has made this economic system of ours operate as never before--90 months with no recession; 90 months of prosperity.

	And Mr. Businessman, listen to me.  In any one Democratic year, you made more money than in all the eight Republican years put together.  And that is a lot, and that is a fact. 

	Now, Mr. Businessman, if you want to say you are Republicans so it sounds good, I don't mind.  It is all right.  Carry a card, even register.  But for goodness sakes, when you go into the voting booth, will you vote your self-interest, will you vote your economics, will you vote for your family, will you vote for your children, will you vote for your country?  Mr. Businessman, you know that in eight Republican years, we lost $175 billion of lost income.  You know that there was a raid on the gold supply of this country, with the highest balance of payments deficit that this nation has ever faced.  It is a fact.  And I think it is time, my fellow Democrats, that we took this crowd on and told the truth about what's going on in this country. 

	Now, just remember this: a defeat for the Democratic ticket, a defeat will be a defeat for your family.  I haven't any doubts about this campaign.  It is an uphill fight.  I know that.  We are short of money.  We have had a late start.  We have had division in our party.  The opposition has been well financed.  

	They say Mr. Nixon is cool, confident, poised.  Well, why shouldn't he be? He hasn't said anything.  

	But let me tell you, before I get through will him, he will have a blow torch on his political tail like he has never had before.  

	I do not intend to let Mr. Richard Milhous Nixon, the Republican nominee that John Kennedy defeated, I do not intend to let the memorial to John Kennedy be the election of Richard Nixon.  Not on your life. 

	And I don't intend to let this country fall backwards. And I don't intend to let America be torn apart. 

	Look at that audience.  Look at these people.  Here we are, fellow Americans, black and white, Catholic, Protestant, and Jew.  Why should we listen to anybody that tells us that we ought not to work together?  We need each other in this country.  We need each other as we have never needed each other before. 

	And let me say from this platform, let me say from this platform I don't offer you an easy journey.  But I offer you the right road.  I tell you, my friends, as Benjamin Franklin put it in the constitutional convention, if we are divided, if we hang together--we will either hang together or we will hang separately.  And this America of ours today is being watched.  This is a dangerous world and we need to be strong and we need to be untied.  We need every American. 

	Look at them--black, white--North, South.  We don't need anybody to pull us against each other.  We don't want anybody in this country that arouses our passions.  We want somebody in this country that arouses our hopes.  

	My friends, I believe in this country.  Just a minute. 

	I believe in this country.  This is the greatest place on this planet.  I don't intend to let anybody harm it.  I have spoken out today against these extremes of the Right and the Left, of the black or the white.  We don't need people that want to burn this nation or we don't need people that hate their neighbor.  What we need is people that want to build this nation, or people that like and enjoy their neighbors. 

	So my fellow Americans, let's face it.  Do you want a divided country or do you want a united one?  I think I know.  I think I know there is more goodness in American people than evil.  I know there is more greatness in American people than pettiness.  Some people appeal to the evil, some people appeal to the passions, some people appeal on the basis of hate and some people appeal on the basis of violence.  Ladies and gentlemen, I can't carry on that kind of campaign. 

	I am asking you to be greater than you have ever dreamed you could be.  I am asking you to make this American dream come true.  I am asking you here in Jacksonville, deep in the South, I am asking you to help me and to help yourself make this one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.  

	Let's do it. 



ALABAMABUSINESS--GENERALCIVIL DISORDERCIVIL RIGHTSCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSSHIPPING/SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRYSPACE EXPLORATIONTHIRD PARTY CANDIDACYVIETNAM WAR     _ _ _ _ _
 _ _ _ ~_ w_ u_ u_ j_	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	 d 	 O 	 1 	   	  e: