

	Tonight, I bring you some good news. I didn't hear it from the pollsters or the columnists. I read it this past week on the faces of countless people like you across this country. 

	The good news is that we are going to win this election. The good news is that in 1972 we will take the government out of the hands of the special interests and restore it to the people. 

	We will win because our side has the boundless heart of Hubert Humphrey. 

	We will win in Minneapolis because of the drive and determination of your remarkable young governor, Wendell Anderson. 

	We will win here because we are standing with that brilliant and decent man, Fritz Mondale, and with congressmen and other candidates in the best tradition of the Democratic party. 

	Most of all, we will win because we love America enough to call her to a higher standard. 

	We don't have John Connally with us. We don't have the oil baron and the big money. The Republicans have them--and they are welcome to them. If that crowd ever came out for me, I'd know I was on the wrong track. 

	I want the rubber workers and the steelworkers, the small businessmen, the senior citizens, the young people, and all those who live by honest toil instead of living off tax loopholes. 

	It was the people--not Wall Street--who elected Franklin Roosevelt in 1932. 

	It was the people--not Wall Street--who elected Harry Truman in 1948. And it will be people--not Wall Street--who elect the Democratic national ticket in 1972. 

	So let us draw strength from the memory of others who have set out before us on the same journey. Let us draw strength from the memory of the man who called us to "make gentle the life of the world"--my dear friend, Robert Kennedy. 

	Let us draw strength from the memory of that great and gallant man who showed us we could trust and love a president of the United States--John F. Kennedy. 

	And let us draw strength from the deep commitment of President Truman and President Johnson to the education of our children and the equality of our citizens. 

	This election is not going to be decided by ITT. This election is not going to be decided by the manipulators and the special interests. This election is not going to be decided by giant corporations like General Motors or by a corrupt dictator like General Thieu. This election is going to be decided by men and women who want their land to turn away from injustice to the blessings of decency and peace. 

	So I say here again tonight: come home, America, from the longest, the cruelest, and the stupidest war in our national history. 

	I make you this solemn pledge: within ninety days of the inauguration, we will bring every American soldier and prisoner home from Indochina. 

	And I make another pledge to you: once this conflict is over, never again will we commit the precious young blood of this land to bail out a corrupt dictatorship ten thousand miles away. 

	Then we can begin the redemption of our own great but deeply troubled land.

	Since 1969, two million workers have been forced out of work. Six million Americans have been forced onto welfare. 

	And this is my answer: we will guarantee a job opportunity for every man and woman in America who is able to work. 

	In the last three and a half years, our people--especially the old living on fixed incomes, and growing young families--have felt the pain of wartime inflation. The Nixon inflation is ground into every pound of hamburger you buy. I say that we must have an evenhanded attack on inflation--one that controls prices and profits and interest rates, and not just the wages you earn. 

	Come home, America, from government for the privileged to government for the people. 

	The American revolution began with the rallying cry: no taxation without representation. 

	Today we renew that struggle, and we say: no taxation without justice. 

	There is something fundamentally wrong with a tax system that permits a corporate executive to deduct his twenty-dollar Martini lunch while a working man cannot deduct the price of his bologna sandwich. 

	And there is something wrong with a property tax system that makes home ownership a pain rather than a joy. 

	I do not believe in the Nixon answer--a national sales tax that will cost the average family $200 a year. 

	Let us build instead a tax system that asks not one penny more from rank-and-file taxpayers, but finally asks the big and the powerful to pay their fair share. 

	Come home, America, from the betrayal of public trust to the integrity of public service. 

	I am tired of government which proclaims one course in public while plotting a different course in secret. 

	We have had a secret plan for peace since 1969--but that plan will forever remain a secret to the 20,000 Americans and the countless Vietnamese killed since 1969. When we read about Mr. Nixon's gigantic bomber raids that are pounding the people of Indochina, let us remember that those people, too, are the children of God. 

	We have seen secret deals with ITT and the special interests and they have rewarded our opposition with a $10 million secret campaign fund. 

	We do not know who contributed that money or how it will be spent. I assume that officers of ITT are on the list. If they aren't they are the most remarkable political ingrates in American history. 

	We do know that $114,000 of that secret Nixon fund went to the men who were arrested invading our national Democratic headquarters in the dark of night with their wiretapping equipment, their burglary tools, and their rubber gloves. 

	Our campaign is a people's campaign. We are not looking for a $10 million secret fund. The next administration is not for sale. 

	Instead, we are looking for a million ordinary Americans who will contribute $25--or whatever they can afford, even if it's 25 cents--not because they want special favors for themselves, but because they want a better land for us all. 

	With your support and your votes, I know we can bring America home. We can elect a president whose heart beats for all our people, not just for the privileged few. 

	What do the Republicans offer? At their recent convention, they took up the cry "Four more years." But think about American sons and Asian children dying in Vietnam. Can we afford four more years of that? 

	Think about hungry children, and young GIs hooked on heroin, and mothers who can't pay the grocery bill. Can we afford four more years of that? 

	Think of the wiretappers, the warmongers, and the purveyors of racial fear. Can we afford four more years of that? 

	Think of lonely old people living in poverty, of strong young people forced into idleness, of a welfare system that is unfair both to those it seeks to serve and to those who pay its cost. Can we afford four more years of that? 

	The real question is what kind of country we want. 

	Three thousand years ago, the ancient prophet said it this way: "I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Now choose life, so that you and your seed may live." 

	We occupy only a small part of a small planet almost lost amid a great stream of stars, but we have added something unique and special to the meaning of existence. 

	In this tiny corner of the universe, we have stood against eternal night and affirmed that life can be free--and life can have purpose. Now let us strengthen our way of life, so that we may preserve it. 

	Let us bless our country, so that all our countrymen may secure the full blessings of liberty. Let us glow with love for the best in America, so that we may bring a new spirit to the life of the world. 

	The journey will be long and difficult--but I believe that we can go home again. 

	In two centuries as a nation, we have fought the wars we had to fight. 

	We have tried to feed the hungry, to shelter the home...[missing text]...hard and troubled years. But tonight, I say to you and to people everywhere who love this land: "Resume your stations. We're going to bring America home." 
CAMPAIGN FINANCEINFLATIONSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSTAX REFORMVIETNAM WARWATERGATE     #     
        	 N 	 > 	 5 	  	  	 	 e: