

	Thank you very much, Congressman Curtis. I first want to say that I am very honored to appear again in this auditorium. I last appeared here in 1960 and on that occasion I got a very friendly welcome. The audience was a bit older, but on this occasion I must say that I am delighted that the balcony is full, that the downstairs is full and there are 3,000 people outside, and that means something to me. We are going to win.

	Now, if I can get just a few preliminary remarks out of the way before we go to your questions which you have come here for, may I say first, as a candidate for the highest office in this land it is always a great privilege to appear with a team of candidates that you are proud to be on the same platform with. That isn't always the case. Some of you are going to be running for Congress or senator or maybe president, who knows and you are going to have to appear sometimes with people that you rather wonder how they got nominated.

	But I can tell you here in the state of Missouri we are really proud of this great team, and from top to bottom I am for them all the way. I want to say to Larry Roos, the candidate for governor, a man with great experience in that critical area of city and county government, a man who understands government, who has that progressive and independent attitude that I think is typical of the people of Missouri. I look forward to working with him when he is governor and when I hope to be in the White House, and we will work with him.

	And as far as Tom Curtis is concerned, I only wish that these two great senators here on this platform could tell you about him and what he is thought about in Washington, D.C. And they are two great senators, John Sherman Cooper and Thruston Morton of Kentucky, two men who have made magnificent records in the United States Senate and two men I am sure who would say that Tom Curtis has the kind of qualifications that we need in that body. He has brains, he has guts, he has character, he is an honest man, he will be a great senator. And that's why I am glad to be here with him.

	And, of course, having started my political career in the House of Representatives, I am delighted to see two such outstanding candidates as Hugh Scott and Curtis Crawford. Let's give them a hand too.

	Now, as all of you know, this is a very unusual format for a meeting, unusual in the sense that in this audience on the floor and behind me--and never have I had, incidentally, so many young people behind me. I was going to say that in this format we have people who are not old enough to vote. If you lived in Kentucky, incidentally, some of you could vote because they do have the eighteen-year-old vote there.

	And, incidentally, in case we are going to get this question, I want you to know, I am for the eighteen-year-old vote, and not just because I carried Kentucky in 1960. But, first, I wondered when we scheduled this meeting whether anybody would be interested in politics in St. Louis at this time. After all, everybody is thinking about the Cardinals and what's going to happen. And my advance man who advanced this meeting for me gave me a little advice. He said, "If you want to win in Missouri or in St. Louis, all you have to do is say you are for the Cardinals in the World Series." The trouble is I am going to speak at Detroit on Monday. So what do you say then?

	That shows you the problems of a political man who runs all over the country, and I can assure you that I will say that as we look at that great game, it will probably be, I would predict, a seven-game series. I am not going to say which team will win. But it will be a great series, and I know which side you are going to be on.

	As far as I am concerned, I just hope I am on the winning side, whichever it is. And I do want you to know that as I appear here in St. Louis, I am keenly aware of the fact that not only your interest in that great field of sports, your football teams, your baseball teams, but speaking particularly to the young people here. I want to talk to you today, and our questions will be directed today to a different kind of game. It's a game we can all play in. In high school and college I well remember that I went out for every sport. I went out for football, baseball, basketball, and track. I never made a letter, never got off the bench. And yet I never had any regrets about trying, you know, trying to make it. And I learned a lot sitting on the bench with the coach, you can be amazed how much you can learn just talking to the coach when you are on the bench.

	But, my friends, there is another kind of a game that all of you can play in, and that's what this game is about in this year 1968. And that is the great game of politics. And I'd like to say just a word about that and what I've seen across this country.

	You hear a lot about what's wrong with young America these days. Some of them demonstrate and some of them perhaps get in trouble. But I can tell you this about young America. It's the best-educated group of young Americans that I have seen in my lifetime. It's the group of young Americans that knows more about the world and more about politics and is more interested in political matters than my generation was thirty years ago.

	I have faith in young Americans, I have been delighted to see so many of them coming out, even though they couldn't vote. Some of them are for me, some of them are against me, but the most important thing is that they care. They are involved.

	And as I look down to the end of this century, I know that this country is going to be in good hands as long as young Americans do care. I congratulate you. I am glad you are here, and now we will go to your questions and I will try to answer them. Thank you.

	I understand we have a microphone on the left, one in the center, one on the right and one upstairs. So anybody who has a question may step up to the microphone and go right ahead. I will take the one downstairs and then I will come right up to you, sir.

	Q: I would like to know, if elected, what specific actions, if any, will be taken to cut down on the flow of gold out of this country?

	NIXON: Well, first, Tom, I want to say that action not only will be taken, but it must be taken to cut down the flow of gold out of this country, because, as you know, and as your question implies, this country in the last eight years has lost 40 percent of its gold. If we do not stop the flow of gold outside of the United States, the American dollar which we used to say was as good as gold around the world is not going to be trusted around the world, and that means our influence, our prestige, will go lower, even than it is today.

	Now, what do you do to stop that flow of gold? Let me tell you what you do not do. You don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg. For example, this administration says, "Well, the way to stop the flow of gold is to stop tourists from spending money abroad." I don't agree with that.

	The reason that we are in trouble as far as our dollar is concerned is not what American tourists are spending abroad, but what this administration is spending in Washington, D.C. That's what you have got to do. So what I refer to here is not a meat axe cut in which we cut out expenditures that are necessary for America's defense, expenditures that are necessary to take care of those that are aged and those in need, but I do say that we have got to recognize that unless we save our dollar, we are not going to have anything left to save the world with, save peace with, save the cities with.

	And so what we need are sound men in the Senate, sound men in the House, who will vote for that kind of fiscal policy in which we will have a better balanced federal budget. Only by balancing that federal budget are we going thereby to make American commodities more competitive in the world and can we cut down on the flow of gold abroad.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, as President would you maintain the draft as the system by which our military would obtain the manpower they need, and, if not, could you describe the type of system you might use to replace it?

	NIXON: As president of the United States I would not change the draft system--I would change the--obviously the administration of the system as the power of the office gave me the right to do so where I thought inequities were involved, but as far as the draft system is concerned, I do not think it can be changed before we either bring the war in Vietnam to an end on an honorable basis or before we are in a position where we can see the end of the road.

	Now, once that war is concluded, however, I then believe that we should move from a compulsory military training system, what you call the draft, to what I call a volunteer armed force. Now, the reason I am for that is this. I am for that because I think the character of America's military requirements in the years ahead have changed drastically. I do not believe this nation will ever again have what we call a big conventional war--wars requiring great masses of men.

	The fact that we fought the war in Korea, perhaps, is one of the reasons that that kind of conventional war will not occur again. If war comes again, and we, of course, will want policies if we can that will avoid it, it will either be a nuclear war and then you do not need great masses of men, or it will be a guerrilla-type war like Vietnam in which what you need is a highly trained professional military force and a highly trained civilian force. And that is not the kind of a force we have in Vietnam today.

	So I say let's go to a volunteer armed force and the way that we would get the people for that armed force is to pay the men in the armed forces a compensation that is competitive with private industry. I think we can get good people in the armed forces that way. It will take the draft, the fear of the draft, the prospect--it will take it away from those who are trying to plan for their futures. I think it's a better system militarily and a better system for the individuals in this audience.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, do you think that the United Nations is a sort of modern Trojan Horse--a weapon that can be used against the interests of the United States and against the interests of peace?

	NIXON: Would you repeat the first part of the question? The public address system isn't quite clear up here.

	Q: Do you think that the United Nations is a sort of modern Trojan Horse--a sort of weapon that can be used against the interests of the United States?

	NIXON: Let me repeat the question for those in the balcony. The question is, do I think that the United Nations has become what we would call sort of a modern Trojan Horse within the United States and, therefore, an instrument that could be used against the interests of the United States?

	And my answer is that that could happen unless we have, as we should have, the kind of leadership that recognizes that the interests of the United States must always come first as we consider our foreign policy problems.

	Now, let me be quite specific. Where a conflict is involved, involving smaller nations, we'll say like the Pakistan-India crisis, then I think the United Nations is the ideal forum to settle that kind of a conflict. And we should turn to the United Nations in every possible case and use it to settle these little conflicts which otherwise might spread into big ones.

	On the other hand, where there is involved, as we have in Vietnam, the direct interests of the United States of America as a contrary to the interests of the Soviet Union and Communist China, the major powers, then the United States in my opinion cannot submit its security and its future to the vote of 100 nations in the United States.

	We must make that determination and determine what is best for the United States and best for peace. And I think if we proceed on that kind of a basis that we can have a kind of a policy that will use the United Nations which, as you know, every nation, no matter how small or how large, has the same vote--use the U.N. to handle those conflicts where the U.N. can, with appropriateness, decide between small nations.	But where the major nations are involved, I think the United States must move for its own security. Because certainly the Soviet Union will do that and Communist China will do that as well in the event that it eventually comes into the United Nations.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, what is your concept of the role that each of the three levels of American government should play in this twentieth century?

	Mr. Nixon: As far as my concept of constitutional government is concerned, it is basically that I would say constitutional in its approach. I think in recent years there has been too much of a tendency for each of the various agencies of government to encroach upon the prerogatives of the others.

	Now, I believe in a strong presidency, but on the other hand I also believe in a very strong and independent Congress, and I believe in a strong judiciary. I do not, however, agree with those who believe that, for example, the judiciary, whether it is the Supreme Court of the United States or other courts, has the right to make the laws and not just to interpret the laws. I think the judiciary must interpret the laws, but I think that when the judiciary moves further than that and attempts basically to write laws, write social legislation, then it's moved over where the Congress has the right to act, and I do not believe our Supreme Court or any other court should move over that way.

	By the same token, I think where the Congress is concerned, it must respect the judiciary, it must respect the presidency. And finally, with regard to the presidency, I want to make it clear that I do not expect the Congress and do not want a Congress that will simply be a rubber stamp for what I hand down and what the executive agencies hand down from the Cabinet offices.

	I think we need strong, independent senators and congressmen, and that way we can get that balance which will produce not just the common denominator of consensus, but the top leadership that comes from controversy and discussion and dissent and the balance of powers that our Founding Fathers thought of when they set up our system.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, in your acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention, you made mention of a new Richard Nixon. I ask you on behalf of all the young people here, can we look to you for the ideas and the understanding and the leadership as set forth in the new politics?

	NIXON: Well, that question raises a question that perhaps some of you are too polite to raise, and that is, well, is there a new Nixon? Is this just the facade that is put over a man who is really a man of the old politics? Does he really communicate with the young people? Does he care? And all that I can say is this, you've got to look at the man, you've got to answer that question yourself. And I do say this. It's once been said by Bruce Barton that once you quit changing, then you have really quit living.

	As far as I am concerned, I came to the Congress twenty-one years ago with Thruston Morton, and as we look back at the world then, it was a very different world from what it is now. Half the people living in the world now weren't born twenty-one years ago, half the nations in the United Nations today weren't in existence twenty-one years ago. The United States has changed. The Soviet world has changed. And consequently our policies need to change to meet those new conditions.

	I have traveled all over the world in those twenty-one years. I think that I've kept up with the changes in the world. I've tried to communicate with the young people of the world, not just in the United States, but in Malaysia, in the Soviet Union. I've talked to some of them there; behind the Iron Curtain, in Western Europe and in Latin America. And I believe that through this constant education that I have been receiving, of communicating like this with young people, that I know what the new world, the new generation wants. And if I didn't think that what I stood for represented the hopes and the aspirations, not just of my generation but of your generation, I wouldn't be a candidate for president.

	And if I can't serve that way, I won't be elected. And I think I'm going to win.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, you have come out on a stand for guaranteed income and Medicare. How do you plan to meet this added expense, if you don't plan to--if you don't intend to raise the taxes?

	NIXON: The question is with regard to a guaranteed income and Medicare, how can we have those programs if we do not raise taxes. Is the question directed to me or to Hubert Humphrey?

	I didn't mean to be facetious, but actually there is a difference of opinion between the two candidates in this respect.

	I do support Medicaid and I do support Medicare, but I have taken a position against what is called the guaranteed annual income and negative income tax.

	Now, I want to explain why my position is against what seems to be a wonderful idea. I say a wonderful idea because I suppose everybody in this audience, if you thought it over, would say, "Well, wouldn't it be great, that if we had a kind of a system where I didn't really have to work and if I didn't work, the government would see that I was taken care of?" And my answer is it wouldn't be great at all.

	My answer is that what made this country great is not what government did for people but what people did for themselves. My answer is that what government's role should be is to care generously for the aged, generously for the needy, it should take care of the unemployed, see that they are trained, it should make sure that all the people in our society who haven't had an equal chance at the starting line get that equal chance, and that means black Americans, it means white Americans, it means Mexican-Americans, all of us. All of this I stand for.

	But I say that where an individual is able to care for himself, government does no favor to take care of him. I think what government should do is to provide the education, it should provide the chance and then, however, it should recognize that the way to greatness is for individuals to have the opportunity and the incentive that they would not have if the government were taking care of them, the incentive to make his own contribution to America's greatness. That's the kind of a system I believe in.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, if elected, what if anything will you do to amend the Electoral College, or don't you think the ordinary man is intelligent enough to vote sensibly?

	NIXON: I'm sorry, we have a little bit of a reverberation. Could I get that down here again?

	Q: All right. If elected, what if anything do you plan to do, to amend the Electoral College, or don't you think the ordinary man is intelligent enough to vote sensibly?

	Mr. Nixon: A very pertinent question. The question is involved, and I know you can't hear down here because of the sound here, but the question is, if elected president, what will you do to amend the Electoral College or don't you think, if you oppose amending the Electoral College, that the ordinary man is intelligent enough to determine the future of this country.

	Well, now, as one who is trying to get into the Electoral College, I really shouldn't knock it, but this year I hope to graduate, however. I got in once before and this year we hope to make it. Nevertheless, looking at the Electoral College system, I believe that it is obsolete, and I favor a system--and I think Thruston Morton will remember that along with Cabot Lodge and several others, that we were a group twenty years ago--it was bipartisan, George Smathers, a Democrat from Florida joined in it--a system whereby the vote in the Electoral College--if we continue the Electoral College, would be proportioned so that in an election, for example, instead of all the votes in a state in the Electoral College going to a man who won, even though he won by just a little bit, it would mean that they would be divided on a proportionate basis, so that actually the result of the election would represent the popular vote and not simply be the Electoral College vote.

	I believe that is the kind of a system that we ought to have. Now, let me tell you how it would have worked. In 1960, for example, it would not have changed the result. But in 1960, it would have meant that in Illinois, a state that I lost by 8,000 votes, instead of Mr. Kennedy getting all the votes of that state, he would have gotten one more electoral vote in the Electoral College than I would, which would have meant that all the people would have been represented.

	But the reverse side of the coin was that in California, a state that I won by a narrow margin, 35,000 votes, instead of getting all the votes in the Electoral College, which I did, I would have gotten just one more than he got in the Electoral College.

	But I think that what we need to do is have a modification of the Electoral College system so that it represents all of the people in the country. And so that nobody in a state figures that his vote is lost simply because one party has a bigger bulge than another in terms of popular vote.

	Q: I have heard you say over and over again that you want to pursue the war in Vietnam to an honorable peace, but I have never heard you say how. Would you explain your position, please?

	NIXON: The question is with regard to Vietnam. And the questioner raises the point that I have said over and over again as I have that we want an honorable peace in Vietnam, and the question is how can we do that, what do I recommend.

	Let me cover the subject in two different phases. First, prior to the time that the negotiations began in Paris, I indicated perhaps more than any other American political figure my disagreement with the conduct of the war in Vietnam. I think that never has so much military, economic, and diplomatic power been used so ineffectively. I think if our power had been used more effectively on all fronts that a negotiated settlement of that war could have been reached before now.

	I think, for example, that we failed to use our military power effectively by using it gradually rather than using it three or four years ago as we could in a more traumatic way.

	Second, I think we failed to use our diplomatic power adequately. I think we failed to enlist the aid of the Soviet Union, as we might have, two or three years ago--to enlist the aid of the Soviet Union on the side of peace and failed to enlist more adequately the nations in free Asia on the perimeter of South Vietnam in those peace discussions which I think were so essential.

	And also I believe, and this is perhaps the most major error that has been made in the conduct of the war, we failed to recognize the true character of the war. This is not a conventional war. It's not a war for territory. It's a war for people and it is not one which will be decided primarily by military power. It will be decided primarily by how you're able to apply a mix of economic, military and diplomatic power. All of those criticisms I have made in the past, and then came the Paris negotiations.

	Now, I want to tell you why I am not now saying this is what we ought to do if these negotiations fail. You could say that, an editor of one of your two papers, The Globe Democrat or Post Dispatch could say that, and it would do no harm.

	But if a candidate for president who has a chance to be president says now that if these negotiations break down I would do this or that, he makes sure that they break down. Because look at the men in Hanoi. They are listening to what I say now just as well as these people here and the people on that television. And the men in Hanoi if they hear a candidate say that he'd do this or that, they won't negotiate with the men we've got. Let me say, I want to win this election, but I also want to see this war ended, and I don't want to destroy any chance that there might be to end it. We've got one president at a time. Right now I am going to give Lyndon Johnson every chance to end this war. If it isn't ended in November, then give us a chance and we will bring it to an honorable conclusion.

	Q: Our question is this: How would your response differ to the civil disturbances from that of the present administration?

	NIXON: The question relates to civil disturbances, is that correct, and how would I respond differently from the way the present administration has responded to civil disturbances. And so that I am quite precise, are you referring to the whole growth of crime generally or simply to the riots in the various cities that have occurred? Both questions or just the one?

	Q: It's combined, both.

	NIXON: A combined question. The whole problem of the growth of crime with greatest respect for law. Well, basically, let me begin with this proposition, and I think it's terribly important, particularly for this young audience who has so much of America in your hands the future of America, that you understand, and I am sure you do understand, the difference between respect for law and order and the rights of dissent, where one ends, where the other begins.

	Let me point it out. This country has become a great country because we have protected the right of dissent. We must remember that without dissent, without the right for somebody to get up and challenge me in a public questioning like this, as a congressman, senator or a president of the United States, you are not going to have the change. People have a right to peacefully protest anything. But there is where I draw the line. I said peaceful protest.

	Now, I know there are those who say today that if the cause is good enough you have a right to break the law and you have a right to engage in violence. I don't agree. And, of course, some of those who claim that if the cause is great enough you have a right to break the law and engage in violence. They say, well, then, you didn't agree with the American Revolution, and I certainly don't agree with that proposition either.

	We must remember the reason that our Founding Fathers had to engage in revolution was that they had no peaceful method by which they could change the things that were wrong in the colonies in those days, so they had a revolution. But then they had the genius to set up a system of government which provides, better than any other country in the world, the right peacefully to change anything that we don't like. And it's my view, it is my view that in a system of government that provides a method for peaceful change where you can petition the Congress or you can petition your commissioners or where you can carry your case peacefully and change what you don't like, in a system that provides for peaceful change, there is no cause that justifies violence and breaking the law, and I would take a strong, firm stand on that point.

	Now, second, the second point, I think we must make clear that with regard to civil disorder and with regard to crime, that it is necessary to strengthen the peace forces in this country. I believe in better trained police, I think they should be better paid. They must enforce the law, we must have law and order. We must have respect for law, but if laws are to be respected, they must deserve respect, and so you must have that equation. Law and order must be accompanied with justice.

	And then finally I make this point. If you in your generation are going to grow up in a period when the riots and the violence and the crime does not continue to scar, we have to have understood at your level, in the younger generation, the various principles that I have been trying to enunciate here. We have to recognize that there is no conflict between order and progress.

	You can't have progress without order and you cannot have order without progress. And that is really the basic principle that we must get across. And so the final point is this. You could have all the police in the world that you want, and you can have all the laws in the world that you want, but unless people have hope, hope that they can get--have a way to a better life, then you are still going to have explosive situations in our cities.

	And that's why I also stand for programs--not the programs of the past which simply would provide billions of dollars for federal jobs and federal housing and federal welfare and which reap a harvest of more frustration and no hope, because they dash--they raise the hopes too high and dash them--rather than that, I say, let's have a new approach, a new approach where we can give the people who have no hope today a chance not only to be taken care of, if he can't take care of himself, but a chance to get away from welfare rather than to welfare. That's what we have to have. And that's why I have emphasized in my speeches what I call bridges to human dignity. Let's see that every American in this country has the feeling in his heart that he knows that there is nothing that is going to block him if he has what it takes. That's the kind of an administration we are going to have. We are going to provide the hope for people to go up, but we are also going to insist that in a system that provides for peaceful change, we are going to have respect for law and order.

	And one final point I want to hit right on the nose. Some people say that law and order is a code word for racism. I don't agree with that at all. Let's understand once and for all that black Americans are just as interested in the safety of their homes and the safety of their streets and the safety of their children as white Americans. Fear stalks the ghetto as well as it does the others. And let us remember this. Let us remember that as far as black Americans and white Americans, too, that the first civil right of every American, the one that is more precious than any other, is to be free from domestic violence. We are going to have that again in our administration. That's the kind of leadership we are going to get.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, we would like to know that if elected president, would you have any changes in the foreign policies with Russia since they have invaded Czechoslovakia.

	NIXON: I have indicated that in view of the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia, and their snuffing out that little glimmer of freedom that the Czechoslovakian people acquired at a heroic time in their history, that I thought it would be a mistake at this time for the United States to proceed with treaties like the Non-Proliferation Treaty while Russian troops are still in Czechoslovakia.

	Now, I have been criticized for that by my opponent on the other side, and of course he has a different point of view, and I respect him for that, but I think he is wrong, and I will tell you why.

	I am for the Non-Proliferation Treaty. I believe that it is in the interest of the United States of America to see that atomic and nuclear weapons are not proliferated around the world to smaller nations.

	But I would also point out to you that in being for that treaty, we must recognize that the Soviet Union, having just committed an act which was in violation of all the rules of international law and in violation of the spirit of that treaty, if right after that we immediately sit down and sign a treaty with them, it would be misunderstood in Western Europe, it would be misunderstood in the United States, and more important, it would be misunderstood in the Soviet Union.

	I think the Soviet leaders will respect us more when we begin to act, not belligerently, but firmly, when we make it clear that we are willing to negotiate any point of difference that we have, but if they have to respect treaties and if they don't respect them, they are going to endanger the chances of our agreeing to treaties with them. That's the way you are going to get real negotiations with the Soviets, not with the soft line that indicates that they can do anything that they want and then come to us and have us put the seal of approval on it and to ignore anything they have done. That's the way to deal with them.

	Q: I would like to know why you haven't accepted President--or Vice President Humphrey's invitation to a debate on national television. To me this just doesn't seem like the same Richard Nixon we saw in 1960. I say this doesn't seem like the same Richard Nixon we saw in 1960.

	NIXON: The question is, why will I not accept Vice President Humphrey's challenge to debate, and this doesn't seem like the same Richard Nixon we saw in 1960.

	The answer is this. I have made it quite clear that if the Congress is able to pass a law suspending Section 315, providing for debates between the two major party candidates, I will debate. Now, some of my good friends think that's very foolish. They think it's very foolish because of what happened in 1960, and others think it is very foolish because they say, look, you're ahead, why don't you debate.

	The reason I would debate is because I think debates between the two major party candidates create greater interest in an election, it gives the people a chance to see the two men, see how they handle themselves under fire. I would be willing to debate that.

	However, I would not agree to a three-ring circus, in effect, which would be involved if the law passes the Congress the way it's presently proposed. Because the House of Representatives has amended the suspension of Section 315 which allows the networks to put on these debates to require that if a debate is held it shall be a debate between Nixon, Humphrey and Wallace.

	Now, my friends, this is a two-party country, and if we are going to avoid a constitutional crisis, a constitutional crisis that could occur in the event that a third-party candidate who has no chance to be elected but who might get enough votes that he would not make it possible for either of the other two candidates to get a majority in the Electoral College, and then it would have to go to the House of Representatives, I say that both Hubert Humphrey and Richard Nixon should do everything that we can to avoid that. Humphrey and Nixon should debate each other. But I believe that Wallace should run his own campaign and that we should make it very clear that in this country we have become great and we will continue to remain great by being a two-party country rather than having third parties and fourth parties.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, you mentioned earlier that you think the voting age should be lowered to eighteen. Do you then believe that citizens below twenty-one have the right to vote not only on candidates but on tax measures when they themselves aren't responsible for paying taxes?

	NIXON: I am not trying to get the answer, but I just couldn't hear the question. Do I understand that your question relates to the fact that people below twenty-one do not pay taxes?

	Q: Yes.

	NIXON: Would you repeat it again? Maybe we can hear it this time.

	Q: I was saying that you thought that the voting age should be lowered to eighteen. However, if it is, then people that are below twenty-one will be voting not only on candidates but on tax measures and money matters, and they don't pay taxes themselves.

	NIXON: Yes. The argument basically is this, that since I have advocated that people eighteen years of age should have the right to vote, that this seems to be inconsistent with the proposition that many people who are eighteen years of age, between eighteen and twenty-one, don't pay taxes and, therefore, why should they have the right to vote on, for example, bond issues and other things which do affect the other people. I think that's the gist of the question.

	My answer is this, that a great number of people, and this is, I'm sure you will agree, on target--a great number of people who are over twenty-one and who have the right to vote today may be in the position where they do not pay property taxes and yet they get to vote on bond issues, for example, but might affect the tax rolls.

	I think myself that when we consider voting, we look at something broader than whether they are property owners, we look at something broader than whether they happen to be taxpayers. We look at whether they are qualified to vote. Now, the reason I am for the eighteen-year-old voting, the eighteen to twenty-one, and I wouldn't have said this thirty years ago, is that I think the young generation today, as I said earlier, and it isn't just because you're here, after all, you can't vote, I'm not going to win any votes by what I say until I run for re-election in 1972, but I am just going to say right now, I want to say, the reason I think eighteen-year-olds should vote is that I think they would add to the interest in American elections, they would add to the quality of the debate, because of the fact that the younger generation today is better educated, it knows more about politics, more about the world, than many of the older people. That's why I want them to vote. Not because you are old enough to fight, because you are smart enough to vote. That's why I want you to vote.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, my question is, what is your opinion of the gun control law?

	NIXON: The question is with regard to gun control, and my opinion can be summarized very briefly. One, I believe that all interstate mail order sales of all guns, long guns and short guns, should be banned, and the Congress is well on the way to accomplishing that. One bill has already been passed, a second one is now under consideration, which I think will take care of that. So that will be handled in this session of the Congress.

	As far as the registration and licensing are concerned, I believe that the responsibility for registration and licensing should be at the state level and not the federal level. I think the federal responsibility in that field should be only to move in where a state may not adequately deal with the problem. But the key provision for gun control is one that I have seen very little reference to in editorials and very little in the debates that have occurred on this particular subject. And let me tell you why I have strongly supported this proposal and am glad to see now that both the House and the Senate have moved in this direction. I advocated this six months ago. I have been studying gun control around the world. One nation in which there are very few crimes committed in which weapons are used is England. And I found that in Britain, for many, many years they have a provision which provides for a mandatory prison sentence for anybody who commits a major crime and has a gun in his possession.

	So I say that the federal government and state governments and local governments should provide a mandatory jail sentence for anybody who commits a crime and has a gun in his possession. Just remember, you see, you want to remember that when we talk about registration and licensing, that doesn't answer the problem because people can be killed with licensed guns and registered guns. The point is you've got to put a deterrent on that person who might use that gun, and I think that's one way to do it.

	I understand that our time is up. I think the reason that we have to move is that there are about 3,000 outside, and I have to go out and speak to them, but let me take one question from the balcony.

	All right, we will take two more questions. How is that? One from the Tigers and one from the Cardinals.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, the main issue of your campaign has been law and order with justice. I would like to know what you mean when you say "justice," and I would like to know how you can implement this in the American society by being elected president, the concept of "justice"?

	Mr. Nixon: The question is that I have campaigned on the issue of law and order with justice. What do I mean by "justice," and how are we going to bring justice into the American society?

	And the answer to that question I covered earlier in part. I will elaborate briefly at this point in this respect. When we talk about law and order, we must make sure that we are talking about laws that deserve respect. That is why we need well-trained police forces who enforce the law even-handedly, so that it commands the respect of all of those and so that there is never any implication that some group of people is being discriminated against in the enforcement of the law. That's what I mean by respect for law in that area.

	When we talk about justice, I am referring to something much broader than simply the enforcement of individual laws. I am referring here to what we would call a just society, a society in which all the people living in this country can honestly feel that he has a chance, an equal chance with his neighbor, or with anybody that lives in his city or in his country, to go up, to go up in politics, to go up in the law, to go up in the field of sports, to go up in the field of business or the field of teaching or what have you.

	Now, believe me, we are doing very well in America that way at this time. We are doing extremely well. But we've got to do better. And what we have to do is to light the lamp of hope, as I have often said, in the homes of millions of people where they don't have hope today. And on that score, that's why I say we must move away from simply government programs which in effect treat black Americans as a colony within a nation, as people to be taken care of. You do no favor to people when you make them dependent. You do no favor to people when you perpetuate their dependency.

	What we have to do is to give to all Americans that opportunity to move up, opportunity to move up and go to the very top. And I think that that is what justice in its real sense means, and when we have that feeling, you are going to have a much better attitude toward law and order than we presently have.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, do you believe that national opinion polls cause candidates to modify their views in order to gain popular support, and, if so, what do you think about that?

	NIXON: Winston Churchill once said that a statesman should never develop his positions by constantly taking his temperature through a Gallup Poll, and I couldn't agree more.

	Polls are of interest to people in public life. You have to know what the people believe on the great issues in order to know what your task is in terms of educating the people in the event that you have more facts than they may have as to where we ought to go in a particular area.

	But I completely disagree with the idea that a president of the United States or a congressman or a senator should simply poll his district and find what the people of his district may think on a particular issue and then vote that way. That isn't the way to do it.

	What he should do is to poll his district, find what the people think, and then the congressman or the senator or the president of the United States should study the facts, and facts that many people down there who participate in that poll won't have the time to study. He studies all these facts and determines what is the right position for America. And then if that doesn't happen to agree with the people in his district or in the country, it's his job to go out and sell that position, to convince the people that that's right.

	Let me put it another way. In the next few years the president of the United States is going to make some very, very difficult decisions, decisions that are going to determine whether we have peace and freedom in the world for the balance of this century. Some of those decisions will involve our relations with the Soviet Union. Eventually they may involve relations with Communist China, and in many of those cases, very technical factors are involved that average citizens simply are not familiar with, and they shouldn't be expected to be familiar with. And for a president of the United States to make his policies based on what the great mass of the people may point out in a poll, rather than leading, is no--certainly not the kind of a function that a president ought to perform. I believe that a president, of course, must represent the people, the very best in the people, but a president also is elected to do something more than that. He is elected to find out what the facts are, not only in America and in the world, and to lead the people, not simply to reduce his views to the least common denominator of what people may know who have no knowledge in a particular area. That's what I believe about leadership in the United States.

	Could I have your attention for just one moment before we leave? I want to tell you that I am deeply grateful for your very warm welcome, and I am also deeply aware of the fact that in this audience that some people are for other candidates, and I trust that all of you, even though you are not old enough to vote, will get out and fight for the candidate of your choice. The most important thing is to get into that battle. Get into that battle, because only by getting into the battle can you really have the participation that is so important.

	And one final thought I would leave with you, which I always try to--a point I try to make with all college audiences and high school audiences, and it is one I am sure that you will appreciate. You know, in a campaign you are naturally going to hear the candidates like myself when you are on the outside, you've got to point out what's wrong and law and order and foreign policy and the rest, and I am sure some young Americans particularly tend to become terribly depressed about the kind of a world we live in.

	Sometimes after a speech and a question and answer session I have had college students come up to me, and they say, "Mr. Nixon, isn't this about the worst time a person could be alive? Look, we have no peace abroad, we have no peace at home. We have never had two things like that together, in the history of the United States before. And with all of these problems, wouldn't we be more fortunate to have lived some other time or some other age?"

	And then you are supposed to say, "Well, it's too bad. You inherited a world you didn't create, and I'm sorry, and we hope we do better."

	I don't say that at all. I want to tell you how I feel about it. We've got a lot of troubles in this country and we've got a lot of troubles in the world, and I have seen much of this world and much of this nation. I am somewhat of a student of history, and I would say that based on what I have seen in America and in the world that from the beginning of time in the whole history of man, and looking at all the countries of the world, and I have been in virtually all of them, if I were to pick a time in which to live and a place in which to live, I'd pick the United States of America, 1968. Right now. Right now.

	I want to tell you why. I don't say that just to be pollyannaish, I don't say that because of the politics of joy or any of that kind of nonsense. What I say that for is because this is the most challenging time that a great people could ever have.

	Now, think a moment. Problems, yes. But America is the richest nation that the world has ever seen, and we are becoming progressively richer. We can do anything. We can wage a winning war against poverty and misery and disease in America and in the world in the last third of this century if we get the leadership. It can be done.

And, second, think of peace for a moment. In the first third of this century, when I was born, in 1913, in that third of the century, whether peace or freedom survived depended on decisions made in Berlin, in London, in Paris, in the great capitols of Europe. In the second third of this century just before World War II, whether peace or freedom survived depended on decisions again made in London and in Berlin and in Tokyo and in Moscow.

	Now, look at today. You are entering the last third of the century. And when the oldest ones in this class are as old as I am in the year 2000, you are going to look back on the year 1968 and you are going to realize that that started a historic era in the history of the United States and of the world because for the first time in our history and in world history what happens in America and America alone will determine whether peace or freedom survives in the free world. Because, you see, the European nations no longer have the power. And no Asian nation in the free world has that power. So here's where the action is.

	And some Americans might say, oh, we don't want that. We don't want that role of leadership. But I don't say that and you don't say it. Because we are a great people and this is a great country. And I believe that America can fulfill this role of greatness. And I want to tell you one thing we've got going for us. In addition to our wealth and in addition to our power, it's the fact that America as a world power wants no land from any other nation, we don't want to conquer anybody else, we don't want to dominate anybody else, we just want a world of peace.

	We are an idealistic people, and with that kind of idealism which I can feel in this audience of young Americans, and with the right kind of leadership in Washington, we are going to have a great age in this next generation. We are not going to have three wars as we had in mine. We can have peace, we can have prosperity without war, we can have progress with justice. That's the kind of world you can create. That's why I say don't believe all this nonsense that this is a bad time to be alive. This is the best time, the most exciting time. You are going to make it that, and I am all with you.
CIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALCZECHOSLOVAKIA--SOVIET INVASIONDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALELECTORAL COLLEGEGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEGOVERNMENT--SEPARATION OF POWERSGUN CONTROLJUDICIARYMILITARY RECRUITMENT--COMPULSORYMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYMONETARY POLICYPUBLIC OPINION/POLLSSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)THIRD PARTY CANDIDACYUNITED NATIONSVIETNAM WARVOTING AGEYOUTH!     Z &    
 	        oR	 d	 V	 H	 )	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	 { 	 l 	 X 	 = 	 ( 	 