

	One of the happy by-products of the great Tennessee Valley Authority is that so many people from all over the world come to this lovely state to view the miracle that has been worked in this river valley. This gives them an opportunity to see your fine city of Nashville--with its ten universities and colleges standing as a monument to the great cultural tradition of the South.

	And having come here, they also meet the people of Tennessee. It has been my good fortune to know some of your fellow citizens. I think particularly of your next United States Senator, Albert Gore, and I think too of the able and charming Percy Priest, Democratic Whip of the House.

	I could name others, of course, including the young man who will be your next governor, Frank Clement--and one I do want to mention is Estes Kefauver. It seems to me that Senator Kefauver, who is now out working for the Democratic party, set a precedent our Republican friends would do well to emulate. At no time has he called upon me with a list of surrender conditions which I would have to meet to guarantee that he would continue to be a good Democrat.

	It has been my custom in this campaign to begin each speech with an attempt to analyze the position--or positions--taken by the General of the Army. I must confess that the task has been wearying and, I am afraid, futile. I have about concluded that the identification of Republican policies with principles--if any--is beyond my powers.

	So, tonight, before this southern audience, I should like to turn instead to an analysis of the historic policies and principles of the Democratic party. As for myself, I began this campaign and have attempted to maintain it on a simple theme: We must talk sense to the American people. Talking sense, by my definition, means facing squarely up to the issues that take on greatest importance to the audience at hand. In the South, this means talking frankly and to the point on the issue of minority rights.

	At Richmond I said that I would never be found guilty of talking one way in the South and another way elsewhere. So I must say to you tonight that I stand on the platform of the Democratic party--which means that on the question of minority rights a great many of you probably disagree with me.

	But there are two things, I think, that need to be said in that connection.

	In the first place, I refuse to believe that there is any conflict between my viewpoint and yours in regard to the stated objective of this platform plank. I do not believe that southerners have less regard for human dignity than other Americans. I do not intend to dismiss this issue lightly. But it is my conviction that our difference, such as it is, is no more than a disagreement over the method by which we should pursue a common end.

	Now the fact that some Democrats disagree with other Democrats on some issues is not a source of alarm to me. Blind, uncritical submission to any party line is foreign to American tradition--certainly it is foreign to the concepts of the Democratic party. I am reminded of the late Henry Watterson, the great editor of the Louisville Courier-Journal, who was taken to task for belaboring the Democratic party in the editorial columns of his great Democratic newspaper. Marse Henry replied: "Things have come to a pretty pass, when a man can't budge his own jackass."

	I would be the last to argue that the judicious application of a stick to the Democratic donkey is not good for his health. The genius of the Democratic party lies in its ability to adjust conflicting viewpoints and arrive finally at programs and policies that meet the highest aspirations of all Americans.

	This is why the Democratic party survived all its early competitors--and why today it remains the great, vital force in American politics. This is why the Republican cry for change for the sake of change strikes such a discordant note. From Thomas Jefferson forward, the Democratic party has repeatedly demonstrated its capacity for adapting itself to changing conditions--without heedlessly sacrificing the tested values of the past.

	This, I believe, is the real reason for the almost unbroken devotion of the South to the Democratic party since its inception. My opponent has come among you with the suggestion that you have somehow been blind and impotent captives in the past--drained of your political substance by cruel masters who gave you nothing in return. And he has suggested that the way to freedom lies in following those embittered apostates who proclaim themselves Democrats while supporting the nominees of the Republican party.

	This strange course is now urged upon you by southerners who obviously lack the courage of their own imported convictions. I say it can only lead to the political emasculation of a region which has played a tremendous role in shaping American policy from the dawning days of this nation.

	The suggestion that the South can obtain a national political influence only by bedding down with the GOP runs squarely counter to the record. I would refer these latter day mugwumps to a roster of the Untied States Congress.

	I would suggest, in particular, a careful perusal of the list of committee chairmanships in both houses. And I would ask these gentlemen to explain just how the South would be better served by Richard Nixon of California as presiding officer of the Senate rather than John Sparkman of Alabama; by Joe Martin of Massachusetts as Speaker of the House rather than Sam Rayburn of Texas; by Senator Saltonstall of Massachusetts, rather than Senator Russell of Georgia as Chairman of the Armed Services Committee; by McCarthy of Wisconsin rather than McClellan of Arkansas on the Expenditures Committee; by Milliken of Colorado rather than George of Georgia on Finance; Aiken of Vermont rather than Ellender of Louisiana on Agriculture; Capehart of Indiana rather than Maybank of South Carolina on Banking and Currency; Representative Reed of New York rather than Cooper of Tennessee on Ways and Means; Chiperfield of Illinois rather than Richards of South Carolina on Foreign Affairs; McConnell of Pennsylvania rather than Barden of North Carolina on Education and Labor; Wolcott of Michigan rather than Spence of Kentucky on Banking and Currency; Short of Missouri rather than Vinson of Georgia on Armed Services; and Hope of Kansas rather than Cooley of North Carolina on the House Agriculture Committee.

	When I speak of southerners in Congress, I am not reminding you of their importance solely in terms of the South's immediate self-interest. These men hold key positions in the formulation of national policy--and most important of all in these times, in the formulation of international policy. I state a simple fact when I say that no Democratic president could have succeeded without their support and counsel in the past--and I am under no illusion that any president, Republican or Democrat, can succeed without their assistance in the future.

	The suggestion that the men the South has sent to Washington--and to the national conventions of the Democratic party have been impotent stooges is a gratuitous insult to them and to you. I have noted that on a good many occasions many of them have been prone to take a healthy swipe at the Democratic donkey. But in one great field of policy--and this to my mind is the all-important consideration in this campaign--southern delegations have stood firm.

	These men have demonstrated that the South is still what it has always been--a great American reservoir of enlightened internationalism. Southerners rallied behind Woodrow Wilson in the heart breaking fight for world peace a generation ago. Southerners have rallied behind Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman in the present-day struggle against Fascist and Communist imperialism.

	The broad view of the world is part of the southern tradition. So is a historic readiness to defend liberty with arms wherever it may be threatened. In every season of peril we have known, southerners have been among the first to reach over the mantel for the squirrel gun. But southerners have never been deluded that arms alone could guarantee peace. Yours is not the tradition of the professional soldier--yours, as this state so proudly attests, is the tradition of Andrew Jackson and his volunteers.

	Southern readiness to rally to the defense of the nation has never dampened the southern hope that somehow we could together build a world in which no nation would ever again need to defend itself. In no region of the country has that ideal burned brighter. And not only have southerners dreamed of peace, they have led the struggle to make that dream a reality.

	In the early days of this nation, John C. Calhoun of South Carolina was the first to warn of the dangerous course fostered by blind and selfish men who sought to build tariff barriers to seal off the United States from the healthy competition of world trade. John Calhoun coined the slogan "tariff for revenue only" which to this day remains a battle cry of the Democratic party. And generations later, it was a great American from Tennessee, Cordell Hull, who moved to undo the damage of years of Republican high tariffs with his reciprocal trade agreements.

	This is the record of the Democratic party and of the South. I find it incredible that the Republican party now sends glib men among you to tell you that somehow all this has been wrong--that the isolationism which never sank a root in this region now represents your last, best hope.

	It is true that the principal emissary of the Republicans these days is a man of considerable charm. It is also true that it is difficult to distill the real meaning from his nebulous phrases. But you of the South have been thinking on these matters for many years. I do not believe you will be deluded. I believe that you understand that when you gaze upon the five stars of Eisenhower, you must listen for the voice of Robert A. Taft.

	It is significant, I think, that in their march to the sea the Republicans have tended to avoid discussion of what passes for Republican foreign policy. Instead they have harped upon an alleged left-wing conspiracy of which I am supposed to be a helpless captive.

	To a sharp young man from a New York advertising agency, this probably looks like a pretty good line. The South's great tradition of individualism has brought the region into conflict with essentially urban philosophies often enough--and I would do neither you nor the Democratic party any service if I sought to dismiss the domestic issues upon which we sometimes divide.

	But the Republican claim to holding an exclusive patent on individualism is perhaps the greatest of the absurdities they offer in lieu of a party program. They would argue that a proper federal concern of the economic well-being of the people is incompatible with human liberty--an assertion that runs counter to the whole history of this nation. Grinding poverty, as you in the South once had occasion to learn, is the ultimate foe of human dignity. The Bill of Rights is scant comfort to a starving child.

	The great problem of government in our time is to keep economic security and political liberty in proper balance. It seems to me that the accomplishments of what the Republicans call Big Government can be defended. For instance, the flowering of the valley of the Tennessee under a wise federal program is one of the great achievements of our generation. I do not have to endorse TVA to this audience--and I see no signs here tonight of that slavery from which the General promised to protect us when he pledged that there would be no more TVAs if he is elected.

	But I concede that Big Government can be defended only as a necessity brought about by the complexity of our age, and compounded by the external threat from our Communist enemies. I would not deny, indeed I have often asserted, that there is an eternal threat to our liberties inherent in Big Government. The great task before the next president of the United States will be to maintain the balance--to see that neither internal nor external security is paid for in the coin of personal liberty.

	It is a task that will call for wisdom, restraint and prudence--and, above all, for deep devotion to our democratic principles. I can assure you that it is not a task I would assume lightly--nor will I ever be guilty of offering you the quick and apparently easy answers that are the refuge of the inexperienced and the office hungry.

	My own service as governor of Illinois has taught me the virtues of states rights as a bulwark against Big Government. You and I know that the doctrine has sometimes been put to shabby use--that it has served as an excuse for inaction rather than as a shield for our personal liberties. But, as I have often had occasion to remind some of my more impatient compatriots, state and local government is, and must always be, the basic structure upon which the federal government is built.

	I should like to call to our attention the following language in the Democratic platform:

	"The Democratic party has demonstrated its belief in the Constitution as a charter of individual freedom and an effective instrument for human progress. Democratic administrations have put upon the statute books during the last twenty years a multitude of measures which testify to our belief in the Jeffersonian principle of local control, even in general legislation involving nationwide programs. In the present world crisis with new requirements of federal action for national security, and accompanying provision for public services and individual rights related to defense, constitutional principles must and will be closely followed."

	I am not one who regards a party platform as an instrument which loses its validity once the votes are counted. I have told you earlier that I stand upon the Democratic platform--the whole platform.

	I am aware that some ninety years ago Tennessee had some very unwelcome visitors from my native state of Illinois. It is perhaps presumptuous for me to dwell, as I have, upon the history of your great region. I can only enter this plea on my behalf: I have been told that it is improper to brag about your family in the South--unless your family happens to be southern. Mine does happen to be.

	The line goes back across the mountains to Iredell County, North Carolina. I am confident that if I picked up a telephone directory in Nashville, or in any other southern city, I would find all the names that adorn my family tree--those names that gave a staunch Scotch-Irish lacing to the whole history of the westward movement--names like Osborne, Ewing, MacWhorter, Wallis, Gillespie, and Brevard. I even acquired my odd prefix, Adlai, back there in North Carolina when one of those old Presbyterians went looking in the Bible for something to call one of his numerous sons.

	I would not like for you to think of this as the effort of another itinerant politician to strike up "kissin' kin." I don't believe I need to make such a gesture.

	I believe that in the year 1952, as it has been for more than a hundred years, it is enough in the South for a man to present his credentials as a life-long Democrat. I believe this is adequate assurance that the man who stands before you is a friend--deeply aware of the great contributions the South has made in the past to this nation of ours, supremely confident of the equally great contributions it will make in the future, determined that both shall receive their due and the South its rightful place in the sun.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHCONGRESS--MAJORITIESHISTORY--UNITED STATESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESREGIONALISM--SOUTH     [> '> !> > >
 > > = = = = = =	  	 e 	 Q 	 ;   e: