

	Once upon a time, a highly touted general came to Charlotte. That was back near the birth of this city that is now celebrating 200 years of greatness.

	This general was well-equipped, he was well-financed, he had lots of men, and a good, efficient organization.

	But what happened? He ran into a "hornets' nest" here in Charlotte, and didn't stop running until "the world turned upside down" for him at Yorktown.

	You could say the beginning of the end for Lord Cornwallis was here in Charlotte. What a great heritage!

	And this year it's going to happen again. General Lord Richard Nixon is coming south. He's got the men from Madison Avenue, he's got the slick big business organization, he's got all that big money, all that confetti, all those balloons. What are we going to do? I'll tell you what:

	We're going to make Charlotte and North Carolina and this whole nation into such a hornets' nest, and what a hornets' nest of fighting Democrats, that Mr. Nixon and his Republicans won't stop running until we've won that election.

	Mr. Nixon is going to be stung by the American people because he won't debate the issues facing this nation.

	And, my friends, until he shows he has some concern for the people of this country, he's also going to feel my sting.

	Yes, Mr. Nixon and his crowd are going to run into a hornets' nest all right--people in this nation who worked to make America great--and aren't about to let anyone--I said anyone, take it away.

	Nineteen sixty-eight is a year of great challenge and choice in America.

	I spoke on Monday night about the challenge regarding peace in Vietnam and about slowing the nuclear arms race.

	And there is a great deal of unfinished international economic business which must be confronted by the next administration.

	North Carolina had a great tobacco industry before Cornwallis' time, and textile and textile-related industries go back almost as far.

	I mean to see that those industries get a fair break in the world market.

	We need the export earnings. We need the jobs. And the world needs our products.

	The textile industry has undergone a period of unprecedented change during the 1960s--technological change and change due to the fact that emerging nations have been taking the first step toward industrialization, which is almost assured in textiles.

	We must assure there is sufficient order in the flow of world goods to our shores so that the vitality of our long-established textile industry, one which means so much to our economy, is not sapped and undermined.

	It is for these reasons that I have pledged to use all the resources of our government to achieve orderly regulations of international trade in textiles and apparel.

	A key part of this effort must be to remove unwarranted barriers which some countries impose on our exports and those of other countries so that all may share more equitably in total world trade.

	It would be best to achieve this through an international agreement. But should it be necessary to do so, I shall obtain any needed additional authority to prevent disruption of the domestic textile and apparel market and to maximize job opportunities in this vital industry.

	Tobacco earns American two-thirds of a billion dollars a year in foreign markets. I want to make it clear that the export business of tobacco growers in North Carolina and other producing states must be maintained.

	Trade is a two-way street. We import hundreds of millions of dollars worth of automobiles, metal products, and countless other commodities that are as vital to the European community economy and others as tobacco is to us.

	Any action by others damaging to our tobacco trade with them could only encourage pressures for retaliatory action on our part.

	I am for freer trade, I believe American producers can compete for quality and price with any in the world--but only if markets are fair.

	The second great decision of this election relates to the kind of America, the kind of society we will have for ourselves and---more importantly--for our sons and daughters, our grandsons and granddaughters.

	I've seen and I've heard extremists who chant and disrupt meetings and seek to deny freedom of speech to persons with whom they disagree.

	Disorder is not dissent. Indeed, disorder, especially organized disorder, is the enemy of dissent. Destruction is not debate. Indeed, the violence of destruction can only silence the vitality of debate. I reject these extremists and I call upon the American people to reject them.

	There is another form of radical extremism--just as dangerous, just as corrosive to our liberties--the extremism of those who preach disrespect for our courts--for certain laws--who play to the basest fears and deepest suspicions of our people.

	Mark my words carefully: this strategy of organized hate--if left unanswered and unchecked--can lead America to disaster--just as surely as the radical tactics of the shouters and disrupters.

	The former governor of Alabama says he is running on a platform of law and order.

	When he was governor of Alabama, he gave the American people quite a demonstration of law and order.

	He decided which courts suited him--and he disobeyed the rest.

	He decided which judges he liked--and he insulted the others.

	He decided which laws he preferred--and he tried to violate the others.

	Now he proposes teaching the Wallace method to the whole country.

	In America the business of law enforcement rests with state and local authorities--not with the federal government.

	Mr. Wallace was governor of the state with the highest murder rate in the nation. He could not maintain order in his own state, where he had the power--but now he promises to maintain order in every city and state where he will not have the power.

	When I was mayor of Minneapolis, I had the same chance to do something about law and order.

	I cleaned up a police department--I fought organized crime and street violence--and I brought law and order to Minneapolis. As mayor of Minneapolis, I compiled a record which received commendation from the FBI.

	And I'm ready to do the same thing as president. I'm ready to support our state and local police--I'm ready to give the help they desperately need to stop crime and lawlessness.

	I say the job can be done--and I intend to do it--not with slogans and bumper stickers--but with training, equipment, better salaries, and a coordinated attack among federal, state, and local authorities.

	The most serious threat of the Wallace campaign arises from his calculated campaign to divide this nation--to deliberately inflame the fears, frustrations and prejudices of our people--to bring this nation to the brink of broad-scale civil disorder.

	And these are tactics also found in the campaign of my Republican opponent--a man who deliberately courted the most radical extremist elements in his own party--and who continues this appeal in his speeches--and who will be fully in their debt should he win the presidency.

	Attacks on our courts--vilification of our law enforcement officials--setting group against group and race against race--these tactics have stockpiled the ingredients for civil explosion.

	The trigger of these powerful forces is likely to be one of the patented Republican-style recessions of the 1950s. Remember? They occurred about every two years.

	If we returned to the almost 7 percent unemployment of 1961--just about double the present rate of 3.5 percent--this nation could be overwhelmed by a torrent of fear, violence, and repression.

	The Humphrey-Muskie administration offers another way. We know how to maintain our present prosperity. Just look at the record--ninety months of uninterrupted economic growth.

	We believe that education, health care, job training, Medicare, Social Security should be strengthened. And we have offered specific programs to accomplish these objectives.

	We believe that America is strong enough--prosperous enough--and smart enough--to do these things. And we say that the alternative of not doing them is rising tension and the growing threat of chaos and disorder.

	Just remember--and remember well--the Democratic party, and only the Democratic party, has fought these battles and won these benefits for all Americans.

	A defeat for the Democrats this fall will be a defeat for you, for your family and for your future.

	I appeal to you--the silent majority of Americans--to vote your belief in the decency of our democracy.

	We have faced grave crises before--and we have transformed chaos into creation.

	I do believe the American people can do so again--and I mean to call them to this task.

	I have come here to ask your help.

CRIME--GENERALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONRACE RELATIONSTEXTILE INDUSTRYTOBACCO INDUSTRYFOREIGN TRADE--GENERAL     ,# " " " "
 " " " " " " " "	  	  	 ^ 	 D 	 6 	 &   e: