
     I should like if I could to express my profound thanks to Mayor Impellitteri for his most flattering introduction, and also for the many courtesies that he has extended me while I have been in New York.  Indeed, I think within the last few minutes I have had the fastest trip from the airport to downtown New York in the history of this city--certainly of aviation.  When you can have a television in 19 minutes--in 19 minutes and arrive at LaGuardia and get to 58th Street and are on time, with time to spare, you have to thank Mayor Impellitteri.  He made, however, one mistake.  I was just listening to him as I came in, introducing me.  He said that I did the talking to the prisoners. I wrote out what was to be said, and the Director of Safety did the talking--but I must say I find this a much more agreeable group of people to look at in Queens than I was looking at in Illinois.

     I must say I am glad to be here.  I understand that the registration in Queens is larger--represents a larger increase than any of the other New York boroughs, and I congratulate you.  This isn't only evidence of Democratic responsibility--it is an evidence of civic responsibility, I assume.  And I want also to express my gratitude to the ward and the precinct workers in the Democratic Party--the men and the women who don't just talk about democracy, but who go out and do the things that makes democracy work.  I need not add, perhaps, that I hope that the registration is put to good use on next Tuesday.  And there is nothing more important that you could do with it than to send to the United States Senate that able and experienced Democrat, John Cashmore.  Of course, as to what you should do about the Presidential candidate, modesty forbids me to make any suggestions.  All I will say is this: That I heard somebody say they wanted Adlai.  Well, they can have him.

     I have another reason for being happy to be back here in Queens.  I used to spend the greater part of my time in this borough, in the days--at least for two years--in the days when the United Nations was located at Flushing Meadows.  We had many stout battles with the Russian delegates in those days, and no one who has been through that experience can have any illusions about the nature of the communist foe; about his dedication, his fanaticism and his untiring perseverance.  To combat that foe we must mobilize all of the energies of the free peoples, and there is no better place, no other place, to mobilize them than within the United Nations.  But, if the United Nations is to do a proper job, of course, the representation of all the free nations is essential.  I have long believed that Italy, Ireland, and a number of the other of the States that have made application and have not been admitted, should be admitted.  It fell to my lot at the General Assembly in 1947 to represent the United States of America in presenting the case for admission of these States, Ireland, Italy and some others, into the United States.  But, as you know, we ran into the continuing Russian blockade, which persists to this day.

     Now we have only--I didn't really come here to talk about the UN, although I would like to very much.  In fact, there are so darned many things to talk about these days I never know from night to night what I am talking about.

     We have only four days until the election.  This is the stage of the campaign at which there should be a summing up--a review of the stands I have taken, and an examination of my opponent's record on the same issues.  But that procedure, which sounds very plausible, presents a certain difficulty that I have encountered--I can't find out who my opponent is.  At this late date I am unable to determine whether I am debating Eisenhower, Taft, or McCarthy.  And, if it is Eisenhower, I don't know which Eisenhower it is.

     In mid-October a columnist suggested that the General was outraged by the speeches that he had to deliver.  I quote him.  He said, "Eisenhower is going to say from here on out what Eisenhower really believes."  Well, I have been waiting breathlessly for this transformation, which apparently the Republicans have decided not to change their candidate in midstream.

     Now, it is true that there have been certain changes in my opponent's line in recent days.  The explanation is not complex.  After receiving the benign blessing of Col. McCormick under the harvest moon in Chicago--after autumn voyages through Indiana with Senator Jenner, and through Wisconsin with Senator McCarthy, the General's medicine men evidently recommended that he come East for his political health.  Upon doing so he paid you the high tribute of recognizing that the things he had said and done in what he considered isolationist territory would not be music to your progressive ears.  So, he summoned a new ghost from the haunted Republican house and asked it for a new script.  For the benefit of his Eastern audiences, General Eisenhower has made a gallant, valiant effort to impersonate a liberal.  Which General do you read and which do you believe?  Is it the one who is in agreement on all basic issues with Senator Taft in Taftland; and who also invites Jenner and McCarthy to join his team?  Or, is it the General who proclaims in New York his enthusiasm for all social gains achieved under the Democratic administrations of the last 20 years?

     This strange picture--an anguished and reluctant figure, forced for nearly two months to recite words that he disbelieved, to shake hands that made him shudder, to walk in dirt and dark alleys from which he really shrinks, has been frequently offered to us.  And it is, I feel, designed to appeal to soft heads as well as to soft hearts.  I do not think you should withhold your compassion from the General in the ordeal he has endured as he traveled from ghost to ghost; but does he deserve your confidence and trust?  We have been told that the opinions publicly voiced by the Republican candidate before he reached New York were definitely not his own, and may in no way be attributed to him.  We are told that immediately after election day he will really become himself and will turn with righteous indignation upon those whose hands he has held throughout this melancholy autumn.

     I sometimes think that this is the proper evening to talk this way.  It is Halloween.  He started on a broomstick and ended upon a--I hope that such a transformation would occur.  It would be nice to see him in person again.  But I do not see who the American people can be asked to gamble their country's future on a man who does not say what he believes all of the time.  I don't think I could come before you and ask with honor--and ask you to vote for me on election day on the pledge that you would never recognize me once I got to Washington.  For better or for worse, I shall be the same man.  I have neither a false face nor a wig--however much I may need them both.  And I am very apt to find myself in private agreement with the opinions that I express in public.

     You know, the hucksters can do many things for a candidate and for a party.  They can conduct surveys of your minds to find out what is worrying you and then announce that their candidate is bringing forth a painless cure, the nature of which will not be announced until after the election.  They can exploit your fears and toy with your hopes, and promise the fulfillment of all your dreams.  But these are --there are some things that the hucksters cannot do for the GOP.  They cannot put a warm heart into a cold political body.

     And I don't think they can instill idealism and selflessness into a great crusade to make the world safe for hypocrisy.  The Republican leaders have fixed above all, one insuperable obstacle through this campaign.  They have engaged--engaged in a large-scale effort to convince Americans that they never had it so bad.  There is, of course, sadness in America; there is deprivation; there are dreary and congested homes; there are inadequate meals; there are millions of Americans who yearn for a better life for their children, but they are precisely the people whom the Republican leaders are not thinking about when they lament the state of things; they are contrariwise the people for whom the Democratic Party has fought in this 20 year battle to expand the frontiers of democracy.

     Now in the end, when all of the slogans have been shouted, all of the hand bills distributed, all of the editorial guns fired, there remains only the basic truth that has dominated our political life for 20 years.  The Democratic Party has fought for a strong America, a nation strong at home and strong abroad, dedicated to strengthening the purpose and the meaning of life for all of our citizens.

     The Republican Party, despite the honorable efforts of many individual Republicans, has stood not for a strong America, but for a little America; it has stood for an America too mean and ungenerous to take care of the needs of its young, its sick, its unemployed, and its old; it has stood a rudderless and anarchic economy, careening recklessly from the extremes of boom to bust; it has fought to keep labor weak, to keep the farmer weak, to keep the consumers weak, to keep the minorities weak, to keep everyone weak, except the interests which are to feed and grow upon the rest of us.  And abroad, the Republican Party has stood similarly for a little America, an America unwilling to take its full place in building the strength and the unity of free peoples.

     The Democratic Party is the party of strength because it is the party of faith in ourselves and the people.  Strength has been our Democratic tradition through Wilson, Roosevelt, Truman, has run the long strong cord of faith in the Jeffersonian, Jacksonian principle that in a people's government the people are sovereign, that our strength and our well-being don't trickle down from an overflowing cup at the top but that they rise up the mighty trunk from the myriad roots that are the people.

     I know that on Tuesday thousands upon thousands of progressive Republicans who believe this will vote for us, but there will also be some Democrats who vote Republican.  If there are Democrats who believe they must punish me for the offense of believing that all men are created equal, I shall have to rejoice in that penalty.  The battle between strength and weakness, between strength and fear is the essential dividing line between our parties.  For 20 years the Democratic Party has fought to build the strength of the American people.  It has built the strength of the worker by giving him the right to organize in unions of his own choosing, and thus to find dignity and security and unity.  It has built the strength of the farmer by assuring him an adequate level of farm income and removing him from the cruel caprices of the open market.  It has built the strength of the business man by challenging the stranglehold of monopoly and by assuring steady growth in our economy.  It has built the strength of the consumer by working hard against difficult odds to prevent price rises from spiraling into a dangerous inflation.  It has built the strength of those denied full opportunity for reasons of race, creed or color by recognizing that government has responsibility at all levels to make opportunity equal for all Americans.

     (Motorcycle starts up)

     Mr. Mayor, you don't suppose that is a Republican cop in New York. 

     It has built the strength of our American economy by affirming the obligation of government to maintain full employment and to insure economic security.  And above all, it has built the strength of American freedom by enlarging the traditional liberties of conscience and of expression and by rejecting those who would run our political discretion into orgies of smear and slander.

     For 20 years on every front, the Democratic Party has build spirit and security and faith.  The result is written large where it matters most, in your lives and the lives of--and the opportunities of your children,  but every step in the creation of this new and strong America has roused a bitter and relentless opposition of the Old Guard.  Whenever confronted by change, the Republican leaders always seem to cry out "socialism"---nothing ever changes. The public school was called socialism in its day and so, if you can believe it, was the Post Office and every reform to protect the people.  Under the pretense of fighting socialism, the Republican Old Guard has continued an assault on the strength of democracy.

     Where the Democrats have stood for strength, the Republicans have stood for weakness--and the record proves it.

     I don't know how long I am supposed to talk, so I will just go on if it is all right with you.

     Where the Democrats have stood for security, the Republicans have stood for insecurity--and the record proves it.  Where the Democrats have stood for opportunity, the Republicans have stood for privilege--and the record proves that.

     Where the Democrats have stood for faith and freedom, the Republicans have stood for fear--and the record proves it.

     The party of strength sees an America secure, confident, glowing, illuminated by faith and freedom and belief in democracy and moving steadily toward a greater justice and a wider opportunity and a deeper security for all.  And the party of weakness sees America as insecure, as frightened, afraid of the future, afraid of the outside world, afraid, if you please, of each other.

     When the Old Guard tells us that America is on the skids, we will tell them that they should start looking at people instead of at mirrors. I have rested my fate in this campaign on the essential wisdom of the people. We are a great and a mature nation.

     When the Republican leaders have charged that I have talked over the heads of the people, they only mean that the people have neither brains, nor understanding, nor judgment.  But the Old Guard is always wrong, particularly when they try to judge people.

     And now we come to the end of the journey, and yet the end is only the beginning, for what we have said and done in winning this election matters only if it means that we have proved our fitness to undertake the infinitely greater task of governing the nation.

     I could not come before you tonight if I had to say, as my opponent seems to be saying, that I implore you to forget everything I have said in this campaign.  What I have said is what I stand for and what I have told you is what I believe.  I have warned you that I can bring you no miracles.  I have told you that we face great and complex issues that will challenge all our imagination and all of our understanding.  I have told you, too, that I shall strive to end the deadly suspicion of each other that plagues our land, to reaffirm the grandeur and nobility of our free traditions, to make us worthy of the role that history has assigned us, and enable us to achieve a glimpse of genuine peace.

     It is charged that I have said many complicated and elusive things in this campaign.  In my judgment, there is nothing complicated or elusive about a man's devotion to truth, to justice, to freedom and to mercy.

     I think once again on Tuesday, we will demonstrate that the people are infinitely wiser than the Republicans have ever dreamed.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--EXPERIENCE/QUALIFICATIONSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESLIBERALISMUNITED NATIONS     = P= J= F= >=
 1= ,= '= = < < < <	  	 _ 	 A 	  	  e: