

	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Can you hear me? You love Hillary? Good for you.

	I want to thank Tom Andrews and Deborah for being here for that wonderful introduction. I want to say how good it is to see Pat McGowan again. I want you to know that I once ran for Congress and lost, just like he did, by a little bit, but you should not do that twice to him. Put him in this time. I need Pat and Tom in Washington.

	We've got a lot of work to do, and I cannot do it unless we have a group of people fundamentally committed to change this country in the House of Representatives. And Tom and Pat fit that bill to a tee. I want to also say that I thank in his absence Senator Mitchell, who called me yesterday. We had a wonderful talk.

	Do you suppose the Republicans control the airplane schedule here? What'd you say? Not for long. That's right.

	I want to thank Barbara Holt and Joe Carr and my good friend Tom Allen, and there are lots of other people who are here, but I especially want to recognize the group of people who are Veterans for Clinton/Gore over here--Mayor Charlie Harlow, Senate President Charles Pray, my good friends Jim and Libbie Mitchell are here, and all of you who have come today.

	Let me say, I have had a wonderful day. I was in Boston yesterday. We had 45,000 people according to the morning paper there.

	And then, this morning I began by going back to New Hampshire, then on to Burlington, Vermont, and now here. This has been a wonderful day in New England.

	And I would say it represents a new day for America. I think all of us know what the stakes are, but I want to tell you a story about something that happened last week that sort of symbolizes what I think is wrong with this administration and how I hope to put it right.

	Here we are in the midst of the worst economic performance in fifty years. Here we are with evidence from the census that two-thirds of our people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. Here we are the only advanced nation in the world without a system of affordable health care for all, with 100,000 Americans losing their health insurance every last month. Here we are with 10 percent of the United States on food stamps.

	And when the presidential debate commission invited us to East Lansing, Michigan, last Tuesday, I showed up.

	But where was George? Where was George? I'll tell you where he was. I'll tell you where he was. Do you know what he did? I went to East Lansing, Michigan, to debate the great issues of the day, and he took an airplane and stopped in every state that borders Arkansas to bad-mouth my record.

	And it's interesting. I mean, George Bush says, "Well, how can you expect me to debate Bill Clinton? He went to Oxford, you know." I mean, after all, Bush went to prep school and Yale. I mean--but he says, "He went to Oxford."

	Then he goes around Arkansas and says that I'm a hayseed from a backwater, small rural state. You know, like Maine, a small rural state.

	And then he goes all around the states and he tells them how bad I am. He gets all the facts wrong and he forgets to say that my state's had more private-sector jobs created since he's been president than the rest of the country combined. He forgets to say that we have the second-lowest tax burden in the country, that we've always balanced our budgets. He forgets any of the comparisons that are true, accurate, and fair, because this crowd has no vision, no record, they've run out of ideas, they've run out of energy, they've run out of time in Washington. And it is time for them to go.

	But then, after his day of typical bad-mouthing, doing what he knows to do best, George Bush flew back in the middle of the night after the television news had gone off, after all the printing presses had shut down, when the news window had closed, and then he vetoed for the second time the Family and Medical Leave Act.

	Now, let me tell you what bothers me about that and why I know we can do better. First of all, it's wrong on the merits. I don't know if any of you know anyone who ever lost their livelihood because they had to stop working to care for a sick child or a sick parent or when a baby was born. But a couple of years ago, when I finished my morning jog in downtown Little Rock, I stopped at the local McDonald's, which is two blocks from a homeless shelter. And I met this attractive young couple who told me they had a child in our children's hospital who had cancer.

	They lived about a hundred miles from there. Both of them had lost their jobs because they wanted to come to the hospital to be with their child in case he did not survive. And they were living in a homeless shelter.

	Senator Gore, as some of you know, had a son who was in a very serious automobile accident. When that child was recuperating at the Johns Hopkins Medical Center in Baltimore, they met a couple from a southern state who had their child up there for special treatment. They had lost their livelihood because we didn't have family and medical leave.

	But here's the thing that really irks me. Do you know how many countries have family and medical leave? Seventy-two. So what George Bush said to us again was that seventy-two nations in the world can do something for family values that we can't do.

	And you know what? I was raised to believe this is a can-do country, and I think we ought to throw the can't-do people out of the White House. We're better than that. We are better than that.

	This state has suffered economically as much as any state in the United States of America. I used to serve with your former governor and former congressman Joe Brennan, who's over here, a good friend of mine.

	And we used to sit and talk for long periods of time about the similarities between your state and mine. I know what it was like to go through the last twelve years with trickle-down economics, with no economic strategy for the future, watching every day this country lose its manufacturing base and weaken its economy.

	Since this president has been in office, we've lost over 1,300,000 manufacturing jobs; in the last two years, average family income--this is working people--has gone down $1,600. Down.

	As Al Gore's always saying to me, unemployment's going up and income's going down; poverty's going up, consumer confidence is going down; bankruptcies are going up. Everything's that should be up is already down. They've got this country upside down, and we want to turn it right side up.

	You know, you think about it. You've got a lot of these signs up here. When they say "four more years," as Al says, it's almost more like a threat than a promise.

	I want you to think about what kind of America we really need. I want you to think about all the hard-working people and families of the state of Maine that deserve better. And I want you to tell the people of this state and everybody you know across the country in the next thirty-eight days that we can do better.

	Al Gore and I and our wives and our families and our friends and all of you who are a part of this campaign have tried to lift the vision and hope of the American people. We have tried to offer this country a new kind of Democratic party that will broaden the base of our appeal from the people we have always represented to those who have been shafted who need to be a part of our cause.

	And if you want any better evidence of that, read our platform. For the first time in a long time, the Democrats are running on their platform and the Republicans are running away from theirs.

	We offer a real economic program. They offer more denial and division. For months and months and months, Mr. Bush said there was no recession. He said you folks did not know what you were talking about. And then finally, when they admitted there was a recession, he said it was because we had an attitude problem.

	Let me tell you something. He's got an attitude problem. We've got a policy problem. And we're going to see them both corrected on November the 3rd, with your help.

	I want to ask you just for a moment to think about what it is we ought to do because I don't want to be like they are, all criticism and no progress. I want to stand for something. I want you to help me change this country. I'm not offering you miracles. I'm offering you hard work and challenge and progress.

	We have been in the grip of a failed economic theory, trickle-down economics. You know what it says. Keep taxes low on the richest Americans, get the government out of the way, and see what happens. I want a leaner, more effective, more active government on the side of the American people, one that invests in new jobs, educates people, controls health care costs, faces our problems, and brings us together. That is what the American people deserve, and that's what we're going to give them on November 3rd.

	You know what creates jobs? What creates jobs is investment. So I say no more trickle-down economics; give people incentives if they create new factories, new plants, new businesses and new products. But no more something for nothing. End trickle-down economics and invest in the American people. That's the difference between Bill Clinton and George Bush. That's the difference in our approach and trickle-down. Send them a message that you don't want it anymore.

	I believe with all my heart that you need a real education president, someone who will guarantee a system that would enable the American people to be educated throughout their lifetime. Listen to this. No president can promise to give you any opportunity you are not able to seize yourself. The average eighteen-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. We need a system of education for that lifetime.

	Let's begin by teaching every adult to read and giving every adult in the work force a chance to get a high school diploma.

	Let's provide for every young person who does not go on to a four-year college the opportunity to get two years of further education for good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

	Let's open the doors of college education to all Americans, not just a few.

	I offer the American people a national service trust out of which any American can borrow the money to go to college, and then pay it back as a small percentage of their income after they go to work at tax time so they can't beat the bill, or, even better, by giving two years of service to our country before or after college. Consider this, what if you all, what if everybody who went to college in this great country, before or after they went said I'll work for two years, I'll work with children, I'll work with the elderly, I'll solve the homeless problem. I'll be a police officer, a nurse, a teacher. I will serve the country I love, to rebuild the country with people power from the grass roots up. Not a government bureaucracy, but a program to educate the American people and lift our economy and our future. We can do it.

	Let me--one other thing, and Congress is so important in this. We cannot do these things, we cannot bring our deficit down, we cannot restore health to our manufacturing sector unless we finally, finally become the last advanced nation on earth to control health care costs and to provide basic health care to all Americans.

	Now, ever time I say this, every time I say this Mr. Bush says, Bill Clinton wants the government to run the health care system with the compassion of the KGB and the competence of the House Post Office. It sounds great, but it's not true. I would remind all of you that George Bush for the last twelve years has had socialized medicine, and you paid the bill. Put him out here so he can see what it's like for you to live under the American health care system.

	We have offered the American people a health care program that will control costs, provide health care to everybody, and give you the choice of your doctors, your hospitals, to keep what is good about our system intact. That's why the American Nurses Association endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket, the first time they ever did it.

	It is remarkably like the plan offered by America's largest businesses, by the American Academy of Physicians--77,000 doctors came out for a program like mine. And the president attacked them, saying they didn't know anything about medicine.

	Even the head of the conservative American Medical Association said this week that the Clinton-Gore plan was much more aggressive in dealing with the problems of high cost of medicine and coverage for people who don't have it than the Bush plan, which puts good money after bad. Vote for Bill Clinton, vote for Pat McGowan, vote for Tom Andrews, and we will give you a health care program the American people can be proud of.

	Ladies and gentlemen, today the "no debate" president is out there talking about that subject he is such an expert on--taxes. He has actually told the American people today something he knows isn't true. He said I'm going to raise everybody's taxes. Now, we all know how reliable Mr. Bush is on taxes. He raised yours and didn't pay his--right?

	Now, here are the facts. Under my tax plan, we asked the richest 2 percent of the American people to pay a little more money because their taxes went down and their incomes went up in the 1980s, and we've got a $400 billion deficit and we need that money to pay for investment tax credits for incentives to start new businesses and for modest relief to middle class families, especially those with children. And that's all we do. My state has the second-lowest tax burden in the United States of America. Don't believe old George Bush's fear tactics. After all, he's the one who told you to read his lips.

	And then the other day, he gave another speech, and he said I made that mistake once, but I'll never to it again, not ever, ever. And then within a day his press secretary said that was not a pledge.

	That fellow's been in Washington too long. When somebody in Maine or Arkansas says never, ever, they mean never, ever.

	This election is going to be a fight to the finish for thirty-eight more days between hope and fear. They will play to your fears. I will appeal to your hopes. This election will be a fight between the courage to embrace new ideas and a new direction for America, not trickle-down, not tax-and-spend, but invest, educate and compete, face our problems, grow up in the real world. That's what we have to do. These children are entitled to know they have a president and a government that is fighting the problems of the economy, that believes you can preserve the environment and advance the economy--something Bush doesn't believe--that believes we need a better education policy, a health care policy, that we have to face problems like AIDS instead of stick our head in the sand about them. That we have to do things that will pull us together and move us forward.

And so I ask you this, for thirty-eight days, help us to reclaim our country, not for me, but for you. And let me ask you one other thing. Don't get on this train unless you want to ride it after the election, because I have not come across this country all this long time--I've been coming here now for more than a year asking you to support me--just to win an election. We've got to change this country.

	And the thing that is killing us today, my fellow Americans, is not the dimension of these problems. They are profound, they are complex. We can't solve them overnight. Nobody has all the answers, but we know what direction we need to take. What is killing has been the dimension of our disbelief. There have been too few of us with hope and courage and the willingness to change. And that is what has always characterized America.

	Think of this: if you go back through the whole history of this country, at every critical point in our history, there's always been a huge fight between the "we can" crowd and the "we can't" crowd, between the people who think we can do better, and those who think things could be worse, between those who lift our hopes and those who prey on our fears. Whether it was George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and the founding fathers saying we had to be one nation, and the other crowd saying, well, that might be tough to take; or Abraham Lincoln laying his life down to keep a union together, and another crowd saying, maybe we ought to give it up, it's an experiment that was nice but didn't last; or Franklin Roosevelt lifting this country out of the depression--the "we can" crowd, the "we can do better" crowd, the "we're better than this" crowd. They are the ones who have sustained our nation through 200 years.

	I want you to be part of that group of November 3rd to give this country back to its rightful legacy and for its rightful future.

	Thank you and God bless you all. Thank you.

ARKANSASECONOMY, RECESSIONARYEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFAMILY LEAVE POLICYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCE     B B B B B
 yB tB oB gB bB `B VB	 k 	 c 	 N 	 . 	  e: