

	Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you very, very, much, Senator Yarborough.  And look at my fellow Democrat down here.  He is as stubborn as Richard Nixon.

	Well, let me tell you--when this man takes a stand, you can't move him, right down here.

	I am very grateful to you, my friend, for bringing this symbol of our party, this sturdy animal that knows exactly where he stands and is unmovable when he takes his stand.

	Ladies and gentlemen, let me, just for a moment, thank all those who have presented these gifts and these symbolic gifts to me. 

	I see out in front of us here two llamas, and I want to say how very beautiful they are.  Their heads are high.  They look right out into the horizon, right out into the Franklin Mountains, unafraid, knowing that they can conquer anything.

	And here is this good Democratic donkey right here, first class.  I'll tell you he looks good, his ears are up, he plans to listen whether Richard Nixon is saying anything, and he hasn't heard anything yet. 

	But you know what?  I see they have got a sign on him that shows that donkey kicking.  And guess where he hit?  Yes siree, he hit on a strategic target, on the Republican candidate, according to that sign.  

		Chairman George McAlmon, Congressman White, members of this great congressional delegation from Texas, my dear, good friend Senator Yarborough, the people's senator, and all of you wonderful people from El Paso:  Gee, it's good to be here on this beautiful, beautiful afternoon and evening.  The sun is shining bright, it looks like a Democratic day.  I tell you, the clouds are away.  It looks like victory for the Democrats. 

	Lots of wonderful, many wonderful things have happened to me today.  First of all, as I came here, of course, I want to thank Miss Arriba Humphrey, Miss Virginia Jordon, not only for the rose, but for the kiss.  I'll tell you, it's wonderful.  It does a lot for a candidate to be kissed by a beautiful girl like that.  And I just want you to know, Miss Virginia, that I will remember that.  Sometime after November--after January 1969, I hope that you will come up to Washington and do it all over again. 

	I want to thank those that have presented me with these other symbols of Texas hospitality, western hospitality--that lasso.  Listen, I needed that a long time ago.  I have been trying to lasso that fellow Nixon for the last month.  He is something.  He has been hiding out under one of these bushes out here in the Waco Basin.  I haven't been able to get him.

	As we were flying over, I looked out there and I kept saying to my friends in the plane--do you think that is Nixon under there?  And then I would look a little bit another way and I would look there, and there would be another shadow, and I said--do you think that is Nixon.  And then he would run to another bush, and then I said--I know that's Nixon because he has run away from us, there is no doubt about it. 

	But if I would have had this, if I would have had this lasso, we would have roped him by now, believe me--we would have had him tied down.

	I want to thank you very, very much. 

	Now, about this branding iron.  That poor fellow--isn't it going to be a little bit discouraging to him, as he stands in the shower, and finds HHH on himself in certain places.

	Oh, my goodness.  

	VOICES:  Pour it on!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  But, my friends, I want you to know--I want you to know that these, that this branding iron will be in the White House, and it is going to be there because you have presented it to me, and because you helped elect me.  We are going to have it right there in the White House.    

	Oh, boy, I can hardly wait to put the heat to him.  Doesn't that look good.

	Look at over here--these magnificent spurs, the same as you gave to that great president, John Kennedy.  And let me tell you--these spurs are going to spur me on to victory.  And if I can ever get a hold of the Republican candidate to ride him long enough, it will help put him into action, too.  They are beautiful.  And again, I want to say that all of these wonderful gifts are going to be there for you to look at when you in El Paso decided you were going to pay a visit to the White House to see your president, your Democratic president, your own Democratic president, Hubert Humphrey in the White House.    

	You know, it's so lovely here today.  I wish that all of you could be up here where I am to look out--of course, you have seen them before so many times--but those mountains, those wonderful, beautiful Franklin Mountains.  And we came by the Guadeloupe Mountains as well.  And we came by that great national park, the Guadeloupe National Park--all of these things, my friends, mean so much to us.  And that park, in particular, is again representative of what a Democratic administration can mean to you.  

	Do you realize that in these last five years we have set aside over 2.5 million acres of properties in this country for national parks and national monuments for our people, and one of them is your own, right out here in this great state of Texas.

	And why do we do these things?  Because we care--because we care about people's living conditions, because we want our people to have a heritage, because we want our people to enjoy this America.

	We don't set them aside because we are interested simply in land values or because we are interested in the number of acres.  We set these great parks aside because we know that people need breathing space and living space, space for their leisure time.

	This is the story of the Democratic party, a party that cares for people.  And that is why this party wins.    

	I want to thank your Congressman White for his leadership in these matters.  And I want to thank him, and Ralph Yarborough for all of their efforts in the Chamizal settlement and in this great Chamizal Highway, and all that it means to these two great countries, countries of the Republic of Mexico and the Republic of the United States of America--two friendly nations, two great peoples, peoples that are blended together now in a common culture, peoples that have learned how to live alongside of each other in peace and in harmony.

	You know, I used to know your mayor here, Ray Taos, who was appointed as you recall by President Kennedy to be our Ambassador to Costa Rica--a wonderful man and a wonderful family.

	Once again it tells you that the Democratic party understands, it understands where the talent is, it understands the vitality of people; it understands that every race, every culture, every group of people has something to contribute to this country.

	Ladies and gentlemen, let me say to you what I said to another group of people in San Antonio.  Let me tell you that the Republican party has forgotten, if it ever remembered, people of Spanish surname.  They have forgotten what we call Mexican-Americans--and I only use that term because it identifies for a moment--because I don't believe in hyphenated citizenship--they forgot Americans who can lend so much to this country.

	You can read the record of the Republican party for its eight years, in 1953-1961, and, my friends, you will never find anything about El Paso--you will never find anything about a Spanish-speaking American.  You will never find anything that was done for this city, for this part of America.  You will find nothing there for you, not a thing.    

	And let me tell you how we can repay them--because I believe in repaying them with equal treatment.  We are going to give Mr. Nixon exactly what he gave us--nothing, on election day.    

	You know, this is the home, this is the home of the great athlete, Bob Beamon.  You know--well, you know what Bob just did--he jumped two feet further than he ever jumped before.  It was amazing, absolutely amazing--set a world record.

	Do you know what that means?  Let me tell you what it means.

	Mr. Nixon, he thinks he is going to be president; he thinks he is president.  He is practicing being president.  Listen, he is going to pretend he is president so long that you are going to get so tired of him, that by November 5th you are going to vote for a change and you are going to elect me your president.    

	Well, Bob Beamon showed us that it's a good time to start making big jumps--it's a good time, it's a good year for jumping ahead.  And I have news for Mr. Nixon--we have hit that jumping board right out here in Texas, and we are jumping right into the White House.    

	You bet we are.  And we are going to do it.  We are going to do it with you people.  We are going to do it with the people.  We can't do it with the big money.  It is not on our side, and I know it.  We don't have all the television time.  We don't have all the organization that Mr. Nixon has.  We don't have Madison Avenue.

	But you know what we have got--we have got El Paso--you betcha.  You know, you know what else we are going to have?  We are going to have Texas--yes, sir. 

	And you know what is going to win this election--you and millions like you, people who say, and rightly so, that the White House shouldn't go to the man with the biggest advertising budget.  The White House should go to the man that cares for the people and the party, that cares for the people, and we are not going to let the Republicans buy into the White House, are we?  

	VOICES:  No!

	Now, I could just tell you that there is a basic philosophy that I have that impels me to seek office.  I have always believed that the real strength of this country was in its people.  I have always believed that the real wealth of this country was in its people.  I have always believed that the greatest resource of this country was its people.  And I have not separated people into races, creeds and nationalities.  I have talked about the people.  I talk about the American people, not black people, not white people, not Mexican-Americans, not Norwegian-Swedish Americans.  I talk about the people, the people of this country, and we have been making an investment in people.  We have been making an investment in their education, and we have been making an investment in their jobs, and we have been making an investment in their little children; we have been making an investment in the people's health, and we have been making an investment in the people's living environment.

	Ladies and gentlemen, these investments are paying off.  America today is the richest, the most powerful, the most well-taken-care-of country on the face of the earth, and why?  Because we have cared--because we have cared about the people, because we have recognized that a people educated is a people productive, because we have recognized that when a man has a job, he becomes a self-respecting, productive taxpaying citizen; because we have recognized that we need each other and, my fellow Americans, I appeal to you from this platform not to listen to the demagogues that would divide us, not to listen to those that would tell you that you have to be worried about the other man because he may be a little different.  I ask you not to listen to the voices of fear and of bigotry, the voices of suspicion and of doubt.  I ask you to repudiate those voices of hatred and racism, and I ask you to stand by those of us that believe that there is a great decency in this country, a basic goodness in America, a greatness that can be called forth.  

	I ask you to support your congressman from this district, Congressman White, who has done so much for you. 

	I ask you to support a great senator who was the first author of the Bilingual Education Act, who cared, who understood about the people in this area, and I ask you to help us to build on these programs, to give our little children a chance in Project Head Start, to give your young teenagers a chance in job training, to give senior citizens a chance for better medical care, to give our senior citizens better social security benefits, to help make our cities more livable, to help our farmers to be able to earn a decent living.  

	That is what I stand for, and you know it.  I have a record of public performance. 

	So, as we leave you here tonight, what a magnificent day, will you remember that it is the people against the Republican organization, it is the people against Mr. Nixon, who never in his public life has lifted a finger in your behalf?  I ask you to back the party that has helped you, and I ask you to back the ticket of Humphrey and Muskie, because it wants to help you, and we will build a better America.

	Now, let me ask you:  Are you for Wallace for president?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Do you want Mr. Nixon for president?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  All right.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Wait a minute.  Now, let me tell you, you say you want me.  Well let me tell you, my dear friends, I want you, and I need you, and I ask you now to go home to your families and to your friends, and I ask you to appoint yourself a committee of one.  I ask you to work as you have never worked before, not for me but for yourselves, to work for your country, to work for your family, to work for the young, to work for the old, to work for everyone.

	My dear friends, let me tell you something.  We can show America that the people's voice will be heard, and we can jump as far as Bob Beamon in this election.  We can jump, my friends.

	So let's go from here today, let's go from here tonight, with a pledge.  I ask you to take a pledge with me.  Will you stand up now and go to work for Humphrey and Muskie?  Give me your answer.  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  God bless you.  Thank you very much.  I am going to my lasso, I take it all, and, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to go and we are going to win this election together.
	
	Thank you, my friends.  

	VOICES:  Arriba Humphrey!
DIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMHISPANIC AMERICANSNATIONAL PARKS     p7 <7 67 27 *7
 7 7 7 7 7 7 6 6	 : 	   	  e: