
	I wish there were some way of telling you how deeply moved I am by your reception--as I have been by the whole Texas chapter of this 1952 Democratic campaign.

	It is part of the grandness of Texas political discussion that here particularly we can lay exactly what we think on the line and then let the other man lay what he thinks beside it.

	This means we're bound to disagree on some things like some of us do on this submerged lands issue. But most of us are smart enough not to throw in a hand that holds four aces just because we don't like the fifth card. And those of us who are real Democrats know that it isn't salt water oil that is the big stake in this election. It is whether the leadership of America is going to stay in the hands of a party which believes that the one thing more important than everything else--oil included--is people, American men and women and children.

	The other grand thing about Texas politics today is its long tradition of outstanding Democratic service to the nation.

	One of my ancestors, William Stevenson came here from Missouri at about the time Stephen P. Austin did. It is part of our family lore that William Stevenson preached one of the first sermons ever delivered in Northeast Texas. It is also reported, although I can't vouch for the fact, that this same William Stevenson once rescued Stephen P. Austin's trunk when it was about to be sold for storage charges.

	And then there was Sam Houston, an Andrew Jackson man, who wove the creed of Jacksonian democracy into every line of the Constitution of the new republic of Texas.

	In 1912, at the Democratic Convention that year, the "Faithful Forty" delegates from Texas stood firm for nine desperate days of political battle to nominate one of the greatest Democrats of our entire history: Woodrow Wilson.

	When Woodrow Wilson set out to lead the nation towards his shining goal, the New Freedom, he turned to Texas for three members of his cabinet: David Houston, once president of the University of Texas; Thomas Watt Gregory; and Albert Sidney Burleson. And Wilson's most intimate personal adviser was Colonel Edward M. House, of this city of Houston.

	In 1932 the nation once more called on the Democratic party. We answered with a name that history will forever remember--Franklin Roosevelt. And standing beside him was that well known "socialist agitator" from Uvalde, John Nance Garner. I couldn't help thinking at breakfast this morning of the names some people called Mr. Garner in those days. They seem mighty silly now.

	Texas provided another wise and strong Democrat to lead the House of Representatives: Sam Rayburn of Bonham. In those days they called Sam Rayburn a "socialist" too, but today even some of the Republicans in Congress are willing to admit that Sam Rayburn is one of the finest speakers our House of Representatives has ever had. And the strong right hand of Sam Rayburn was another Texan, Congressman Wright Patman of Texarkana, a member of the House Banking and Currency Committee.

	The Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee that rescued the farmer was your own Marvin Jones of Amarillo.

	And look at the other Texans who rose to places of power and responsibility in those days--Tom Connally, still Chairman of Foreign Affairs; Morris Sheppard, Chairman of Military Affairs; James P. Buchanan, Chairman of Appropriations; Hatton Sumners, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee--I could call this roll of distinguished service till sundown.

	No wonder Texans say: "The New Deal wears a Texas brand."

	Yet it has always seemed to me that America is indebted to Texas--and indeed to all the South--for one thing above all others. That is your early and unwavering realization of the role America is destined to play in the world.

	Since the days when cotton was king, the South has fixed its view on wide horizons. If it had not been for the leadership of the southern states, we might never have found our way out of the blind cave of isolationism.

	Some people--especially the isolationist Republicans--seem to think that the East Coast is the wellspring of international understanding. But we know that the South was looking abroad with farsighted vision for many decades, while the eastern industrialists were still worshiping the false idols of high tariffs and political isolation. Texas, in particular, has always understood that our life and the life of other nations are inextricably bound together--which is natural enough, since Texas itself has lived under five flags.

	Moreover, Texas enterprise long ago discovered that foreign trade is the very bloodstream of American prosperity. Ninety-five percent of your cotton crop is sold abroad. Your sulfur feeds the chemical and defense industries of most of the free world.

	This city has become one of the largest ports in the western hemisphere. It is a window opening on vast seas and distant continents.

	As a consequence, no one has a better understanding than the people of Houston of the stark fact that America must trade with the outside world in order to survive. The raw materials for our factories, the markets for our goods, and our leadership of the free world--all depend on trade.

	Without trade your jobs would disappear. So would the last best chance for world peace--for if our allies are ever cut off from commerce with America, they have nowhere else to turn except to the Soviet Union.

	The Republicans have never been willing to face these facts. Their high tariffs choked off the foreign markets for the cotton and tobacco the South had to sell, and at the same time raised the prices of the manufactured goods the South had to buy.

	These tariffs were a link in the chain of economic bondage which the Republicans riveted around the neck of the South and West. Another link was the high and discriminatory freight rates, which handicapped your trade still further and for many years suffocated southern industry. The final blow was the notorious Republican Smoot-Hawley Tariff, which not only strangled the South but helped to plunge this nation into depression and the world into despair.

	Through all those years the Democratic party steadily fought these crippling policies of the Republican Old Guard. President Roosevelt chose a southerner--Cordell Hull--as his Secretary of State; and one of his finest achievements was the reciprocal trade agreements program which pumped new life into our overseas trade. It is no accident that the port of Houston has enjoyed its greatest prosperity since that law was passed.

	In the years just ahead this country will face new and enormously difficult problems of international relations and international trade.

	Today we are spending more than five billion dollars a year on aid to our allies, to help them build their defenses against Communism. Clearly this is one of the soundest investments we have ever made, because it has saved Europe for the free world--but it is also clear that it cannot continue indefinitely.

	Our friends abroad cannot depend forever on American bounty, and they don't want to. They are demanding "trade, not aid" to earn the dollars they must have. Moreover, the American taxpayer is neither able nor willing to carry indefinitely so heavy a burden of foreign aid.

	We have a kindred problem with Germany and Japan. Already both of these countries are returning to the markets of the world; and already Soviet Russia is trying to lure them into the Communist orbit with tempting offers of the trade they desperately need. If they find our ports closed to them, you and I know that the Germans and Japanese may well sail into Russian harbors.

	If that day ever comes we will have lost two powerful allies, and our enemies in the Kremlin will have gained a tremendous victory. For trade has become a major weapon in the cold war. If we fail to use it to the utmost, we may find that we are standing on the brink of a hot war, friendless and alone.

	I have had some experience with these problems, as a member of an economic mission to Europe during the war and as a delegate to the United Nations--enough experience at least to make me aware of the staggering difficulties we face.

	I do not pretend to know all the answers to these problems. But I do know that they cannot be safely entrusted to the Republican party--the party of isolation, the party of protection, the party of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff.

	This year the Republicans have nominated a man whose accomplishments as a general we all respect. They told us last summer that he was nominated by the enlightened, the so-called "new" wing of the Republican party.

	You remember the shouting and the shooting last July when the General came in person to Dallas in order to chastise the Texas friend of Senator Taft. He said that any businessman who used the Taft tactics would be sent to prison; and he called the Taft people a group of rustlers trying to steal the Texas birthright.

	Before the convention the General talked about a "top-to-bottom" cleanup of the Republican party. But what he has actually done is hand a bottom-to-top promotion to that old rustler, Bob Taft. So once again Senator Taft and the rest of the Old Guard are in control of the Republican party.

	Senator Taft himself made his position on world trade perfectly clear just the other day. He was making a speech in my own state of Illinois. He said--and he said it proudly--that in the Senate he had voted "time and again" against the reciprocal trade act. He will do it again. And you know what that would do to our well-being here in Texas--and to your country's well-being, too.

	You will elect not only a president two weeks from now, but a political party as well.

	The Republicans are coming down here now and telling you that you need a change.

	Do you want to change from Sam Rayburn to Joe Martin as Speaker of the House?

	Do you want to drop Lyndon Johnson as Chairman of the Senate Committee concerned with military preparedness, and put the Senator from Massachusetts in his place?

	Do you want to switch the chairmanship of the Small Business Committee from Wright Patman of Texas to Charles Halleck of Indiana?

	I don't believe the Republicans can sell that kind of change to any Democrats in this country, and I include Texas Democrats. With all their money, with all the subtle techniques of the soap operas, with all the tricks of the advertising experts, the Republicans still can't sell a horse like that.

	For Texans remember too well the terrible days of yesterday, and what befell them and all the rest of us under twelve years of what the Republicans called "permanent prosperity." In those days, I'm told, there were people in Texas, one of the richest states in the nation, who actually didn't have enough to eat. They went out on the plains and caught armadillos and ate them under the name of "Hoover hogs."

	Texans know that it was the Democratic party, under the leadership of Franklin Roosevelt, that lifted this country off its knees and out of that terrible depression. And Texans know, too, the record the Democratic party has made in these last twenty years--the means it has adopted to help farmers, workingmen, businessmen, to help us all to help ourselves.

	That has always been the mission of the Democratic party--to set free the energies of the people, to restrain the hand of monopoly, to stop the market-riggers, to hold down tariffs and restraints on trade, to give the farmer a fair share of national income, the workingman the right to bargain freely and collectively, and the businessman a market and a profit.

	The United States is great today, great, prosperous and respected, yet I know of no place in the United States where this is all so clearly visible as right here in Houston and along the Gulf Coast. Where twenty years ago was marsh land, there rise today the spires and towers of industry. New factories are coming, faster than the locusts came in the days of Republican rule. And more than mere factories are coming--whole new industries are being created.

	Why, I am informed that aluminum production began in Texas only in 1950 and that before very long Texas will be second only to the state of Washington in aluminum production. Before I get in trouble with you, I'd better say quickly that I have every confidence that I am misinformed and, that I should have said Texas will be first--for as everybody knows, Texas is never second.

	For the first time in her history Texas is taking her rightful place in our nation. But your unprecedented prosperity will enrich not only yourselves. It will flow outward to the rest of America and to the rest of the world; and the world will be the better for it. Texas wheat is going around the world to feed the hungry millions of India. Hungry people, wretched people, are easy prey to the dark [missing text].

	I think it is not too much to suggest that but for our help India today would be in the hands of the Communists, and Western Europe itself might not be free. And I say that a shipload of Texas wheat has done more to stop Communism in India than all the sound and fury of the demagogues in the Old Guard who try to set one American against another.

	In this day, at this dawn of her greatest glory, in this moment of the fulfillment of her ancient destiny, I can hope as a citizen, as well as a candidate, that Texas will not lose her way.

	For twenty years Texans in the Democratic party have helped to shape the destiny of their nation. It would be ironic indeed if now, at the zenith of her economic power, Texans should lose her political influence in the life of our country. And it would be a national tragedy if Texas--the very citadel of the idea of freedom of the seas, freedom to trade, freedom for America to walk her way in the world, not alone but with others--now cast her vote for contraction, timidity, indecision and isolation.

	I do not think the people of Texas will be fooled by the promises of the carpetbaggers and fair weather friends. Texans know them for what they are--the faint of heart, the friends of reaction, the men of little vision, and the authors of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff.

	For twenty years now your party and mine has led the nation. For many more years than that we have fought the good fight together--fought against special privilege, and tariff protection, and monopoly, and greed. From the very first we have fought the good fight for all the people. We share a heritage of battle and of dreams. We have brought America to the high peak of her destiny, the leader of the world, the hope of free men everywhere.

	We have led our country across the sea lanes to her rightful place with other free nations, trading with them as friends, fighting with them for freedom. Let us show America and show the world that we stand united here at home as we stand united abroad.

FOREIGN AID--GENERALFOREIGN AID--INDIAFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--TEXASMANUFACTURINGTEXASFOREIGN TRADE--GENERAL     ; N; H; D; <;
 /; *; %; ; ; ; ; :	  	  	  	 n 	 E 	 ( 	    e: