

	Thank you, thank you very much, Marigene.

	Congressman Ashley, I'm so happy to have a chance to be here in your district and to be here also with Representative Barney Quilter, who is your state representative, and our National Committee woman or the Democratic Committee of the state of Ohio, Betty Jane Gaffney, and our state senator, Frank King, who is with us.  This is a fine display of Democratic talent.  While I know that principals of schools do not like to be placed in a partisan posture, may I say we're very honored to be greeted by and to be hosted by Wilson Weis, who is the principal of the East Side Central School.

	We want to thank East Side Central School, the faculty and all of the student body for the privilege that they have accorded us today.

	I want to confess in the presence of so many ladies that I've been sending flowers to one of your fellow citizens.  I didn't tell Mrs. Humphrey about this, but Mary Boyle Burns has been on my flower list.  I've been passing along little love notes to her.  I hope her husband, John, will forgive me.  You just can't always rely on us candidates, you know.  Sometimes some of them do get a little tricky and you have to be on guard.

	Morton Neipp is with us, the former state chairman and the chairman of the Lucas county Democratic party, and John Kelly, the chairman emeritus.

	I mention these good people because I'm proud to have them as our associates, proud to be their candidates.

	Now, I'm here today to talk to mothers, sons, and daughters, fathers, brothers, members of families.  The person that really ought to be making this speech is Mrs. Humphrey.  She does a beautiful job at it.  She always gets a better press than I do.  The fellows like her a lot better.  And she always says the best things.  

	But I'm going to try to fill in for Mrs. Humphrey as well as myself, because I want to talk to you in the moments that are mine about the American family.

	Somebody might say, well, what has that to do with politics?  It has everything to do with it, because politics in a democracy is nothing more or less than the business of the people.  That is what it is.  That's why people take such a keen interest in the political campaigns.  Politics is the people's business.  It's the family's business.  It fundamentally affects your family life.  It affects the development of our whole economic and social structure.  And as I used to say to my students when I was a professor of political science, I would say politics is the people's business and the people had better take care of their business or somebody is going to give them the business.  And you know what I mean.

	So we're here to take care of the people's business this morning.  And I intend to address myself to a very constructive proposal, a new day for the American family.

	Now, I'm a family man.  I get more inspiration, more lift out of my family than all the other things put together.  Even as I speak to you now, my oldest son, his wife and two little babies--he's finishing up after having been out of school some time his law school training.  This is his senior year.  He has traveled from Minnesota to Maine on his own, out of his own earnings, in a--what do they call them, a Dodge camper, he and his wife and another couple, stopping from city to city and from town to town, talking about Humphrey and Muskie, the Democratic candidates.  And it has been a triumphal tour for them.

	His wife didn't much like politics, she told me.  She's a very attractive young lady.  My sons have enriched the family with feminine charm, for which I'm most grateful.  But they travel together, and I talked to Nancy Lee, my daughter-in-law, not long ago.

	And she said, "Dad, I'm beginning to like politics and I'm afraid your son will run for office some day."

	I said, "Get prepared, young lady.  Get prepared to live the life of a political widow, because it will most likely happen."

	I have another son who is today in California, he and his wife, with another young couple, traveling by car, and they're camping there, answering questions, visiting with young people, going to universities, carrying the message of our party.  

	My daughter has three children.  My oldest son has two.  We have five grandchildren.  And my daughter has been with my wife this past week on the campaign tour.  I wish you could have heard her on the telephone the other night.  She said, "Daddy, Mother is terrific."

	She said, "She's really much better than you ever were.  She's just terrific.  Everybody just loves her."

	I said, "I know that.  Now, what's new?"

	She was all excited in telling me about the programs that they had visited.  I mention this to you because politics can be a family affair.  You can't always rely on how everybody is going to vote.  My father used to say my mother was politically unreliable.

	He had admonished me about any unkindness that I might exhibit to her on occasion, as young boys are apt to do, but he would tell me, and I can still hear him saying it.  He would say, "Hubert, I want you to treat your mother with respect."  And believe me, my Dad saw to it that his sons treated their mother with respect.  He had old-fashioned ways of seeing to it that that happened.

	He said, "She's my sweetheart, she's my wife.  She just happens to be your mother, and I insist that you treat her with respect.  She's a wonderful woman.  She has one weakness:  she's politically unreliable."

	Because Dad always thought that Mother voted for Harding.  He never quite forgave her for that.  Harding was a good-looking man.  All of my childhood, I can remember my father holding the finger of suspicion at Mother, saying, "You've got to be careful.  Son, your mother is a good mother, but she's politically unreliable."

	If that happens in your family, don't let it tear you apart.  I want to say to my Democratic members of the family, if you have Republicans in your family, you can do one of two things.  You can encourage them to be tranquil, quiet, pleasant, apathetic citizens.  And if you can't do that, well, redouble your efforts and get on out and see how many people you can see.

	We have another reason to be interested in what I'm going to talk to you about today.  We have little children that are very dear to me.  In fact, my little Vicky has pneumonia this morning.  I just heard about it last night.  Quite frankly, I'm worried to death about it.  The first person I'm going to see when I get to Minneapolis this late evening is my little granddaughter, because after you've reared your own and you sometimes wonder how it's all going to come out, it's nice to have grandchildren.  Then you can let the mothers worry about how it's all going to come out.  You enjoy the festive part of life.  

	But I give you a word of encouragement to the mothers here that have teenaged daughters or teen-aged sons.  I remember some years back, when I used to come home from a trip and Mrs. Humphrey met me at the airport, she wondered if I ever was going to be around home.  And she would say to me, "Oh, Dad, will you please speak to Nancy?  I just don't know what I'm going to do with that girl."  And so on and so on. 

	And I used to say to her, "Why don't we have something pleasant to talk about?"  You know.  Now Nancy tells me, she says, "You know, Dad, if you and Mother had just been a little tougher on me.  You don't realize how much I got by with."

	I said, "Oh, yes, I do, because I got by with some of it myself with my folks."

	'Tis ever the same.  There has never been a parent that could outsmart an up-and-coming teenager.  But you can try.

	Now, today, I want to talk to you about what government might do to make family life a little better.  I'm not going to give you any one of these riot-roaring political business.  I think you maybe would like to know what I think about what we ought to do, what the role of government is, rather than what the other fellow doesn't think or that he doesn't do.

	At the core of American life is this institution which is as old as time, yet as young and as dynamic as our most enthusiastic hopes, the family.  And Americans depend on their family as few others for warmth, for security, and for sustenance.  And let's face it:  the family shapes its children, directs their talents, and encourages them as they define their values.  And I think every one of us here have to face up to the fact that we have real serious problems today in this institution called family.  Society cannot and must not control the family.  That is government must not.

	No president, no president can instill in a single American child the cardinal virtues of courage, temperance, justice and wisdom.  A president can set the example and he can hope that that example will have an influence.  No administration can direct his energies, the energies of that child, increase his self-discipline, enlarge his or her modesty or greatness of spirit or strengthen the bond between his parents.  There are some things a government can't do and ought not to do.

	But again, those of us who are in public life can set an example by word and by deed and by conduct and by everything about us.  Society, however, can and does influence family life.  Political administrations, according to their own integrity and strength of purpose, can alter the opportunities for family life and thus the integrity and the strength and the purpose of individual families, especially the less fortunate.  National, economic, and social policies can affect the child at play, the woman in her home, or the man at his work.  A vigorous--and this is important--a vigorous, growing economy insures or assures a family of a steady job, of a good income, and a sense of stability and dignity.  And I want to emphasize the importance of that.

	Most of us work for others.  The day of the small entrepreneur, that day I don't say is past by a long shot, but there are fewer smaller businesses in many of the communities that are privately owned.  When I was a boy, I went to work with my father in his business.  I really received my instruction from him.  I was an apprentice pharmacist at age 18.  I knew a great deal about the practice of pharmacy before I ever went to college.  My father was a druggist.  He owned his own store.

	And by the way, we are the last of six independent-operated drug stores in our city.  All the rest are owned from outside.

	Things have changed.  I am not saying whether it is bad or good.  It is just that it has changed.  Can the father today that works at an automobile plant take his son along with him?  Of course not.

	Can the father today that works down at the bank take his son along with him, alongside of him?  Of course not.  Things have changed.  And therefore, the role of the society changes.

	A good income, a good job is one of the best things that can happen to a family and a government has a lot to say about that.  From 1953 to 1960, this country experienced three tragic economic recessions.  Unemployment went up to 7 percent of the work force.  Here in the state of Ohio alone, there were 3000 fewer jobs--fewer jobs in 1960 than there were in 1953, despite a very great increase in population.  Since 1961, there are 465,000 more jobs.  And people on those jobs.

	In 1953 to 1960, family income for a family of four went up approximately $800 in this state.  Since 1961 to 1968, that family income has gone up $3000.  And that is with inflation taken out, that is with taxes taken out.  I mean real income, after taxes, after price increases.

	If I may say, therefore, that a Democratic administration has helped that family.  Three recessions laid off thousands of people and most of us have mortgages.  I gather I can speak to you with a considerable amount of information about mortgages.  I can't remember the time that my family hasn't had one.  And when you can't make the payments, it destroys many times a family.

	It was said here by Marigene that I once remarked that my childhood stopped when my mother and father lost their home in the Depression.  And I can remember that day as I look at you now, 1926, when both of the banks in our hometown closed their doors, I saw my mother weep like a child because we loved that home.

	And by the way, I just visited that home here a couple of months ago.  I visited it in the month of May, I should say.  It is still there.  It was the nicest home in town, with a beautiful orchard.  All my childhood memories are around that home.  And I saw that home taken from us, through no fault of our own, through an economic system that was crumbling, through bank failures, through depression.  And I saw my father die and early death because of the strain and the toll of the Depression, the worry upon him.

	And it affects a family.  Therefore, income, stability, economic growth is very important to every mother and father and every son and daughter.  And while this doesn't seem to get the attention that it should in this campaign, let me tell you, it will get attention if you have an administration that permits this economy to falter.  And when I hear the Republican candidate say that he has some ideas about the economy, I worry, because the economy in the last eight years prior to the election of John Kennedy was an economy that lost the American producer $175 billion--$175 billion of lost income.  Look what we could have done with that income.  There isn't a problem in our country today that requires money that couldn't have been solved by that amount of income.  You could have rebuilt every slum in America.  You could have had a decent home for every family in America.

	What we could have done with it.  Instead of that, we faltered along.

	When John Kennedy was running and he was speaking in this state, he said, "Let's get this country moving again."  Ladies and gentlemen, we have had ninety consecutive months of economic growth without a single recession.  It has been good for this country and good for your family.

	So a vigorous economy helps.  National policies toward schools, toward Social Security, toward medical care helps.  Federal aid to education--why, my dear friends, I asked my Republican opponent the other day, "Where do you stand on it?  I thought I would ask him because I know where he stands.

	I remember when he was in the Senate.  I remember when he was in the House.  He opposed it.  Ladies and gentlemen, there are millions of America children today that are in decent schools for the first time in their lives because the federal government cared, because of federal aid to education.

	And let me tell you something else about federal aid to education, most of the property taxes that you pay, and that is the taxes that really hurt you, because those are not base on the ability to pay--the sales taxes that you pay, and you pay a lot of them here in Ohio, they are not based on the ability to pay; they are just based on what you spend--those are the taxes that pay for your schools.  Those are the taxes that pay for your municipal services.  When a federal government helps you, that tax comes on the progressive tax scale.  It is based on the ability to pay.  The poor pay less than the rich.  The middle income pays less than the rich, more than the poor.  But your state taxes are not that way.  They are just leveled on assessed property valuation.  And in many states across this country, home ownership has become a liability.  We have got to do something about that home ownership.  We have got to see that there are means of revenue that do not depress, that do not press down upon the homeowner to a point where people no longer want to own their own home.

	Home ownership is vital to a secure and stable society.  The most unfair taxes in America are property taxes.  The second most unfair tax in America is the sales tax.  The most fair tax in America is the progressive income tax.  And the federal government has the progressive income tax.  And my dear friends, one of the reasons that some of the people are opposed to federal programs is because the federal tax taxes on the ability to pay and some of the people in this country with vast wealth just don't want to pay.  And they are the ones that ought to pay.

	When my income goes up, I ought to pay.  When that income goes down, you ought not to pay so much.  That is the fair way.

	So you see, government policy does affect these.  Now, a Humphrey-Muskie administration will place priority on people, and we are going to give special concern to those measures which strengthen family ties.  I have issued today a seven-point program of action.  Some copies of it are available here.  I hope that you that are in P.T.A. or in church work or in community work, whatever work you are in, I hope if you are in the League of Women Voters, or whatever group it may b, if you are in the labor or co-op organization, the auxiliaries, that you will get this statement and study it.  I don't want to go through it and take your time in detail.  I will just mention the key points.

	The first is that as president, I would recommend to the Congress and would extend comprehensive prenatal care; prenatal care to all women in low-income families, so that as far as possible, every child can be born well.  Even before birth, each child should be given the chance to strengthen rather than weaken the family bonds.

	Now, already hundreds of thousands of children are born unwanted, uncared for, physically disabled, mentally deficient.  Oh, my dear friends, the tragedy that this means.  And some of us know it.

	I would extend family planning services as part of prenatal care to low-income women on a voluntary basis.  How would we do this?  By establishing entirely new setups?  No.  By using our outpatient clinics, by using our existing hospitals, by federal subsidies and grants to those hospitals so that you can use your own doctors, your own dentists, your own obstetrician, your own people, your own pediatric specialist.

	And what is the second thing?  I would propose to put increased emphasis on the early years of childhood, the years in which the families are formed, and in which their future lives are shaped.  Ladies and gentlemen, the most valuable learning period for your baby, your child, is from age three to seven.  They learn more in those four years than all the rest of their lives.  And one of the things that we have discovered is that the diet during those four years is more vital to the health of your child than all the rest of that child's life.  Now, we know that now.  Let's do something about it.

	That is why I suggest that with the use of health centers in our neighborhoods, we can do so much.  I propose to extend medical care for all children, particularly starting out--we will start now with the low-income family--during the first year of life, placing special emphasis on nutrition, on dental care, and on crippling disabilities.  The Medical Association, the Dental Association, the Hospital Association, all of them are ready to cooperate.

	We have established forty health centers in America now.  We need 400--ten times as many.  And anybody that can put a man on the moon can help put a health center in a neighborhood. 

	I would rather have it that way.

	And once this program is established for that first year of life, I would extend it over a five-year period so that every child, particularly in the lower middle income and low-income groups, who are unable to sometimes pay for their own services, would enjoy medical care until he reaches the age of six.

	Let me simplify my philosophy.  I think there are three groups of people that are entitled to special care:  the elderly that are in the twilight of life, that have lived their three score and five; the child that is just in the dawn of life, who came here through no particular design of his own; and the handicapped, who are in the shadows of life, who just don't have the same chance that the rest of us do that are of whole mind and whole body.  Those three groups this government owes more to than anybody else, and not a one of us that have ever gone to church a single Sunday would have denied these people this special care.  A government of the people, by the people, and for the people should be concerned with the people.

	I have always felt that with myself and my own family, we have been fortunate.  We ought to be able to more or less take care of ourselves with the general community services which are available.  But for some, there is a need of extra.

	A man said to me the other day, "If you could get a guaranteed contract for the next twenty years of $15,000 a year paid, would you sign it?"  He said he went to an audience like this.  He said "Everybody show me your hand if you could be guaranteed $15,000 a year for the rest of your life, of your work life, would you sign that contract and be satisfied?"  And a lot of hands went up.

	Then this man explained to them--and it was Jack Gilligan who was explaining it.  Jack Gilligan said, "All right, let me tell you what you are going to get.  You are going to get $15,000 a year, that is all.  That may mean that you live out in the Nevada desert.  It may mean that you are a hundred miles away from a hospital.  It may mean that you don't have any running water, any modern sanitary facilities, any police protection.  It means you have no health protection, it means you have no roads, it means you have no police, no fire department.  Would you sign it?"

	And every hand went down.  Because see what you get?  It isn't just the income.  What you get is this school.  What you get is your public health service, your fire department, your libraries, your parks, your streets.  It all comes in what we call American citizenship.  Therefore, again, government policies are so important.

	Now, I said that good medical care is essential for the young.  I would extend also preschool programs as rapidly as possible so that every parent who wishes could have preschool for his child beginning at the age of four.

	Now, we have got to do this.  We have got to get over this old-fashioned habit that you start children to school at six and that you just have them there for nine months.  That was born out of the tenth century.  We are in the twentieth century.  Now, when the doctors come to you and tell you what your child's education means more to him from age four to seven than at any other time, don't you think you ought to listen?

	When an educator comes to you and says that your child's education, learning period, is more rapid from four to seven or three to seven than at any other time, don't you think we ought to listen?  When we know that protein deficiency makes for mental deficiency, don't you think we ought to listen?  Adequate protein is as important to the mental health of a child as all the learning he will ever get.  Millions of youngsters are stunted in intellectual growth because of inadequate diet.  And here we are in the United States with an abundance of food.  We don't even know what to do with it.  We pay people not to produce it.  Yet we have literally hundreds of thousands of young people in America that are intellectually dwarfed, intellectually stunted, because they get an inadequate diet.  Yet we know what to do about it.

	Why, my friends, we put little children on the crossings out here and we give them a band and we call this the school patrol.  We say that the school patrol will see that the children don't go across the street when there is rapid traffic.  Why?  Because we have learned that if children cross the street when there is traffic, they get run over.  So we adopt the program of police protection and of the school patrol.  Ladies and gentlemen., we know more about the health of a child, more about his learning from age four to seven than we know about traffic.  And we do nothing about it.

	Now, we have had a few children in Project Head Start.  We ought to have Head Start for every mother that wants her baby, her boy or girl to go to preschool all across this country.  And we can do it. 

	Now, a word about the nation's public welfare system and I want to be very precise on it:  our welfare system is old-fashioned, obsolete, and even at times unfair and degrading.  That is where we start.  For those people that need welfare, for those people that are physically, mentally handicapped so that they can't work, for the mother that cannot leave her children, then I say that this country, rich and prosperous as it is, that last year spent billions of dollars on cosmetics, many more billions of dollars on alcoholic beverages, and many more billions of dollars on cigarettes, I think that that country can afford to provide decent income maintenance for those who really cannot work. 

	But most people want to be self-sustaining.  Most people really want to do something with their lives if they are given a chance.  That is why job training is so important.  That is why adult education is so important.  And that is why day care centers are so important.

	Why, my dear friends, if the European countries, Communist or non-Communist--and they have them all over Europe--if they can provide day care centers for working mothers, what is wrong with it in this country?  Why shouldn't a mother be able to leave her home to go to work rather than get a relief check if she can leave her children in a decent place under professional guidance, under competent supervision?  What a tragedy it is if that mother goes out, even if it is for domestic work, and has to leave her children roaming the street, with no care at home.

	You mean to tell me that a country that can build country clubs all over the landscape, that a country that can build restaurants and taverns all over the landscape, a country that can spend a million and a half dollars per mile for an interstate highway system can't afford to buy day care centers so people can be productive and self respecting?  When I am your president, we are going to build day care centers across this country. 

	We have so many things that we need.  Then let me just quickly say that I think there is something else that we need to do.  We need to start to recognize the diverse needs and skills of our children and young people and the varied careers that they will follow when they head families themselves.  And that is why we have to increase educational opportunities, improving vocational education so that young people learn how to do something.

	Much of our educational system today is not relevant to the needs of our times.  We have to make that educational system relevant.  And I would propose federal financial aid for college students in a much larger measure so that children from poor families as well as from other families--this isn't just for the poor; it is for everybody--will have a fair chance to enter and continue college.  I wonder how many of us realize the great potential talent that goes untapped amongst the families of low-income in this country?  My friends have heard me say this so often, but you haven't.  There hardly is an athlete today that is a champion, that represents your country, that didn't come from a family of the slum, rural or urban.  I think America would come in about twenty-fifth in the Olympics if it wasn't for the fact that the children of the poor who have had a chance in a good school have come to the top.  And they are not just good athletes; they are good students, potential resources beyond anything you and I ever dreamed of.

	By the way, when did we get so fancy?  You know, I look around sometimes and I hear people talking about some of these poor folks.  Well, I want to tell you, my family is only about a generation away from that.  How long was yours so rich?  Most everybody I have ever known in my life was at one time or another broke.

	But you know, there is a lot of difference between being poor in spirit and poor in the purse--a lot of difference. 

	Now, I want to conclude on one thing.  That is this:  what are you going to do about these handicaps.  One out of every 400 babies born in this century and in this state--more in this state--is mentally retarded.  We have a mentally retarded granddaughter.  She is the little girl that has pneumonia this morning.  You know what that means if you have mental retardation.  Any kind of bronchial infection, any kind of cold, is very, very serious.  Now, this is a beautiful child.  She has more love in one day of her life for everybody else than most of us have in a month.

	She is educable.  She can be trained.  Fortunately, her father and mother make a good living.  Fortunately, her grandfather makes a good living.  Fortunately, her parents and her grandfather and grandmother are going to see that she goes to a private school.

	But how many people can afford that?  So my little Vicky can sing songs, she can read, she can write, she helps her mother, she can dance, she is more fun than a bag of monkeys, as we say.  She can swim, she can lay on the trampoline, she can do almost anything that a normal child can do, because she has had intensive training.

	But you know what they recommended when that child was born?  Put her in an institution.  That is what I was told by our county people.  That child was born on the day of my re-election to the United States Senate in 1960.  We called her Victoria.  And I knew the night the child was born that she was retarded, because the doctors said the signs were there.  And we spent a week in sorrow and prayer trying to figure out what to do.

	And I remember my daughter saying that we are going to give Vicky a family life.  So that child has had a home life.  That child has had a school life.  But let me tell you, for that one, a thousand go uncared for.

	Now, do you feel good about that?  I don't.  I want to tell you that in think that the handicapped in this country are entitled to more care than anybody else.  What's more is the handicapped are pretty decent people.

	And may I say as a tear comes down my face, may I say that we can save the lives of these handicapped children.  The life of Helen Keller is one life--magnificent.  But look what we have done for the blind.  Look what we have done in the employment of the handicapped.  Look what we have been able to do with the emotionally disturbed.  Look what we are trying to do with multiple sclerosis and all the many other diseases that afflict the young and afflict those even in older age.

	My fellow Americans, the government has a responsibility.  What makes you think that because a child is crippled, mentally or physically, that that child isn't entitled to a room in this school with special teachers?  That child is a child of this community.  That child is a citizen of this state, of this United States.  That child is a child of God.  And they are entitled to care.  Not only to care.  They are entitled to more than care.  They are entitled to loving care.

	And let me tell you, they become productive.  We need a program of hiring these people--training and hiring them.

	Do you realize we have been able to hire the past year 25,000 mentally retarded people who were formerly public charges.  And they have become, 25,000 of them in one year have become self-sustaining citizens.  You know what that means in saving money?  More importantly, do you know what it means in human dignity?

	We have been able to hire 400,000 physically handicapped in the last year.  You know what that means to that physically handicapped?  For the first time, they can stand even if they are crippled.  For the first time, they are productive.

	Now, if your government can help--and I am proud to have been part of an administration which has helped establish 400 mental health clinics across this country, very proud to have been a part of that.  Proud to know that for the first time your government is aiding the mentally retarded; proud to tell you that the civil service regulations of your federal government have been amended so that special consideration is given to the employment of the handicapped.

	Now, those are some of the things we can do.  This is what I mean by a government of the people, by the people, and for the people.  This is what I mean by an administration that is people-oriented.

	Yes, I know that the penny pinchers will say it costs money.  I am here to tell you, my friends, that the greatest cost is in neglect.  The amount of money that is lost because of disability, ill health, because of being denied, because of unemployment, is far more than any you will ever spend to try to remedy these injustices.  America is the richer today because America cared for its people.  America is the better today because people gave to the polio fund so that we finally found a way of vaccine--the Salk vaccine--to inoculate people against polio.  And your government helped.  America is the better today because we are pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into research not only on the physical disabilities of our people, but the emotional and mental disabilities.

	Every American is important.  Every American needs to be brought into the main stream of this country.  And some Americans are denied and handicapped because of their color, because of their economic status, just as some Americans are not given a chance because they are sick or because they are the victims of malnutrition or because they are unemployed or because they are physically or mentally handicapped.  There are hundreds of thousands of Americans that are just as much denied and deprived because of prejudice.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we need everybody in this country.  We don't fight our wars with just the white.  We don't win our Olympics with just the sons of the rich.  We don't make this country great just because you are Anglo-Saxon.  This is a great America, a pluralistic society of many peoples.  We need everybody.  And we need everybody performing at his best.  We need every citizen performing at his or her maximum capacity, and the Humphrey-Muskie administration is going to be an administration that cares about people.  And by caring about people, there will be plenty of money.  Make no mistake about it, money is not printed, it is earned if it is worthwhile.  And if you have a public that is earning, if you have people that are producing, you will have the dividends that are necessary for the social adjustments and for the social benefits that a great society ought to have.

	So I come to you with what I call the most sound fiscal policy, as well as the most sound social policy.  And what is it?  Invest in people; invest in the least of these as well as the best of these.

	Who knows?  Who knows where the next genius will come from?  who knows where the cure for cancer will come from?  Who knows where the great discoveries will come from?  Most of them have come from people that in their childhood were the children of the poor.  And I suggest that we give them a chance.

	Thank you very, very much. 

	Now, friends, will you sit down?  It is awfully hot up here.  I don't know if you realize it.  Somebody said to me the other day, Mr. Vice President, I think you are getting thin.  I said yes, I think I am getting boiled out.  These television lights, they really pour it on you.  When you are working, they--first, I want to comment on this remarkable pop art I see about here.  I never knew I looked so cute.

	I want you to thank the children for what they have done.  I hope to be able to get out there and say hello to them before we leave anyway.

	Quickly, can I have one or two questions from the audience?

	QUESTION:  I am the mother of eleven children and my grocery bills are tremendous.  When you are president, can you do anything to bring those grocery bills down?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The lady says she is the mother of eleven children and her grocery bills are terrific.  I bet they are.

	Let me say first of all that the farmer that produces those groceries, he is getting very low prices today.  The price of wheat today, I regret to tell you--it doesn't make me happy--is the lowest it has been in thirty years and the price of Wheaties hasn't gone down, not a bit.  The price of the advertising of the Wheaties has gone up.  It has.

	Now, let me just make it very clear to you, I think the answer to that is two things.  By the way, we are beginning to get some price stability again.  The wholesale price index on commodities--now, this is a fact--the wholesale price index, which is the cost of living index on products, went up 9.2 percent from 1953 to 1960.  It has gone up 9.3, one-tenth of 1 percent more, since 1961 to 1968.  The cost of services, however, has gone up appreciably in the cost of living index.  That is the whole matter of everything from hospital services to medical services to the repair services on your TV, and so on.  As we make a more complicated society, and it is very complicated, and you get all these new gadgets, you find the cost of maintenance goes up.

	What is the answer to it?  The answer is a degree of price stability.  That is one of the reasons we had the surtax, the federal surtax.  I might mention to you had three federal tax reductions since 1964--three of them.  And you have had only one tax increase of the one year, a surtax.  For a family with an income under 5000 a year, it was no increase at all.  For a family with an income of $7500, it was a $20 increase.  For a family with an income of $10,000 to $75,000, it was about a hundred dollar increase in tax.  So you really haven't had a large increase in federal taxes.  In fact, it is lower today, 1968, than it was at this time in 1964--the federal taxes.

	Now, we have tried to stabilize the price structure by slowing down a little bit what we call the fires, damping down the fires of inflation.  The answer, therefore, is wage increases based primarily on productivity and the improvements of automation, so that when you put automation in, it doesn't deny the man who is on the job the benefits of that productivity.  And keeping your family income rising while the government of the United States--that comes out of the private sector--while the government through its fiscal policies keeps the cost of living as stable as possible.  It is not a simple thing.  But we work mighty hard at it.

	Thank you for your question.

	Another one?

	QUESTION:  Mr. Vice President, I worry about the senior citizen with Social Security.  Some of us don't have enough to live on.  Can you do anything for us?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The senior citizen?

	QUESTION:  Yes, the one who bears--

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Ma'am, if you will bear with me for about one week, I am going to have the most heartening message for you that any man has ever given the senior citizens in this country. 

	Can I just add that my public life has been somewhat characterized by concern for the senior citizen.  I was the original author of the Medicare bill.  I introduced that bill in May 1949, and stuck with it for sixteen years.  I was called every dirty name that the opposition could think of and some people still believe it, regretfully.  But I believe that Medicare was a Godsend.  And I happen to think that Social Security needs to be greatly improved.

	QUESTION:  I have a son that has just come back from his fourth year in Vietnam.  He is nineteen years a sergeant.  He says the morale in the majority of the soldiers in Vietnam is against the war whenever they find out how their government is letting them mutilate our flag.  What can be done about it?  The riots and things, they think nothing of that.  They hear about people burning government property and he says when they find out that...[missing text].

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY  The lady says that she has a son who has had four years--is that correct?

	QUESTION:  No, he has been four years in Vietnam, but nineteen years in service.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Nineteen years of service, four years in Vietnam.  He says the morale of the troops is excellent.  Is that what you said?

	QUESTION:  Yes.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Correct.  You are right.

	She has two sons over there.  But she said these boys say that the troops get worried and concerned when they see people mutilating our flag, burning their draft card and acting up in that kind of way.  What can we do about it?

	I will tell you one thing we can do about it.  We can let the American people know first of all about the high degree of that morale.  I have been to Vietnam to see those men; I have been out there with them.  I have been up there along the DMZ, I have gone up to Da Nang and Khu Lai.  I have been on the firing line.  I have seen these troops and I have seen some of them when they come home.  They do have morale.  They believe in what they are doing.  They think what they are doing is the right thing to do.

	The handful of people--may I say you get a few people in front of draft headquarters.  How many are there?  There may be two or three hundred out of a city of five million.  You can find that many nuts any place. 

	I repeat, the American people are unhappy about any war.  I hope we will always be that way.  But this handful of people, whoever they are, do not represent the overwhelming majority of the American people.  And I call upon the great majority of the American people to make their voice heard in this country rather than that loud little raucous minority.  

	Thank you.  
CHILD CARECONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDEDUCATION, PRE-PRIMARYEDUCATION, PRIMARYEDUCATION, SPECIALEMPLOYMENT--DISABLED PERSONSHEALTH CARE--PRENATAL/CHILDBIRTHHOME OWNERSHIPNUTRITIONPROPERTY TAXWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWELFAREDISABLED PERSONSFAMILIESHEALTH CARE--CHILDREN/YOUTH          
 { v q k g e M B 2	 b	 X	 A	 #	 		  	  	  	  	  	 s 	 e 	 \ 	 P 	 :  3  #   e: