

	My very good friends--and I am sure that I may call you that, or else you would not have turned out in such numbers this morning to allow me to bring you a friendly word of greeting and to express to you some of the thoughts on my mind as we progress through this political campaign--first, there are one or two personal things on my heart and mind I should like to express.

	To Reverend Williams, may I say in the course of the campaign that seems now to stretch back almost into dim history, I have heard no invocation that was more moving and in which I join more heartily that I did in yours. I sincerely join in every word of the prayer you offered upon behalf of all of us.

	I, of course, feel a great sense of distinction in sharing this platform with distinguished political leaders of this great Commonwealth--with Governor Fine, Senator Martin, Senator Duff and Congressman Mumma.  I should like to point out that what we are tying to do through this great crusade is not to accomplish a job that belongs to one man.  We are trying to accomplish a job that belongs to millions of Americans; and in each state, there are those who take charge in volunteer movements, in regular movements, and some in political office.  A part of Pennsylvania's team of leadership is here on this platform.  To them, I not only give my salutations, I compliment this great Commonwealth on their character.

	We are just entering the closing week of a very vital campaign.  Your decision is going to be registered one week from tomorrow.  In the ordinary course of events, you would expect the party in power to be holding up before your gaze the record of their recent stewardship of our affairs.  This they have long ceased to attempt to do because they would have to defend--before your critical analysis and gaze--a record that includes a fumbling toward peace, a lack of vision, a lack of wisdom, a lack of firmness that we instinctively know cannot lead us to that goal of our heart's desire--a peace under which people of this great country can live in tranquility without fearing every day a new call for our sons to go in uniform abroad, there to defend our interests--and in one case, at least, to fight in order to preserve in the world that respect for freedom, that strength of freedom which can allow us to remain the free people that we are.  Then at home, they would have to defend a record of extravagant expenditures, expenditures of great size that even the announcement of the sum no longer means anything in our comprehension--eighty or eighty-five billion dollars.  I am certain it means nothing more to any one of you than it does to me; but it does mean this, my friends:  It means an expenditure which, in spite of the highest taxes we have ever imposed on our people, and taxation levied upon an income that is the highest we have ever had, we are still left with an inability to pay from twelve to fifteen percent of our bills.  If you do that at home, you know what eventually will happen to you.  And you are doing it at home.

	The Department of Labor published statistics only a couple of weeks ago which show that in the year 1950, the average American city family spent four-hundred dollars more than it took in salaries and in wages in order to live.  So both in our federal governmental expenditures and in our own households, we are going deeper and deeper into debt, caught between the double-squeeze of high taxes and prices.  That is another item in the record they would have to defend.

	They would have to defend not merely evidence that there has been subversion in government, but they would have to defend also against the obvious truth that they have been complacent under this knowledge.  They have not been as anxious to get rid of those people as they should have been.  They have cried "Red Herring" when evidence was presented that there were people in our government who, instead of being dedicated to the Constitution and to our form of government, are dedicated to principles emanating from Moscow.

	Finally, they would have a record of just sheer crookedness in government.  Nine of our principal collectors of Internal Revenue have been relieved for malfeasance in office.  Some are behind bars, unfortunately, I think, for too short a time.  But again, it was only the persistent struggling by committees of Congress that got this government to move.

	That is the kind of record they would have to defend, knowing that it is useless.  This administration, for a long time, has deserved the name of "Scandal A Day." They have turned in desperation to a panicky idea of selling fear to the American people.  Everybody who is not a part of the administration in Washington and of its adherents is charged with every kind of crime possible to allege.  For example, I, as a person, am charged with wanting to reduce the pay of soldiers, to increase their length of service and to eliminate the customary rotation periods between points of danger and other places.  Now, I am not going to defend myself against such a falsehood.  I trust the men and women with whom I have served over forty years--the men who are serving now and who are the successors of all those veterans now back in civilian clothes--I am going to trust their knowledge of the friendship that has existed between me and every man in the services--I am going to trust that service, whether it was in the air, on the sea or on the ground.  I am going to trust those men to be stronger in their belief of my friendship and my sense of fair play than in their readiness to believe any such calumny.

	It has been charged that if you should allow this crusade to succeed, that they would pull the rug out from under the farmers.  Now, I hope some of you know that my Mamie and I have a little farm down here just a few miles, and though we may be frustrated farmers in that we haven't seemed yet to have the opportunity to go there and to make of it what we should like and live there, still I think the mere fact that we acquired that little piece of ground shows where our heart lies--and I don't think we would be going around trying to get in bad with our neighbors and with all our associates throughout the United States.  When they are reduced in the face of all the pledges made by the Republicans and their associates and the Independents and the enlightened Democrats to support decent farm programs--when they have looked at the record of both Houses in Congress supporting fair and proper programs for the farming industry of our country--I don't know how they can make that charge.  But nothing is impossible for people whose real fear is that they are going to lose their political jobs.

	Then, they fear also, of course, that this bunch of two-headed monsters is going to rip out the social security floor of protection from under every American.  I am very proud that the Republican platform says we shall extend and improve those programs, but I will tell you this:  I know of no man in this crusade who is of that type and kind that would want to desert our destitute and our aged, our sick--the people who need help.  These people in this crusade are youngsters of idealism and energetic purpose.  They are older people who have seen this world develop and know what the world needs.  They realize that this government, to be worthy of the United States must be concerned for 155 million people, the education of the young, the health of those who work, and their security; and the security and comfort of those among us who are aged and cannot take care of themselves.  Those programs shall never be damaged; but on the contrary, this crusade will be brought forward to meet constantly these changing conditions that, without care and concern, are very apt to deprive all of these pensions, insurance policies, bonds and savings of their real value.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the crusade that intends to have its real beginning next November 4--when it receives its orders from you--intends to go through the next four years with these objectives:  to work with all the skill of devoted men and women, men and women of prestige in their own communities--with all the skill that they can muster among themselves when brought to Washington to bring peace, to pursue resolutely, firmly the objectives of honorable peace.

	They expect and are determined to bring expenditures within reasonable levels; to eliminate waste, corruption, subversion and extravagance in government; to have concern for your money, your tax money; to have concern that you will be able to retain more of your earnings and that you are able to take home from the store on the corner more things with the money you have.

	That is the reason we believe this tired, worn-out, shopworn government you have in government now must be cleaned out from top to bottom.  It is one reason we are so delighted there are so many youngsters and so many women in this business.  Women seem to handle a broom better than men, and big and many brooms are indicated for us at this moment.  The youngsters are the ones who are going to have to live with this future of America.

	If I am lucky, ladies and gentlemen, I still own twenty years' worth of America.  But every one of those first voters, if he or she is lucky, owns at least sixty years.  That should be a measure of our interest in this future.  It is high time they are getting into it.  Wherever America goes, they are going to be there.  They have to live with it.  So the determination of us older ones is to pass to them the lessons from the experiences we have had.

	Unfortunately, too much of that experience has been not of a very happy kind.  We have had two world wars, and now we have another war.  But if we can point out to them the lessons that we have learned and they can come along and take over with their idealism, their high purpose, and their great energy, then, my friends, let us not think of despairing about this great country.  Let us not listen to such songs as "Don't Let Them Take It Away," and "You Never Had is So Good."

	The future of this country is brilliant, beyond the imagination of anyone here to picture.  We are going to attain a standard of living; we are going forward to levels of security; we are going to live in a constantly increasing atmosphere of spiritual and intellectual strength with the material advantages that the world has never seen or known.  But the only thing we have to do is to unite behind a government of men and women of all walks of life and from all sections of this great country that will excite your pride.  When you go to that great decision of yours on November 4, the decision that you have to make one week from tomorrow, you decide this:  Where is the government, where is the power to concentrate in Washington the kind of people that I will follow with pride, behind whom I will unite with my fellows in order to lead this country to peace and to prosperity without war?

	In those brief moments that I have had, I have tried to outline briefly the aspirations, the hopes, the determination of this great crusade.  If you believe in the things I have tried so haltingly and sketchily to outline, if you want to bring them about, you belong in one place--in this crusade.

	Again, may I thank you for the great honor you have done me in coming out, and may I present to you my Mamie.


AGRICULTURE--GENERALDEBT, NATIONALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGOVERNMENT WASTETAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     - - - - u-
 g- b- ]- S- G- E- E- ;-	  	  	 | 	 _ 	 @ 	 0 e: