

	Thank you very much. Thank you very much Mayor Meyer, Governor Lucey, Lieutenant Governor Marty Shriver and other distinguished platform guests and my Wisconsin friends: First of all, let me tell you what a joy it always is to come back to Milwaukee and to Wisconsin where we won the first primary election and where we first proved that the polls were wrong and that we were going to go on to win the nomination. I am glad to come back today and be introduced to this crowd by one of the most respected and effective mayors in the country--a man who in the most difficult job in the world, which is serving as the mayor of a great city, has been able to hold that office with the confidence of the people of this city for more than thirteen years, and I think that is a great tribute to him. And I am pleased to stand on this platform with Governor Pat Lucey. Here is a governor who has not only addressed the problems of his state in the aggressive traditions of Wisconsin but who has reached out beyond the problems of Wisconsin to recognize that the tragedy of Vietnam is the major affliction that besets Wisconsin and every other state in this country.

	And so the problems that confronted us when this campaign began are still with us. The problems of war and the problems of neglect and despair here in our own society, and so it is a great tribute to the people who stand in this city square today that you are here in spite of the rain, in spite of the wind and in spite of the weather. It is a demonstration that the people who are involved in this campaign are not sunshine patriots, you are not summer soldiers, you are not fair-weather friends, but you are here because no matter what the sacrifice, we are going to change the leadership of this country in 1972.

	I heard the cry coming out of Miami Beach that you heard coming out of the convention--"four more years"--my reaction to that is that this country cannot afford four more years of the policies of Richard Nixon--four more months is the part I like best. And we can't say that after tomorrow because it is going to be less than four more months after tomorrow, but I ask every person here today to think about the needs of this city, to think about the needs of this state, to think about a President who has vetoed three major bills to assist education and to relieve some of the burden on the property taxpayers and I ask you if we can afford four more years of that. 

	And then many of you here are young today, but whether you are young or old, I ask all of us to think about what our present administration did to try to kill efforts in the Congress to improve the retirement benefits for our older citizens, our mothers and fathers, our grandparents. These older people who are lonely, who are left to their own resources, living in some cases on less than $100 a month--I ask you to remember that President Nixon used all of the power of the White House to defeat an increase in Social Security benefits for these older people and I ask you if we want four more years of that kind of attitude in this country. I ask you to think about the problems that the Mayor described here a few minutes ago--the need for new housing, the need for modern, efficient public transit systems, the need to get at these problems that Senator Nelson has addressed so eloquently in saving this precious environment from pollution and contamination, and then look at the neglect and tragically mistaken priorities of this present administration and ask yourselves whether America can afford another four more years of mistaken priorities. 

	But above all of this we come back time after time to an issue that simply will not go away and that is the issue of destruction and violence and killing that is going on at this very moment all across the face of Southeast Asia. Can we afford to keep that going another four more years? Now remember on October 9th we are going to have a very profoundly important anniversary in this country because four years ago on October 9, 1968, when Mr. Nixon was asking for our votes in a very closely contested presidential election with Senator Humphrey, Mr. Nixon had this to say: Those who have had four years to bring peace in Vietnam and have failed to do so do not deserve another chance. And I think that is a pledge and that is a truth to which we ought to hold this present administration. There is no settlement that we could secure in this war today or anytime from here on out that is any better than the settlement Mr. Nixon could have gotten four years ago when he came into office on a pledge that he was going to unveil a secret plan to end the war.

	What has happened in these last four years to that secret plan? Another 20,000 precious young American lives lost, another 100,000 young Americans crippled and maimed and wounded in this war. Tens of thousands of these young men in despair and turning to heroin, walking the streets of our country unemployed, hopelessly addicted, on the way to premature death, to crime, to lives that are ruined by this conflict. Think also of the tens of thousands of innocent people who have been killed by American bombs and artillery these past four years. I want to say to you, as one who served for some three years in the Second World War as a bomber pilot and who knows something about the destructive power of demolition bombs, that it is a moral outrage against everything this country stands for. 

	Mr. Nixon can point to the fact that he has reduced very sharply the number of Asians fighting on the Asian mainland but what he does not tell us is that there are 150,000 American fighting men still tied down to this war located in Thailand, located in Guam, located in our naval units and our air units--pounding the daylights out of these people day after day after day because of their refusal to surrender in a cause in which we never should have been involved in the first place. So the President addressed himself the day before yesterday to the international flow of narcotics, and he said one of the greatest dangers to the security and well-being of the people of this country is the steady growth of the heroin traffic in the United States. And it is a fact, although the President didn't tell us this, that the number of drug addicts addicted to hard drugs has doubled in the four years that he has been in the White House. The President said he was going to cut off aid to any government that participates in that traffic. Well I say to you, Mr. President, that the place to begin if you are really concerned about cutting off the international narcotics traffic is to cut off your friend General Thieu, cut off aid, cut off American tax dollars and American blood and American resources that sustain those corrupt military regimes all across the face of Southeast Asia--and you will not only be doing something to check the flow of hard drugs and the related problems of crime that have been attacked so successfully in this city under the direction of Mayor Meyer, but you will also be doing something that is right for the people of Southeast Asia and the people of America, and that is ending this senseless slaughter once and for all.

	So let us end this war. Not because it is the most difficult task that will face the next President of the United States but because as long as it continues it corrupts and poisons and afflicts everything we try to do to redeem our own society. But once this war is ended, then we can be about the business of strengthening the health care of the American people; then we can be about the business of providing a more hopeful and happier life for the older people in our country. Then we can quit vetoing education and child development daycare center bills of the kind the President vetoed; and then we can launch a truly effective attack on the problems of crime and drugs that face us all across this country.

	I spoke earlier today in the city of Chicago about the needs of our schools--not only our public schools but non-public schools--and we ought to be able to devise systems of support that are within the framework of our Constitution under which we can bring property tax relief and at the same time provide greater tax consideration for the parents of hard-pressed families that are attending both public and private schools all across this country. So what I call for here today is not something new and radical that does violence to the great traditions of this country; I call again today as I have so many times for America to go back to the great principles on which this country is founded--on which the American Revolution established a reverence for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Those are the things that give meaning and enrichment both to the political and the spiritual life of this nation. And once again I call upon our country to come home--come home from war and killing and death and injustice and neglect and despair and to set this country on the road to peace and justice for all of our people.

	We have on this platform a distinguished and eloquent clergyman, Reverend Witherspoon, and I want to take advantage of this occasion to remind you of a great challenge that comes to us from the Scriptures some three thousand years old where the prophet said, "I have set before you two choices--life or death, blessing or cursing--therefore choose life that thou and thy seed might live." That is the choice that we have to make in 1972, so let us choose not cursing but blessing, let us choose not death and violence and killing and hatred but let us cast our lot on the side of life. If we do that we will truly call America home.

	Thank you very much.
DRUG ABUSE--HEROINDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIES--SOUTHEAST ASIAEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYVIETNAM WAR     =' 	' ' & &
 & & & & & & & &	  	  	 c 	 ) 	 