

	Oh boy, thank you, thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, thank you very much.    

	Thank you very much, my good friend, Senator Yarborough.  Just imagine if you had to speak in all the states that I had to speak in what your throat would be like.  But we are going to give Ralph Yarborough some good Democratic medicine, and he will be back in good voice in a very short time. 

	Congressman Henry Gonzalez, the friend of the people.  What a wonderful congressman you have here.  

	Congressman Kazen, another great friend of the people, and this wonderful United States senator that has never quit fighting for what he believed was right, and he knew what was right, because he knew the people that he represented, and Senator Ralph Yarborough is one of the strong voices and one of the most effective workers in the United States Senate, and I hope and pray you will keep him there as long as he is willing to serve.  

	I want to thank the Edgewater High School band over here for being here with us.  Edgewood.  Edgewood.   You will have to forgive me, up in Minnesota we have so many lakes.  Every time we hear the Edgewood High School band...[missing text].

	I was just out to the John F. Kennedy High School, and I visited two of the great ones here now. 

	I want to thank these young people, and I want to thank all of you for taking time today to come here and share these few minutes with me.  First of all, may I just take a moment on behalf of my wife and myself to pay my respects to a very fine friend and a former great Congressman of this district and a judge of the United States Court of Military Appeals, Paul Kilday.  He was a dear friend of mine, and we are going to miss him, and Mrs. Humphrey and I wanted in the presence of his friends and neighbors to extend our condolences and our sympathy to his family.  

	You know, Paul Kilday, like Henry Gonzalez and Ralph Yarborough, Congressman Kazen and others possessed, in a great measure, the fighting spirit of Texas, and the spirit that has been talked about here today that symbolized--that is symbolized by this hallowed ground, and I am so pleased that Ralph Yarborough took note of the historical fact that the stand that was made here at the Alamo was not a stand that was made simply by one group of people, by a Protestant, Anglo-American, but was made by black--but was made by black and white, made by Mexican-Americans, Spanish surname--made by people of every race, creed and color, because, ladies and gentlemen, there is no one group in America that defends freedom alone.  There is no one group that has built our cities alone.  The story of America is the story of the many peoples, many cultures, many races, many origins that have found a common purpose, and have stood together, and have fought together, and built together, lived together and died together, played together and sorrowed together.  The story of this city, this grand old city of America, and the story of this hallowed ground symbolizes everything that this nation means.  

	Well now, I want you to know that I asked my vice presidential candidate, my man and your man, and a wonderful man--the son of an immigrant, by the way--I asked Ed Muskie to make his first campaign speech down in San Antonio at the Alamo.

	I said, "Come down there, Ed go down there and get that fighting spirit, because we are going to have to have the same courage, the same determination that those patriots had at this historic place, to turn back the Republican money, the Republican power."  But let it be said from this platform today that Mr. Nixon and his Republicans are on the road to defeat, right out of San Antonio. 

	You bet, and you know he didn't sleep well last night.  I read the papers this morning, and I see where Mr. Nixon is beginning to talk.  Yes, Richard the Silent has become Richard the Burble, Richard the Vocal.  He has decided to say something, and he is getting angry with me.  He is beginning to act like the real Nixon.  Oh, yes, don't worry dear friends, in the next two weeks I will have him smoked out--I will get him out of those bushes.  

	And don't worry, in these next two weeks, you are going to find out that there is no new Nixon, there isn't even an old one.  There is just the same real one, that is all. 

	And you are going to find out, my friends, in these next two weeks, that they haven't changed a bit.  Listen, it was the same Republicans that wouldn't vote you a dime for your Hemisfair down here.  They really don't like you, and make no mistake about it.  I can't imagine the state of Texas going Republican.  The state of Texas growing, the state of Texas with thousands of young people, the state of Texas that is big and strong and open country, the state of Texas that represents the future, joining up with that old crowd as Adlai Stevenson used to call them, those grouchy old pessimists, the GOP.    

	I will tell you, I will send them a case of Geritol, the whole crowd.  "Now, pour it at 'em", is that what you said?  All right.  Sock it to 'em.  You know what?  I have been trying to sock it to 'em.  And you know what?  Mr. Nixon thinks that if he is a moving target--you know he just slides around on every, that you can't hit him but he doesn't know about me.  I want to tell you that I have flushed many a bird out from under the bushes, and I would hit him in head flight right on down the line. 

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, there are two decisions that a presidential candidate must make in the very beginning of his campaign.  The first decision is his running mate, and, ladies and gentlemen, let me make it very clear to you that we run as a team.  The presidency today is a massive responsibility, and when you elect a president, you elect a vice president, and when you elect a vice president you elect a man that is a heartbeat--just one heartbeat away from the presidency, and Mr. Nixon played cheap politics with this country in his first selection, in his first decision.  I ask you to contemplate the thought of a President Agnew.  

	VOICES:  No.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Mr. Nixon decided to join us with the most reactionary elements in this country in his first compromise, and let me tell you he will make plenty of them.  In his first compromise--the man that left the Democratic Convention in 1948 when I said it was time for the Democratic party to take a stand on human rights, on the dignity of man, for the Democratic party to stand up and say that we believe in people regardless of their race, color, or creed, the man that said he couldn't stand that kind of talk walked out and organized what we called the Dixiecrats.  He saw the sign in the Democratic Convention, and he walked out.  This last July, that same man that walked out, the symbol of the most conservative, reactionary elements in the Republican party today, Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, that senator walked into the Republican Convention with his arm around his dear friend Richard Nixon and said, "We stand together".

	Pray to America that that never comes to be a fact; because let me tell you, if Mr. Nixon was willing to compromise in a convention of principle, willing to compromise human rights in order to get a nomination, I say that he will be willing to compromise much more once he becomes president of the United States.  

	I want you to know where I stand.  I have no intention of making those compromises.  I do not believe that winning the presidency is worth an alliance and a compact with extremism of the left or the right.  I do not believe--that winning the presidency is worth selling out your principles on the subject of human rights and human opportunity, and I do not intend to do so.

	I intend to win this presidency by doing what is right.  Some people tell me it is unpopular.  Well, ladies and gentlemen, the search for popularity is a sickness that has no place in the White House.  What you want in the White House is not necessarily popularity.  What you want in the White House is someone that believes in principle and will stand up for his country and stand up for what is right. 

	So I gave you as my running mate a man that you can love, a man that you can trust, a man of justice, a man of ability, a man of integrity, a man who can serve in any capacity in this country; I gave you Ed Muskie, and the team of Humphrey and Muskie is your team, your people, the ones that represent you. 

	Listen to the voices of the Republicans today.  Listen to the voices of the Republican nominee for president whose leading adviser tells him that this country could take a little more unemployment.  Well, I have got one suggestion:  If you really want to know who ought to be unemployed, Nixon's the one. 

	But what dangerous doctrine, what dangerous doctrine, at a time when we need full employment, at a time when we need maximum opportunity, at a time when America has such tremendous burdens at home and abroad, for anybody to talk about that one of the answers to our problems would be a little higher level of unemployment to me is so incredible, so unbelievable that I say it disqualified a man for high position.  We can't have that, friends.  

	Whose job is he talking about?  How many people in San Antonio did he include in that new level of unemployment?  What family was to lose its income.  What boy and girl has to leave college under that kind of a pledge and that kind of a policy?  

	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference between Democrats and Republicans.  Republicans look at statistics and Democrats look at people.  The difference is there. 

	Imagine a candidate for vice president that says you can't learn anything about poverty from the poor.  That is what he said.

	Imagine a candidate for vice president that says once you have visited one slum, you have seen them all.  Good grief!  I want to tell you, dear friends, that is too much of a risk to take.  We are talking about serious business in this country, and once you have seen a slum, instead of saying that you have seen them all, you ought to say that you are going to do everything in your power to abolish these slums and to give people their chance for a decent home and decent job, that is what you ought to say. 

	You know, I have been trying to get Mr. Nixon Mr. Wallace to come on up and debate.  I always have thought it would be kind of fun. 

	I would like to hear them.  They have got a lot of questions to ask me.  I have a number of questions to ask them.  I thought that with the 200 million Americans that maybe they would like to have a chance to look at us--not to look at how we look, but to look at what is in our hearts.  And do you know what that television camera does?  You can put on makeup for television, and you do, but I am here to tell you that you can't change your heart for the television camera.  It comes right through, and I want to see these candidates stand up and talk about the issues.  

	I think I know why Mr. Nixon doesn't want to come.  He doesn't want to be able to have to tell--he doesn't want to have to tell every person that is eligible for social security that only once, only once in thirty-three years has a Republican, has a group, a majority of Republicans, ever voted for a social security benefit.  Only once.  

	He doesn't want to tell you what he said about Medicare, Grandpa.  He wants to tell you that you ought to go to the relief office.

	He doesn't want to tell you that he said it wouldn't work.  He doesn't want to tell you that he opposed it.  And, students, I don't think he wants to debate me because he doesn't want to have to tell you that he has been against federal aid to education, for colleges, for elementary and secondary education.

	He doesn't want to have to tell you that he once called the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty to prevent radioactive fallout from contaminating our food--well, look at that, isn't that great, now these are the kind of signs--now, fellows with the television cameras, just focus over on those for a while, will you?  Great, great, great, great.  My goodness, Viva San Antonio.  

	My dear friends, let me tell you why he doesn't want to debate; he doesn't want to tell you that he voted against these things.  He doesn't want to tell my friends in the labor movement that I see out here that he has never cast a vote in your favor--never!  He doesn't want to tell you that during those eight Republican years when he was around Washington that there were three recessions.  He doesn't want to tell you that there was unemployment.  He doesn't want to tell you that they never did one thing for this community.  He doesn't want to tell you that they never did one thing for people of Spanish surname, the Mexican-American, and I don't just mean to use that hyphenated phrase but for just one purpose, to particularize the needs of a people because we are all Americans, all of us.  We are not hyphenated Americans.  We are Americans. 

	But, my dear friends, I ask you to read his record, and he has yet to utter one word that related to the young people and the older people of Spanish-Mexican origin who are great citizens in this country--never once.  The annals of those eight years are conspicuous in their absence of any concern.  

	I come to you as a representative of a party that cares.  Oh, I know what the Republicans say.  They say we spend too much.  Well, let me tell you what they spent:  7 percent of our work force unemployed.  That is what they spent.  They spent something else:  $175 billion of wages unpaid.  They did something else.  They compelled your children to go to school half time because of no education.  They ignored the needs of the elderly and the handicapped.  

	Talk about spending, I will tell you what they spent.  They spent human dignity.  They wasted it.  That is what they did.  And in the process--in the process they taxed you more, they taxed you more.  

	With the Kennedy-Johnson-Humphrey administrations, we have reduced your taxes three times since the Republican high levels.  They don't like us to tell you that.  

	And, Mr. Businessman, let me tell you what they did for you.  They closed up many of your factories.  You had over $50 billion-worth of plant capacity every year that went unused.  Your profits were down, your dividends were down, your investments were down, and you vote Republican?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Why let me tell you, my dear friends, let me just say this, it is perfectly all right if a good business friend of ours--perfectly all right if a good business friend of ours tells neighbors, tells his friends that he is a Republican, but when he gets into that voting booth, I want him to stop for just a moment in silent medication, and I want him to ask himself these questions.  If he is the head of a corporation, he better ask which party has been best to the stockholders.  And you know what he will have to answer: that the stockholders in modern corporations got dividends 66 percent higher under Democrats than they did under Republicans.  He will have to answer that question.  And, Mr. Businessman, you had better answer another question.  Which administration gave you the best business, the most profit--and he will have to vote Democratic.  

	I want to tell you, friends, I think when they get into that voting booth, and they have to face up to God and conscience and their own self-interest, they are going to vote Democratic November the 5th. 

	And, Mr. Worker, don't you listen to the demagogues.  I know there is a third-party candidate, and there is a Republican candidate, and they spread the doctrine of fear, they spread the doctrine of doubt and suspicion, but, Mr. Worker, the third-party candidate has no program for you, and the Republican candidate has one, and it is bad for you.  So don't listen.

	They talk of law and order, and what do they mean by it?  I will tell you what they mean by law and order.  They mean to set black against white, they mean to set group against group.  Let's talk about who is for law and order.  Surely the state of Alabama doesn't symbolize it.  We don't need that kind of law and order, not one bit.  

	VOICES:  No!

	And, Mr. Nixon, let me remind you of something.  You have said at the Republican Convention that a president of the United States couldn't even travel any more because he was so disliked.  I wonder if Mr. Nixon remembers when we had to send the Marines to rescue him from Venezuela. 

	Yes.  So, Mr. Nixon, I know why you don't want to debate, and frankly I don't blame you--because we are going to tell the truth on you.  

	Somebody once accused Harry Truman of giving them hell.  Do you know what he said?  He said, "That is not true.  All I do is tell the truth on them and they just think I am giving them hell, that is all." 

	Ladies and gentlemen, here is what we stand for.  We stand for an opportunity for every American.  We stand for a partnership between government and the private economy.  We stand for jobs and job training, and I say it to Mr. Nixon, during your entire eight years you didn't train one worker for one job, despite 7 percent unemployment, not one.  During your entire eight years you didn't have a single project for the little preschool children like we have in Project Head Start.  During your entire eight years--during your entire eight years, Mr. Nixon, you didn't train a teenage boy or girl that needed a job, not one.  During your entire eight years, Mr. Nixon and Mr. Republican, you didn't help the elderly of this nation one bit.  During the entire eight years--during the entire eight years you never did a thing about bilingual education, not one bit.  

	It took Ralph Yarborough, it took Ralph Yarborough--Ralph Yarborough and men like Henry Gonzalez and Congressman Kazan and others that fought--and Lyndon Johnson--who fought for these programs.  He has fought for you   

	Listen, my friends from Texas, you ought to whip these Republicans for just the way that they have abused your president.  You ought to give them a licking just on that. 

	I don't think you ought to leave it to a Scandinavian from Minnesota to do all the protection and the defense of President Lyndon Johnson.  Let's go out and give these Republicans a whipping.  

	What do these Republicans say about our programs that have taken 10 million people out of poverty, provided 12 million new jobs, provided a 32 percent increase in family income, provided new profits, higher wages than we have ever known?  What do they say?  They say, "Get rid of them, get rid of them."

	Ladies and gentlemen, these Republicans represent to me poison ivy.  They look slick and they make you sick. 

	What has the Republican administration in Washington ever done for this city?  Not one thing.  What did they do when they had their chance of federal employment around this city?  They cut it.  

	What did they do for your schools?  Nothing.  What did they do for your young people?  Nothing.  What did they do for your elderly?  Nothing.  What did they do for the handicapped?  Nothing.  What did they do for the city?  Nothing.  

	Well, what are we going to do for them?  Nothing.  Now--

	VOICES:  Arriba Humphrey!  

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, wait a minute, now.  Thank you.  Let me tell you something.  You may want me, but oh boy, how I want you.    

	Listen, thank you for what you have done for me, for my spirit.  Thank you for what you have done for this campaign.  You know what it means to fight an uphill battle?  Yes, you do.  Most of us have, and all during these weeks I have been told that it was impossible.  Well, ladies and gentlemen, you know what America is:  It is the country that did the impossible.  Always we have been able to do the impossible, and we are going to do it again.  So let me just end it on--does this crowd want George Wallace for president?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Does this crowd--does this crowd want Mr. Nixon for president?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  How would you like Humphrey and Muskie?  

	VOICES:  Yes!  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, God bless you.  Thank you, thank you.  Come up here, Henry. Come here.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, thank you.
BUSINESS--GENERALCIVIL RIGHTSDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMEDUCATION, PRE-PRIMARYHISPANIC AMERICANSJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMANUFACTURING--PLANT CLOSINGSNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGPOVERTYRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SOCIAL SECURITYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL