

	Chairman Moore, distinguished guests, and my very dear friends:  I came to Chicago for the honor of attending this meeting.  All day long I have been having conferences with your leaders.  Under the able chairmanship of Chairman Moore, we have consulted on many important matters, matters that we hope will be of significance as this campaign goes ahead.  But the real reason, I repeat, for my coming was to meet with this great congregation of precinct captains.

	In the Army we have many staff schools and one of the doctrines of those staff schools was that the commander made it his business in time of conflict to go and visit his troops.  The purpose of these visits was alleged to be the inspiration of the troop, to let them know the commander was interested and to give them a lift so that they would do better in the battle.  Actually, I found soon after I was given my command that the purpose of my going, which I did often, was to get inspiration myself.  A mass of determined Americans generates a power that nothing else on this earth can do.

	There may be among you a few men from the 101st Airborne Division. I want to tell you that that group did more for me at a very tough time in the war than almost anybody else could have done.  We were committed to a very grave action.  The 101st and the 82nd were to spearhead the action for the Americans.  After my work was done, which was late at night, I went over to visit the 101st.  You can imagine the tension that existed around my headquarters and what I felt in my own heart.  There was a very grave chance and indeed many of the doubters believed that the tides were going to be running red with American blood.  I got to the camp where the 101st with their blackened up faces and their long packs on them were just getting ready to get into the airplane.  "Don't worry, Uncle Ike, we'll take care of you."  Nobody ever lifted such a load off my heart.  And they did take care of me.  By the time I could get back to my headquarters they had already gotten to their target and by their radios were telling me that they had landed.  From that moment on there never was a doubt that Germany's end was near.

	In like manner I come here and I look at your faces and I feel that there is the real organization, the combat troops of Cook County, the largest in the country.  I feel that you ought to be the shock troops that we distribute over the United States.  You look to me like you not only know your business but are ready to do it.

	You people have done me the great honor not only of coming here this evening to meet me, but you have done me the very great honor of naming me the standard-bearer of the party that is certain, with your kind of work and your kind of experience and intelligence and spirit, to take over the government of the United States next January.

	Now ladies and gentlemen, I want to make one thing clear about a matter of loyalty.  I know full well that many of you--possibly even a vast majority of you--preferred another individual for the honor and the responsibility that was finally conferred upon me. I am sure that I am right.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know this:  I would beg of you never to give up a loyalty that you develop for anybody else in your party.  There is nothing finer in this whole world than the relationship that develops between a devoted follower and a leader who has some inspiration for that follower and who gives a loyalty downward the same as that follower gives it upward.  You should never allow to disappear from your lives a loyalty that has once been born, but keep it there.  And we will be all the stronger in the fall when, as we get all of these people together who had any connection at all with the group of people who were being considered for selection as your standard-bearer; as we get all of them in a tight little single block we will have this total loyalty and that will be the very finest kind of loyalty that we can have.

	There never has been any exultation in my heart about the honor you did to me.  I am too sensible and aware of the great responsibility and I want to promise, I want to tell you, all of you who did have another individual as your first choice and specifically the great Senator Taft, that I now expect to have him as one of the great associates in the highest possible command of the Republican Party during this campaign and the ensuing four years, but that I sincerely believe that within a very few days after he returns from vacation and as soon as his son's wedding has been completed, that we will be able to get together on the closest possible terms.

	I may tell you that it gives me as much satisfaction as anyone here, no matter how enthusiastic they could possibly have been in support of the great Senator.

	You are the combat troops, the shock troops of a campaign that must be won with ballot and not with bullets, and you have a critically important sector of the whole front.  Indeed, I think it wouldn't take any great political expert to figure out that Cook County could well be the key area, could produce the key electoral votes of this whole campaign.  It doesn't take any great imagination to figure out a set of circumstances in which Illinois would make the decision and within Illinois Cook County could finally bring the victory.

	Ladies and gentlemen, when I think of such a possibility, my admiration for the work you have done, my expectations of what you will do, goes way up.  I have complete confidence in the organization that has been developed here.  I have seen phases of it and parts of it all day long and this group tonight--I am ready to leave the fate of the United States in such hands.  Now this means, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not talking just about a campaign and that on November 4th everything ends.  What we are talking about is to prove to the United States that we are worthy of taking over the government in Washington and throughout the federal echelons wherever they may extend, and then through the following four years establish such a record of clean government, honesty, efficiency, economy, that we will have opened up to the American citizenry the relation that we can live within our means, that our money doesn't have to disappear in the spirals of inflation, that we don't have to have a war economy, that we can be prosperous without a war production.

	What I am trying to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that my interest in you is not merely before election, because it is such people as you who will have to help during these next four years in order that the Republican Party can stand forth as the shining example of efficiency and honesty that it must be if it is to continue to be the directing genius of this country.  Certainly we don't want to turn it back to the Fair Dealers.

	Now there are a few specific points that I should like to present to you for our indulgence.  You know, for some time I saw a lot of speculation in the papers that sounded like sort of hopeful speculation from the enemy camp that we would not wage a fighting campaign.  The only thing I can say about that is that during the last three days I haven't heard such a whisper.  Frankly, I don't think they are too smart.

	There are young Americans, young men, young women who served in the services in Europe all during the war who could have told them that when my young American friends and I got straightened out for a campaign we threw the stove in.  There was nothing left in the locker.  If they didn't know it, they will soon learn it.

	Which reminds me, that my very earliest command in the Army--and you must forgive an old soldier if he reminisces about soldiering--my very first big command involved the Seventh and Eighth Illinois.  [A sergeant who served with the General stood up and said "I was there, General."]  The sergeant will tell you about his own days on the Border.  We learned something about fighting.  When they wouldn't allow us to fight with the Mexicans, we had very fine fights among ourselves.

	Now, these Democrats know that we are out to root them out of their places of privilege where they have long lived in arrogance, complacency and even crookedness and we are out to take them out of there, root and branch.  It is not just because somebody else wants their job particularly, but each one of us has a real, deep, undying pride in the United States of America.  We are going to see that this government is one in which we can take pride and will establish and maintain the prestige of this country at home and abroad.

	They know we are going to tell the whole sorry mess of what they have been doing in their foreign policies, in taxes, in corruption, where even the high taxes you pay haven't gotten to Washington--all of them.  There are a good many men now serving jail sentences because their pockets were too sticky.  I don't see any reason why you and I should pay for that.

	So, ladies and gentlemen, so far as I am concerned, and I hope that I am speaking for every single one of you, we are going to wage a tireless, vigorous, hard-hitting, honest, clean campaign right down to the mark.  If we do this, the burden is on you and your like throughout the length and breadth of this land.  You are down where the votes are.  Now, we can make plans, we can make speeches, we can go around and tell what we are trying to do.  We can possibly give you material and information that you can work with.  We can sometimes gather the sinews of war to help you out, but in the long run it is you who are convincing your neighbors that we are tired of this crowd, we want them out for the good of America, that we have a party from the precincts on up to Washington ready to go in and take over.  When I say clean them out, I am not talking about a face-lifting job, or a re-paint job, or as I saw it referred to in one of our opponent's speeches a "refreshening."  This is going to be the full treatment.

	And so, by honesty and decency and efficiency, merely applying the Hoover Commission report in its full detail, we can save literally hundreds of millions of dollars for this country and at least begin to get rid of that deficit which is cheapening every single pension you have, every single bond that you have bought in time of war, every single insurance policy that you have.  We are going to stop that and keep our money sound so that people may know that the old age that they are helping themselves provide for is going to be a comfortable old age, and that the government is going to be alive to every single problem that worries our citizens, the 155 million of them, and so our slogan will be:  Is this policy good for the United States of America?  That is all.  I will ask no other question.

	We--all of us--from precinct worker to Washington, will devote ourselves to the promotion of peace.  It is high time that this cloud of fear, of worry, of doubt, of indecision, is lifted from the backs and minds of our people.  We must do it.  We can do it if the United States moves forward as a confident, prosperous, solvent economy which can be the real cornerstone of a free world and can keep the Communists where they belong--in their own territory.

	It seems to me that a great ambition we will have in the thing we hope to accomplish is to remove the fetters from free enterprise, to take off of free enterprise the great shackles that government has fastened upon it, and to make certain that the initiative, the ambition and the earnings and savings of American people are again the important things in our economy, and not some bureaucrat in Washington telling us what to do.

	Every social gain that was made and has been made for the American people we will vigorously maintain, adjusting them to this cheapened money wherever it is necessary so that they can have a decent living.  Social gains are no longer a political issue.  Both parties have put the social laws on our books.  Those things are there to make certain that American citizens can face a life in this country without fear--fear for themselves, their wives or their children.

	Above all it will be the ambition to put the finest men and women in Washington, in prominent offices, that can be mobilized in this country; and with a government in which we have restored honesty, in which all of us as a body can have pride, we can get the best men in America.  There will have to be no cry "We can't get good men to come to Washington."  Pure bunk!

	Now let me repeat what Chairman Moore has said:  We have to get everybody!  We have to get every Republican!  If we have to get a Republican out of a sick bed and carry him to the ballot box, all right, as long as it doesn't hurt his health.  We must get our neighbors, people who call themselves Independents, people who will be voting for the first time, even the enlightened Democrats.  We need them and want them by the thousands, the hundreds of thousands, by the millions--and we will get them because we will offer them the opportunity to work for honesty and decency as opposed to some of the things that we have had during these last few years.  Each of you is concerned not only with the national ticket and the national offices, if the Republicans are to be successful we need more Republicans in every office from the lowest political subdivision right on up.  Therefore, as you go about this business you are going to be supporting your people for municipal judges and your county offices, and all of the other local offices up to and including your governor--everything in the state and county and township and so on.  But we must all put our backs into working on the same job.  It is as much my duty and that of everybody on the national ticket to help you in your local problems where we can, as it is your great task and opportunity to help put over the entire national ticket.

	In that realization, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you this:  I pledge you whatever there is in me to fight to the end not only on this national ticket but right square on down to the last office and the lowest political subdivision.  That is the only way we are going to win but doing that we cannot lose.  I have conducted too many battles with the massed support of the American citizens to believe for one second that if we really want to go to town on this thing that anything or anybody can stand in our way.  We have to have greater spirit because we have a greater cause than the opposition.  They have a sorry mess to defend, and we have to sustain us the determination to restore decency, honesty, integrity and solvency in the United States of America.

	Again, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for the very great honor you have paid me.

BUDGET DEFICITCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYWORLD WAR II     : : : : :
 : : : : ~: |: M: B:	 k 	 ] 	 < 	  	  e: