
	This gavel is for all those Pennsylvania delegates.  I just left Pennsylvania.

	Well, Mr. President--you know, I have said Mr. President so long I began to like it and thought I would like to apply it to myself.

	Mr. President, Tony, the one and only Tony Boyle, it is good to be here.

	And the officers and the delegates to this forty-fifty consecutive Constitutional Convention and one of the truly great unions of America, the United Mine Workers of America.

	I wonder if the American people realize what truly great labor leadership has come from your ranks.  You can look down through the annals of American labor history and if you see a man that has really made his mark, generally you will find that he had, some place somewhere, a little experience with the United Mine Workers of America.

	I am mighty glad to rub shoulders with this fellow, Tony Boyle.  He has been giving me advice and counsel for a long time.

	It was Tony who stopped by my office one day and said. "Aren't you tired of being vice president?"  I said, you couldn't imagine how tired I am.  He said, well, why don't you try being president?  I did, and it is great fun.

	I don't think you said it was great fun, Tony.  I think you said it was hard work, and it is.  But ladies and gentlemen, I would like to come to my friends of organized labor and tell you my problems.  You see, my--well--my seniority clause isn't as good as yours.

	It sort of ran out.  What's more is the management decided to close up.

	Yes, they closed down the mine, and I had to go shopping.  And I am telling you, I am glad to be with a union that knows how to put a man on the job.

	Really, I am very pleased to be here with you.  It is something I have looked forward to for a long time.  Muriel, that is my Muriel.  Stand up, Muriel.  I want them to take a good look at you.

	Don't you think she would look fine in the White House, ladies?

	Well, how about you men?  Don't you think she would look fine in the White House?

	I don't know if we will have enough room for the forty-sixth consecutive Convention in the White House, but we will try.

	Well, I think I had better talk to you a little bit about nonpartisan affairs like politics.

	The first thing I want to do is to thank you for your endorsement.  You are both courageous and kind, and I thank you most kindly.

	I think you know that all of my public life it has been my good fortune to have the help and the support of this great union of organized labor.  That is the way I got started in politics.

	You good friends helped me out there when I was trying to be mayor of Minneapolis and you are going to help me all the way from City Hall to Courthouse into the White House and when I am there, you are going to be there, too.

	I can just see Tony and Mrs. Boyle there right now, just us having lunch together.  Tony, you bring in some folks with you because we will have plenty to go around.  They tell me there are agricultural surpluses available.

	Well, as I said, I thought maybe we ought to talk a little politics.  I haven't had much chance to do it today.  We started out in Philadelphia.  We touched up the opposition just a little bit, just enough so they will need a little political liniment tonight and a hot bath in order to sleep good.

	I thought if you didn't mind I would touch them up a little more.  You know, I read in the papers the other day--you don't have to believe everything you read but once in a while you hit one, you know.  I read in the papers that Mr. Wallace and some others were saying that Hubert Humphrey and Dick Nixon are two peas in a pod and it doesn't make much difference which one is elected president.  Well, I was worried about that for awhile, but then Mr. Nixon the other day vigorously denied the charge and I am here today to say that that is the first time he has been right.

	Every fellow has the right to be right once, doesn't he?   You know, the truth is that we are not alike, and Republicans and Democrats, at least most of them, are not alike.  You can find a few that can get under the covers at the same time and kind of wrestle around in the blankets but most of them are not and they don't hold the same political beliefs; at least I don't hold the same political beliefs with some of those who today represent what I call a new political party in America--the Dixiecrats, I mean.

	I think some of you remember the days when the Dixiecrats walked out of the Democratic party.  Well, they have been in cold storage back there in the shadows, the cobwebs for twenty years and what do you think happened; they revived them and they joined down in Miami Beach with Nixon.  Strom Thurmond, Richard Milhous Nixon.  Now, by golly, if that isn't a concoction I never heard of one.  And these Republicans and Democrats, they don't act the same way in office or out of office.  And I think that the differences mean a great deal to this union and they mean a great deal particularly to the families that are represented here.  I wonder if it wouldn't be a good idea if we would start talking about our families, because if there is any great institutions in this country that holds us together, it is our family, and if there is any institution in this country that seems to have some troubles today, it is the American family.  And I believe that whatever we do, whatever we plan, whatever we hope for should be designed and programmed in such a way as to make family life just a little better, to enrich the family of America.

	I will tell you one thing that means a lot of difference to a family.  It is called a paycheck, and there are differences between political parties and these political candidates this year by paychecks.

	Now, I don't accuse all Republicans of wanting smaller paychecks for others but I will tell you I have met a lot of them that sure make me think there are far too many of them that feel that way.

	And, I don't say that all Democrats are necessarily overly generous but I have met enough of them starting back with Franklin Roosevelt right up until today to tell you that Democrats believe in the main in larger paychecks--and you have had them. 

	Now, don't you expect Mr. Nixon to come around here and tell you that he is for smaller paychecks this year because he won't.  He won't do that.  After all, he is the new Nixon.  I read about that.

	I read about it in 1952.  Then he had a renewal job in 1956.  He got another touch up, a new paint job, in 1960.  Every time I have read about him he is the new Nixon.  You know what I would like you to know--I am just the old Humphrey, the one you have always known.

	I have been too busy to get any of this political cosmetics, and I will tell you, it isn't what is on the outside that counts anyway.  It is what is here on the inside.

	So, let's take a look at the record for a while. Did you ever hear that?  You remember--well, Tony remembers--I think he is, must have been, a sort of a cousin.  Remember when old Al Smith said, "Let's look at the record."  Gosh, they tell a story about Al Smith.  He was coming down the hall one night in Madison Square Garden, great big meeting, and somebody there had just a little bit too much of that juice and somebody that wasn't exactly on his side got up and said, "Tell 'em all you know, Al, it won't take long."

	But, he was as quick as Tony Boyle, and he said, "I will tell them all I know and tell them all you know and it won't take any longer."

	So, in the spirit of that happy warrior, let's see who is for what--who just talks, who acts--and which party means what it says and which party is just after the votes on election day.  Let's take a look at the record.  I know of no better way to judge a man. I don't think that you would hire for your, or elect for your president a scab or a strike breaker.  No, I don't.

	I think you would want to get a pretty good idea what kind of a labor man he has been. Has he been out there in that picket line?  Has he had to go through the fires of the trials that always measure a man's greatness?  Has he stood firm when you needed him?  Has he been there when it was hot and sometimes when he was alone?  And you, when you find that he has been there on that picket line, that he has fought the good fight, that he stood for you when nobody else stood for you, you say, "That is my kind of a man."  That is what you have got in Tony Boyle.

	Well, let's apply the same rule to another presidency.  I am not going to recite the record.  I just lay the record before you to take a look at.  I want you to examine the voting record of Richard Nixon and Hubert Humphrey and then I want to see whose side you will be on if you are a real labor man.

	Because let me tell you dear friends, you are negotiating a contract and it is a four-year one.  You had better be sure that you have got the right fellow and you better be sure that in making that contract that you have some idea, by the record that he has accomplished, that he has performed, as to what you can expect of him if you put him with high responsibility in high office.  And I stand ready here to have that record examined by anyone.

	Well, now, let's take a look at some of the good economics.  Somebody said money isn't everything and another fellow jumped up and said, "Yes, but it sure makes a good second best."

	And I know that my friends in the labor movement understand the importance of a new contract.  I know you understand the importance of a paycheck and you understand the importance of fringe benefits.  And I know what this union has done to get this for families in America--not just workers' families but American families, because you are not just members of the United Mine Workers, even though that is a high enough honor for anybody, you are members of the United States of America, citizens of this country.

	I saw where the labor movement the other day checked us out.  I am happy to stand before you and may be a 100 percent voting record on the labor chart.  A 100 percent.  Now, that is pretty good.

	That is about 25 percent better than Mrs. Humphrey gives me as a husband.

	And, then, she said she stretches it a bit.  But, you fellows know that is a pretty good batting average around home, isn't it?  How come?  Do you do better than that?

	But during the last eight Republican years, in the 1950s--I think you remember them--we had three, I repeat, three job killing recessions.  Khrushchev said that he would bury us economically.  Since that time Mr. Khrushchev has gone into retirement and we started to move this country forward.

	During the Democratic years starting with the late President Kennedy, we have had ninety consecutive months of economic growth, not one single recession, an all-time record of economic progress.  The Republican years had an annual rate of growth of 2.5 percent.  The Democratic years have been 5.2 percent.  You see, all you have to do is turn a Republican upside down, take it from 2.5 and to 5.2, and you have got a Democrat.

	Now, as I said, we had no recessions.  And all over the world people marveled at what they called the American economic miracle.  But I want to make it quite clear: you helped make that miracle.  This great economic progress is not due only to the policies of government.  It is due to the fact of one basic policy of government: that we believe in the right of collective bargaining, that we believe that a free trade union, that we believe that the union movement of this country is vital to the economic and social and the political progress of this country.

	Now, what happened to your paycheck during those respective two eight-year periods?  After you deducted all the federal taxes, and that is quite a little bit, I know, and this is the take home pay I am talking about now, after all the inflation has been squeezed out--and there has been some inflation under both administrations--the fact is clear that personal income, paychecks, went up over three times faster during the Kennedy-Johnson and the Johnson-Humphrey years than during the Republican Nixon years.  That is an incontrovertible fact, and let Mr. Nixon try to argue that.

	Now, what is the difference of that to a family in this country?  Well, for a family of four that is equivalent to a little over $3,000 in paycheck take home pay.  Now, that will send a son or a daughter to the most expensive university in the country or you can go out and buy yourself a brand new car and pay cash. Now, that isn't bad.  It could be better.  We intend to make it a little better.  But I will tell you that it is a lot better record than what others can claim.  So that is the difference that we are talking about on paycheck.  But there is another difference that goes beyond wages.  During those Republican Nixon years, unemployment rose over 2 million.  It went almost up to seven percent of the work force, and the United Mine Workers union knows of what I speak.  And, during these Democratic years, unemployment has dropped 2 million--down from 6.9, down to 3.2.  Not as good as we would like it but twice as good as you had it under those Republican years.

	You see, the whole thing is wound up in this philosophy: that we believe that working people, working people in America, and I mean farm workers, I mean shop workers, I mean factory workers, and I mean mine workers, I mean all workers have the right to good wages, high standards of living, and good working conditions.  That is the faith that we have and that is the pledge that we bring to you and we have kept the promise--not only a promise made but a promise kept--and we are going to keep on keeping it because it is good for America and good for you.

	Now, we know that this policy is not only good for labor.  It is good for business.  Business can't prosper unless you do.  And you can't prosper unless business can invest.  When you have good working conditions, when you have better paychecks, it enables people to buy more.  It enables business to produce more, and generally when business produces more, it hires more, and it enables business to invest more and it enables all of us, all of us when we have a growing economy, to invest in those social dividends like Medicare, which has been a blessing for the senior citizens and the elderly people of America, and Social Security.

	Of course, you pioneered Medicare in your own union.  You led the way.  You led the way for your workers, and then by setting a good example, America caught on.  I was the man that introduced the first Medicare bill in the Congress of the United States.  I introduced it sixteen years before it became law and, Tony, they called me more names than any United Mine Workers officer has over been called by anybody--anybody--and that is something.

	Thus, it took us sixteen years but we bought it, and today, ladies and gentlemen, this last year, over 4.5 million of the senior citizens of America received the finest hospital and medical care that modern medicine and hospitalization is able to provide.  Millions of them cared for.  And why not?  This is a rich country and it can afford it.

	And this growth of our economy has permitted more in the field of education.  We invested in this land last year in federal aid to education alone, elementary, secondary, vocational, technical education, college, higher education, scholarships, research--we invested last year over $13 billion in education.  Not bad, right?

	What does this mean?  It means that it was 300 percent more than we invested five years ago.  It means that it was 500 more than we invested eight years ago.  Ladies and gentlemen, there has never been a nation that has ever faced the prospect of insolvency or bankruptcy by investing in education.  As Thomas Jefferson once said: "You can't be both ignorant and free".  And when we put our money into education for our young, when we put our money into the great institutions of learning for our college students, we build a better America.  We build a better union.  We build a better country and we build better families.  That is why we are investing in education.

	You know, there are even some people today that believe that you serve the interests of this country if you have a pool of unemployed lying around.  Yes, there are some people who really believe that a tight labor market is bad for the nation, bad for business, but I want you to know that most of the enlightened men of today don't believe in that anymore.  Today we re [missing text] down training and educating and placing the hard-core unemployed that never before had a chance for a job.  We know that full employment not only means a better paycheck and a better dinner pail and a better home, but the enlightened businessman of America, like very intelligent citizen, knows that it means a better country.  So, let's take a look at the record again.  Let's take a look at the whole record of differences between Democrats, that is, liberal Democrats, Humphrey-Muskie Democrats.  Let's take a look at that record and Nixon Republicans.

	Now, this year their platform--they wrote that down in the sunshine of Miami Beach.  Well, it is nice to be down there but I want to tell you it is not really a place that you really think too much about the hardships of others.  You kind of like to forget them.  I have been down there.  I love it.  Beautiful country. But it is awfully hard to think about the poor.  Mighty hard to think about a mine worker when you are lying out there on the beach--Miami Beach.

	Well, they wrote a platform down there and it was being really nice and I want to tell you, when I read it first I said: "You know, I think we have made the greatest mass conversion this world has ever known.  We have converted every Republican to be a Democrat", and I took a look at their platform and I said:  "You know, it is something I can embrace."

	Here is what it said: it promises a vigorous effort nationwide to transform the blighted areas of our cities.  Now, you would have to be pretty mean not to agree with that.  I will tell you, that is about as good as the Fourth of July and Mother's Day, right off the bat.  And I say to you: do they really need it?  So, I decided to look up the record.

	They want to rebuild our cities.  They want to get rid of the slums.  If you don't believe so, read their platform.  But if you really want the acid test, go over and take a look at how they voted.  Eighty-nine percent of the Republicans in the Congress of the United States voted against the Model Cities legislation in 1966 which is the first major effort that this country has made to do something about slums and urban blight in America, and they voted not only no, they voted to kill it.  And, then 80 percent of them after the bill had passed, despite their opposition, 80 percent of them voted to eliminate all the money under the bill.  They weren't content just to vote against it.  They said take all the blood out of it too.  Take all the meat off it.

	Look at their platform on the elderly.  They say elderly Americans desire and deserve independence and dignity.  I will say they do.  But what did my Nixon Republican friends do?  Ninety-three percent of them voted against Medicare and 65 percent of them voted against the 1967 amendments to the Social Security Act that increased the benefits under that Act 12 percent.  That is their record: platform promises but when the roll is called, the prayer meeting is over as far as they are concerned.  They are gone.

	And then, they said they wanted fairness to all consumers.  We are all consumers, you know.  Fairness to all consumers.  Sixty-eight percent of them voted to kill the Truth-in-Packaging bill.  Most of them voted against the bill that was Truth-in-Lending.  Eighty-three percent of them voted against the meat inspection bill, so you could be sure of the cleanliness and the wholesomeness of the meat products.  Yes, fairness for the consumer all right, but as I said when they got down to voting for it, they said, excuse me.  I got a telephone call, and they left the hall.  Those that didn't leave the hall stood there and voted to kill it.

	And then they said they are for an equitable minimum wage.  This is really something.  I didn't think I would find anybody left in America, unless he was stuffed and in a museum, that would vote against minimum wage.  I can't imagine anybody thinking that a $1.60 an hour is too much for anything in America.  But, let me tell you what the record is.  Sure, their platform promises you, they are for an equitable minimum wage, whatever that means, but 71 percent of them, that is over two-thirds, thought a dollar sixty cents was too much in 1965 for a worker to get in 1968.  Oh, they are for minimum wage.  I will say, very minimum, just as low as you can get it.

	So, I do not come here to tell you that there is just a difference.  I come here with the record to show you that there is a difference.  And that record affects your wives and your families.  If those votes on minimum wage had been the prevailing votes, millions of workers in America today would still live in poverty.  If those votes on education of the Republicans had been the prevailing majority vote, over nine million boys and girls in America today would still be in substandard schools that are out of those schools and in better schools.  If those votes had been the prevailing majority, there wouldn't be a senior citizen in America today that would have Medicare.  I know why the American people aren't going to cast their vote for Mr. Nixon, because Mr. Nixon doesn't represent the future.  He doesn't represent the present.  He represents the old coalition of the conservative Dixiecrat-Democrat and the conservative Republican, and they are not good for this country.

	My friends, I want to leave you on a note as to what we are hoping that we can do.  Wages, yes.  Working conditions, yes.  Economic progress, yes.  Because everything that we seek to do in this country costs something.  It either costs money or it costs commitment and personal sacrifice.  You can't build a better America by those who want to stand still.  You can't build a better America by those who join hands with the past. America's future is not to be found in the midnight of its political life.  America's future is to be found in the dawn of the new day.  Every new day is what is important to us, and I want to see a new day in which our cities can be clean, at least where we make the effort.  I want to see a new day in which every child, regardless of race, color or creed, nor how he spells his name or how he looks, will have the best education that we are capable of providing for him, and don't tell me that a nation that is approximately $900 billion of its gross national product can't afford to see that a child starting age four has preschool and that they get a chance to go on to school as long as they can absorb learning.  We are going to see that that happens for a better America and better land.

	I see an America in which our neighborhoods are not filled with angry people, fearful of each other, but neighbors who care, and neighbors who know that they live in safety.  And I want to see the day when every American comes to that period in life that is known as the twilight of life will not only have the dignity that comes with happy retirement, but also, if he or she wants to, can do something rewarding for themselves and for their country.  And my friends, even more importantly, there are choices that are more fundamental about our society.  Is this going to be one America like this union--united and at peace with itself, or are we going to have two, four Americas, a nation divided against itself, the poor against the rich, the black against the white, the slum against the suburb, the North against the South?  Are we going to accept as inevitable the conflict, the bitterness and the hatred which threaten to become a part of our everyday life or are we going to do something about it?  Now, we can let those fears and divisions overwhelm us, and there are candidates for the presidency this year that may be counting on that.  Or we can choose a new day, the new day that I spoke of, where the man that is illiterate can have an education, where the person that is unemployed through no fault of his own can have gainful and productive work, where the mother who is on welfare but who would rather work if she could only leave her babies and her children in a good day care center--we can have a better America.

	We can choose a new day where every person can receive the benefits of this nation and can participate in its decisions.

	You see, I don't think that these are idle hopes or false promises or foolish dreams.  As America, the America we know has always been a dream, the dream of a better life.  Some people have said it is the impossible dream and the greatness of this country rests on the fact that what some people call impossible we made possible.  We did it--jobs, decent housing, safe neighborhoods, better schools, genuine security, health care for the young and the old, and a new feeling of togetherness and unity in this country, a feel of community, a feeling of belonging to a family of Americans.  These are the things that I work for.  This is why I am in this election.  This is why I take my message to you.

	Oh, yes, I argue the record, but more importantly, I wish to argue for the future because all of us are going to live in the future.  The yesterdays are gone.  And what of tomorrow?  Will this be an America that settles its problems in the streets in violence and hatred or will this be an America where we can sit down around the table as members of a great family and talk out our differences and recognize that each of us has something to contribute?  Will this be an America that is united?  I submit to you that it can be and I appeal to you not on the basis of your fears--and we all have some, not on the basis of our doubts--and I suppose we all have some--but I appeal to your reason.  Come, let us reason together, said Isaiah the prophet.  If ever there was a time that the message of that Old Testament prophet should be put to work, it is now.

	Come, let us reason together, but also let justice roll like a mighty river.  We seek not only a prosperous America; we seek a just society.  So I do not appeal to your fears.  I ask you to vote your hopes, not your hates, and if you vote your hopes, if you vote for what you hope and for what you dream, if you vote for the new day, if you want to vote for a better America in which your children will have a better life, in which your union will be able to play its great part as it has, I think I know how you are going to vote.  And I come to you to ask for your help.

	Thank you very much.

CONSUMER PROTECTIONEDUCATION--GENERALEQUAL OPPORTUNITYMEDICAREMINIMUM WAGESENIOR CITIZENSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALURBAN RENEWALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITSORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     j Lj Fj Bj :j
 .j )j $j j j j j i	  	  	  	  	  	  	 s 	 ^ 	 Q 	 ;   e: