

	Thank you very much, and let me say that I'm honored to be here today. I know one of my former colleagues, Senator Garn, is out there--former Senator Garn is out there somewhere. Jake, good to see--can't see you, but happy you're here.

	And I know that other members of Congress--I'm no longer in the Congress, but I still have friends there in both parties. I'm pleased you're honoring Gerry Solomon and Sonny Montgomery--really understand the veterans' problems and done a great job. And I know Congressman Jim Hansen and Congressman Enid Green are here also, and Congressman Jim Longley, who will speak tomorrow from Maine. Primarily, Dan, I want to thank you for the two great years. You've done a great--where is Dan? Right behind me. Redwing, Minnesota will never be the same. And for that matter, Russell, Kansas--never be the same.

	I'm the best chance for an improved economy we've had in Russell for a long time. And I'm proud to be from my hometown. I appreciate the introduction. I appreciate the award. It's an honor, as I've said, for me to be here, with men and women who've earned honor. And each and every one of you knows what it means to stand up for your country.

	When you joined our armed forces you all knew that one day you may be asked to put your life on the line to defend America's freedom and protect its interests. And so it was with those who came before you. And just last night, those who currently wear America's uniform received their call. And let me begin by saying that our thoughts and prayers at this moment are with our men and women in uniform who were sent on a difficult mission above the skies of Iraq and in the waters of the region. And once again they stand between us and the dangers of the world. And once again they have performed their duties with professionalism and with commitment.

	They are freedom's heroes. And we support them without hesitation or reservation. If there is one clear lesson of our century, it is this: when aggression is tolerated it multiplies--and I trust this is the beginning of decisive action to limit the power and arrogance of Saddam Hussein.

	He has persecuted his people. He's defied the international community time and time again and tested the resolve of America. And we must be decisive in confronting this threat and humbling this tyrant. And the goal of this action should be the withdrawal of Saddam's Republican Guards from northern Iraq, the release of Kurdish prisoners, and an end to interference by Iraq and Iran among the Kurds, reestablishing the U.N. nuclear weapons inspection effort, and an end to Saddam's support of international terrorism.

	And as matters like this--and in matters like this, all of us think not as Republicans or Democrats but as Americans. And as Americans, we wish our troops success and safety. And I would add that I've had the privilege of talking with the President of the United States by telephone this morning about this incident, and also with General Colin Powell and with others, to have their views. But the bottom line is that Saddam Hussein is an outlaw. He's a tyrant. He's a butcher, and we cannot tolerate any additional action by him in that part of the world. That's our resolve.

	I want to thank my good friend John McCain. We throw the word "hero" around like we're all heroes; I'm not a hero, but John McCain is and was, and we're proud, in the Senate, Democrats and Republicans alike, to know a man who suffered and suffered for over five years as a POW--as some in this audience no doubt have. So I'm very honored that John McCain is here this morning, along with Governor Leavitt and his wife, Jackie.

	And let me say, I've been a Legionnaire a long time. Long before I got into politics, I was a service officer in Russell, Kansas, used to work--where--Yudie Grant's around here somewhere. Yudie Grant doesn't believe in term limits; he's had this job thirty years. But he's done a great job.

	So I had my first taste as a service officer. My father--his proudest moments were when he'd go to the Legion meetings, or even prouder when he put on his Legion suit and his Legion cap. And so I know a lot about the American Legion, and I've spoken to you several times in the past twenty years. But this time it is a little different for me, because I do come before you as a candidate for president of the United States, with about nine weeks to go until the election.

	And let me say right up front: I'm not here to offend any Democrats. My parents were Democrats and the greatest people I ever knew. I'm not here to offend anyone, but I am here as a candidate, and I will express my views. And of course, if I win, it will be quite a promotion, from captain to commander in chief. And I'm working on that. It's really second lieutenant to commander in chief, because I got two what we called bedpan promotions in those days. But if you're in the army hospital long enough, they kept promoting you. Had I stayed, I'd be a three-star general today.

	But Labor Day is always the start of the real presidential campaign. And that's why my wife, Elizabeth, is off, I think, in Kentucky or Tennessee today. And she is a great asset. She is so talented that Eleanor Roosevelt is trying to reach her. That's how--

	And I would have moved heaven and earth to begin that campaign with you here today--and I would have moved heaven and earth to begin that campaign with you here today, here with friends and here at home, because we are sort of a big, big group. Regardless of the conflict--men and women coming together because we appreciate each other, and at this moment I would be nowhere else.

	Every veteran, as indicated earlier by Sonny and Jerry, owes the American Legion a debt. And I will never forget how this organization championed the GI Bill, giving me and hundreds of others in this audience opportunities that made this moment possible. Without the GI Bill, I doubt that many of us could have gone on to college.

	Now, the battles are different today, but the goal is the same: to treat our veterans with the respect they have earned. And I want to thank, as I said, Jerry and others who are working together on a GI bill and also a GI bill of health. And together VA hospitals are centers of excellence and that every veteran and their family has access to first-rate health care in America.

	The American Legion has called to the attention of the nation of the mysterious suffering of the Gulf War Syndrome. And I think for too long, the Department of Defense has been a little slow, and even blamed veterans for the illness. And we will not be satisfied until every victim of the Gulf War Syndrome gets the treatment they need. That is the least we can do for veterans who served when we needed veterans.

	And finally, there is the continuing tragedies of our POWs and MIAs. And I am not convinced yet that we still have a full accounting. And let me just tell you a brief story there. I remember when the first POWs and MIAs were being talked about in Vietnam, and I remember many of the families coming to Washington, and they asked members of Congress to show up because they wanted to see what could be done. And they were a little disorganized and maybe didn't plan it properly. Only about a hundred people showed up and only about ten members of Congress, and I'm certain Sonny Montgomery must have been one of those.

	But I was there, and being sort of new in the Congress, in the Senate, at least, I made a promise. I said, "Give us ninety days and we will fill Constitution Hall, which seats 12,000 people." And in ninety days we filled Constitution Hall, which seats 12,000 people, and we began in America to focus on prisoners of war and those missing in action. And from that meeting came the League of Families and all the others who had never given up, never given up the hope that they might find a missing son or father, still somewhere, still yearning for home. And I believe these missing Americans will fill the highest call of duty. Now America has one last duty to them and their families, and that is to discover the fate of every last POW and every last MIA, no matter how much effort and how much money it takes.

	And we all know these issues are important. Yet the American Legion represents something larger. You are not just the voice for America's veterans; you are a voice for American values. You symbolize not just the courage of our country but its conscience. This organization has taken a very public stand for duty, honor, country, and sacrifice for commitment to family, love of God, and patriotism without apology. And these are the things that bring dignity and direction to our lives--and they also bring greatness and glory to our nation.

	These are the values that opened gulags and liberated death camps. These are the values that brought our country through a long twilight struggle to this blazing moment, or morning, of freedom. These are the values that Americans carried to victory and sometimes carried into eternity. And my motive for talking about these things is not nostalgia--not the nostalgia of an old soldier. I want to raise these issues because we cannot understand and face the challenges of our time without them.

	Family and God, honor, duty and country: now, let's face it, some ridicule these principles as relics of the past. But when our problems are at their worst, when our hope is strained, when drugs and crime and the abandonment of children challenge the very character of our country, we know where to turn. Our tested values provide the only answers that work, the only answers that count. And we find them not by looking backward, but by looking upward to the heights of principle, where we find our strength.

	And there is something final, something permanent about these ideals. There is no bridge to the future not built on their foundation. They do not change; when we respect them, they change us and our nation instead. And we will find our future by reasserting, not ignoring, the beliefs on which America's greatness depends. And these values are at stake in some important debates.

	And some of you saw first-hand--in fact, I remember meeting with many of you--the so-called Enola Gay controversy. The exhibit at the Smithsonian in which revisionist historians painted America as aggressors and the Japanese as victims in World War II. The specific argument concerned the atom bomb, and I am sure most of you agree that President Truman was justified in his actions, by morality and by history, in developing the atom bomb. But there was more to the Enola Gay controversy. Some historians, it is clear, wanted to define World War II and all of American history entirely in terms of American crimes and American repression. And what they're really saying, when you boil it all down, is that honor is a fraud and patriotism is a ploy. But honor is not a fraud, and patriotism is not a ploy. For countless Americans, these things have been as real as breath, as real as death. And American history will not be rewritten by these historians, because it's already been written in American courage and American sacrifice. America is not a source of oppression; it is history's bravest hope. That's what America's all about.

	And let me be very clear: no political party has a monopoly on values. They are the common inheritance of Democrats and Republicans and Independents. And I want to add that no individual has a monopoly on these ideals. For most of us, for us they're the goal we set, not a goal we attain. And all this is true. But it is also true that many of our political debates come down to these fundamentals, to a basic conflict of vision.

	We see it in the protection of the American flag. And this is more than an abstract Constitutional argument. It involves our deepest commitments as a people. Is anything sacred? Is anything hallowed? If the American flag is not held sacred, then nothing is sacred in our society. If the American flag is violated, it is a crime against the memory of heroes. The reverence we feel for the flag in our hearts must also be reflected in our laws. And last year we came very close in the Senate to approving a constitutional amendment protecting the flag--just three votes short, and one of the key workers on that was Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, who's here somewhere today. In fact, he's right behind me. I want him behind me, yes.

	In the end, we were narrowly defeated because the Administration took the side of the American Civil Liberties Union. Next year we'll have a president who takes the side of the American Legion, and that would be a big, big change when it comes to the flag amendment.

	Another issue where the discussion of values cannot be avoided is drugs. And I know the great work that Elmer Fruehoff is doing as chairman of the Children and Youth Commission when it comes to drugs. Elmer's out there somewhere in the Ohio delegation, right there. Thank you.

	Few things so directly concern the character and future of our children. Few things that directly determine the difference between their success and their suffering. And Winston Churchill, as you might recall, called World War II the unnecessary war, because, he said, leadership could have prevented it. The deluge of drugs should be called the "unnecessary epidemic".

	We were winning the war on drugs in the eighties and the early nineties, armed with certain principles. A tough, unequivocal, bipartisan anti-drug effort cut drug use to the lowest levels in decades. Yet most of this hard-won progress has been reversed in the past forty-four months by the mixed messages and embarrassed silence from the Administration. And keep this in mind, this is not my report--it comes from the Administration, issued about two weeks ago. In that time, drug use among children twelve to seventeen--twelve--think about it, twelve to seventeen--has more than doubled. Now let that sink in. In a little over three years, drug use among children, babies, if you will, of twelve and even younger has doubled. Do we need any further proof that the words and actions of a president can make a difference for good or ill?

	And what a president says and what a president does and with whom he associates matters because he sets the moral tone. He sends signals about what is acceptable, and those signals from this administration have been unmistakable, and I believe they've been wrong.

	The President's surgeon general, the person he appointed as the number one health official in America, actually suggested we ought to legalize marijuana, cut the Office of Drug Control from 130 people to forty people. General McCaffrey is a good man with almost an impossible job, because, I think, at every point his work has been undermined.

	So under this administration, we've seen the drug--has gone from "Just say no"--you may remember a lot of people made fun of Nancy Reagan because she had this program called, "Just Say No to Drugs," and she directed it at children every opportunity she had. She'd go into schools and go into inner cities and go everywhere. And some of the liberal media would say, "Oh, what a joke this is." But the parents understood and the grandparents understood and the children understood, that someone with authority was so concerned about them--they were out there with a message, "Just say no." And it worked.

	But that message has now become just say nothing. And by word, action, and policy, for whatever reason, the administration has communicated that it just does not care. It's adopted a live-and-let-live policy on drug use. But people are dying. Emergency room admissions related to cocaine are up nearly 20 percent since 1992, 58 percent for heroine. Now even with this total breakdown of leadership evident, the Administration does not take responsibility; it makes excuses. It does not offer answers; it offers alibis. But let me tell you this, on day one of the Dole administration, we will begin a real war on drugs, and we will fight to win. You've got to fight to win the war on drugs, or you're going to lose.

	We must start with a plan to use our military power, particularly our technological capabilities, to fight this battle--to involve our intelligence agencies, including the CIA in this effort, and if necessary to use the National Guard to stamp out drugs on our border before they enter this country. And we're going to get it done.

	And I know that a long tradition of not involving the military in domestic matters--but I'm beginning to wonder anymore if this is just a domestic matter or is this an international matter. When they kill our children with drugs from some other countries is that a domestic matter? Or is it one that we should address with every power we have available in the United States of America?

	And just this last Sunday--I know Sonny Montgomery was there--I spoke to the National Guard Association meeting, and they are prepared to accept this mission. They are prepared to accept this mission. They have been around 360 years, and they know a mission when they see one. They know an important mission. So we are going to go after drugs, drugs, drugs. Just say no. And again, Elmore, I want to thank you for the great job you do, because nobody has more influence, believe it or not, than people in this audience who know about sacrifice and know about problems and know about dealing with problems and know about making progress. With the American Legion's help, I know we are making some progress. We can make a lot more. So, Elmore, thank you again for all that you do.

	And I would just conclude by saying that you also have to use what they call the bully pulpit. I guess Dan uses it now and then here in the Legion. When you are the commander, sometimes you have to lead people and you have to convince people and you have to inspire people and you have to look at people, look people in the eye and say, "This is wrong--this is wrong for young people--wrong for anyone."

	And if we want to get a handle on crime and teen pregnancy and some of the other problems that young people have, we had better make certain that we succeed in the crackdown in a bipartisan way. Don't misunderstand me for a moment; this is not a partisan issue.

	But even our economic debate concerns some basis values and beliefs. As many of you know, and I hope you will all know in the next several weeks, we propose a plan to balance the budget. And I believe we ought to have a constitutional amendment to our Constitution to balance the budget so we won't spent all your grandchildren's money or your money. And we ought to balance the budget by the year 2002, and we will, and we can still have an across-the-board tax cut of 15 percent for people out there working and trying to put it together for themselves and their business and their families.

	And when I suggested this, the Administrations said, "Well, it is not targeted. Some people get tax cuts who shouldn't have them." Well, I guess those who don't want them can send them back--but nothing can make the contrast between the two of us more clear. Maybe it is because I am from a small town, but we always thought in Russell, Kansas the money belonged to you and not the government and--I think that regardless of your party, you can spend it more wisely than any administration or any Congress, Republican or Democrat, on your family, on your business, and on your children. And you shouldn't have to apologize for wanting to keep more of what you earn. The government should apologize to you for taking too much of what you earn. They got it backwards. It ought to be the other way around.

	So we have a disagreement on that. I disagree with the President. He apparently thinks he can use your money better to fund another theory, to pay for another bureaucracy. But even he is for minor tax breaks. But we want to get this country moving. A 2.4 percent growth is not enough. So we are going to cut the capital gains rates in half so you can go out there and create more jobs and more opportunities for people in your communities. You don't have to wait till death to sell your property. And this is not just a different view of economics. It is a different level of trust and freedom. And I carry around in my pocket, 'cause I know the Legion loves the Constitution, Article 10 of the Constitution--been around a couple hundred years ago, so it wasn't written by any Republican or Democrat that's still around--Strom Thurmond was there, but otherwise no one else was there.

	It's only twenty-eight words long, and our Founding Fathers were so concerned that someday there'd be this all-powerful central government that'd literally take away your money through taxation or your property through taxation or your rights, whatever they might be--so they wrote into the Constitution a twenty-eight-word amendment which says, in effect, unless the federal Constitution gives a power to the federal government, or denies it to the several states that are represented here, it belongs to the states and it belongs to the people. And we believe it's time to send the power back to the states and back to the people--back to Democrat governors and Democrat legislatures, Republican governors, Republican legislatures, because they are closer to the people.

	That's what our Founding Fathers wanted in the first place--a government that's closer to the people. So we've started that with welfare reform--we're going to add some others. So it seems to me that we've got our work cut out for us, whether Republicans or Democrats. But I believe that men and women should live in obedience to God and their conscience, not to their government. Our government must not lose its compassion, but it must be forced to lose its imperial arrogance. And I will always and always, just as this audience does, put my faith in freedom.

	So much depends on getting these basic things right. It means so much to a Gulf War veteran who wants to save so she can start a business in a growing economy. It means so much to family working an extra job just to pay their taxes, when that time could be used to be with their children. Our budget is not a bankroll for any administration to use for new programs. Your budget--I view it as the first and primary way that children are cared for in America and prepared for productive life.

	And small business, to some, is a source of revenue and target for regulation. I see small business as a primary source for jobs in America, and small business does create most of the jobs in America. So again, I would say to this audience, I know you care strongly about America. You care about the future.

	And no one's perfect. I know you care about leadership, because you've been in positions of leadership--not just in the Legion or the Auxiliary, but before. And like everyone in this audience, I've been fortunate to live an American life in what we call the American Century. And I have been a witness to our greatness, and I have seen average homesick Americans save the world, armed with the courage they needed, and also stainless patriotism. I have seen our nation put gold stars in its windows--a symbol of pride and grief for the sons it lost--enough stars to fill our sheltering sky with heroes. And I have seen our sacrifice and our pride and competence make American history the central story in the history of the world. And I have earned my optimism about this country and its promise, and I have come to a conclusion: Every victory of a nation, of our nation in peace and war was ultimately the result not of our technology or our wealth, but of our character as a people.

	The influence of America expands the size of our ideals, and this nation is always on a pioneer's path, crossing the future's frontiers. But we're always guided in the journey by the fixed star of certain, enduring principles: family and God, honor, duty and country. And with those commitments, we will create a second American century. And I want another generation to see this country as we've seen it, as I've seen it. It is a place where miracles are common. It is the home of heroes, it is a bright signal in history's darkness. This is the vision that brought me to public life, the vision that drives my candidacy.
And someone must pass along the inspiration and power of these ideals, someone must talk of heroism and honor.

	This is the America I know, from a small town on a vast plain. It is the America, tested in desperate battles and rewarded with victories, that shaped a whole new world. It is the nation we are called to be again. And so I am honored to be here.

	And I would only close with a presentation. On this past Memorial Day, when I knew I might be leaving the Senate, I asked that about a half a dozen flags be flown over the Capitol of the United States in honor of the men and women of the American Legion, and after flying over one of America's landmarks of freedom, I can't imagine a better place for it to fly than oven another landmark of freedom, the American Legion National Headquarters.

	Thank you very much, and God Bless America.
BUDGET, BALANCEDCAPITAL GAINS TAXCONDUCT OF LIFE--MEMBERSHIPSCONSTITUTIONDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTFLAG/FLAG ISSUESHEALTH CARE--VETERANSIRAQPATRIOTISMPOWS/MIASTAXATION--GENERALVETERANSWELFAREWORLD WAR II     c c c c c
 c c c c c ~c dc Yc	  	  	  	  	  	  	 h 	 X 	 C 	 ? 	 5 	 , 	  	  	  e: