

	I always come to Texas with a feeling of genuine excitement. Texas is the fulfillment of a dream we all had when we were young. Who among us has not seen himself riding a good horse, under a limitless sky, with a high heart and ready for whatever may come?

	Well, that's still Texas to many of us who don't live here. And that spirit of freedom, that readiness for life, is the essence of America. For it has been well said that Texas is America, only more so.

	I have noticed that Texans never ask where you're from. That, I am told, is an ancient rule of Texas manners. It was Sam Houston, I believe, who first said that you should never ask a man where he comes from: If he is a Texan, he will tell you, and if he isn't you shouldn't embarrass him.

	Well, I would never have felt embarrassed in any case, because I don't feel altogether a stranger here in Texas. I wasn't born here but one of my forebears, Josiah Hughes Bell, came here in 1818 and helped establish the town of Columbia, the first capital of the republic of Texas. He was a close friend of Sam Houston, who for a time had his office as president in a house in Bell's yard. His son, James Hall Bell, served on the Texas Supreme Court before the Civil War. Today I have relatives scattered all across the state--including a few right here in Dallas. I hope they vote for me and with more enthusiasm than some other Texans I thought were Democrats!

	But my feeling of kinship for Texas is rooted in something far deeper than that. Texans are known everywhere for four special characteristics.

	The first is a spirit of fierce independence. It is the spirit born at Goliad, christened with blood at the Alamo, and confirmed on the plain of San Jacinto. It is ingrained today deep in the soul of every Texan.

	In private life, it shows itself in purposeful enterprise--a flaming energy and initiative--which is developing this state at a breathless pace.

	The spirit of private initiative is at the very core of American greatness. The function of democratic government, as I see it, is to release the energies of our people and to encourage its expression in progressive and rewarding private pursuits. In any event, that is the kind of government I believe in and have tried to practice as governor of Illinois.

	Although your Governor Shivers and I seem to differ on some matters--notably the question of loyalty to the Democratic party--we both respect the principle of states' rights; and those of you who know anything of the past four years in Illinois will know of what I have done to revive honest, responsible, effective state and local government.

	I am willing to have my allegiance to the federal system and to the responsibility of the states measured by our accomplishments during the last four years. How well we have succeeded is for others to say. But I do say that this kind of hard work at home is how to stop the same work from being done the hard way in Washington.

	When Texans talk of states' rights, I think that what they are saying is that they believe in good government--clean, economical government--government which is both as limited in scope and as local in character as possible. In Illinois I have had a chance to put these convictions into practice. My first job there was to clean up a Republican mess, to use their favorite phrase, and I mean to clean up after an apathetic, ill smelling, corrupt holding operation that they chose to call a government.

	My next chore was to keep a Republican legislature from spending too much money, and I did that by vetoing more appropriation bills than any governor in the history of Illinois. If I am known as a hard man with a dollar, I am not ashamed of that reputation. In particular, I take pride in the fact that, despite increased expenditures for worthy purposes, such as nearly doubling state aid to the common schools, and in spite of the increased cost of all goods and services, in my four years we have not raised general purpose taxes.

	A second characteristic which I share with the people of Texas is a respect for law and for the sanctity of our courts. America was founded as a government of laws, not of men. Here lies the sole protection of our liberties; and it is the Supreme Court of the United States, above all else, which stands as our ultimate shield against oppression.

	For this reason, I have been much puzzled by the attitude which seems to be widespread in Texas about my position on the so-called tidelands issue. Some of my friends here tell me that misunderstanding has been spread deliberately--that many Texans have never had a chance to see or hear the full text of my statement on this issue, and thus to know exactly where I stand on this question--and why. Consequently I want to tell you once more, and on your own home grounds.

	On June 5, 1950, the Supreme Court decided that the right to the oil, if any, in the submerged lands between the low water mark and the historic boundary of Texas was vested in all the people of this nation.

	Now I can well understand why the people of Texas were disappointed by this ruling. As a governor I know very well how urgently a state needs every penny it can get for the support of its schools and the welfare of its citizens.

	But I also believe that, in our system of government, the Supreme Court is the ultimate authority on matters of this kind. When it makes a ruling, it is the sacred duty of all of us--no matter how sorely disappointed we may be--to accept that ruling in good faith. If ever we falter in that duty, the whole foundation of our society will be in jeopardy.

	When the Supreme Court decided recently that the government had no right to seize the steel industry, the people of Texas accepted that ruling, as I did--some of them with a shout of enthusiasm. But when the same court handed down its ruling on the submerged lands, we heard a different kind of shout.

	We can't have it both ways. We can't be for the Supreme Court on Monday and against it on Tuesday.

	At one time Governor Shivers believed in the Supreme Court exactly as I believe in it today. In a letter to the El Paso Times dated June 8, 1949, he spoke of his lifelong training to respect duly constituted authority, and he added: "I recognize that historically the Supreme Court of the United States is the final arbiter in disputes over legal rights."

	I also have been astonished at the false propaganda which has been spread about the effect of the Supreme Court decision. The Republicans--and, I am ashamed to say, a few erstwhile Democrats--have charged that the government is trying to steal your inland rivers, your filled lands, and even your ranches. They have told you falsely that the school children of Texas are being robbed of $2,500 a piece. They have even made ridiculous claims that Washington is trying to kidnap the oysters of Chesapeake Bay and grab the buildings along the shores of the Great Lakes.

	There is not one crumb of truth in any of these charges which the General talked about so blithely during the well deserved birthday celebration you gave him. Here are the facts.

	The only lands in dispute are the submerged lands which lie between the low watermark and the historic boundary of Texas ten-and-a-half miles out to sea.

	No one in Texas, or elsewhere, lays serious claim to the submerged lands of the Continental Shelf, stretching out beyond the historic ten-and-a-half mile boundary of the state. The federal government, in turn, lays no claim to the true tidelands--that is, the area between low and high water mark. Neither does it claim--nor would it so long as I might have any say about it--the rivers, nor the land beneath them, nor the navigable inland waters such as Chesapeake Bay and your San Laguna Madre. Supreme Court decisions, running back more than a hundred years, establish beyond question that these areas belong to the states. If the Congress were to pass legislation expressly confirming this title--as it has repeatedly been requested to do by the executive branch--I would have no objection to it whatsoever, although it would seem unnecessary.

	Texas has asserted a special claim to the ten-and-a-half mile strip lying just offshore, because of the special manner in which the republic of Texas was brought into the Union. President Truman recognized these views when he spoke in a message to Congress of "the unique situation relating to Texas." If, as certain Texans loudly assert, Texas is in fact in a special position historically, I find it difficult to understand, as I am sure do many of you, why the same persons have chosen to cast the lot of Texas with the claims of other states having very different historical origins.

	Now the Republicans usually talk as if the submerged lands were producing a vast wealth of oil and that Texas was being robbed. The truth is that the income to Texas from these lands is so small that there are some who say that these lands are richer in votes than in oil.

	Here in Texas I want to say again what I said in Illinois. I believe that the man who is elected president of the United States begins in this controversy where the Supreme Court left off--and the Supreme Court has held that the oil in the submerged lands is a national asset. The present question is--what should we do with that asset? I do not believe it is wise national policy to give such an asset to an individual state. If we begin that in this case, where will it end? What are you going to say when Oregon starts asking for the national forests within its boundaries, or Montana and Wyoming the national parks and grazing lands and oil shale deposits in theirs?

	The problem must not, however, remain on dead center. The submerged lands ought to be developed--for something other than political purposes. And here is the last paragraph of my statement last August which many of you may be hearing for the first time:

	"At the moment there is a legislative stalemate on this issue which is harmful to both the states and the nation. It should be broken by enactment of legislation providing an equitable arrangement of the administration of these lands and the disposition of their proceeds. Several proposals to this end have been before the Congress. There may be others not yet proposed or even thought of. I think we should continue to work in the direction of this kind of a solution which is mindful of the respective interests of the states and the federal government."

	Perhaps it is unnecessary for me to add that I will give the most careful and conscientious consideration of which I am capable to any bill passed by the Congress in this spirit.

	Here again, Governor Shivers once agreed wholeheartedly with my position. In the same letter I quoted earlier, he suggested "working out some compromise." He pointed out that "about 80 percent of the profitable oil is 25 miles or more from shore," in the Continental Shelf area where "Texas is not claiming any interest." He noted that "Texas would gain in revenue" from such a compromise, and he concluded that: "To me this is more important to the school children and the school fund of Texas than being adamant in our position."

	That seems to me a fair and reasonable view of a most difficult problem. But evidently the governor has concluded that it is time for a change--of mind. I can only hope that when the heat of this campaign is over he will return to his first position--to what would seem to be the great benefit of the people of Texas.

	And, finally, I think a president must be responsible, and that a presidential candidate should be no less responsible. I think it the duty of a responsible president to conserve the nation's assets entrusted to him. And I think a candidate before election should act and talk the way he proposes to act and talk after election.

	I have set forth these facts about the submerged lands in considerable detail because some carpetbaggers who have been around here lately, and their new-found friends, have done their best to smother the truth under a blizzard of propaganda. They have tried to confuse and frighten the people of Texas. Why, I don't know, unless it was to stampede the voters of this state into the quicksands of the Republican party.

	I have mentioned two sturdy characteristics of Texans. Now I want to mention two more. They are loyalty and courage. And it is these characteristics which will, I am convinced, defeat the Republican strategy of fright and deception in this election.

	I do not believe that Texans raised in your proud tradition can be stampeded, like nervous sheep, by the yelp of a Republican coyote--except for very good reasons indeed. And I don't believe an embrace with the Republican Old Guard which has fought most everything from agriculture to foreign policy in which you believe is a very good reason.

	You and I can remember all too well what happened on the only other occasion when the people of the Southwest were lured into voting Republican. Sam Rayburn tells me that in 1932 you couldn't find a jackrabbit on the north plains that didn't have two men chasing it. And when they finally got it into the stew-pot, they called it Hoover beef.

	Texans know that while the issue of the submerged lands is important in this campaign, they know, too, that it is not the only issue.

	The real leaders of the General's campaign are the same Old Guardsmen who began their spiteful obstruction of the will of the people in the days of Franklin Roosevelt. They are the same Old Guard that for twenty years has opposed every measure that has brought security and progress to the farmer, the factory worker, the small business man. And they'll do it again.

	They make you many promises during the election campaign on social security, on price supports, on tidelands, on everything. But we know from their voting record in Congress that they do not keep their promises. They know that our country today faces even greater issues--issues of prosperity and depression, issues of war and peace. And Texans know that the Democratic party in the last twenty years has lifted our country out of a disastrous depression and brought our country safely through a terrible war and post-war crisis.

	And Texans know something else. They know that we do not just elect a president this year--we elect a political party and all its leaders.

	I would be the last to claim perfection for my party. But I do not hesitate to match our record with that of the Republican leaders any time.

	Everybody knows--at least everybody in Texas knows--that the Democratic party is the party of the people. And everybody knows that we say what we think--in Texas as out--and we mean what we say.

	There are immense tasks ahead of us--building homes and raising food, educating our children and assuring their good health--building a better society--above all, building enduring peace on earth.

	Our world is not soft and easy; it is hard and tough. And we must meet it on its own terms. We must face our troubles with the courage and faith of our pioneer ancestors, of your Texas forebears, men and women who conquered a wilderness with a rifle in one hand and a Bible in the other.

	If we go forward in that spirit there is nothing that can stop us.


GOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALCOAST/WETLANDSNATURAL RESOURCES--FEDERAL VS. STATE OWNERSHIPOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESSUPREME COURT     = < < < <
 < < < < < < N< D<	 z  _  Q  #   e: