
	It's great to be a Democrat! It's great to belong to a party that belongs to no single interest among us and no single region of the country, but to all the people everywhere. Working in that atmosphere with those commitments, with those convictions, you somehow feel that to talk to masses of people everywhere and bespeak their support is honest and worthwhile, because what you are doing is larger than you are or than any selfish interest.

	I want to say how grateful I am to the men on the platform with me here tonight, who have come out here to help us carry the Democratic message to the beautiful rim of the Pacific. Two great Democratic governors: George Leader of Pennsylvania and Robert Meyner of New Jersey. Two great Democratic Senators: Albert Gore of Tennessee and Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota.

	These men, and others like them, are the vigorous new men with new ideas who lead the Democratic party today. And what they find in the Democratic party is a chance to work for the people.

	I think and I hope that next January Senators Humphrey and Gore will have a new liberal ally in the Senate--Richard Richards of California. Dick Richards, with his brilliant record in your own state senate, is another young man who is rapidly rising to the top in our party.

	And I think, too, that you're going to send two dedicated Liberals to the House of Representatives to help out there--Congressman George P. Miller of the Eighth District and Dr. Laurance Cross of the Seventh.

	From all over the country, we get reports that voters are switching this year--away from the Republicans and over to the Democratic party.

	There are lots of reasons for this.

	Three years ago, we learn now, even the Republican President got so disgusted with his party that he talked about forming a third party. But apparently he is now enthusiastically in favor of all his fellow Republicans who follow him at coattail distance as candidates but refuse to follow him at all as President.

	Another explanation of the switch was offered by Mr. Stassen--because people know that after this election, win or lose, the heir apparent will inherit leadership of the Republican party--and you in California know who that is and what that means!

	And they are switching because now it is plain that the record of the present administration adds up to much fine talk, but no action, in meeting the problems facing the people of this country.

	They have failed to give the farmer a fair share of our national income.

	They have failed to take any effective action to build the schools our children need.

	They have failed to protect our public resources against private greed.

	They have failed to give more than token tax relief to those who need it most.

	They have failed to stop the cost of living from rising to an all-time high.

	They have failed to protect the civil liberties of loyal Americans in government and in industry.

	They have failed to provide any leadership in the mounting crisis over civil rights.

	Most seriously of all, they have lost confidence and respect for us around the world, boasted and bluffed, zigged and zagged, contradicted each other, told us fairy tales instead of the grim realities, and made grandstand plays that frightened our friends more than our enemies.

	And now we are being offered for campaign consumption a brand of Pollyanna politics labeled Peace, Prosperity, and Progress.

	Well I say that this Pollyanna politics is good neither for us nor for them and is doomed to die on November 6th. We Americans aren't afraid of the truth; the people aren't asking for sugar-coated assurances that all is well. The most heartening thing about this campaign is that millions of Americans are concerned about the issues and want straight talk and common sense.

	I've been trying to tell the people as clearly as I know how what we Democrats want to do about the problems we face, what road we want to take to the New America.

	It isn't possible in a political campaign to cover all the issues in campaign speeches, and so I have tried to set forth in a series of written statements exactly what we are going to do. Two weeks ago, I proposed a detailed program to help the aging. Last week I spelled out what we want to do to give our children the kind of schools and teachers they deserve. This week I suggested the goals and outlined a program to make sure that no one is denied good medical care because he can't afford it.

	Some people ask why I am doing this, why not just attack the Republicans? I'll tell you why. It's because I think it's wrong that the country with the longest automobiles, the widest TV screens, and the most superhighways is letting its older citizens live out their lives in fear and poverty.

	I think it's wrong that a country that loves its children denies them the best education.

	I think it's wrong that the country with the most expensive resort hotels and the longest vacations doesn't see to it that all Americans can see a doctor when they need him.

	And I think it's right that a candidate say what he plans to do about it.

	And I submit that although the Republican campaign is getting shriller every day, it hasn't yet produced a single new idea. And the clearest thing about the world we live in is that it needs new ideas even as the earth needs rain.

	Beyond the specific issues in this campaign are the broader questions of the basic differences between the two parties. It is important to ask: what is the difference in basic constitution and basic philosophy between our two parties, what the grounds are on which we Democrats seek the awesome responsibility of governing the United States.

	It is not enough that the Republicans are in office and we are out. The American people want to know and have a right to know why we Democrats feel we deserve their trust and the Republicans do not.

	I say that there are very great differences between the two parties. These differences have been growing throughout this century, especially since the days of Woodrow Wilson.

	With the defeat of the Democratic party in 1920, the government passed back to the control of the coalition of moneymakers and isolationists who had dominated the Republican party so long. This Old Guard defeated the League of Nations. It presided over the wild Wall Street boom that culminated in the Great Depression. It fought the great social reforms, the modernization of America, under Roosevelt, every step of the way, and its political successors are still denouncing the New Deal, although they don't repeal any of it and proudly proclaim their liberal objectives--at least once every four years.

	During these years of the twenties and early thirties, a new and vigorous Democratic party had found a new meaning, new purpose, and a new usefulness in the nation's despair under the leadership of Franklin Roosevelt.

	Once more the people needed the people's party.

	All political organizations remain a product of their past. The Democratic party remains the party of the people. If there is one thing which, more than anything else, distinguishes us from our opponents it is this: "We trust the people."

	The Republican party has remained the party of those with a primary interest in money and profit. It remains the party of the rich and powerful. And today, as thirty years ago, the Republican party still bears the lingering heritage of its historic isolationism and irresponsibility in foreign affairs.

	I deeply regret this irresponsibility where foreign policy is concerned. In the last four years we have paid a heavy price in world influence for the appeasement by the Eisenhower Administration of the Old Guard Republicans.

	But, in domestic affairs, I see no reason for protest against the Republican party's representation of wealth, power and bigness. In our two-party system the honest representation of these important, albeit limited, interests is the historic task of the Republican party.

	We heard Secretary of the Interior Douglas McKay say early in 1953, that "we are here in the saddle as an administration representing business and industry."

	We heard Secretary of Defense Charles Wilson say, "What's good for General Motors is good for the country."

	But these were authentic voices of honest Republicanism. Yet Secretary Wilson was told he would have to stop talking and Secretary McKay was given even worse punishment--he was shipped back to Oregon to run against Senator Wayne Morse--a Republican who couldn't stand it any longer and had the courage in 1952 to follow his conscience out of this Republican party. And 1952, I remind you, was a doubtful year for Democrats at best!

	President Eisenhower's Cabinet reflects the true spirit of the Republican party. The qualifications were not past public service. The criterion was financial success. He chose a Cabinet of business managers and millionaires. I have said that the party of Lincoln had become the party of Cadillac, but this is exactly the kind of Cabinet we should expect and should have in a Republican administration.

	When a Republican administration forthrightly represents the special interests of the rich and powerful, well, I see every reason for opposing that representation--but none for complaining about it.

	What I do protest, however, is the election-year pretense of being something else, this cry from the chicken coop that there's nobody here but us chickens. Honest representation of a single interest is one thing--but GOP Leap Year Liberalism is a fraud.

	Ours, I repeat, is the party of the people. I need only remind you here in San Francisco Bay how quickly Joe Smith discovered where he didn't belong!

	The first difference between Republicans and Democrats, then, is that we trust the people.

	The second grows directly out of the first. We take the people's needs for our own. And we insist on doing what needs doing in meeting people's problems.

	In spite of the President's bold claim the other night of "four years of clear accomplishments," the inventory of action is very meager. It reminds me of what Woodrow Wilson--I believe it was said of a previous Republican administration--"Never was nothing done as systematically as nothing is being done now."

	On farm prices, and Social Security, the problems of the old, the problems of small business, urban redevelopment, public housing, school building and education, health improvement, resource development, atomic energy development, and--most of all--the peace and security of our country and our civilization, the Eisenhower administration has said much and done little.

	I was reminded the other day of Salk vaccine as an illustration of what I'm saying. I believe Democrats would have eagerly tackled the job of ridding every American family of fear of infantile paralysis. We would, I suspect, even be boasting about it now. But the Eisenhower administration tried only to explain why it did nothing, and the Secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare even said that no one "could have foreseen" the demand for vaccine!

	No one, we are told, has had such total popularity as our President in these past four years. And certainly no administration has ever enjoyed such immunity from criticism as this one. And what use has been made of these great assets of leadership?

	Has there been a single new idea at home or abroad? (Don't say atoms for peace, or open-sky inspection, or flexible price supports--all of which were Democratic proposals long ago.)

	Has there been a strong stand on a single difficult issue?

	Has there been a strong presidential influence for a major reform?

	Has there ever been a major informative address to the American people in the past year and a half?

	I say the unforgiving minutes are running out here at home and all across the worried world.

	I say that what we don't do now will be more costly next year; perhaps impossible in ten years.

	But if the administration has been languid in the people's service, it has fought hard for the Dixon-Yates contract, for tax reduction on the well-to-do, against public power development and real relief for the farmer, etc.

	It has fought hard wherever the issue has been, not people, but profit.

	This brings me to the third of the things which distinguish the Republican party from the Democratic party--The republican salesmanship, hucksterism, and merchandising of their record. And you know why--when the package is empty, the label has to be good.

	We have had some fine examples of this these past four years--and now in this election.

	The Republicans don't say they have "lowered" farm prices. They have just made them "flexible."

	The Republican tax bill was not designed to reduce taxes for the well-to-do. They tell us it was to "revive business incentives."

	When an Eisenhower cabinet officer is found using public office for private business, he isn't charged with wrongdoing, but "poor judgment."

	They talk about being "liberal in human affairs and conservative in economic affairs"--but the record is penny-wise and people-foolish.

	And when they just can't make up their minds at all about public policy, they call their inaction "dynamic conservatism."

	And when we lose ground abroad, we are assured that all is well, the Communists are on the run and our brinkmanship is brilliant. I sometimes think that the most massive retaliation we have to worry about is verbal and the target is us!

	I don't think the American people like this deception. I don't think they like to be told by Mr. Dulles and President Eisenhower that American prestige "has never been higher," when it is manifestly untrue.

	The chief Washington correspondent of the New York Times observed last year that, under the Eisenhower Administration there was "a growing tendency to manage the news."

	Sigma Delta Chi, the professional journalistic fraternity concluded that "there has developed today the worst abridgment of the American's right to know about the Federal government in the 168 years of the American experiment with freedom."

	And so I say these are the differences between the parties--and the really basic issues in this election.

	We Democrats are the party of the people, and we trust the people to know and to decide. 

	These things are clearer now than they were four years ago.

	We have had enough of inaction and self-advertising.

	We Americans are called to great tasks, both at home and abroad.

	We Democrats welcome these tasks.

	We welcome the challenge to clear slums and build our people houses.

	We welcome the chance to build schools worthy of the citizens of tomorrow.

	We welcome the chance to enlarge the opportunities, the equalities, and the dignities that are the right of all Americans, regardless of race or color.

	We look forward to better health for all.

	We look forward to providing a better life for our older citizens.

	We look forward to the struggle for a rightful position for the farmer and the small businessman.

	We are prepared to face the overriding challenge of the world about us--and the winning of friends for freedom, justice, and peace.

	These challenges--the challenges of justice, of equality, and of peace --can be met. They can be met with firm leadership. They can be met by a party with heart as well as a head, a party that cares about people. They can be met by men and women who do not fear new ideas and new solutions.

	We have had enough of complacency stagnation. The time has come to resume our onward march toward a New America.
BUSINESS, CORPORATECABINET OFFICIALSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCES     = = = = =
 v= q= l= e= [= Y= Y= O=	 f 	 S 	 B 	  e: