

	Dole-Kemp are two four-letter words you can teach your kids. Dole-Kemp, Dole-Kemp.

	And let me say, it's great to be here with the next governor of Indiana. Steve, I'm proud to be here. You're going to be elected. You're going to be number thirty-three--thirty-three Republican governors out of fifty.

	And I know that Dick Lugar is somewhere covering for you so you could be here, and I appreciate that.

	I see the Indy 500 car behind me. We're in a ninety-six-hour race. We've been going strong now for twenty-three hours. We're going to go around-the-clock, around-the-clock, around-the-clock to win this race on November 5. And on November 5, we're going to pass the checkered flag and take the victory lap. It's all going to happen in Indiana and all across America.

	We've already been in four states today, and it's on to Kentucky and Missouri, Nebraska and South Dakota, Colorado, Nevada and California yet today. We are serious about winning this election.

	And I ask you all across America to do the same thing. Give us twenty-four hours, forty-eight hours, seventy-two hours, whatever you can spare, because we are fighting for America. The last time I fought around the clock for America was in Italy in 1945 and we're doing the same today in the United States of America.

	Because I believe the federal government is too big and takes too much of your money, your money.

	And we're going to have that 15 percent across-the-board tax cut. And we're going to have a $500 per-child tax credit for every child under 18. And we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half to create more jobs and more opportunities all across America. And that's just phase one.

	Phase two is to have a flatter, fairer, simpler tax and end the IRS as we know it.

	And we're going to have a better education. We're going to give people choices, we're going to give the schools back to the parents and back to the teachers, back to the parents and back to the teachers. Take education out of the hands of the labor bosses in Washington, DC, back to the parents, back to the teachers, give parents choice.

	And we will restore our military strength and Bob Dole will respect the young men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America.

	And I will support an amendment to protect the flag of the United States of America. And an amendment that says if young people can get together for sports or debate or anything else, they ought to be able to get together for voluntary prayer in America.

	And you send me the partial-birth abortion bill and I will sign it, I will not veto it. Whether we're pro-life or pro-choice, Dr. Koop, for example, happens to be pro-choice, says there's never any need for this terrible, terrible, terrible procedure. It should not happen and I will sign to ban that procedure forever in the United States of America.

	And to the young people here, you know, President Clinton has been AWOL, he's been AWOL before, but he's been AWOL on the war on drugs for four years. And what has happened? Drug use has doubled in ages twelve to seventeen. We will reduce that by 50 percent in our first four years.

	And I will never compromise ethics or violate the public trust, the public trust.

	This White House has set a bad example from day one--from day one they've set a bad example. And I would say, as a Republican, we had our problems, too, a few years back. But they're having their problems now, and I'm willing to say right now, if he's reelected, he's going to spend half his time next year with investigations. Who knows what will happen in the next twenty-four months to thirty-six months?

	Duty, honor, country, decency, integrity--all those things we want in America.

	So let me say to everyone here this morning--the people outside--I know it's cold out there. I'm happy that you're on my right. I want you on my right, not on my--my right, where you belong. We are going to give America back to the people, back to the people, back to the people.

	You know, I carry around in my pocket a little copy of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution. get it out of here. Here it is. It's only twenty-eight words long. It's been around over 200 years. Our Founding Fathers were so concerned about an all-powerful central government that could confiscate your property through taxation and just take your property or whatever, that they put Article 10 in the Constitution.

	It's Article 10. It's part of the Bill of Rights. And this is what it says, in effect: Unless the federal Constitution gives a power to the federal government or denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people--to the people.

	And I believe that Steve Goldsmith is right: Power to the people, back to the people. Make decisions here. Make decisions locally. Got a lot of wisdom out here. It's not all in Washington, D.C. At least around the White House, I can't find any wisdom. Back to the people.

	All they talk about at the White House--"Well, how could we get another federal program? How can we raise your taxes $265 billion"--after he promised you a tax cut.

	Then he wanted to take over the greatest health care delivery system in the world and put it in the hands of the federal government.--seventeen new taxes, price controls. You couldn't choose your own doctor. And then he says he's not a liberal? Come on. Give me a break. But he--he will be eligible for the tax cut if he leaves his forwarding address.

	And I would say we're very excited about this campaign. Something's happening all across America. At four this morning we were in a diner in East Rutherford, New Jersey. We had hundreds and hundreds of people--just showed up. Then we were in Pennsylvania, and we had hundreds and hundreds of people who were there to see us this morning at seven at a sunrise breakfast. The sun came up, but I never saw the breakfast. I don't know what happened,

	And now we're here, and now we're going to Kentucky, and on and on and on. We believe that we can win this race. We want to see Indiana right up there on top.

	And we have a lot of differences--thank you. I want to thank you for Dick Lugar and Dan Coats and Dan Quayle of--I've served with. John Myers over here is retiring--where is John?--retiring this year. He's done a great job in the Congress for the state of Indiana. We've served together in the House. I want to see that map light up that blue. I want Indiana right up there, right at the top, right at the top, right at the top.

	I want to see it for the right reasons. I want to see it from Democrats and independents and members of the Reform party and Republicans who are looking for someone who will keep their word as president of the United States once they walk into the White House.

	Now I can't--I'm not a smooth talker like that other guy. But I got my head screwed on right, and that makes a difference, too. And I--what? And in Kansas--I want to be smart--oh, I just read that sign. Oh, I want to be smart, not. Oh, I see. Okay. I'd--well, no comment.

	But in any event, there are probably some former Kansans here, but in Kansas, if we don't ask for people's vote--oh, right here?--you're not going to get it. You may not get it if you ask for it, but at least you got to ask for it.

	So I want to ask everybody in the sound of my voice and all across this state and all across America, if you want someone who will keep their word, someone who you'll be proud to vote for on November 5--vote for Bob Dole. I need your support all across America.

	I want to thank my daughter, Robin for coming today. And I'm sorry my wife, Elizabeth, is not here. She's in Detroit at a rally. But she will be a great first lady. She is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her. That's how smart Elizabeth is.

	And I want a Republican Congress so we can get things done and not have bills vetoed--a balanced budget, all the bills vetoed. And we will get it done. Good, sensible, reasonable, responsible government, giving more power back to the states, back to the governors, back to Governor Steve here starting next year--back to the governors, back to the legislatures.

	And I might say one other thing. I know agriculture is very important in the state of Indiana. And I know Dick Lugar does a tremendous job as chairman of that committee. And I've been on that committee working with Dick Lugar for a long time. And we understand because of America's farmers, we have the best food bargain in the world. We're going to keep it that way. We spend less of our disposable income on food in America than any other industrialized country in the world because of America's farmers. And we are going to stick up for America's farmers in a Dole administration.

	So if you want the truth for a change, you can do it on Tuesday--the truth for a change, the truth for a change, the truth for a change.

	And do you believe, you believe that it's important to keep the public trust?

	I've been around Washington for a while and I've always thought this, and I think I'm right, because I was with two men yesterday of great integrity, former President Bush and former President Ford.

	And when you're elected president of the United States and you walk into the White House, you have a very special obligation to all the people of America, and that is to keep your word and to tell the truth and to keep America strong. We have lost prestige all around the world. Our enemies don't fear us and our friends don't respect us because we don't have any leadership, we don't have leadership in America.

	And if we should ever have to send troops anywhere around the world when I'm president of the United States, I will make that decision and not Boutros, Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations.

	So let's work together for a better America as we go into the next century. I want to thank you very much for coming out on a Saturday morning. God bless America. We are going to win.
ABORTIONAGRICULTURE--GENERALBILL OF RIGHTSCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDRUG ABUSE--MINORSEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCESCHOOL PRAYERTAXATION--GENERAL     r( >( 8( 4( *(
 "( ( ( ( ( ( ' '	  	  	  	  	  	  	 T 	 9 	  	  e: