

	New Jersey is a proud state; and with very good reason. What you have achieved here has been the envy of the nation: a half a million new jobs, a growing economy, a new recognition as a national economic power.

	New Jersey has attracted national attention for its economic success; and this fall, the eyes of the nation will be upon you for another reason. This state--the Garden State--will be a key battleground in determining the future direction of America.

	I came here this weekend to let you know how important you are. I came here because I intend to run hard in New Jersey. I intend to fight hard. And, with your help, I intend to win.

	Labor Day weekend is upon us--from here on in, the campaign gets serious.

	I ask you to look carefully at the positions of the candidates.

	Here are just a few. My opponent has a record of raising taxes. I will not raise your taxes, period.

	He has a record of letting criminals out on weekend furloughs. I favor tough crime laws, no furloughs for murderers, and--for those who kill policemen or deal in the deadly currency of drugs--the death penalty.

	He has opposed every major addition to our strategic defense, and I will never let America be made weak again.

	Labor Day also recalls something else. The end of summer. Time to look back on the season just passed; time to get ready for the challenges ahead.

	This summer, America's rising spirit has been tried by one issue above all others: and that is the condition of our environment. In the blur of headlines about dirty air and closed beaches, there may be one silver lining: an increased awareness that the time for action to clean up the environment is now.

	The fact is that this summer, like last, was not kind to the shore. This very beach was closed twice due to medical waste washing up. And medical waste was found again just yesterday not far from here.

	I'm an environmentalist; always have been and always will be. So at the outset of this campaign, I believe it's important to state clearly how I would lead this country to a cleaner environment.

	That's what I've been doing in these last few days. I've traveled from the Michigan shores of Lake Erie--once pronounced dead and now coming back as a thriving fishery--to a boat in Boston Harbor--now called "the dirtiest harbor in America."

	One thing is clear: we cannot ignore the problems of our environment. They call for action. They call for leadership. Because nobody fools nature over the long run.

	So let me tell you, briefly, what I'm for:

	I'm for taking action to curb the damage done by acid rain. The time for study alone is over--so I favor a program of specific emissions reductions on a specific timetable.

	I'm for an aggressive, no-nonsense approach to cleaning up toxic waste dumps. I'm for strengthening enforcement against dumpers, quickening the pace of our cleanups, and streamlining the bureaucracy that sometimes slows them down.

	You're looking at a president who would make the enforcement of Superfund, the prosecution of polluters, and the cleanup of toxic waste a top priority.

	I would make the United States the world leader in tackling environmental problems. Problems like acid rain and global warming know no boundaries. So I'm for convening a global conference on the environment, at the White House, to bring all nations together to work for solutions.

	I'm for working to preserve the capacity of our wetlands, because they are too valuable to let disappear.

	I'm for an America in which all of us treat our air, water, and soil with greater care--in which a "conservation ethic" is broadly felt and widely taught.

	Most of all, I want today to tell you what actions I'm for to curb the tragedy of ocean pollution--because this problem is too vital to demand anything less than a specific action plan.

	America hasn't fought for freedom on beaches around the world only to have our own beaches conquered by waste.

	So, first, I'm for a complete ban on the ocean dumping of sewage sludge after 1991. Congressman Jim Saxton has been one of the leaders in pushing for this and I congratulate him for his efforts.

	Second, the federal government should help establish an effective system for tracking the disposal of medical waste. We can start with a pilot program right here in the New York-New Jersey area, in cooperation with the state plan that the governors recently announced. But the point is that if federal action must be taken to track waste effectively--federal action should be taken.

	One idea that has been suggested by several legislators, and by candidates like Joe Azzolina, is to require manufacturers of certain medical products to batch code their products to help in this tracking. I think this idea is most interesting, and deserves a close look.

	Third, I favor bringing in the Federal Bureau of Investigation to track down those who dump medical waste illegally. We should use every tool at our disposal to find and prosecute those who would foul our oceans outside the law. The FBI has the experts; it can help.

	Fourth, I would strengthen the Coast Guard. I understand that a Coast Guard station right here in Belmar had to be closed due to cutbacks in the Coast Guard. Well, I support increasing the ability of the Coast Guard to patrol our waters, to find illegal dumpers, and to stop the flow of illegal drugs into this country.

	The voters should know that it was the Democratic Congress--including a Senator named Frank Lautenberg--who rejected the administration's request for a strong Coast Guard.

	There are many other steps we are--and should be--taking. We are requiring every city in America--even Boston--to have adequate sewage treatment or be on a court-approved schedule for achieving such treatment.

	We have launched a new National Estuary Program, which will include the New York-New Jersey Harbor, to work out plans for curbing pollution in these critical waterways.

	The point is that I propose to act--because a dirty ocean is simply not something that any of us can stand for.

	I'd like you to compare this, for a moment, with my opponent's record.

	Earlier this year, my opponent visited this shore to complain about the condition of the ocean. "What we're doing to our oceans, what we're doing to our beaches, what we're doing to our coastline is a disgrace," he said. He promised an EPA that works with the people of New Jersey.

	Well, to paraphrase the producer Sam Goldwyn: An oral contract like that isn't worth the paper it's written on.

	Consider the action that lay behind the promises. In 1985, the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority, an agency created and effectively controlled by my opponent, had applied for a permit to dump its sewage sludge off the New Jersey coast.

	That's right. For almost two years, my opponent fought to allow Boston's sludge to be dumped off New Jersey's shore--the very shore on which he had the nerve to stand and promise clean water.

	And so, I have only one question for my opponent: Why did you do it?

	Why did you pledge a clean ocean to the people of New Jersey when your own state applied to pollute it?

	The people of New Jersey are waiting for your answer.

	When you, the voters, go to cast your ballot this November, ask yourself: Is this the kind of man you want to be president?

	When you step into that voting booth, ask yourself:

	Which candidate wants to raise your taxes, and which is pledged to no new taxes?

	Which candidate wanted to dump sludge in New Jersey's ocean, and which candidate is working to ban ocean dumping forever?

	And most of all, which candidate would have the intention to say one thing and do another; and which would provide the experienced leadership to build a better America?

	Ladies and gentlemen, America needs a president who will keep building a strong and growing economy. A president who will give America a strong national defense. A president who will fight crime and clean the environment. And a president who will clean the ocean. And a president who means what he says.

	My friends, I am that man.

	Thank you very much.

COAST GUARDCOAST/WETLANDSSEWAGE DISPOSALTOXIC WASTEWATER POLLUTIONENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION       \  V  R  H 
 @  ;  6  *          	 Z 	 O 	 A 	 2 	 '   e: