

	My mission, the reason I want to be president, is to build a better America. And what I mean is this: An America of good families and neighborhoods and good communities. A healthier nation of Americans growing up with hope and growing old with grace. A better educated America, skilled in the sciences of the future--and the arts of democracy. The benefits of this longest record of economic growth in our history extended to every corner of our country. An America of opportunities and of dreams.

	But the mission does not stop there. This election is also about what kind of world we want. And what kind of American leadership we need.

	Earlier this week, I talked at length about our mission. How American leadership was not something we sought but was something thrust upon us because of our strength and our freedom. How we used that strength to create a free world after World War II. How we did it through a bipartisan policy of peace through strength. How we got into trouble, and risked both peace and freedom when we left that policy. And how, over the last eight years, we've recovered our strength and our purpose.

	Now we are on the eve of a new decade and soon a new century. We're facing new situations because the winds of change are blowing and blowing hard. Our most powerful adversary, the Soviet Union, faces serious economic problems. People there want to know why seventy years after the Revolution there is neither bread nor freedom. The Iron Curtain is rusting and in Eastern Europe there are demands for freedom in the workplace and democracy in government.

	Mikhail Gorbachev has shown that he is a different Soviet leader, able to abandon aggressive policies when the price is too high. I've pointed out, however, that the price is determined by more than Moscow's economic dilemmas. The Red Army is leaving Afghanistan because the Mujahedeen, with our support, resisted aggression. The Soviets agreed to destroy their SS-20s menacing Europe when we and NATO defied their threats and deployed our Pershings and Cruises. And that led to the first treaty eliminating an entire class of nuclear missiles.

	The lesson is simply this. We have to continue with our policy of peace through strength if we want an enduring improvement in U.S.-Soviet relations. Economic weakness alone does not determine Soviet foreign policy. Economic weakness alone will not deter Soviet aggression. It's the strength of the West, America and its allies, that gives Moscow no choice but restraint.

	Part of that strength is our historic relationship with NATO. Earlier this week, I noted that as we approach the Alliance's fortieth year, it's time to consider new challenges. It is also time to work for greater unity. We have an important agenda of negotiations with Moscow, on nuclear and conventional weapons. We've got to make our defenses more efficient in a time of great fiscal restraint. We need a unified approach to the Soviet Union and to the problems of Eastern Europe. And we need some good public diplomacy with our own peoples, so that the Alliance will continue to enjoy popular support on both sides of the Atlantic. That's why I have proposed we take up this agenda at an early summit. Consultation and a steady U.S. approach are the keys that will open the door to a stronger alliance.

	Today, however, I want to go beyond even these important relationships to discuss an issue that concerns both the Soviet Union and NATO. In fact, it concerns every nation and every human being concerned about the future.

	We live in a time of great paradox. Just as we are making headway in reducing nuclear arms, and preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Of course, more must be done. That's why I will strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency to improve its ability to monitor safeguards. But here is the paradox. Just as we are making headway on the nuclear problem, the proliferation of chemical arms and ballistic missiles challenges our security.

	I've seen a few things in my life but I thought we had relegated the horrors of chemical warfare to the history books. I thought we had banished forever what we all saw only a few months ago: a mother trying to protect her child, waving her arms against the invisible winds of death.

	But we've got to face the facts. The transfer of modern chemical and missile technology could give aggressive governments with terrorist records a new and terrifying potential: ballistic missiles armed with chemical warheads. As I said in August and last month to the B'nai B'rith convention, one of my highest priorities as president will be to deal with this terrible scourge. I want to be known as the president who, working with our allies, the Soviets and others, led to the elimination of chemical warfare and chemical weapons. And we must act before it is too late.

	This is a complex problem that requires an experienced hand and a determined approach. First, we've got to deal with those nations that have used the gas whether in war or against their own people. We must restore the prohibition against the use of those terrible weapons. The barriers against chemical warfare, breached during the Iran-Iraq War, must be repaired and raised even higher.

	Second, we've got to prevent those nations approaching the threshold from proliferating. That calls for careful intelligence and controls on the technical capabilities that allow production of the weapons. Only a few nations now have such capabilities. Others are approaching the threshold.

	Third, we've got to prevent the most ominous proliferation of all. The eventual combination of chemical weapons and ballistic missiles could put new destructive power in the hands of governments with terrorist records.

	No single nation has the answer or the strength to deal with all these ramifications. But America, and Western Europe, and the Soviet Union and other nations, like China, can act together to control this new danger.

	President Reagan has called for an international conference to explore ways to enforce more effectively existing curbs on the acquisition and use of poison gas and bacteriological warfare. I want to take it even further. There are six elements to my program.

	First, the nations guilty of chemical warfare must pay a price. They must know that continued violation of the ban against the use of such weapons carries a heavy penalty. Not just a fine or a minor sanction that can be ignored. That's not enough. Any government that resorts to such an outrage must face the censure of all nations. The United States, working with our allies, will take the lead. We will call upon all nations to join us.

	Second, we need to create a more formal "suppliers" group to control the transfer of chemical technology and weapons. We have a suppliers' group for controlling the spread of nuclear materials and technologies. We need a similar approach for chemicals.

	Third, if we are to ban these weapons--something that I proposed in Geneva in 1984--we must develop the means for intrusive verification. On-site inspection on demand of suspicious facilities or plants must also be a part of this verification regime. This will be an enormously difficult task. But the alternative is far worse to contemplate. We must outlaw these weapons, once and for all. Nothing less is acceptable.

	Fourth, to stop the spread of missiles, I will propose that the missile technology control regime (MTCR) that we set up in 1987 with our allies be made binding, not simply voluntary. I will propose that we include the Soviets and Chinese--and perhaps others--and I will initiate negotiations to do that. We will be seeking a multilateral agreement but we should be prepared, if necessary, to reach bilateral agreements with Moscow and Beijing if that is necessary to achieve our objectives.

	Fifth, I want to make America more capable of responding to this problem. I will, therefore, put a senior official in charge of overseeing our policies on missile and chemical weapon proliferation. That's necessary to ensure that we effectively integrate our diplomatic, intelligence, economic, and military resources.

	Sixth, while doing all we can to stop or control missile and chemical proliferation, we must also work with our friends to develop a defense against this threat. The Arrow program with Israel is just such a missile defense. Its funding comes from the SDI program, and technological spin-offs from SDI research--research my opponent would gut--are accelerating its development. The last thing we or our allies need at a time when ballistic missiles are proliferating is someone who regards strategic defense as a fraud or a fantasy. The Israelis don't regard it as a fantasy: they see it as a necessity. Anyone who is serious about security understands the difference.

	Above all, let us remember the stakes. These are more than just terrible weapons. Banning chemical warfare and controlling ballistic missile proliferation are essential to prevent new and even more dangerous arms races. We are at a delicate moment now. Efforts are underway to solidify the Iran-Iraq cease-fire. The next step is to turn it into a lasting peace. Actions by either of those nations to denounce chemical warfare and to destroy stocks of chemical weapons would surely build confidence that peace was possible.

	This has not been an easy subject to discuss. We would all like to think that a cease-fire in the Gulf, the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, the INF Treaty to destroy a whole generation of nuclear missiles, are signs of a better world. And so they are. But to exercise international leadership, America must be realistic above all. We've gone forward, yet there are no guarantees that progress will continue. The outbreak of chemical warfare and ballistic missile proliferation are sharp reminders of how easily the nations can turn from the high road and head for the abyss.

	We've got to prevent it, we've got to stop it and stop it now.

	At the end of the First World War, the so-called war to end all wars, mankind sought safety in collective security. Part of that security was to outlaw the use of certain weapons--chemical weapons--as a sign of our civilization. Collective security failed eventually under Hitler's blows. One of the first signs of the breakdown of civilization was the use of the gas in Ethiopia.

	From that time until our own, despite World War II, and countless conflicts, somehow the ban on the use of chemical weapons remained intact. Yet now, just as we look up, look forward to a new decade and perhaps a whole new era of peace--the alarm bell has sounded. I've heard that bell and I know what it means. And if I'm elected president, if I'm remembered for anything, it would be this: a complete and total ban on chemical weapons. Their destruction forever. That's my solemn mission. And with your help, that's what I am going to do.

	Thank you and God bless you.

MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSNATO (NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION)NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS--CHEMICAL/BIOLOGICALWEAPONS PROLIFERATION     !, + + + +
 + + + + + + + +	  	  	  	 Q  1   e: