

	No issue in this campaign is more important than the danger to mankind posed by the massive accumulation of nuclear weapons.  Any man who would be president of the United States must understand that since that day at Alamogordo war has worn a new face.  And every citizen has the obligation to face squarely the dreadful threat to human survival which the arms race generates.

	Today, the thermonuclear bombs stored in the world's arsenals are sufficient to kill every man, woman and child on Earth ten times over.  Unless this proliferation is checked, they will slowly spread their fantastic force and destructive potential to more and more countries.  

	The presidential candidates have the obligation to tell the American people how they should attempt to halt the spread of nuclear weapons, how they would proceed to dampen down the strategic arms race.  Although we have lived for twenty years with a nuclear balance of terror, we would be complacent about it if we ignored the fact that it is still our central problem.  Anyone who would be president must have this in the forefront of his consciousness.

	In 1945 a single primitive atomic bomb destroyed an entire city.  Today, the U.S. arsenal counts:  1,000 Minuteman missiles, carefully protected below ground; forty-one Polaris submarines carrying 656 missiles, hidden beneath the seas; 600 long-range bombers, equipped with 2,200 nuclear weapons.  In addition, we have several thousand tactical nuclear weapons in Europe.

	On its part, the Soviet Union has also developed a massive nuclear capability.  We know the Soviet Union has been increasing its nuclear arsenal at a rapid rate in recent years.  These Soviet advances have not reached a point where they jeopardize our security, but they require our continued vigilance.

	According to the most recent military posture statement presented by Secretary McNamara this January to the Armed Services Committee of the Senate, a nuclear exchange by the United States and the Soviet Union would extinguish 240 million lives.  When with the installation of a massive American ABM defense--which would inevitably lead the Soviets to massively increase their offensive missile deployments--our losses would be in the neighborhood of 100 million people killed.  This estimate contains the chilling observation:  "At fatality levels approximating 100 million or more, differences of 10 to 20 million in the calculated results are less than the margin of error in the estimate."

	Authoritative studies of the effects of a nuclear attack indicate truly that "the living would envy the dead."  Whole cities would be destroyed.  The deadly poisons unleashed, as President Kennedy stated at American University in June 1963, "would be carried by wind and water and soil and seed to the far corners of the globe and to generations yet unborn."  Children would be born retarded.  Flame and flash-burns would char the skin of millions.  Radiation would cause leukemia and destroy the reproductive capacity of yet other millions.  In short, society as we know it would be unable to function for years to come--perhaps forever.

	It was clear at the dawn of the nuclear era to American officials--Democratic and Republican alike--that the world's uneasy security would be progressively endangered with each new nation acquiring nuclear weapons.  

	From the very beginning we knew that a revolutionary phenomenon had entered the affairs of nations.  And from the very beginning we sought to control the spread of nuclear weapons for the sake of our survival.

	With the Baruch Plan in 1949, we proposed that control over nuclear energy be turned over to the United Nations.  The Soviet Union rejected this proposal, and the nuclear race began.

	But despite Soviet intransigence, we have never faltered in our efforts to stop the nuclear spiral.  In 1956, President Eisenhower proposed the "Atoms for Peace" Plan which led eventually to a United Nations agency that provides a safeguard service for peaceful nuclear facilities.  In 1958, President Eisenhower risked a voluntary moratorium on nuclear weapons testing.

	Despite the continuation of the arms race, we have made considerable progress since 1961.  Under two Democratic administrations, we achieved the following:  banning of nuclear weapons tests in air, in space and underwater; an end to the poisoning of the atmosphere by the major nuclear powers; the preservation of outer space free from nuclear weapons; the quarantining of Latin America against atomic arms.

	In addition, we are continuing our efforts to ban all tests of nuclear weapons, even those underground, and to halt the production of fissionable material for use in nuclear weapons.

	Today we have an opportunity to take a further step--a crucial step--to halt the spread of nuclear terror.  A treaty--a nonproliferation treaty--is before the Senate of the United States, awaiting ratification.  I say we should not delay one day in stopping the spread of nuclear arms.  We must ratify that treaty now--and fulfill our pledges to contain the nuclear contagion.

	Mr. Nixon has given us several positions on the treaty.  He is for the treaty, but against ratifying it now.  He is for the treaty, but he has reservations about it.  He is for the treaty, but he will not encourage the Senate to ratify it.  Because of Mr. Nixon's position as the leader of the Republican party, it is within his power to insure the ratification of this treaty.  A delay has occurred.  His equivocation should not add to the delay.  Already we have seen the reaction from abroad.  The American press on September 17 reported the statement of a Japanese spokesman that Japan will withhold its signature until the United States Senate ratifies the treaty.

	Yet is should be clear to all that this is not a bilateral treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union.  It is a multilateral treaty directly restricting other states, a treaty which has already been signed by over eighty states.  It commits the nations of the world which do not now have nuclear weapons not to produce or receive them in the future.  It seeks to assure that such nations have the full peaceful benefits of the atom.  It commits the nuclear powers to move forward towards effective measures of arms control and disarmament.

	Unless the nuclear powers move to control our arms race, we will run the almost certain risk that some non-nuclear powers will not forego acquiring nuclear weapons.

	Six years ago, President John F. Kennedy had to face the risk of nuclear war to force the withdrawal of Soviet missiles from Cuba.

	The treaty before the Senate would forbid the Soviet Union from transferring control of nuclear weapons to Castro's Cuba.

	A year ago there was war between Israel and several Arab states.  Consider the threat to the world--then and in the future--if Nasser had had nuclear weapons when he moved on the Gulf of Aqaba.

	Three years ago, Indian and Pakistan went to war over Kashmir.  That war ended quickly, but what would have been the consequences if these two countries had nuclear weapons?

	That is why I urge we halt the spread of nuclear weapons now.  That is why I favor prompt ratification of the treaty now before the Senate.  For if the United States fails to approve the treaty, others are sure to lag in their approval.  Delay may mean that the treaty will never go into force.  If not promptly ratified, its effect on other potential signatories may be to kill ratification.  We must not lose our race against destruction.

	After two years of concentrated effort, the United States has succeeded in persuading the Soviet Union to join in discussions on placing limitations on both offensive and defensive nuclear missiles.  Through these talks--when final arrangements for them are completed--we will seek to avoid a situation in which we and the Soviets would be forced to devote more and more of badly needed resources to the strategic arms race.  The continuation of that race will not increase the security of either one; in fact, it will decrease the security of us both.  

	At the present time, we are in a situation of relative "nuclear stability", in what has been called the "balance of terror."  Neither side can attack the other without being destroyed in return.  The placing of nuclear missiles in submarines under the sea and in concrete silos deep underground has removed the advantage to a would-be aggressor of striking first.  The price of nuclear aggression therefore is suicide.  There is no reliable defense, no place to hide.  This grim confrontation underlies the balance of terror; but on it rests the peace of the world today.

	Further accumulation on both sides borders on insanity.  It is not needed to deter; it does not provide more protection; it does not ensure greater destructive capability.  It can, however, mislead a would-be aggressor into calculating erroneously that he is temporarily stronger; it can tempt him into risky confrontations; it can stimulate mutual insecurity and suspicion.  It is as useless as it is irrational.

	But Americans are not insane.  We are rational, creative and determined to control our fate.  Our efforts as well as our hopes must center on realizing the opportunities that remain to us in our attempt to control the arms race--even as we are firm in our actions to guarantee U.S. national security.

	The forward movement of science and technology has brought us to a critical point.  We are now witnessing the development of a new generation of weapons.  This development makes all the more necessary early discussions to bring both offensive and defensive weapons under control.

	If either we or the Russians continue, unabated, our development and deployment of these new weapons systems, in time it might appear to each that the other side was trying to develop a first-strike capability.  This would result in an unstable situation.  Since neither side can afford to let that happen, the race would continue its mad momentum in both offensive and defensive systems in a hostile climate of mutual suspicion and fear.

	Is it beyond the wit of man to find a way out of this deadly game?  Are we not intelligent enough, wise enough, to come to a realistic agreement with the Soviet Union, a properly safeguarded agreement to limit and then to work toward reduction of our offensive and defensive strategic nuclear forces?  I believe that we are.  And the entire world will benefit from our wisdom.

	But again we do not have much time.  Now is the time to move.  If we do not seize the present opportunity to reach agreement, the difficulties of achieving a halt in the strategic arms race will be compounded.

	The problem of the strategic arms race cannot be solved quickly, easily or once and for all.  There will doubtless be setbacks, but we must be prepared to press forward in our search for agreement.

	There are those who have reacted to the shocking Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia by saying, "Let us abandon all attempts to bring the nuclear arms race under control through negotiations with the Soviets."  No one decries more than I the crushing of ordinary human freedoms.  But we must resist the appeals to redouble the nuclear arms race, the pressure to devote an increasing percentage of U.S. resources to this competition.  This is a time for responsibility and leadership, not for playing to emotions or following the line of least political resistance.

	Nor is this a matter of trusting the Soviets.

	Agreement to move ahead to limit the arms race does not presuppose that political competition between the U.S. and the Soviet Union will suddenly disappear.  We hope it will diminish, but we recognize that this will take time, and that a dampening down of the strategic arms race is not dependent on an across-the-board political truce.

	We know that the composition of the Soviet leadership can change, that constant vigilance and regular assessment of its attitude are required.  But there are dangers in overreacting to Soviet action as well as reacting too little.

	Let no one think that the nonproliferation treaty weakens our strong commitments to our allies; it strengthens them.  We continue to maintain our firm and irrevocable commitment to our NATO allies.  We must not undermine the strategic value of this commitment by permitting an unending proliferation of these nuclear weapons to nations around the world.

	Let no one think that because he believe it necessary to proceed with arms control discussions, we are any less opposed to Soviet imperialism in Czechoslovakia, or any less committed to defending the security of our allies in Europe.  Let the Soviet Union know that the provisions of the United Nations Charter cannot be used as a pretext to justify threats to the security of a NATO ally.

	Let us remember that critical decisions concerning the test ban negotiations took place during the period when the Cold War was building to its zenith in the Cuban missile crisis.  In the aftermath of Cuba came the hot line and, a few months later, the signature of the Limited Test Ban Treaty.

	Both the danger and the cost of the arms race are astronomical.  Today, the military budgets of all the nations of the world are approaching more than $200 billion.  This year, the U.S. military budget alone is over $80 billion.  There is a real danger that over the years there will be a vast increase in these incredible expenditures.  In the absence of arms limitation agreements, the pace of technological change will force such a course on us, as today's weapons become obsolete in the face of tomorrow's developments.

	We will not have the funds available to do what needs to be done at home if the nuclear race continues unchecked, nor will other nations have their resources for economic and social development at the level which are urgently needed.  The competition in nuclear weaponry consumes man's talent and resources with an endless, frightening appetite yet is likely to produce nothing more than mounting insecurity and the prospect of final destruction of all man's accomplishments and aspirations.  I say we must push ahead toward agreements which permit a diversion of these defense expenditures into peaceful channels.

	As we seek to bring the strategic arms race under control, and to divert the resources of war to the tasks of peaceful construction at home and abroad, we know there will be skeptics.  In the past, the difference between success and failure in almost every instance has been the determination of the president--reinforced by the common-sense support of the great mass of our citizens to move forward, to dare to seek a better way--a new day.

	As president, I would act with determination to end the arms race.  I am equally confident of the American people's firm support of these efforts to achieve a safer and more peaceful world.

	The first step in this new strategy for peace is ratification of the treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons--the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.  We have worked diligently to perfect this agreement.

	Let us not squander this opportunity for peace through narrow partisanship or election-year maneuvering.  Let us join together in a common call for action this year--while we still have the chance.  
MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSNATO (NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGWEAPONS PROLIFERATIONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)SOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     = < < < <
 < < < < < < < <	  	  	 s 	 _  J   e: