

	Ten days ago I asked you to think about an issue that challenges the conscience of us all--whether we will have four more years of war in Vietnam, or at long last restore this country to peace.

	I asked you to judge this election according to a standard described by Mr. Nixon himself on October 9, 1968, and I quote: "Those who have had a chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance."

	Tonight, I ask you to think about a different but related issue where I have equally strong feelings and where you have a great stake--whether we will have four more years of unemployment, unfair taxes, and a rising cost of living, or a new period of prosperity for all our people. I ask you to judge the Nixon administration on this issue by the same test you should apply to their record on Vietnam: Those who have had a chance for four years and could not produce prosperity should not be given another chance.

	Tonight, as I speak to you, at least two million Americans are out of work who were hard at work four years ago.

	The Nixon administration has given us the highest inflation in two decades. Tonight the dollar you saved four years ago is worth 82 cents.

	The Nixon administration has given us the highest budget deficits in three decades. Tonight the $80 billion deficit piled up in the last four years accounts for one-fifth of the entire national debt accumulated ever since the days of George Washington.

	And the Nixon administration has given us a deficit in our international trade for the first time in the twentieth century. Tonight skilled hands in our country are idle because we have exported our jobs instead of our products, and the dollar, once the strongest currency on Earth, has been devalued for the first time in four decades.

	Now, these are the cold, hard facts of the Nixon economic failure. But behind every statistic there is a tale of human tragedy. A father must let his life insurance lapse because he has no job. A farmer is driven off the land his family has tilled for generations. A factory closes and a town dies. Prices rise and your standard of life goes down. And it is a time of lost dreams, of homes not bought because they are suddenly too expensive, the interest rates are too high, and the property tax is too heavy. It is a time of sons and daughters not sent to college, and it is a time when older Americans have even less than the too little they had before.

	What has gone wrong? Every single time this administration has faced an important economic choice, they have picked a policy that is right for the few and wrong for you.

	Inflation was a problem when Mr. Nixon was elected, but his solutions made it worse and created new problems besides. He could have followed the example of John Kennedy, who invoked the prestige and power of the presidency during the steel crisis to prevent an excessive price increase. Instead, Mr. Nixon chose a course that robbed you to reward the rich.

	His administration raised interest rates. Now, that helped the investors and the bankers who loan the money and collect the interest, but what did it mean to the average family? If you buy a modest $15,000 home under the Nixon administration, you have to pay an extra $8,100 in interest on a standard mortgage. That is $8,100 more than the same home cost when the Democrats left office. And now a Nixon commission has proposed removing consumer protection by permitting unlimited interest rates on the things you buy. The sky will be the limit.

	The second Nixon answer to inflation was higher unemployment, and that was a deliberate decision. The White House thought that if more of you were out of work you would have less to spend, and if you spent less, demand would fall and so would prices. They were wrong. Their policy did not work.

	And they were wrong in a deeper sense because they forgot that the first obligation of government is to you. No president has the right to destroy your livelihood for the sake of an economic game plan. How little they must care about you if they think of you, not as people who have a right to earn a living, but as numbers to be unemployed at will. And how much they must care for the special interests if they are ready to force two million workers out of work, but reluctant to even touch the prices and profits of the privileged.

	Finally, as an election year approached, the administration seemed to change course. They announced a new program of wage and price controls, and they struck a bargain with you: If you kept your wages down, they would hold prices down. That promise has been broken. Once again the administration has done what was right for the few and wrong for you. They have dictated wages, but they have defaulted on prices.

	The major preoccupation of the Nixon Price Commission has been to protect corporations, not to prevent inflation. The Commission has approved nine-tenths of all requests for price increases almost as a matter of course. In a single three-month period they rubber-stamped one hundred rate-increase applications for gas, electric, and telephone companies at a cost to you of $2 billion.

	So, what the administration has given us is price controls that are unfair, unenforced, and unsuccessful. Prices have gone up 30 percent faster under the Nixon controls than the Nixon administration promised. Inflation is worse than what it was when they started. Indeed, your dollar has lost more value in the last four years than in the eight years of President Kennedy and President Johnson combined.

	A week ago someone sent me a letter with copes of two grocery ads in the "Boston Globe," one from January 19, 1969, the day before Mr. Nixon was inaugurated, and the other from October 5, 1972. In the '69 ad, round steak was 94 cents a pound; in the 1972 ad it was $1.45. In the 1969 ad, bread cost 25 cents a loaf; now it costs 34 cents. Bacon is up from 69 cents a pound to 89 cents. A ten-ounce jar of coffee is up from 99 cents to $1.37.

	In 1968, candidate Nixon promised us that we would not have to choose between unemployment and inflation. Now he has made many promises, but this one he kept. He has given us both unemployment and inflation. The result is that $80 billion Nixon deficit which has massively increased the national debt.

	Now, what does this mean to you? Just the interest on that debt will take $100 a year from every American family. Not just this year, but every year from now on. You bear the cost of that. Someday so will your children and your grandchildren after them.

	And how will that cost be carried? Like all costs of government, it will be carried more and more by ordinary Americans through a tax system that helps the rich and hurts the man in the middle. For on taxes, too, this administration comforts the wealthy few and afflicts those who can just barely get by. They cut corporate taxes last year by $8 billion, but there was no tax cut for you, and a tax system that was already unfair is now a moral outrage.

	In a recent year, the five largest steel companies cleared $380 million. What do you think they paid in federal taxes? Not a single dime. Who made up the difference? You did. You paid your taxes and the taxes of the steel companies too.

	Last spring in Kenosha, Wisconsin, I met an eighty-two-year-old widow who was living out her life on $145 a month. She owned her own little home. She and her husband had bought it a generation ago, but property taxes now take one-third of her entire annual income. She did not know how much longer she could hold on. She asked me why the country has forgotten her after she has given a lifetime to the country.

	The difference between her and the steel companies says it all. Our tax system mocks our most precious ideals of fairness and justice. It divides Americans into two classes--those who pay more than is right and those who pay less than they should.

	Mr. Nixon disagrees, and that is a fundamental difference between us. He opposed real tax reform in 1969. I supported it. He fought for a larger oil depletion allowance than we now have. I fought against it. He has opened more loopholes in the tax code. I have worked to close the loopholes.

	Now the Nixon administration seeks to blind you to their failures and their favoritism by scaring you about me. They know who you will support if issues like tax reform and jobs and inflation are honestly debated. They know your true interests are with the Democratic Party in 1972, but they do not want you to know. So they are trying to frighten you into voting against yourselves. They are trying to trick you into thinking that I would damage your economic security even more than they already have.

	There is too little time tonight to answer the torrent of distortion that has poured forth from the Nixon campaign. Instead, let us discuss what is perhaps the most glaring single falsehood of all. You have probably seen Mr. Nixon's television commercial which shows a construction worker looking down from a skyscraper on a crowd of people, all of them supposedly on relief. The commercial claims that I plan to put half the country on welfare, and it asks: "Who will pay the bill?"

	Now, the public relations men who produced that commercial and the candidate who is putting it on the air know it is a lie. It is true that in my search for a way out of the welfare mess I once discussed a plan--a plan by some of the nation's leading economists--for a $1,000 grant to every citizen that would be taxed back from those who do not need it. But it is also true, and it is a matter of public record, that I have rejected this idea, just as Mr. Nixon advocated and then rejected a similar guaranteed-income plan. Attacking me for it now makes no more sense than attacking Mr. Nixon for it, or attacking him for taking a hard line toward Communist China, which was exactly his position until he changed his mind and went to Peking.

	A leader who will not change his mind on the basis of new facts or new insight is no leader at all; he is a disaster. The critical question is whether he has improved his policy or betrayed his principles, and I have consistently held to the principle that we must replace a welfare system that is unfair, both to those who pay for it and to those it seeks to serve.

	For those who are too old, or too young, or too weak to work, we must ensure a minimum standard of life. But no one who can work should be on welfare. I have proposed a program for jobs that would help cut the number of Americans on welfare by 30 percent in 1975.

	Now, Mr. Nixon also says he favors payrolls over welfare rolls, and he talks about the work ethic. But he has done more than any other president in recent history to reinforce the welfare ethic. In the four years of the Nixon administration, six million Americans have been added to welfare at a cost to the taxpayers of $5 billion.

	The difference between Mr. Nixon and me is that he has raised welfare to a record high, while I have an open and specific plan to reduce it and to put this nation back to work.

	This is the first of three steps I would take as president to give your government back to you and to secure a fair prosperity for all Americans.

	First, I would ask Congress to enact the necessary legislation to guarantee a job opportunity for every man and woman in this country who is able to work.

	My highest economic priority is the lowest possible unemployment. This would be achieved through federal action to stimulate demand and open up jobs in the private sector; to contract with industry for housing, for public transportation, for water and sewer systems, and other things we urgently need; and to underwrite jobs in state and local government for the unemployed.

	This program calls for an immediate $10 billion investment in new jobs, and it would invest an additional $6 billion each year in jobs for people who would otherwise be on welfare.

	Republican politicians say that we cannot reach full employment with the cuts I would make in military waste. Now, they are right that I intend to end that waste, no matter what that does to the insatiable appetites of those who profit from war and rumors of war. But they are wrong when they say this will cause unemployment. In fact, it will create more employment. We do not need to send our sons to war in order to put their parents back to work. The same amount of money that will provide one million jobs building missiles and bombs will generate one and a half million jobs in peaceful pursuits. And I have offered this pledge: No job that depends on the defense budget will be eliminated until there is a comparable civilian job to replace it.

	I want this nation to be militarily strong, but I also want us to heed General Eisenhower's warning that if the military takes too much, it actually weakens the nation.

	Second, I would adopt a tough, evenhanded system to curb the cost of living. I would use the moral and legal authority of the presidency to prevent excessive price and wage increases. By law, the present controls will end next April. Before that, I would ask the Congress for power to suspend or to roll back any inflationary price or wage decision in a major industry. And I would not hesitate to exercise that power if persuasion and pressure fail.

	Of course, any system to stop inflation is only as good as the people who direct it. If an administration is biased toward big business, as this administration is, the system will be both ineffective and unfair. Already there are reports that the White House is ready to impose stricter wage controls after the election. That means that you will have even less purchasing power, while prices continue to climb.

	So the real question is this: Whom do you trust to give equal treatment to both wages and prices? Mr. Nixon's campaign is bankrolled by those who are so rich that they can give millions to elect a president who will help them get even richer. And they will ask him for more special favors. In contrast, my campaign is financed by people like you who seek nothing but an equal break for us all.

	Third, I would fight to reduce the tax burden on you and to require every citizen and corporation to pay a fair share. Even though Mr. Nixon denies it during this election campaign, new revenues will be needed in the next administration. Mr. Nixon would raise them by taking more from you with a proposed national sales tax. But in my administration no one whose income comes from wages or salaries would pay one penny more in taxes, and that includes most Americans.

	Instead I would close $22 billion in loopholes. Who would pay more? The corporations and the wealthy individuals who today escape through those loopholes. And you would pay less, because I would also propose a $15 billion program to reduce the property tax load by approximately one-third.

	I do not want to soak the rich, but I want them to pay their fair share, and I want the government to stop piling new taxes on rank-and-file taxpayers. Mr. Nixon thinks that it is right to have a depletion allowance for oil, but no allowance for the depletion of a worker's back. Mr. Nixon thinks that it is right to have higher taxes for Americans who earn their living by hard work and lower taxes for those who live on stock market and property gains. I think that money earned by money should be taxed at the same rate as money earned by man.

	Now, closing tax loopholes and reducing military waste will cover the cost of property tax reduction and the new programs that I have proposed. And if you hear politicians advocating more military spending and bigger programs but no new taxes, then you can be certain they are trying to deceive you.

	Let's face it: This election is more than a contest between George McGovern and Richard Nixon. It is a fundamental struggle between the little people of America and the big rich of America, between the average working man or woman and a powerful elite.

	The special interests have given Mr. Nixon a $40 million campaign fund. They know that I mean what I say and they don't like it, and they are trying to stop me.

	The Nixon public relations experts are very clever. They are using every technique in the book to persuade you that the administration is acting in your best interests. But how many of you can really say that your life has improved in the last four years? How many of you can say that your city streets are safer, your tax burdens fairer, your grocery bills lower, or your sense of security and well-being stronger? Do you really want four more years of these policies?

	I believe we can do better. I believe we can achieve Woodrow Wilson's vision of a nation that belongs not to the politicians or the privileged, but to the people who labor all day and go home tired in the evening. I believe that we can restore a leadership that stands for you, not against you--a government that is not for sale to anyone because it is fair to everyone.

	Let me end on a personal note. I was born in a small Wesleyan Methodist parsonage in Avon, South Dakota. My parents were not rich, but they were thrifty and they worked hard. They instilled in me the importance of those values. I think that good businessmen, good farmers, and good workers deserve good earnings and fair taxes.

	After going off to war as a pilot in 1943, I returned to finish my education. My wife Eleanor and I both worked while we reared our children and while I studied at Northwestern University.

	Later, we took on the task of trying to build a healthy, two-party system in our home state of South Dakota--and that was hard work. It was hard work to be elected to the United States Senate. And it is hard work to run for the presidency of the United States as an underdog, underfinanced and opposed by the unprecedented millions of dollars that the special interests have poured into Mr. Nixon's campaign.

	But I like hard work, and I love this nation. America has been good to me and I want to be the kind of president who will see to it that America is good to every one of her people. I want us to claim the promise of Isaiah: "The people shall be righteous and they shall inherit the land."

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS, CORPORATEBUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESINFLATIONINTEREST RATESJOB GROWTH/CREATIONPROPERTY TAXTAX REFORMUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWAGE AND PRICE POLICYWELFAREECONOMY--GENERAL     I H H H H
 H H H H H H H H	 Q	 C	 0	 	  	  	  	  	  	 x 	 j 	 W 	 K 	 A 	 , 	    e: