

	Thank you. Six more days.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to be back in Texas, and I'm glad to be in Houston. And I think we can win here. Do you? I want to dedicate this appearance to a special Texan, a man named George Dodd from Kerrville, who is in a hospital in Houston, and he said--he had heart disease, and he said, "Hook me up to something. Keep me alive until I can vote for Clinton and Gore."

	I want to say how very glad I am to be here with a lot of Texans that I respect. I thank Senator Bentsen for his introduction. Wouldn't it be nice if you had a president who worked with Lloyd Bentsen instead of trying to veto him every time he turned around?

	I want to thank Ann Richards. You know, I said this morning in an earlier meeting I always believed Ann Richards would be elected governor of Texas because she was on the right side of history, she was right for Texas. And you know as well as I do that Texas would be better off with Bill Clinton and Al Gore than with four more years of Bush and Quayle. I want to thank her for what she said about women's rights and women's opportunities. This morning at breakfast, Ann said, "Don't forget, Bill, roosters strut around and make all the noise, but it's the hen that delivers the goods."

	And I want to tell you that when the Republicans came down here in their convention and spent two--hey, wait a minute. Don't pay any attention to them. We've only got to put up with it six more days. Let me tell you, when the Republicans came down here and spent the first two days of their convention attacking my wife, I knew they were in trouble for something to talk about. By the time old Pat Buchanan and Pat Robertson and that crowd got through taking over the Republican party, I thought they were running against Hillary. I thought Mr. Bush was going to file for First Lady after this convention down here. I could have told him from personal experience he couldn't win that argument.

	And I want to thank--I don't blame you, young man. If I had to defend your record and Bush's record, I'd scream too and try to shut up me from talking. I want to thank Congressman Andrews and Judge Overstreet, Lena Guerara, and Mayor Lanier, all of them for being here.

	And I want to talk a little bit about the facts. While this guy screams, I want to read you something. I wasn't going to do this, but since they scream, listen to this. Listen to this. Listen to this, folks. Mr. Bush says this election ought to be about trust. You know, that's his issue. He can't afford for it to be about his record on the economy or his plans for four more years of trickle-down. So, he says it ought to be about trust, so let's look what we've seen just here in the last few days. And this is why they're screaming like a pig under a gate back there in the back.

	You've got--you've got in Washington under Bush's government, you've got the Justice Department investigating the FBI, and you've got the FBI investigating the Justice Department. They don't have any time for crooks anymore; they're looking into one another. Now, down in Atlanta, there is a federal court case dealing with the diversion of American taxpayers' money to help Saddam Hussein in illegal ways. And you've got the State Department--excuse me, you've got the Justice Department and the CIA, they're fighting with one another over which one of them lied to the federal court about the truth.

	And then, you've got this great leader who wants us to trust him, who has three highly paid, highly placed employees of the nonpolitical State Department who admit that they violated all their procedures in doing a special hit job looking into my passport files. Hell, I could have told them where I went if they'd just asked. And as if that wasn't enough, as if that wasn't enough, they then spent four hours at night looking into my mother's passport files in violation of the law. Now, you know, they say they're against big government, but I think they've got too many employees. Those folks have got too much time on their hands if they're doing that.

	But, now, I mean, can you imagine this? In their desperate desire to hold on to power, this is what happened. These three guys in their expensive suits waited till 6:00 at night till the government offices closed, and then they sneaked over to this building where all the old passport files were at. Can you just imagine 'em? Desperate to keep their jobs. They're bumping into each other in this little dark room, looking into all these old files. And they do it till 10:00 at night. And then they write a memo about how disappointed they were they couldn't find in any dirt in Mama's passport file.

	Now, I'm going to tell you something. There is some good in this. I am quite confident that is the only time since Bush has been president that those three hacks worked till 10:00 at night.

	And look at this. Look at this. Let me read you something else. In the New Yorker magazine, in this issue, Mikhail Gorbachev is quoted on something that's very interesting. He was real upset when Mr. Bush took credit for ending communism in the Soviet Union. And here's what--this is what Gorbachev said. Let me read this to you. He said, "Bush warned me privately not to pay any attention to what he would say during the presidential campaign." Well, let me tell you something, folks, if it was good advice for Mikhail Gorbachev, it's good advice for the American people.

	Look here what the people who know say about the trust candidate for president. The New York Times says, and I quote--they've got an editorial, they called the editorial "Worse Than a Lie." "Bush seems so eager to smear his opponent as a big taxer that he's willing to trash the truth."

	Sacramento Bee, California, "Bush so consistently and flagrantly distorts the truth that he often seems to have no commitment whatever to veracity. Although these distortions have been pointed out scores of times, Bush continues to use them."

	The Portland Oregonian, for the first time in 142 years, endorsed a Democrat for president and says of Bush, quote, "Frankly, we no longer trust him."

	Listen to what the--the Washington Post looks after Mr. Bush more closely than any other newspaper right there in town. They say that President Bush is, and I quote, "the ultimate chameleon. In all his years in national politics, perhaps the greatest dodger of them all, and not on trifling issues either."

	And, finally, the Minneapolis Star Tribune says, "Bush has said often in this campaign, a president must inspire trust. His argument is sound. It's one more reason to elect Bill Clinton as president."

	Folks, you in Texas have been treated here in the last few days to your home candidates accusing one another of all kinds of things. Mr. Perot says Mr. Bush looked into his kids. A few months ago, Mr. Bush said Mr. Perot looked into his kids. You know, I may be old-fashioned, but I thought my job was to look into your kids, their future, their problems, and their promise. That's what I got into this race to do.

	My opponent reminds me of what Lucy said in that wonderful cartoon strip Peanuts. You got a dose of it today, "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can."

	Ladies and gentlemen, people you heard speak on this platform today, Gary Morrow, Ann Richards, Senator Lloyd Bentsen, they have done something important for Texas. They have made a Democratic party committed to the interests of ordinary people. They are not for bigger government. They are for better government. They believe in a partnership between government and business and labor and education to create jobs and raise incomes and to make government work for ordinary people. And that is what I have sought to do on the national level. We have revolutionized the Democratic party. We have opened it to Republicans and Independents and former Perot supporters. There's a new Democratic party in this country, and we need your support in Texas to get behind it.

	Our new Democratic party believes that it's time to call an end to trickle-down economics. It has failed. It has driven incomes down. We do not want to go back to tax-and-spend economics. What we believe in is invest and grow. Put the American people first. Invest in their jobs, in their incomes, in their potential for new technologies, and grow this economy.

	Look at the record. In George Bush's term of office, we've had a decline of 35,000 jobs in the private sector. In my state, we've led the country in private-sector job growth. He wants the record to be the issue. Please let it be the issue. Vote on it in Texas, and give us a chance to put the American people back to work.

	Look at the energy issue. I have repeatedly called in this campaign for more energy independence for America, for more reliance on American natural gas, for greater energy efficiency, for alternative sources of energy, to clean up the environment, put American people back to work, and make this country more independent. That is what is good for Texas, but it's also good for America. Help me to make this country energy independent again.

	Here in this city this morning, often called the Energy City of America, one hundred energy executives, many of them Republicans, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want change.

	We know there will be cuts in the defense budget no matter who's elected. The issue is what kind of defense are we going to have and what are we going to do about the cuts? I have given this country an aggressive strategy for the strongest national defense in the world in the post-Cold War era and committed to spend every dollar by which we reduce defense investing in an American economy, in high-speed rail, in new road systems, in new environmental systems, in recycling systems, putting the American people back to work.

	And look what's happened. You have three alternative economic plans in this election. Our plan has been endorsed by ten Nobel Prize-winning economists; by John White, the man who wrote Ross Perot's plan, he's endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket; and by twenty-four retired admirals and generals, including the deputy commander-in-chief of Operation Desert Storm, and Admiral Crowe, who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush. They endorse Clinton-Gore for a change. They want a change.

	We believe as long as we live in a world in which what we earn depends on what we can learn, America needs a real education president. Now, I can talk till tomorrow at this time about that issue because that's what I've given most of my life to, but let me just mention one thing. The cost of a college education has gone up by more than anything else, including health care, in America. The college dropout rate is more than twice the high school dropout rate. And yet, we know if we could educate America, we could raise the incomes of America. It is time to open the doors of college education to all Americans.

	Our proposal would say to any American, we'll loan you the money to go to college, but you have to pay it back as a small percentage of your income at tax time, so you can't beat the bill anymore, or, even better, by being part of a domestic peace corps to rebuild America. Consider this. You just consider this. What if every person who got a college loan from Texas came back to Texas and worked for two years as a police officer, as a teacher, in a drug clinic, working with people with AIDS, working with people with disabilities, helping the elderly to stay home and be independent, helping children to stay out of trouble, helping the homeless problem? We could solve the problems of America and educate a whole generation of Americans.

	We believe it's time for America to become the last, but hopefully still the best, country to finally control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans.

	But I want to say something else seriously. We've had a good time here today, but I want to tell you something seriously. You and I know we didn't get into this mess overnight and we're not going to get out of it overnight. You and I know that this is a country which is based on what people do in their private lives and in the private sector, as well as what the government does. Every American will have to change. Every American will have to assume more personal responsibility.

	We're all going to have to try to find ways to make government work. I want to give you a different kind of government. I want to restrain the influence of political action committees and lobbyists and make Congress more open to the ordinary interests of ordinary Americans.

	I want to put 100,000 more police officers on the street in America to lower the crime rate the way Mayor Lanier has here in Houston. I want to have the toughest possible system of child support enforcement so you can't cross the line and get out of the state and get out of supporting your children.

	I want to make America work for ordinary people again so that people who work hard and play by the rules can be rewarded.

	And let me tell you this, folks, I did not get into this race to run my opponents down. I got into this race to build America up. And I've had a lot of fun today because I think their campaign is no credit to our country, and I think our campaign has been a credit to the best of America. And I don't mind making fun of them, but I want you to think about this in all seriousness.

	You could leave right here today and walk eight blocks down the road and vote in Texas early. If you don't vote and you don't make your voice heard and you don't spend the next six days trying to reach your family and friends, the whole future of America could be changed.

	I got into this race because I'd worked for a dozen years to help my folks at home who work hard to be rewarded. And I could see that they were falling further behind and there was a limit to what we could do without changing the country.

	I got into this race because I didn't want my daughter and all the children in this audience to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents.

	And, most important, I got into this race because I think the end of the Cold War imposes on us the responsibility to seize the opportunity to make America's greatest years those that are ahead of us, not behind us.

	So, I ask you all to think about this. Spend the next six days talking to your friends and neighbors. Tell them why they ought to vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore. Tell them there's only one person running who's ever balanced a government budget, stood up to a lobbyist or a special interest group, not been part of the insider establishment, passed a program through a legislature, and, most important, made a good choice for vice president, Al Gore.

	Tell them to think--tell them to think about how they'll feel here in Texas, how they'll really feel if they wake up on the morning of November 4th, and the newspaper headline is "Four More Years." And how much better you will feel if Texas leads the way to a headline that says, "It's a New Day: Change Is on the Way."

	I need you. Thank you very much, and God bless you all.
EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTY     < h< b< ^< V<
 K< F< A< :< 5< 3< (<	  	  	 b 	 K   e: