


LOSING THE WAR ON DRUGS

	I am here today to talk about a war that America can and must win--the war on drugs.  And I'm here today to offer my battle plan for victory.

	Right now, we are losing that war.

	In 1980, drug traffickers smuggled twenty-five tons of cocaine into the United States.  Last year it was sixty tons.  This year, it will be eighty-five tons.  And along with that will come more than ten tons of heroin, and fifteen thousand tons of marijuana.  That's enough to supply twenty-five million regular abusers of marijuana, almost twelve million abusers of cocaine, and half a million heroin addicts.

	This flood of narcotics has left a wake of tragedy and death.  Over the last three years, emergency-room incidents related to cocaine and heroin have jumped by more than a third.  Deaths are up 20 percent; hepatitis cases are up 50 percent.

	These Americans are the immediate casualties of the narcotics invasion--and that, in itself, is a national tragedy.

	But they are not the only casualties.

	The casualties include senior citizens mugged by heroin addicts, babies addicted to drugs at their birth, passengers injured in a train wreck because a switchman was using drugs, parents who've seen their children ravaged by addiction.

	The casualties include the American taxpayers, who spend tens of thousands of dollars for each addict.

	The casualties include hard-pressed state and local law enforcement officials, who are swamped by drug-related cases in courts and in jails.  Studies in New York City and elsewhere indicate that 24 percent of all homicides, 35 percent of all burglaries, and 51 percent of all robberies are drug related.  The average heroin addict commits more than 300 crimes per year--nearly one a day.

	Nationally, the drug crisis costs us $100 billion each year.  That's bigger than Exxon, bigger than general Motors, bigger than IBM.  In fact, illegal drugs are America's single biggest industry.  But it pays no taxes and no dividends.  Its only yield is destruction, despair--and death.  That's why I say it is time to put the drug industry out of business.

	To win the war on narcotics, America needs an all-out effort.  We don't [missing text] administration would be full of heroes.  But here, as elsewhere, their record contradicts their rhetoric.

	First, the administration has tried to cut our front-line defenses--our customs service.  Last year, they tried to cut two-thousand enforcement positions from the U.S. Customs Service.  This year, they tried to cut another one-thousand enforcement positions.  And their proposed budget for 1985 sought to cut the funds for the custom service's program to prevent drug dealers from smuggling narcotics into America by air.

	Second, this administration has blocked legislation that would crack down on drug abuse.  Last year, the president vetoed a tough, comprehensive drug-enforcement bill.  He said no to stricter penalties for armed career criminals and drug users.  He said no to a program to confiscate the drug dealers' earnings.  And he said no to a plan to coordinate the efforts of the more than thirteen agencies responsible for enforcing federal drug control laws.

	Third, despite the international scope of the narcotics issue, they haven't pressed other countries hard enough.  For three and a half years, they've failed to negotiate effectively with Peru, Bolivia, and Columbia to bring the production and trafficking of cocaine under control.  During that period, the output of those three countries more than doubled.

	Finally, in what may be the cruelest cut of all, the administration has slashed narcotics treatment programs by 40 percent.  Of course, drug addicts are responsible for their problem.  That's not the issue.  The point is, we cannot fight the war on drugs by punishing its casualties.

	I do not doubt Mr. Reagan's opposition to drug traffic.  But when it comes to stopping criminals and preventing tragedy, sincerity is not enough.

	This administration has given us tough talk on drug abuse.  But now we need a president who will match tough talk with tough action--and I will.

THE MONDALE PROGRAM

	When it comes to the war on narcotics, Geraldine Ferraro and I aren't summer soldiers.  She's a former prosecutor, and I was Minnesota's attorney general.  We've put our share of criminals behind bars--and, together, we plan to do it again.

	I mean business.  I have a four-point plan to win the war on drugs.

	First, I will end the lack of coordination among the federal agencies responsible for drug enforcement.  I will appoint a full-time coordinator for the battle against drug abuse, with the authority to make sure that all the drug enforcement agencies work together in a comprehensive strategy to fight drug abuse.

	Second, I will step up our enforcement efforts.  The key to this is enlisting our armed forces in the war on drugs.  As vice president, I helped lead the effort to use America's armed forces for a mission of decency--the rescue of the Southeast Asian boat people.  Some people said it was wrong.  Some said it couldn't succeed.  But it was right, and it did succeed.

	Today, virtually all of the hard drugs sold in this country enter from abroad.  Yet the federal government is intercepting less than 10 percent of the drugs directed at our shores.  We are stopping only 6 percent of drug traffic on the seas.  And of the eighteen-thousand illegal air shipments, we stopped only 1 percent.

	That's unacceptable.  But it's not surprising.  The Coast Guard has only ten boats patrolling our entire southeastern shore.  The Drug Enforcement Administration has only eight planes to police the border from Key West to San Diego.

	These agencies need help.  As president, I will direct our armed forces to join the war on drugs.  I will make clear that it is part of the Navy's peacetime mission to help stop drug smuggling on the high seas.  To aid the search for drug smugglers, I will order the Navy and the Air Force to conduct every surveillance mission their resources will permit.  It will be official policy to schedule many training missions in areas with a heavy drug trade.  And I will seek emergency legislation to deputize selected military officers to assist the customs service at the ports with the largest heroin traffic.

	To supplement these efforts, I will take ships, planes, and helicopters out of mothballs and make them available to the Coast Guard and the Customs Service for use against the drug smugglers.  And I will upgrade radar surveillance along our borders to increase detection from the current level of less than 10 percent up to 85 percent.

	Third, I will enlist the support of our allies.  On the day I take office, I'll start working with America's allies to fight the deadly drug traffic.  And I'll get tough on foreign countries that continue to produce the drugs that kill American kids.  In my administration, no country will receive foreign aid or military assistance unless it follows a plan to stop producing or peddling narcotics.

	A decade ago, I helped lead the fight to eliminate the flow of opiates from Turkey.  We made it clear to them that aid would be discontinued unless they cooperated.  And we offered to help their farmers develop new cash crops and exports.  It worked then, and it can work today.  All we need is a president who leads.

	Finally, I will extend a helping hand to local law enforcement officials.  I will help relieve the pressure on jails, assist community-based crime control programs, and step up federal participation in effective drug abuse prevention.

	I will stand in solidarity with the front-line soldiers in the battle against drugs:  our nation's mayors and district attorneys, police officers and customs inspectors, health-care workers and narcotics-treatment workers, educators and youth counselors.  They're doing a tough job against tremendous odds, and they need a president who will work as hard as they do.

A STRUGGLE FOR THE FUTURE

	The war against narcotics is a fight for America's future.

	I am fighting for the day when no baby will be born with the handicap of a heroin addiction.

	I am fighting for the day when America's young people will build their future in school instead of destroying their minds with drugs.

	I am fighting for the day when our parents will not fear for their children's health and lives.

	And I am fighting for the day when our grandparents will not fear for their safety when they walk on our streets.

	Most of all, I am fighting for our values.  The ultimate tragedy of drug abuse is that it replaces the values of family, community, and country with the vices of escapism, addiction, and crime.

	That is why we must fight this war with all our might.  And that is why, when I am president, we will win.  Thank you very much.

CRIME, DRUG-RELATEDDRUG ABUSE--TREATMENTDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONDRUG ABUSE--GENERALDRUG TRADE--GENERALDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENT     # # # # #
 u# p# k# a# M# K# 8# -#	  	  	 { 	 ^  F  3    e: