

	[Missing text]...www.dolekemp96.org. We had 4 million hits in three days. So the technology is out there. People said, "What'd you do that for?" I said, "Well, I wanted to see where everybody was." And we found out. My dog has his own home page, my dog, Leader. I have to answer all his mail. And he barks a lot, but in any event, we're working on it.

	But the bottom line is there are a couple of issues that I know are very important to this audience. And I have fought, as Pete indicated, to ensure that the benefits of government regulation must clearly outweigh their costs.

	And we've also put a plan--tried to put a plan in place to end frivolous lawsuits. Baseless litigation costs a lot of jobs and a lot of time and a lot of money. And obviously they enrich the trial lawyers. And I don't have any quarrel about people making money, but a lot of these frivolous lawsuits put a lot of people out of business, take a lot of time, take a lot of your money.

	I've been kidding people. I said I was out in Chico, California, about five weeks ago. And to some of you who watch television, the railing wasn't very secure and I dove into the crowd. And on the way down, my cell phone rang. And this trial lawyer says, "Bob, I think we've got a case here." I think we need to accelerate in some areas, too, which you're also familiar with.

	But the point I want to make is this. In both our efforts for regulatory reform and litigation reform, we were opposed by the President; obviously opposed by the trial lawyers. We came within--I'm no longer in the Congress, no longer in the Senate, but when I was there, it'd take sixty votes to shut off debate--we had fifty-eight; we had five Democrats and fifty-three Republicans--shut off debate to get some common-sense regulatory reform. And we couldn't do it because the President, it's a fact, didn't want it to happen. And many Democrats who wanted to join us didn't feel that they could. And you know what happened on litigation reform.

	But when I'm in the White House, we will have real regulatory reform and we'll return common sense back to the courtrooms. And I think the future of the legal system is on the agenda. I know it is here in California in the form of Proposition 211. And this initiative would undo what we did in Congress, overriding the President's veto. It would undo the commitment--circumvent efforts at the federal level to restore balance and fairness to the litigation system. It would also cast a shadow over California's economic comeback and have, again, no apparent beneficiaries except a handful, pretty big handful, of trial lawyers. Proposition 211 would be a step in the wrong direction and it should be defeated.

	And California is also leading the way when it comes to rethinking quotas. The law is a place where all citizens of every background must stand as equals. We must not discriminate by race or handicap or anything else. We must not discriminate. And for that reason, we must not count by race. And this is why I strongly support the California civil rights initiative.

	One hundred years ago, dissenting against the unjust Supreme Court decision that affirmed segregation, Justice John Harlan wrote, "The law regards man as man and takes no account for his color." And that was the spirit and the promise of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which I voted for as a member of the House of Representatives, guaranteeing equal access to opportunity--not equal results, but equal access, an opportunity to participate.

	That was the motivating principle behind the Civil Rights Act. In fact, one of its most prominent advocates was my good friend at the time, Senator Hubert Humphrey, who said, in the debate on the Senate side, and I quote, that he would "eat the pages of the bill if it contained any language that provides that an employer will have to hire on the basis of percentage or quota relating to color." Now, no doubt, if Hubert were still alive, he would be suffering from an acute case of indigestion.

	Now, the overwhelming majority of Americans in California believe, as I do, that we should promote equal opportunity for all without regard to race or gender or anything else. But at the same time, we believe it is wrong to use quotas and set-asides and other preferences that serve only to pit American against American and group against group.

	Our goal must always be equal justice before the law, not discrimination, not discrimination. And the real focus should be on helping citizens who are economically disadvantaged. And CCRI does not bar that approach. And it seems to me that's the bottom line. Obviously we ought to take a look at those who are economically disadvantaged, regardless of their race, gender, ethnicity. And there ought to be some programs to help those people, and there will be programs in my administration.

	And California, again, and other border states, of course, are always being forced to deal with the costs of illegal, illegal immigration. Now, if America cannot control its borders, it cannot control its destiny. Legal immigration is an American tradition and a contribution to our society. But illegal immigration is a crime and a drain on scarce public resources. And the White House has done everything it could to blur the distinction between legal and illegal immigration by creating more loopholes for those who reach our borders unlawfully. And the California taxpayer and other taxpayers in Texas and Florida, whether they have Republican or Democratic governors, are left to foot the bill. And the bill in this state is big--about $3 billion a year, $3 billion.

	Now, if you're the governor and trying to get the budget passed and trying to do all the things you should do for people who live here legally, then you have this added $3 billion expense, which is more than the budgets of many states--you've got a problem. So we must honor legal immigration by ending the flood of illegal immigration.

	And I could have given an entire speech on any one of these topics, but I want to concentrate today on something different, not a specific issue, but on the larger importance of this election. And I know, before I start, some will say, "Well, it's already over." Well, Yogi Berra is one of my advisers. And I saw Yogi Berra about ten days ago at a dinner in Washington, D.C., the Italian-American Foundation. You remember what he said? "It ain't over till it's over." It ain't over. There's still twenty-one days. So I want to lay that precedent to start with.

	But when you run for the presidency, you measure yourself against the giants who have held that office. You pledge in your heart to be worthy of their standards and you pray that nothing you do will betray them.

	You think of a leader like Dwight Eisenhower--who was my hero, by the way--and the character he brought to the presidency; how, on the day before D-Day, with the war in the balance, he wrote a statement to be released if the invasion failed. And this is what the statement said: "If any blame or fault attaches to this attempt," it said, "it is mine alone."

	You think of John F. Kennedy taking responsibility for the Bay of Pigs disaster, telling a hostile press conference one day, quote, "I am the responsible officer of government," end of quote.

	You think of Gerald Ford, who told us our long national nightmare was over after Watergate and after the pardon. And Americans trusted him to make it true. He was able to restore the tarnished image of the presidency with just the example of his integrity.

	And the leaders, Democrat and Republican, endowed the office they held with honor, and they left it more respected than when they found it. And I raise history with a reason. There are some who say that the presidential election we hold in twenty-one days will not matter. They think the stakes are low. Maybe some here think the stakes are low and the differences are slight and it really doesn't matter.

	But they are wrong. They're wrong because tax relief is not trivial and the drug war is not expendable and educational reform is not optional. But they are wrong, most of all, because this election will help determine the nature and integrity and dignity of the presidency itself. Can it be trusted? Should it be respected? Yes, the stakes are high, and the differences run this deep.

	In his acceptance speech four years ago, Bill Clinton stated, and I quote, "Responsibility starts at the top," just as it does in your business. And when he took office, he promised, in his words, "the most ethical administration in the history of the Republic," end of quote. And he criticized the, quote, "corrupt, do-nothing values of the '80s"--in other words, the Reagan and the Bush years--and pledged a "superior ethical standard."

	But we have seen something very different, though not heavily reported by the mainstream media. We have seen more than 30 Clinton officials investigated, fired or forced to resign due to ethical improprieties. We have seen four independent counsels at work, three investigating members of the Cabinet and one looking at the President himself.

	We have seen the FBI tricked into handing over more than 900 confidential personal files to the White House, into the hands of the director of the Office of Personnel Security, a former bar bouncer who had worked in the Clinton campaign. Now, think about that for a moment--FBI files, raw FBI files, where they go to your neighbor or somebody who doesn't like you. I don't care who you are, they put all this raw material into the file.

	Then it goes to the White House. Then it goes to the White House, where interns had access to it, eighteen-year-olds; a fellow named Marceca and this guy named Craig Livingstone, who was a bouncer in a bar. Now, how would you like to have your file turned over, your FBI file turned over to anybody? We have a right of privacy in this country. I know people who went to jail in Watergate for looking at two FBI files.

	And then we discover--we've seen the discovery of a six-month gap in the White House log used to control access to FBI background files, raising questions about who in the Clinton White House was looking at those files and why. And I've said when they were looking at mine, they fell asleep; it was sort of dull reading.

	But we have seen the Justice Department abused to investigate innocent workers at the White House Travel Office as a cover for putting political friends in charge of it. Billy Dale--remember Billy Dale? Where does he go to get his reputation back? He didn't do anything wrong. He was acquitted. He had to spend a lot of money for lawyers because they wanted to put somebody else in his place.

	And we have seen attempts to conceal subpoenaed travel office records from congressional committees. We have seen the resignation of a Cabinet officer for taking illegal gifts. We have seen marine helicopters used for a staff golf outing. We have seen the President abuse the principle of executive privilege to suppress an FBI report critical of his failed drug policy the last forty-some months.

	And we have seen similar stonewalling on the composition of the health care task force. Remember that task force? It was secret. It cost millions of dollars. Nobody was ever consulted on the outside; and also on the issue of billing records, how they show up one day in the White House living quarters.

	And we have seen the President dangle the prospect of a pardon for a convicted felon who might be able to implicate him. Now, this is not a tough call. Before the election, he should shut the door on this improper interference in an ongoing investigation. He should clearly promise there will be no pardons in legal cases that personally concern him.

	And now we see new charges, if you read the paper or watched television last night, that this administration has allowed a wealthy Indonesian family to buy presidential access and play a role in foreign policy and trade policy in exchange for contributions to the Democratic National Committee. Now, when the LA Times blew the whistle, they had to send back $250,000 because it was an illegal contribution. There's still at least $450,000 we know of that may or may not be legal.

	But let me just say, because I remember all the criticism in the Reagan days and some in the Bush days by some of the very people now who are being so self-righteous--I don't know of any administration that's ever been more self-righteous. But few administrations have been more self-serving. No administration has shown more arrogance. But few have displayed more ethical failures. And among members of this administration, there is a growing gap in integrity, a gap between the low standards they have adopted and the high honor that they hold, a gap between their swagger and the public scandals, and a gap between what the presidency itself has been and what it has lately and sadly become.

	Now, I've never questioned anybody's private character, and I'll not start now. People are not perfect, and public service does not require them to be perfect. But there is a difference between private character and public ethics, because public ethics is a public trust. And when it is violated, the damage is done to our nation and our institutions and our idealism. Confronting it directly and forcefully is not a personal attack. It is a public duty.

	The problems of this administration have become a pattern, a habit of half-truths, an atmosphere of evasion. What bothers us most is not just the wrongdoing, but the excuse-making. In every case, this administration refused to take responsibility for the mistakes it has made and the harm it has caused. The goal is always to conceal ethical failure, not confront it. We hear not apologies but alibis. And when Harry Truman said, "The buck stops here," this administration says, "The buck stops nowhere."

	And sometimes it seems like an epidemic in America. No one will take responsibility for their actions. But as the president of the United States, the president should be different. He should say things like, "The fault is mine alone." He should say, "I am the responsible officer of government," as Eisenhower said and as Kennedy said. He should stand up and call his actions by their proper name.

	But I think the administration believes it is bigger than these basic rules of openness and honesty and ethics, the rules which we live our lives and raise our children by. It expects a blanket pardon for all its failures because they say their intentions are always good. They didn't intend to do this, but it happened. It wants our forgiveness without the inconvenience of admitting it's wrong.

	And what is the result? I think the administration, in the actions, has made our nation more cynical. And many Americans, maybe some in this audience, are understandably less interested and involved in politics and less hopeful about changing anything for the better in the near future. And these endless violations of public trust have fed our skepticism, which has spilled over into public policy.

	The examples are familiar. When candidate Clinton came to your state four years ago, he promised a middle-class tax cut. Then he turned around and gave you a massive middle-class tax increase where 70 percent of the tax increase is paid by small-businessmen and small-businesswoman and senior citizens and anybody who drives a car. It was a shameless violation of the public trust.

	And then he claimed that President Bush, and I quote--and this is his quote--"hasn't fought a real war on drugs. I will," end of quote. Yet the President immediately gutted the drug war and barely mentioned it in any public statement in three years. He cut the so-called drug czar's office 83 percent. When you want to stop it at the border, you've got to have funds. He cut funds for that 30 and 40 percent.

	And we've seen the President talk about the era of big government is over. That was only a short time after he proposed to nationalize one-seventh of the economy in a health care plan, the biggest government power grab in memory--seventeen new taxes, fifty new bureaucracies, spending $1.5 trillion, price controls. Now, that's a heavy load. And he says these things apparently without embarrassment, without shame, as though nobody cares. It makes no difference what we say. But we've never seen a president cover so much ideological territory in so a short time.

	So what have we learned? We have learned through hard experience that the promises we hear from President Clinton in the campaign have little or no relation to his conduct in office. We have learned that the conservative rhetoric he adopts is intended to mask, not to reveal his true intentions. And everything tells us that four more years of Bill Clinton will mean four more years of discarded pledges and shaded truths.

	And there is a straight line from indifference to ethical standards in the executive branch, to these kind of misleading statements in a campaign. Every pledge is subject to endless revision and constant appeal. Every principle is reduced to a tactic to be changed as circumstances require. Every promise is a posture, temporary and flexible.

	Call this a character issue if you wish, but it makes a difference to every American because every vote should be an act of trust. You should be proud of the vote you cast for whatever office, for whatever office. And these things do matter to our citizens, particularly young people, who can only make informed choices in an election when there is some connection between the rhetoric and the reality between words and action, between promise and performance. And I think in this case, in this administration, that connection was broken a long time ago.

	So, I want to put a challenge to the American people, squarely to the American people. If polls are to be believed--and I don't really believe polls--some voters seem ready to support Bill Clinton even though they say--I don't say it--they say that he's unethical; they don't believe him--even though they might agree with everything that I've said today.

	I want to ask these voters to step back and consider for a moment. We cannot say that we want integrity in public life and then reward its absence. A president who has betrayed your trust has not won your vote. In my view, it is that simple. To say otherwise sends a message that public integrity is meaningless.

	In addition to this challenge, allow me to make a pledge, because none of us are perfect. Don't misunderstand me for a moment. But my pledge is a new administration equal to the honor of your support, an administration that is an extension of my values and a reflection of your own.

	A long time ago, maybe growing up in Kansas or maybe somewhere along the line--and I'm certain it's true of everybody in this audience--we discovered that our word was our bond. If we kept it, we would move ahead. If we violated it, we were finished. And I can look you in the eye and tell you I don't know of a single Republican or Democrat in all the time I worked in the Congress of the United States who would not tell you and look you in the eye and say, "When Bob Dole gave his word, he kept his word." That's about all we have in politics. That's about all you have in business. You don't need a written contract all the time, but you need to keep your word--no surprises, no reverses.

	If you say it, whether it's foreign policy or domestic policy--if you promise to lift the arms embargo in Bosnia, as candidate Clinton did in 1992, and then reverse yourself four months after you're in office, what's the result? Oh, about 3 million homeless people, thousands and thousands of women and children slaughtered, and we finally had to send 20,000 American troops. But had we lifted the embargo and given the Muslims the right to defend themselves, a right they have in the United Nations charter, Article 57, we could have avoided a lot of that.

	So the bottom line is, oh, obviously sometimes you can't do everything you say you're going to do. But that is my promise to the American people. It is a promise that I made to myself a long time ago. I firmly believe that character is destiny, for a man or a woman, for an administration or for a nation. And like many of you, I've only been to the White House as a visitor. I've been down there from time to time. I drive by every day and I take a look at it.

	It looks like it might be a nice place to move in. But in any event--and if you've been there, as many of you have, you can't help but feel the pride of that place.

	This is what America is all about. You walk the corridors where Lincoln walked. You see the room where Roosevelt and Truman directed a world war that saved the world. And you see on the walls--you see the portraits of the presidents, both heroes and footnotes in some cases. And history has forgiven those men and their many faults and their many failures.

	But there is one thing history will not forgive; that is, to hold an office and to leave it diminished. And as I've said, I'm not a perfect messenger, but I know that office once embodied high standards and high ideals. And I am not a perfect man, but I believe deeply that a president can play this role in our nation again.

	Together we can renew the honor of an honorable institution. Together we can return integrity and responsibility and trust to the White House. And that is just one vote away. And that's going to be up to you and up to people all across America who look at Bob Dole and look at Bill Clinton--and as I've said many times, the election is really not about either one of us. It's about what do we feel. Do you understand people have problems? And what would you do about it if you had an opportunity?

	Some people aren't working. Some people aren't eating. Some people aren't sleeping. But this is the United States of America. And I've always been an optimist. I've always been an optimist. My parents didn't finish high school. We grew up living in a basement apartment. I learned how to sacrifice and learned how to struggle and how to deal with disability or whatever. But I've never lost my optimism or my zeal for America.

	I mean, sometimes we forget. We're so wrapped up in politics, what's good for me or whatever, we forget about the genius of America. And what will happen if something happens to America? People all over the world--not Republicans, not Democrats, not even citizens--look to the United States of America for leadership. When it's not there, they begin to turn away. Whether it's economic, whether it's moral, whether it's military, whatever it is, they look to the United States of America.

	And I've had the great privilege of working with a number of presidents, Democrats and Republicans, and every president has his strengths and every president probably has his weaknesses. So I'm not here to pass judgment. I'm just here to lay out the facts.

	And so I would say to this audience, a very sophisticated group--you probably know more about politics or know more about Washington than maybe most groups in America. But you also know more about the future. You're concerned about the children. You see some children in some inner cities--Cleveland, where I met this young man named Landell Shakespeare and all his father wanted, who was making $25,000 a year, was the chance for his child to go to a better school.

	Well, to go to a better school, you have to be able to break the hammer lock the education unions have on the schools. And so we have a little program called opportunity scholarships. We will match what Ohio puts up and we'll give that money to the parents--not to the school but to the parents. And they will decide, just as some here decide. If you want your child to go to private school, you should be applauded. You want your children to have the best possible education. But if you're poor in America, you don't have that option. Why not?

	I've got to believe there are a number of us in this audience who were able to get an education which we would not otherwise have had an opportunity to get because of the GI bill. Because we served in the armed forces, we got an education. That was my case, and I'm certain other cases in this audience. Why not give the same opportunity to someone who's starting in kindergarten all the way through grade twelve?

	We talk about illiteracy. We talk about one out of four high school graduates being functionally illiterate. In the inner cities, 30-some percent of the teachers send their kids to private school. But somebody like Mr. Shakespeare can't do that because he doesn't have the money.

	And if we're going to stop drugs and teen pregnancy and crime or start to stop those, we've got to look at education. Nobody understands that any better than this group that's way out front on technology. Everybody will tell you--in fact, there's a series right now in the Washington Post--if you have an education, you're going to do a lot better. You're going to make more money.

	And you can't wait till they're ready for college. You can't push somebody aside for sixteen or seventeen years--"Well, we're going to give you something for college." They're not ready for college. They don't know where Texas is on the map if they live in New Jersey. We have a challenge. And I think together, whether we're Democrats or Republicans or Independents, we're all Americans, and we're going to meet that challenge. And that's my final word.

	We're going to be a better America, more responsible, more ethical, as we go into the next century. And we're going to retain our role as the leader of the free world. If you ask yourself, "Well, if we don't want it--some may be tired of it--who are you going to give it to?" Who should have it, if not the United States of America? It's not something we asked for. It's something that was thrust upon us after World War II. And if we don't provide the leadership, then nobody will provide the leadership. And it all starts with 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. That's the decision that you should make.

	And I appreciate more than you know this opportunity to make the statement I've made today. Thank you very much, and God bless America.
BOSNIACAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSDRUG TRADE--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSIMMIGRATIONLITERACYLITIGATION REFORMQUOTASREGULATION/DEREGULATIONTAXATION--GENERALCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONS     h ~h xh th jh
 bh ]h Xh Oh Eh Ch 8h	 s	 m	 J	 7	 %	  	  	  	  	  	  	 y 	 s 	 \  K  - e: