

	Welcome--welcome to the retirement party for Bill Clinton. Welcome, everybody.

	What a great crowd this is. I've never seen a greater crowd since the Elizabeth Dole fan club met out in San Diego about two weeks ago. Elizabeth is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt is trying to reach her. That's how good it is. And she proved in San Diego, to make a great speech you don't need a podium.

	And I want to thank my friends the Oak Ridge Boys--you'll sound great in the White House next January. Thanks a lot. And I want to thank your nonpartisan Senate delegation, John Ashcroft and Kit Bond. What a great job they're doing for Missouri and the rest of the country. And I must say I'm sad that Bill Emerson is not here today to enjoy this great rally. He's a great friend of mine. We've known each other for a long, long time. And one of the last things he did was to give me a book about Abraham Lincoln, with a beautiful inscription in it which I'll always treasure. Bill Emerson was a great Missourian, a great American, and we all miss him.

	I really haven't--I've never seen a crowd this big. This is larger than Russell, Kansas.

	Some young man said on the way up to a young boy, "With an arch this big, I can hardly wait to see the size of the hamburgers." So I don't know what's coming next.

	But we are excited. We are going to win the state of Missouri on
November 5th, 1996. You think I made a good choice in picking Joanne Kemp. By picking her I got Jack too--is that all right? And today we're happy to have Jack here, and also happy to have one of America's great heroes, Senator John McCain. John, thank you very much for being here.

	My daughter Robin is here--where's Robin? My daughter Robin, of course my wife Elizabeth.

	And I've always admired Harry Truman. He used to say--used to say, "Give them hell? Say, just tell them the truth and they think it's hell." And that's what we're going to do the next sixty days--tell them the truth--tell them the truth.

	Like Harry Truman, I represented a Midwestern state in the Senate, I was honored to serve our country in uniform, and like Truman I am going to win a come-from-behind victory for president of the United States. You just wait and see.

	And we're here on this Labor Day to kick off a campaign that is going to be a gateway to a bright and shiny future for the American people. And I know the Rams won and the Cardinals won yesterday, and we're going to win today, and the Cardinals are going to win today, and we're all set. In fact, we're going to go out to the game after a while and bring them luck. So, anyway-

	My friends, this election is about two different visions of America's future. As Jack said, our opponents--and they are our opponents; they are not our enemies--offer an old-style liberal vision that puts government first. And Jack Kemp and I offer an optimistic future-oriented vision that puts the American people first. That's the difference. That's the key dividing line in this campaign. They believe in government, and we believe in you. We believe the people. We trust the people of the United States. We trust the people of Missouri. And sometimes it seems--

	You're going to get him. Thank you. And I want you. And I want you. And I want you.

	And sometimes it seems that our opponents have a little--a million little plans for how government can dictate to the American people what it thinks is best. Now, Jack Kemp and I have one big plan, just like this big arch--one big plan. Give American families back more of their hard-earned money, because we believe that people can run their own lives better than any government bureaucracy ever can or ever will.

	And let's talk a moment about the people our country salutes every year on Labor Day--the ones who get up every day, day after day, and give their best for their families and for their communities and for their jobs and for America. They put in their time in the mines and the mills and the factories and the fields; in the offices, in the stores and the hotels and the restaurants and the construction sites, the--the cabs, the ships, and the airplanes. They are the people who make America what it is. They are everyday heroes of our national life, and I'm proud to salute working people all across America today. And they are the workers of America. Thank you. And they are the workers of America, the best workers in the entire world--make no mistake about it. And Jack Kemp and I believe it's time to give a break to every American who works and every American who pays taxes in America. That's what this campaign is all about.

	We're going to do what Republican governors have done all across America--it didn't happen in Missouri--but what Republican governors have done all across America. We are going to balance the budget and cut taxes at the same time, and it's going to be done.

	And there are at least three good reasons to cut taxes. Number one--is today a lot of two-earner families--one parent works full-time for the family, while the other works full-time for the government to pay the taxes. It should not be that way in the United States of America, and it will not be that way when Jack Kemp and I are in charge. And we believe that if both parents are working it should be because they want to, not because they're forced to pay higher federal taxes year after year after year.

	The second reason--to cut taxes is that it would be good for the economy. And our economy needs to be lifted up from the Clinton approach of slow growth, stagnating incomes, decreasing wages, and job insecurity. We know tax cuts will lift the economy, because that was proven by a great president who carried this state twice--President Ronald Reagan proved it in the past. He gave us the largest tax cut in history, and Jack Kemp and I worked with him to get the job done, and we're going to do it again. What did that tax cut do? It brought growth, millions of new jobs, and the longest peacetime expansion in the economy we've ever had, under President Ronald Reagan. And that's not Bob Dole talking. In a recent poll of 700 economists, more than 80 percent of them agreed that the Reagan tax cut increased the nation's economic growth in the 1980s. And I am here to say we can do it again, and we will do it again, in the Dole-Kemp administration. And even former President Clinton will get the tax cut when he's gone.

	The third reason--to cut taxes is very simple. The typical family now pays more in taxes than on food, clothing, and shelter combined, and our country hasn't had a tax cut in ten years, and you've waited long enough, and you're going to get one starting next year. When Jack Kemp and I are elected, the wait will be over. We're going to cut taxes 15 percent across the board.

	We're going to have a $500-per-child tax credit for children under 18. We're going to create more jobs and more opportunities by cutting the capital gains rate right in two--50 percent slash right up front. We're going to repeal Clinton's 1993 tax on senior citizens' Social Security benefits. We're going to repeal that tax. And we'll have estate tax reform, so after you've worked all your life, your family has worked, your children work--you don't have to sell half of your farm or half of your business to pay the estate taxes in the United States of America.

	And it will not stop there. After we have cut taxes we won't be satisfied until we have a fairer, flatter, simpler tax, and until we end the IRS as we know it today. And sometimes I think that if our opponents had their way, our money would come off the presses with the return address of the IRS printed right on it. They want it all. They say what's theirs is theirs, and what's yours they're going to go after. That's the other side--that's what they believe in. So it's time to downsize the IRS and upsize the amount of money Americans can keep for themselves, for their families and their children.

	And my opponent the other day--I think it was President Clinton said the other day that the Dole-Kemp plan cuts taxes for people who, quote, "who don't need it." Anybody here doesn't want a tax cut, please raise your hand--we'll try to single you out. No? Everybody needs it? All right, we're going to do it. We're going to do it.

	Now, Candidate Clinton came out here in 1992, and what did he tell the crowd--he never had a crowd this big--but what did he tell the people who showed up? He said, "The centerpiece in my first term will be a middle-class tax cut."

	Whatever happened to that? Whatever happened? And now he says he's going to have selective tax cuts. Do you believe him this time? Now, maybe that's why he broke his promise to cut taxes for the middle class--he just decided that you did not need it. Isn't that nice of him to make that decision? He's right about that. But he's forgetting something Jack Kemp and I will never ever forget: It's not the government's money, it's your money. You should not have to apologize for wanting to keep more of what you earn. The government should apologize for taking too much of what you earn. That's the way it ought to work, and that's the way it will work.

	And our economic growth plan comes with the most detailed accounting on how to cut taxes and balance the budget of any presidential campaign in history, because I won't make a promise unless I know I can keep it, and I can keep it. And Kit and John are going to help me keep it. And we're going to get it done. And it's not very complicated. It's not very complicated.

	Thank you. Let me say--think about that--Dole-Kemp--two four-letter words you can teach your children--Dole-Kemp--and your grandchildren.

	Now, let me get back. We're not talking nuclear physics here, we're talking Nobel Prizes. Three of the world's most famous and respected Nobel Prize-winning economists have endorsed our plan. They said, "it would work and be good for the economy." They wouldn't have sat with me and spoken out unless they knew it could be done. The simple fact is that with today's "pro-growth" Republican Congress, balancing the budget and cutting taxes is just a matter of presidential will. If you have it you can do it. I have it and I will do it, my friends. We are going to do it.

	Thank you. I'm going to go in a minute. As General Colin Powell said at the Republican convention; he said, "we live in an era of slick salesmanship, and it's time for some plain talk to lead America into the next century." "It's time for actions that match words." And nowhere is leadership more necessary in the war against drugs, a war we're going to start to help your children, help your grandchildren. And we recently learned that the drug use among Americans has more than doubled in the last four years. In the 1980s, as you recall, Nancy Reagan and others were saying, "Just say no," and they were ridiculed. But drug use went down and down and down.

	But Bill Clinton doesn't say, "Just say no." He says just say nothing, and he's said nothing for four years, and drug use has doubled, marijuana use has gone up 144 percent. He even cut the Office of National Drug Control Policy by 83 percent. So when I am president--it's not very far away now--we are going to make a drug war a national priority once again in America to save your children and to save your grandchildren. And that includes being ready to use the capabilities of our armed forces to help stop illegal drugs before they make it across the border anywhere in this country. And I said that yesterday speaking to the National Guard. And it also includes working with governors to involve our National Guard more in keeping our children safe from drugs. The National Guard is willing to accept that mission. They are ready. They have children--they have grandchildren. They know the disaster, the crisis we're in now with drugs, which has gotten worse and worse and doubled in just the past four years.

	It also includes restoring more leadership on the drug issue with one clear message that echoes across the country from the schoolhouse to the White House: drug abuse is wrong and should not be tolerated anywhere in America. That is our message.

	And in my administration the judges we will appoint will be tough on crime, and they are going to strictly interpret the Constitution. They need not apply--if there are liberal judges, they're going to be on the bench, but it's not going to be the courtroom bench. They'll be benched for eight years and then eight years with Jack Kemp. And it's time we appointed judges who care more about the rights of victims than the rights of criminals in America.

	And as the children of America go back to school, let's resolve as a nation to bring a new spirit of reform to our educational system. I love teachers. Teachers have a tough job. But I do have a quarrel with the teachers unions which have a hammerlock on the education system in Missouri and all across America. And in our administration we are going to take control of education from the union leaders and bureaucrats and put it back into the hands of teachers and parents where it belongs in the first place. We'll fight for opportunity scholarships so low-income American families and lower-middle-income American families have the same right as the person who lives at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C., and that's the right to send your own child to the school of your choice--your choice--your choice.

	And, again, school choice is about trusting people, and we trust the people. And trusting the people will be on the top of our agenda every day and every hour of the Dole-Kemp administration. And that's why we're going to revive the Tenth Amendment. I carry it around here in my pocket, if I can find it. There it is. I know you can't see it, but it's only twenty-eight words in length. And what does it say? It says, "The powers not given to the federal government by the Constitution, or denied the states by the Constitution, are reserved to the states and to the people"--to you, to you, to you.

	Our Founding Fathers were concerned about an all-powerful central government, and that's why they included the 10th Amendment, which has been around a couple hundred years. It's part of the Bill of Rights--it's number ten. And we dusted that off a few years ago, a lot of us in Congress, including some Democrats, and said, "Wait a minute, why are we taking more and more and more power away from the states? Why are we taking more and more power away from the people?" We are going to give power back to the states and back to the people, because I think our Founding Fathers had a great deal of wisdom when they wrote that into the Constitution in the first place.

	So let me--we're going to give you an administration that trusts you, an administration that you can trust. When you think about the word "trust," keep in mind the phrase President Reagan used when he was dealing with the old Soviet Union--"trust but verify." Remember "trust but verify"? That's not a bad way to approach this election. Don't just trust the candidate; take the time to verify by looking in his record. Does he honor his commitments? Does he tell the truth? Does he say what he means? Does he keep his word?

	That's the other guy, right. Of all I've done in public life, I take the most pride in knowing that those I dealt with, whether Democrats or Republicans, will tell you that Bob Dole is honest, his word is good, and when he makes a commitment you can take it to the bank. And that's what this country is all about.

	That's what I'm offering in this campaign: leadership you can count on every day of the week, every hour of the day--leadership that has unlimited confidence in the wisdom of our people and the future of our country. My opponent says he wants to be a bridge to the future. But, as Jack has said, he's a toll bridge: you pay every inch of the way, every step of the way. You pay and pay and pay. He took a train to Chicago last week--he dropped--every time he stopped he dropped a couple of billion dollars. We figure it cost $12 million a mile--it cost the taxpayers $12 million a mile to make that train trip. And that's what we are afraid of, because he would be a bridge to the future of higher taxes, more teenagers using drugs, a government-run health care system, more liberal judges, America defenseless against incoming ballistic missiles, and an economy producing too few jobs, and on and on with more government--more government in our lives every day and every day and every day.

	We are going to be a bridge to lower taxes, to fewer teenagers using drugs, an America that can defend itself. We are going to be proud of the military in a Dole-Kemp administration. And if it ever comes necessary to send troops around the world somewhere to protect our liberty and freedom, I will make that decision, and not Boutros Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations. I will make that decision. And men and women who wear the uniform of the United States will be welcome again in the White House.

	So we are on the march. What a great send-off. What a great crowd. I've never seen so many people, as I said at the outset. I thank you for coming, and I would just ask you to do one thing: I know the slogan is "Show me." We hope we have shown you in Missouri that we mean business. We are going to make it happen. We are going to keep our word. We are going to cut your taxes, we are going to cut regulation, we are going to cut the capital gains rate, estate taxes. We are going to make this a safer place, better opportunities in schools, less drugs in America. That's just the down-payment. And with your help, we're going to get it done. We are the greatest nation on the face of the earth. 

	Thank you, God bless America. All right.

BILL OF RIGHTSBUDGET, BALANCEDCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDRUG ABUSE--GENERALDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINCOME TAXORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOCIAL/ECONOMIC CLASSTAX REFORMTEACHING PROFESSIONTAXATION--GENERAL