

	My friends in Pennsylvania: During the flying trip I have just made through the Southland, I brought again and again to the attention of our Southern friends and neighbors the heart of the Republican indictment against the record of the administration.

	I have said and will say again and again that there is only one issue in this campaign.  That issue is--quote--"the mess in Washington"--unquote.

	The spoken and shouted response received in the Southland was a heartening one.  I'll remember the rebel yells for a long time. Thousands of aroused citizens of the South--irrespective of party--stand ready to rise up in wrath to help us clean out the Washington mess.

	There is only one way to get rid of that mess:  that is to get rid of the wasters, the bunglers, the incompetents and the boss politicians who have created it.

	When I say, get rid of them, I do not mean by any minor operation or any process of face-lifting.  What Washington is in need of is the full treatment.  What Washington is in need of is not new administrators of the policies of the old administration, but a new administration with new policies.

	There are special reasons why I am glad to find myself back in Pennsylvania, in the native state of my paternal ancestors, who more than two hundred years ago made this the home of their choice. This time I come as the nominee of the great Republican Party for the highest office in the land.  I am moved to wonder what those yearly Pennsylvania Dutch ancestors of mine would have thought had some old prophet predicted that a descendant of theirs would one day occupy the role in which I now find myself.

	And it is a distinct added pleasure to be in the state ably presided over by your great governor, John Fine, and represented in the Senate by my two long time friends, Ed Martin and Jim Duff.

	Tonight I want to discuss with you Young Republicans of Pennsylvania the subject of peace.  I am going to discuss with you why, under the present administration, we do not have peace and why we do have war.  I shall present an outlined program for the kind of peace that can be won and kept.  You--the youth of America--have the greatest stake in this question.  The course of your whole lives will be determined by the soundness of America's answer.  We cannot risk failure of America's effort to lead the world to better understanding and into an era when war and the stories of war will belong only to the history books.

	What is the record of this administration in this life and death matter?  Its successes will be made much of in this campaign, but on the world balance sheet where do we stand?

	Seven years after victory in World War II, this administration has bungled us perilously close to World War III.  Lest this be labeled a partisan charge, let me quote the words spoken only last May by the Democratic Speaker of the United States House of Representatives.  Mr. Rayburn solemnly told Congress, "I think the world is in the worst condition outside of war that I have ever known it.  I think it is in the worst condition so far as hope for peace is concerned that anyone now living has seen, when we were not in actual war."

	Let us look at where we were seven years ago and where we stand today.

	Seven years ago freedom had just won its greatest crusade.  Today freedom falters and Communism crusades.

	Seven years ago emancipation from the worst slavery the world had ever known was an accomplished fact for multiplied millions of people.  Now for seven years men, women and children at the appalling rate of one hundred million a year have been delivered into a slavery that is even worse.

	Seven years ago the idea of a charter of the United Nations looked like a long step toward the fulfillment of man's age old search for a better way than war.  Today the United Nations has only a shadow of the influence it might have had and which one day it must develop.

	Seven years ago we had a right to believe that after two world wars in one generation our initiative, our creative imagination, and our vast industrial machine could build for us prosperity not based on war and not sealed by the blood of our sons.

	Today our initiative, imagination and productive system are once more tied and shackled to war and the prospect of war.  Our economy is a war economy.  Our prosperity is a war prosperity.  And the awful fact of war reaches into every American family and hangs like an impenetrable cloud over the future of every young American.

	That is the record.  Now the party that wrote that record asks us to underwrite it with a new lease of power.  Is that the answer?

	You and I know better.

	If today the driver of the school bus in your town runs into a truck and if tomorrow he hits a lamp post and if the next day he dries into a ditch, what do you do? You don't say, "I like the bus driver; his intentions are good.  I will risk the lives of our
children."  You don't say that.  You get a new bus driver.

	The people of America do not want war.

	Peace is also the deepest desire in the hearts of average men and women in every land.  The tragic fact is that so many millions of those who desire peace are the regimented of the world; forced to help build and man the war machines of dictators.

	Yet even the consuming desire for peace and the right of self-government do not always prevent war.  Time after time in a single generation our people, loving peace, have been involved in war.  Our sons have responded with nobility and spirit, which have made their sacrifices the more heartbreaking.  They are responding that way today in Korea--where we are fighting an action which by any standard prior to the two world wars would be called a major conflict.

	Out of our gratitude, admiration and obligation to our fighting men in Korea let us determine here and now that we will establish a government of which they will be proud when they return that we will dedicate ourselves to a program for peace aimed to prevent future Koreas and the honorable ending of this Korean war.

	But whom can we trust for such a program?  Whom can we trust to win the peace?  The record in Korea will help us find an answer to that question.

	Why are we at war in Korea?

	We are in that war because of failure to observe some of the principles for preventing war which I shall outline tonight.

	We are in that war because this administration grossly underestimated the actual threat.

	We are in that war because this administration allowed America, in a time when strength was needed, to become weak.  Consequently it felt compelled to take its forces out of that region.

	We are in that war because, having helped set up the Korean Republic, and knowing that strength was being massed against that republic north of its borders, there was a failure to build up adequate strength in Korea's own defense forces.

	We are in that war because this administration abandoned China to the Communists.

	We are in that war because this administration announced to all the world that I had written off most of the Far East as beyond our direct concern.

	Shall we trust the party which wrote that tragic record to win the peace?

	Well, now, my neighbors, let's take a look ahead--I say to you tonight from my deepest conviction, peace can be won.

	We can win a peace that will be just and enduring, a peace worthy of the destiny which our founding fathers saw here in Philadelphia.

	The first step toward winning a peace that we can trust to endure is to establish in Washington an administration which we ourselves can trust.  We will win this battle for peace only after we have won the battle of Washington.

	The second step toward winning a peace that we can trust to endure is to establish in Washington a government that puts its trust in the people.  No peace can be won unless the people understand and support what the government is trying to do.  We must not minimize the difficulties; neither can we seek with words and dollars to make the going look easy when it is tough.  There will be mistakes, but the mistakes we make will not be doctored up to look like triumphs.  There will be no curtain of evasion, of suppression, or of double talk between ourselves and the people.

	Third--we will move toward peace by setting before us clear and positive goals.  

	Must we go on with patchwork, crazy quilt operations?  Must we go on with one policy for Europe, a feeble policy for South America, little policy for the Middle East, and changing policies for Asia?  Must we go on writing off the far East at one moment and at almost the next finding our sons fighting and dying in Korea?  Must we at one time woo the Soviets as though they could be trusted, and then fall into hysterical fear of them?

	You and I know that statesmanship can do better than that.

	Our minimum goal, as for any nation, is to make sure that there can be no move against us to threaten our nation's security, its economy, and its peace.

	In a world as complex and as interrelated as this, that minimum goal immediately destroys any idea of isolationism--any belief that we can live alone.  We are acutely dependent upon the far corners of the earth for materials essential to our industry and our defense.  Communications to those far corners of the earth must be secure.  It is to our interest to help keep these countries free and out of reach of Moscow's domination.

	We will seek to stir and develop in these lands an understanding and a love of freedom which will reach the minds and move the hearts of the highest and the lowliest.  Then there will develop the will and readiness to defend freedom for its own sake, and our security will thereby be strengthened.

	The fourth requirement for winning the peace is an outgrowth of the third.  We need allies, and these allies must be bound to us in terms of their own enlightened self-interest, just as in like terms we are bound to them.  We need these allies in Europe, South America, in the Middle East, in Asia and in Africa.  They are necessary for the survival of our system.  No one knows better than our enemies that our foreign trade is not just the frosting on our economic cake, but one of its essential ingredients.

	The need for strong allies will continue long after the need for our dollars has passed.  We will make it crystal clear that there is no such thing as American imperialism, that there can be no such thing as American aggression against any country, large or small; America's great dedication is to freedom, the growth of the world's economic well-being, and to enduring peace.  Then with real leadership, every ally will be a friend.

	The fifth step in this program is to aid by every peaceful means, but only by peaceful means, the right to live in freedom.  The containing of Communism is largely physical and by itself an inadequate approach to our task.  There is also need to bring hope and every peaceful aid to the world's enslaved peoples.  We shall never be truculent--but we shall never appease.

	The sixth requirement for the peace which we can win is unwavering support of the United Nations.  With statesmanship the United Nations will pay greater dividends in the cause of peace and justify our faith in it.

	The seventh requirement for peace is an America which is not only economically strong but day after day is growing in productive strength.  That economic strength is the essential base of our security and the source of our material progress.  Our enemies know that our economic system is a major obstacle to their aggressive aims.  They have made it their major target.

	But if we are to be economically strong, we must develop America's vast reservoir of energy, of creative imagination, and of risk-taking courage.

	That calls for an administration in Washington which refuses to put its trust in the self-approved directives of a self-satisfied bureaucracy.  It means an administration which puts its trust in the people:  their genius, their ambition, the creative capacity of the communities in which they live.  This requires more than friendly words.  It requires a wholly new climate in Washington.

	The eighth step toward peace is that in this dangerous world an America that is economically strong must also be strong militarily.  But we will always strive for permanent peace with general disarmament.  Never will we be backward in proposing or accepting any program for disarmament that carries dependable assurances of good faith on the part of every participating nation.

	As the ninth step toward peace, we will make imaginative and practical use of every other means for preventing war.  This calls for skillful and constant use of the power of truth that makes men free and that will permeate the furthest corners of the earth.  It includes able diplomacy--diplomacy carried on by men of understanding, of training, and above all, of dedication to the cause of America and peace.  All this must be supported by mutually profitable trade relations.

	Finally, here in our own land, we will root out of government those who would betray our system or abuse our confidence.  Both in government and in our daily lives we will fight against discrimination, against economic inequity, against poverty, against insecurity, against every social ill that hampers and handicaps any of our people.

	We can no longer risk policies based on division, on political profit, on petty ambition.  With statesmanship instead of partisanship we will find common ground on which Americans can stand and work confidently together for peace.

	We will establish and maintain a working partnership with Congress.  That  partnership will receive from us more than lip service; real cooperation will then begin.

	In this atomic age, in this day of terrible new weapons, victory is impossible in a global war.  The beginning of such a war would be a loss from which the world could not recover in a millennium.

	Only the losing of a modern war could be more disastrous than winning it.

	The one--the only--way to win world War III is to prevent it.

	The program I have outlined this evening is not a program for waging such a war; it is a program for preventing such a war.

	May I say to you from my deepest conviction that through this program these things can be accomplished:

	Future Koreas can be avoided and the present Korean war brought more surely to an honorable and successful end.

	We can effectively discourage any further dangerous moves of Communist- planned aggression.

	We can speed up our economic progress and increase the world trade on which our existence and peace depend.

	We can restore tranquillity and confidence to American life.

	We can save freedom by making the cause of freedom again a crusade.
	
	And peace--secure and permanent peace--will bring solution to a myriad of lesser problems here at home.

	These things America can bring to pass; this crusade is America's to lead.

	There could be no better place for dedicating ourselves to that crusade than in this great city of Philadelphia.  The triumph of our founding fathers who met here was, above all else, a triumph not of might or of power but of the spirit.

	I devoutly believe that the spiritual strength which was theirs in such great measure can, in great measure, be ours.  Through such spiritual strength, the days of despotism will be shortened.  Then every American--every one of us--will breathe more freely and face the future with greater confidence in a world from which war and the threats of war have, at last begun to disappear.

	That is the cause to which I now call America's young people.  It is a cause for every American.

	Don't say to me--don't let anybody tell you--that the winning of peace is too big, too difficult for us.

	Since when has any job been too big for Americans--for the American people once they have made up their minds and got going.  On this job our minds are made up.

	Well, then, let's get going.

	Don't wait for tomorrow.

	Let's get going tonight.

	Let's sweep this country with such a wave of resolve, determination and action that the little men, the defeatists, the false prophets of the false doctrine that it can't be done, will be tossed out of power and the real America given a chance to move in.

	Then America will begin to move forward.

	I say to you out of my heart that--if we do these things--then, as surely as America is still American, tonight's resolve will be the certain making of tomorrow's triumph.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALKOREAN WARPRODUCTIVITY     A A A |A rA
 dA _A ZA NA BA @A 'A A	  	 r 	 i 	 K 	 . 	  	  e: