

	This is an important election, and I have come here to ask for your help--not merely in a partisan cause, but in an effort to secure for every citizen that most precious of all rights, the right to vote.

	Next Tuesday here in Chicago--and in the next few days around the country--the period of registration for the November election will end.  This Sunday is your last chance to urge the members of your congregation to exercise their power to choose the next president.

	So I hope that on Sunday you will preach this message: register and vote. Vote for any candidate you want--but register now so you can vote a month from now.

	In 1968, fewer black Americans voted than in 1960--even though brave men and women, black and white, had suffered and even died in the meantime so millions could finally cast the ballots the Constitution had given them, but bigotry had taken away. Every competent analysis of the 1968 election indicates that if more black citizens had voted instead of sitting it out, a different president would be sitting in the White House today.

	How did this happen? It was not an accident. It was the deliberate result of a cynical political strategy.	

	Four years ago, according to reliable reports, Republican sources contributed money to militant minority organizations,	and in return those organizations propagandized local communities that it didn't matter whether people voted--that there wasn't a dime's worth of difference between the Democrats and the Republicans. And it is happening again this year. 

	Here in Chicago, for example, I am told that Republican funds have been funneled to groups in the Spanish community for the purpose of reducing registration and voter turnout.

	Now hypocritical it is that politicians who like to cloak themselves in the flag are trying to deny people the one thing that the flag stands for above all else--the right to vote.

	How ironic it is that these politicians denounce militants on the one hand and then give them money from the other hand, in order to divide the community for the sake of partisan gain.

	How revealing it is that they are afraid to compete on the merits
for the support of Americans who are not white.

	Each of you can stand against this strategy. You can stand against the men in business suits who are trying to trick black people out of polling places, just as men in sheets and hoods once barred them with violence. You can stand against a form of political bribery that denies the right to vote as surely as bull Connor ever did.

	Some Republicans want to make black people think that voting makes no difference. But voting is always important--and it is more important than ever in 1972. For I believe that Richard Nixon is right when he says that this election offers the clearest choice in a century.

	What do the Republicans offer? At their recent convention, they took up a rallying cry that must have sent a shudder down the spine of every deprived and oppressed person in this country. You heard that Republican slogan: "Four more years."
 
	Here in the city of Chicago--in Woodlawn and Englewood, in Lawndale and Blue Island--there are countless children who lose a decent chance in life almost before they can walk. But Richard Nixon has vetoed aid to education, day care centers, and health care assistance.  Do you want four more years of that?
 
	In Chicago, 28% of the workers in low income areas are unemployed, employed only part time, or so discouraged by a hopeless search for jobs that they have dropped out of the labor force--and thousands of black high school graduates are without work they were promised if they stayed in school. But Richard Nixon has vetoed the bills a Democratic Congress passed to create jobs. Do you want four more years of that?

	In this city, black businessmen are still waiting for the White House to keep its pledge to encourage minority enterprise. But the Nixon administration has given black businesses words instead of deeds, and slogans instead of federal contracts. Do you want four more years of that?
 
	And in neglected neighborhoods across this city, families are too often forced to call a hovel a home. But while children eat paint from tenement walls, and while slums force people to co-exist with rats, Richard Nixon has presided over the political manipulation of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Do you want four more years of this?

	Well how about four more months?

	Finally, as much as any village bombed into rubble, Lawndale and Woodlawn are victims of the war in Vietnam--the longest, the cruelest, and the stupidest war in American history.

	Why aren't there better schools here? Because your money has been used to blow up schools in Vietnam.

	Why aren't there more clinics to protect your health? Because your money has been used to bomb the life out of innocent civilians in Indochina.

	I want America to come home from exile of racist politics, so that never again will a president attempt to win white votes by denying black rights.

	I want America to come home to a Department of Justice that enforces the Voting Rights Act instead of trying to destroy it.

	 I want America to come home from nominees to the Supreme Court whose most famous public remark is a racial slur. 

	I want America to come home to leadership that loves our land enough to call us to a higher standard. 

	So I say again to you today as I have said all across this land: Come home, come home America!

	John Kennedy told us: "None of us will be free until all of us are free." Lyndon Johnson told us: "We shall overcome." But Richard Nixon tells us: "I don't care."

	I believe that America does care.

	I believe that we would rather build hospitals that can cure the sick than a plane that cannot fly.

	I believe that we would rather end poverty in America than continue the killing in Asia.

	I believe that we would rather provide jobs for our workers than foreign aid for a corrupt dictator thousands of miles away.

	And I believe that our people would rather explore the anxiety on the face of a hungry child than the mountains on the dark side of the moon.

	Our nation has passed through hard and difficult years. But of America, I believe it can still be said: "The spirit of the Lord is upon you because the Lord hath anointed you to preach good news to the poor, to bind up the brokenhearted, and to proclaim liberty to them that are bound."	 

	In 1973, I want to declare the good news that no longer will government stand idly by while millions of proud people are without the dignity of a job. Instead, we will guarantee a job opportunity for every man and woman who is able to work.

	In 1973, I want to declare the good news that no longer will the color of a child's skin determine the quality of a child's education.

	In 1973, I want to declare the good news that the homeless will be housed, the jobless will be employed, and the nation will study war no more.

	And then we will see a day when crime is on decline, delinquency and drugs no longer plague us, and--most importantly--a day when America will truly be America again for all our people. 

	In this endeavor I covet the support of black Americans so deeply because you have struggled for so long a time and against such long odds for what is right. 

	Black men and women stood up for freedom in the 1960s--even when they had to sit down for it.

	Black men and women have fought for justice--even when they have had to die for it. 

	On the day before Martin Luther King was killed in Memphis he said in a sermon: "I have been to the mountain top and I have seen the promised land." 

	I believe we will reach the promised land.

	I believe we will find it in our own land. 

	I believe we will bring America home.

	Thank you, and God bless you.
AFRICAN AMERICANSBUSINESS--MINORITIESBUSINESS--MINORITY OWNEDDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALHOUSING, LOW-INCOMEPOVERTYUNEMPLOYMENT--AFRICAN AMERICANSVOTER REGISTRATIONVOTINGVOTING RIGHTS         
  } x q i g K @	  	  	  	 { 	 ^ 	 K 	 D 	 % 	  	  e: