

	Thank you very much Chairman Ben Cherry, Mayor Eckert, Chairman Ray Chancey and other chairmen and other party officers who are here on the stage here tonight, and my friends of southern Illinois. First of all let me tell you that if we had any doubt at all about our capacity to win this election, now that I have taken on the cape of Superman, all of those doubts have vanished. And if you could follow this schedule that we have been keeping today and over the past ten or twelve days, I think you would agree with me that we didn't get to Carbondale too early. We really need that Superman energy to stay on the kind of schedule that we have planned for ourselves and also to carry out the plan that we have for someone else--and that is to make sure that Mr. Nixon and Mr. Agnew are drawing unemployment compensation by this time next year.

	I am glad to come back to Carbondale for many reasons. I have had a pleasant visit to this city during the primary election earlier this year, and beyond that I always think of Carbondale as the place where I spent some four and a half months as a young Air Force cadet in 1943. I was stationed at Anthony Hall on the campus of Southern Illinois University and at that time, it was a girls' dormitory, but sad to relate, they moved the girls out before we moved in. But in any event we had many pleasant memories of those months in World War II when we were in this city and I went out from Carbondale to continue training as an Air Force pilot, and I continued and completed my service in that war and near the end of it I made a pledge: that if somehow I survived the years of that war, that I would devote whatever time I had left in life to contributing in some way to the cause of peace and to make sure that if I ever came to a place in the life of this country where I could invest my time and energy on behalf of peace, I would do that to the very best of my ability. And I want all of you here tonight to know that this is one pledge that I intend to keep no matter what else happens.

	Now we come here tonight with the growing conviction that no matter what the public opinion polls say and no matter what some of the commentators say we have a mounting and deepening conviction that we are going to win this election in 1972 and that will give us the opportunity to do something that is long overdue--not only to restore the nation to peace, but to restore the control of the government in this country--to take it out of the hands of the special interests that now dominate it and put it back in the hands of the ordinary men and women of this country.

	Former President Truman writes in an article some years ago of a conversation he had right here in the state of Illinois with the late Adlai Stevenson when Governor Stevenson was running as a candidate for the presidency of the United States. And they were in a hotel here in Illinois, and they were looking out of the window, and they saw a working man walking across the street and President Truman said: "Adlai, that is the man that you must not only reach, but he is the man that, if elected, you must speak for in the White House, because the principal difference between our party and the Republican party is that we speak for that man and the Republicans don't give a damn about him." 

	Now I think that is one of the essential differences between our two parties. It was just about four years ago this very date that the business council of the 100 largest corporations in this country met at Hot Springs, Virginia, and they chartered a course that they believed was the best way to deal with inflation and to deal with the economic problems of this country and they proposed that we deliberately set about to create an unemployment rate that would hover between 5 and l/2 and 6 percent. That recommendation was to become the central guideline of the Nixon administration during its first two years in office--a deliberate effort to reduce the areas and the opportunities of employment as a means somehow of depressing prices, of depressing inflation, and of dealing with the great economic problems that confront this country. That formula has been a disastrous failure. It has given us a weird combination of high unemployment, deepening inflation, a balance of payments deficit, the worst federal deficits that we have had since World War II and all of this simultaneously under the leadership of the present administration.

	Now, I think that this is one of the doctrines that we are going to reverse next January when we take over the White House. And we are going to reverse that doctrine, because we are going to listen to the needs and the voice and the aspirations of the American people rather than the claims of the special interests. We don't have John Connolly and his big oil barons with us in this effort--but what we do have is the faith of ordinary people that the time has come to listen to their concerns, and so in this campaign we plead for the support and the cooperation of the working people of this country. We ask for the attention of the farm people of southern Illinois; we ask for the concern and the support of the older people who have been forgotten in this administration. We ask for the young who have been bypassed by this administration. And so we will trade the support of John Connolly and his Wall Street friends anytime for the support of the people of Illinois and the people of the United States.

	Now at their recent convention in Miami Beach the Republican Convention took up the cry "four more years." I ask you here tonight to think about that and I ask you--["four more months"]--that is what I think--four more months. I think that ought to be the Democratic slogan--"four more months." We have to shout that tonight.

	Now I ask you to think seriously about young men and young women still dying in Southeast Asia, both American and Asian, and I ask you whether we really want four more years of that. I ask you to think about one of the most serious problems in this country, a problem that, very frankly, I have not talked enough about in this campaign--yes he is a problem too--but the problem I am thinking about is one that afflicts hundreds of thousands of citizens in this country and it is the deepening problem of heroin addiction which, in spite of all of the rhetoric that we have heard from the President, has doubled in the three and a half years that he has been in the White House. 

	As we meet here tonight, there are twice as many Americans suffering from heroin addiction as were so afflicted in January of 1969, and one of the reasons is that the heroin traffic now flowing into this country has shifted its main focus from Turkey and other places in the world into Southeast Asia where approximately one-third of all of the drugs now coming into this country emanate--and one of the reasons that this administration has been so ineffective in dealing with the international narcotics traffic is that they don't dare to stand up to these governments in Southeast Asia with which we are allied in this war. Mr. Nixon has spent another $60 billion on this war in the three and a half years he has been in office, and he has invested less than a billion dollars in that time fighting the traffic in hard drugs.

	I think the time has come for a new sense of urgency; for a new sense of priorities in which we come to recognize that some of the principal threats to the country do not come from Hanoi, or Laos, or Cambodia but that one of the major threats to America is this problem of drug addiction and the related problem of crime which strikes at the security of every family in this land. And so I ask you to think about that problem and other neglected problems--the problems of those who suffer from malnutrition; the problem of the mother who can't pay the grocery bill anymore because of this skyrocketing wartime inflation--and I ask you if we want four more years of that.

	And then those of you--and I think that includes every thoughtful American who loves the Constitution and who takes pride in our personal liberties--and I ask you to think about what has been going in the wiretappers and the invasions of privacy and those who actually broke in to the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee and wiretapped our conversations, photographed our documents, destroyed the privacy of that headquarters, I ask you to remember that political agents who will do that kind of thing to a national political headquarters won't hesitate to do it to your office, to your home, to your bank, to your union office, to your agricultural office and to all of these things that we think of as our private domain and I ask you if we want four more years of that in the United States? I also ask everyone here to think about the problems of the independent small businessman who is faced on the one hand with the squeeze of big corporate interests, rising interest rates and the same problems that confront the family farmer here in southern Illinois--the steady encroachment of high interest and high taxes and corporate interests and I ask you here tonight whether we want another four more years of policies of that kind.

	I am convinced that what the American people are hungry for tonight is a new kind of political leadership in this nation that draws out what is best in the American people. That challenges the conscience of this nation and that calls upon us to live up to the moral standards on which any sound system of free government must rest. So I say here again today, as I have said in all parts of this land, come home America from the longest and cruelest and most tragic war in all of the history of our country. I know that the President has withdrawn thousands of Americans from Indochina, but I also know that many Americans have been misled into believing that the war has been reduced to a minor enterprise. The truth is that of those men who have been withdrawn, some 150,000 men are still tied down in one way or another to this conflict in Southeast Asia--many of them stationed in Thailand and many of them offshore in our naval units, and some of them in Guam--but 150,000 men, either in Indochina or offshore, still involved in one of the most murderous wars in all man's history.

	There is a level of aerial bombardment going on day after day that exceeds anything the world has ever known. I am told that the American people are not concerned about the aerial bombardment as long as our own casualties are down. The truth is that every American who becomes fully aware of the destruction of human life going on under these aerial bombardment attacks ought to ask himself whether a person with reverence for life, a person who believes in the great moral traditions of this country can really rest knowing that thousands of innocent men, women and children are dying under these bombs. Remember that they, too, are the children of God, and let us also remember that we will never see the long suffering American prisoners who have sat their in their cells in Hanoi--some of them for five, six or seven years--until we put an end to the bombing and the killing and the destruction and bring this war to an end and that is why so many of these prisoner of war wives and members of their families are out campaigning on behalf of Sargent Shriver and myself, because they know that we are determined to end this war, to withdraw our forces and that this is the only way they will ever see their husbands and loved ones again.

	Now I do not believe that ending the war is the hardest job that will face the next President of the United States. I think that this can be accomplished rather quickly and then we can set about the real business of this country. We will first of all take whatever steps are necessary, both stimulating private industry and by the creation of important public service employment, to provide a decent job for every man and woman in this country who is able to work--that is priority number one. I realize that Mr. Nixon and his friends would like you to believe that the Democrats want to put everybody on welfare. But what are the facts? When Mr. Nixon took over as president in January of 1969, there was less than nine million Americans on welfare--today there are more than fifteen million after three and a half years of Mr. Nixon's disastrously mistaken economic policies.

	Now there are some people in our country who are unable to work. They are crippled, they are blind, they are old, they are dependent children or dependent mothers, and for those people we have to provide an adequate level of public assistance. But I believe that if this country would undertake the programs that we need desperately to undertake--new housing, new transportation systems, new environmental protection programs, a dramatically stepped-up program of drug rehabilitation, a stepped-up program to deal with the problems of crime and crime rehabilitation, a greater effort to strengthen our schools to provide neighborhood health centers to deal with the problems of our older people--if we would undertake these works of peace and of redemption and healing and reconstruction we could strip these welfare rolls of millions of people who would love to work and we need to supplement that with a bill that President Nixon vetoed and that is the family-related Child Development Bill that was killed by one of the worst vetoes in this administration.

	Now these it seems to me ought to be the priorities of the American nation in the 1970s. It is going to take some money to pay for programs of that kind and no candidate running for office can advocate programs of that dimension without saying where the money is going to come from and I think it can come from two sources--number one, we will close some of the loopholes in our federal income tax system that now permit the great corporations and many of our richest people to get by without paying anything at all. Some of my Republican critics say I want to soak the rich. I don't want to soak the rich, I just want them to pay their fair share of the burdens of this government. And there is something fundamentally wrong with a tax system that permits a $200,000-a-year corporate executive to deduct his $20 martini luncheons and a working man or a farmer can't deduct the price of his baloney sandwich. But we--I do not advocate raising by one dime the taxes of people who live on wages and salaries. What I am talking about is excessively sheltered investment income and I argue that money made by money ought to be taxed at the same rate as money made by men--that is all I am asking.

	Now the other area is where we can secure additional revenues and this is by ending the senseless drain of the war in Southeast Asia and reducing the waste, the overlap and the duplication in our military budget. I want this country to have an adequate national defense. I would never take steps that would undermine the defense muscle of this country, but we don't strengthen America, as former President Eisenhower said, when the military takes so much and wastes so much that it deprives other areas of our national strength of the support that they need. So as we approach the 200th Anniversary of a country--a country at the beginning dedicated itself to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, I would call again in this crucial election year for all of us to think deeply and carefully about what kind of a country it is that we want America to be.

	If we answer that question the way I believe the overwhelming majority of the people of this country will answer it--it does not mean that we will depart on a radical new course--but rather it will mean that we bring the nation back to those enduring principles which with we began. I referred here a few minutes ago to my own service as a pilot in World War II. I remember one day when our plane was badly crippled by anti-aircraft fire over an enemy target and the crew was on the verge of bailing out; we assessed the damage and decided that we could make it back to the base and I issued this order: "Resume your stations, we are going to bring this plane home."

	Now here tonight--I would like to say to all within the sound of my voice and to Americans everywhere who share our love for justice and peace and a better future for our land--resume your stations, we are going to bring America home. 

	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDRUG ABUSE--HEROINDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIES--SOUTHEAST ASIAELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCEINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWATERGATEWELFAREVIETNAM WAR     A A A A A
 A A A uA mA kA kA aA	  	  	  	 v 	 _ 	 G 	 0 	  	    e: