

	Mayor Hynes, Governor Dever, my young friends of Boston: You know, those Ike signs reminded me of an incident that happened last week when I was speaking. I was traveling through the streets of Spokane, in the state of Washington, and a little boy ran out in front of the crowd, and he shouted at the top of his voice, "Hurrah for Stevenhower." I don't know whether he was just confused or whether he was being cautious; but whatever he was being, I think he showed all of the instincts of a very good politician.

	I am charmed to have this opportunity to come here to talk with you for a while this evening. I must say this isn't the usual audience that I have been talking to in the past several weeks. I thought of--sitting here a moment ago as Mayor Hynes and Governor Dever were speaking so graciously about me--of the story that an old Quaker minister used to tell--his name was Rufus Jones--you will read about him some day, if you haven't. He said one time when he was addressing a group of high school students--he looked down and he heard himself saying, "Looking at you boys and girls reminds me of the time when I too was a boy and girl."

	I am told that many of you are student editors of your high school newspaper. I was the editor of my preparatory school paper and also of my university school paper. I encountered undoubtedly the most useful curriculum experience that I ever had in my undergraduate and my school days--what's more, I even made some money at it while I was in college, which I promptly invested--and invested very badly. I should encourage you to continue academic journalism, but don't come to me to discuss your investments.

	I know that many of you are thinking about this election as hard and seriously as if you were going to vote yourselves--perhaps, more seriously, indeed than some of your elders. That is good because it is you who must live in the future, and the future is sometimes decided in the present. You are the ones who are going to dwell in the house that we are building, and if we build badly, it will be you who will suffer most in the years to come.

	Now, what sort of a house is it that you want to build? What sort of a world is it that you want to live in? I can't help thinking how very different the problems that you face today are from those which faced many when I first cast my first ballot nearly thirty years ago--my, I hate to say that. Do you think I look as decrepit as I feel?

	I don't know whether they are clapping out of contrite sympathy for my looks or approval.

	Well, I find it hard now to describe to my own sons what life was like in America in 1924 when I first voted. I had served briefly at that time, prior to that, as an apprentice seaman in the first World War--and very briefly indeed--and I emerged from college into a weird and remarkable world--the world of the twenties, we called it. Looking back, it is difficult to recapture the precise fun and the flavor of the twenties, that era of what was called, "wonderful nonsense." If you want to understand what it was like, I commend to you the books of a Princeton contemporary of mine, a man named F. Scott Fitzgerald, who wrote some very enduring prose about those days. You will find much to amuse and to delight you in the story of the wonderful nonsense of the twenties, and I hope a little of the charm, and perhaps to win some forbearance.

	You will find that the fashions and that the morals of the twenties sound strange, but you will probably find the political and the social ideas of that time even stranger.

	The theory of government in that day was pretty much--or at least a lot more the law of the jungle than it is now. It was thought that if nobody interfered with the few while they made as much money as possible, prosperity would trickle down from the top to the mass of the people beneath. The successful man was the man who was most adroit at gambling on the stock market; he was honored.

	In the foreign field, isolationism was the prevailing the fashionable view. The administration--need I remind them, Miss Fleeson, that the administration was Republican--had repudiated Woodrow Wilson's dream of a league of nations. Partly as a result, Communism and Fascism were already fastening their talons on much of Europe, but few in this country cared or even understood.

	America in the twenties had a glittering facade, but behind the facade there were fire hazards in our basements. There was stark poverty in the midst of plenty. Attempts of labor to organize for better working conditions was sometimes met by repression and violence. The farmer lived at the mercy of the weather and unstable markets. He bought in a protective market and he sold in a free market. The unemployed could beg for charity, and there was no provision for the old and the helpless, the needy, except the county poor farm.

	The watchword was, "I'll get mine while the getting is good--after me, you first"--that sort of cynical thing. Few could read the handwriting on the wall in those days, but there was much of scientific progress. The radio had come to birth; communications were entering an entirely new era of development and there was a great movement of private philanthropy--it was expanding rapidly. New concepts of social consciousness were developed, imperfectly perceived, but something manifestly was stirring. In those days taxes were a joke in the terms of today. The doors were locked and blinds--and the blinds were pulled as I have said, against the outside world. Our national resources were undeveloped--relatively undeveloped--and government had little concern for their development. And there were people who were in power then, and have not been in power since, who would like nothing better than to turn back to those days.

	Well, the world passed them by. Since then, we have been through a Great Depression, a great recovery and a devastating war. And somewhere in this process America has fundamentally changed--a new view, a new compassion, a new faith has emerged. In a way it is a moral revival, and it has altered the tone and the meaning of our life. And how different a prospect faces a young man or a young woman of today from what faced the youth of my generation. The only or, most of all, the go-getter was the hero. Few cared about politics or public service -almost none who went through school or college with me took any positive interest in that, or have subsequently. Few had the sense of civil or social responsibility that we find today, when they were young.

	I know how greatly different it all is today. It is my privilege--and I count it perhaps my dearest privilege--to know a great many young people; the sons, the daughters of my friends; students at our universities in Illinois, and indeed all over the country; the people that my children have been bringing to my home, as long as I can remember. You are interested; they are interested. They are aware, just as you are aware. Neither cynical nor fearful, you seem to accept, I think, with sober understanding the role of leadership--the new type of leadership, indeed world leadership, a whole new dimension which has been thrust upon this country and upon you--perhaps your generation most of all. You know that there is no possibility of shirking, of evading, of escaping this responsibility, and what's more you don't want to, like so many of your parents did. You know that there is no chance of turning back. Life moves forward or it doesn't move. Paralysis is deaf. The law, which is the law of life's history, has marked you, I dare say, for its own, and you in turn are going to leave your mark on history. What kind of mark?

	The road is not going to be an easy one at all. Some of you, perhaps, are already in military service. My eldest son has just received his commission in the Marines. More will have to go. Most of us, I think--and I include you--are not military minded in this country, and I think, that is, on the whole, a good thing because it is this very quality of mind, a traditional quality, which makes the peace-loving civilian American ultimately when the time comes the best soldier the world has ever known. It is his calm good sense, his dedication to reality, his understanding that the military life is a hard necessity and not a national destiny. He knows that rearmament was not our choice but was forced upon us. He knows that strength and that patience constitute the road to peace in the world.

	Now, I will not minimize the difficulties of this road. Anyone who knows--anyone who tries to sell you a shortcut to world peace is insulting your intelligence, and I think you know it. There is no substitute for the long, the tough policy of building the strength and the unity of the free world, of freedom, but at the end of this road I deeply believe that peace must lie. We must entertain, we must cherish that hope and we must never abandon it. Cynicism is deaf in a desperate dangerous world like this, and with it, with that hope of peace, tranquillity, serenity and all of the things that mankind has dreamed about from the beginning of time is the promise of a new, a bright future for all mankind.

	I think we can achieve that future. I think I have made it clear that I don't think it is easy. I think it is desperately difficult. Or, if my generation cannot, then you can, you who will come after us. You can and you must achieve it. And we can achieve that future if we but have a confident and enduring faith in decency, faith in people, faith in these objectives--call them freedom, if you please. It is a large comprehensive word but I think you know what we mean. If I were to leave that one thought in your mind--but one thought in your mind as a consequence of this desultory talk, it would be this: however else you lead your life, live it freely. It is not the years in your life but the life in your years that is going to count. Discard with contempt any of the doctrines of bigotry, of intolerance, recrimination, and accusation which crowd upon us from all sides today. Reaffirm, by your own behavior, and for your own times, the shining principle of those other young Americans of an earlier day who stood--and they were young Americans--in Independence Hall and offered on the altar of freedom their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor.

	I say to you, in a word, if you will but keep your backbone stiff, your hearts warm, and your feet on the ground, the future will be yours and it will be America's.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHISTORY--UNITED STATESISOLATIONISMYOUTH     K* * * * *
 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )	 ] 	 < 	 ' 	  	  e: