

	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you here in Georgia know this, but need I say it again: your state is very fortunate to be represented by Senator Sam Nunn. I want to tell you that a great source of--what's going on? Let's calm down, everybody. Let them deal with whatever's going on up there. Hey, fella, wait a minute. Whoa. Wait, wait, wait. Wait. Hey, just relax. You only have to put up with it for six more days. Let him go.

	You know, I believe in the First Amendment. I think they ought to have their right to free speech, too. I just wish they'd respect ours.

	Let me say, first of all, I want to thank some people who are here today, and I want you to acknowledge them. I want to thank the band Playback who played before we got here. Let's give them a hand. I want to acknowledge that remarkably gifted young lady, Allison Jones . Wasn't she great when she sang? I want to thank the people that got me up the river today--Lowell and Gloria Greenbaum . Let's give them a hand. They were great.

	There's some people that aren't here I want to mention: your governor Zell Miller, who's been so good to me, who I think gave one of the great speeches at the last Democratic convention; your senator Wyche Fowler, I want to urge you to re-elect him. I want to say something about that, too. Wyche Fowler is the biggest Atlanta Braves fan I know personally. And I want to tell you something, I'm glad Georgia's giving them a good welcome home today. They deserve it. They played magnificently in the World Series.

	I also want to say one more word about this band. They played--stand up, band. I want the band to stand up. They were great. I want to compliment the band and the conductor for being able to play there and having Allison sing here, and they did it together, and I appreciate it. They all--you started together and you ended together. That was good. I was proud of that.

	You know, I want to say one other word about Sam Nunn. Over the years, I've had the privilege to meet hundreds, maybe even thousands of people, I guess, in public life. You learn to appreciate all of them for their strengths and, like other people, to understand maybe where we're all not as strong as we'd like to be. But I'll tell you, I really have come to value the relationship I have with Senator Nunn and the willingness that he has extended to me to give me advice and counsel on defense and national security matters, and I would think you feel a lot better knowing that if I win the election on Tuesday, he'll have more influence, not less influence on the national security of this country.

	Folks, I got a--in terms of all that shouting, you know, it reminds me of--I don't know if you like Peanuts, but I do. And Lucy's got a great line in Peanuts. She says, "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can." Now, that's what they're doing.

	When I got into this race, I had no real personal animosity in any way toward this administration. I got into this race because I had worked as a governor in a tough global economy for a dozen years, because I had seen our people work hard, and we'd had some remarkable successes. We rank first in the country this year in job growth. We have the second-lowest tax burden in the country, the lowest rate of state and local spending, and yet very high levels of investment in education and jobs. But I could see that no matter how hard our folks worked, they were falling further behind. And I knew it was because we were in the grip of trickle-down economics, a failed economic theory that no other advanced nation was following. And when this census came out, it just confirmed it.

	After the 1990 census came out, it proved that two-thirds of the American people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. And that means we are not doing what we ought to do to compete and win. And you heard Senator Nunn say it: we're living in a world where our national security depends in large measure on our economic security, our educational security, the ability of our people to function at very high levels every day, and this trickle-down theory will not get it done. So that's why I got into this race.

	When Mr. Bush was at 70 percent in the polls, my own mother didn't think I could win.

	But I have to tell you, there are some other things that have entered into this in the last few days. I hope you've been keeping up with it.

	I mean, this guy that wants you to give him four more years is running an administration--now, these are in the facts, you know--where the FBI is investigating the Justice Department, and the Justice Department is investigating the FBI. They don't have any time for criminals anymore, they're investigating each other. And then--since we're in Georgia, you know this--they've got that real hot federal court case going on down in Atlanta over the Iraq scandal, and the CIA and the Justice Department are fighting with each other over which one of them lied to the federal judge in trying to cover up what happened.

	And then the State Department, for a long time a totally independent part of our government, immune to politics, has got three political cronies that were sent over lickety-split to delve into my passport files to see where I went twenty-three years ago. They should have just asked me; I'd have told them. And then, when they didn't find anything out, these people went and dug into my mother's passport file.

	Now, I tell you what, you know, Bush, they talk about big government, but that's big government. Those three people have too much time on their hands if they were looking into my mama. I will say this. I don't know if you read the story about this, but consider this. You've got these three political hacks appointed to the State Department, and they're supposed to look into my mother's passport file, so they wait till six o'clock, till the office is closed, and in their nice suits, they sneak over to this dusty building where all these old files are kept, and they rummage around and bump into each other in this little, dark room until ten o'clock at night, when, disappointed, they give up that they hadn't found any trash on Mother.

	Now, there is a good side to this, you know. I bet it's the only time those three political hacks have worked till ten o'clock at night the whole time Bush has been President.

	Now, the last two days, did you see the television last night? Mr. Perot says Mr. Bush investigated his daughter. Mr. Bush's press secretary says Mr. Perot is paranoid. Mr. Bush a few months ago accused Mr. Perot of investigating his children. It looks to me like what we ought to be investigating is these children--their future, their promise--what they have to offer America.

	My fellow Americans, it is no accident that this campaign has produced a remarkable coalition of support across lines of party and region; that Republicans and Independents and former Perot supporters have rallied to the cause of the Clinton-Gore ticket because they think we represent the only hope for real change. Who would have thought this six months ago? The other day I was out on the West Coast, and the Portland Oregonian for the first time in the 142-year history of the newspaper endorsed a Democrat, not a Republican, for president. On the East Coast in Connecticut, the Hartford Courant for the first time in almost 200 years endorsed a Democrat for president. Twenty-four retired generals and admirals, including the deputy commander-in-chief of Operation Desert Storm, and Admiral Crowe, who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they know it represents change.

	We had hundreds of businesspeople, including many Republican business leaders who run these big high-tech computer companies in California--many of them had never voted for a Democrat before--endorsed our ticket because they know it represents the best hope for economic opportunity. And I could go on and on, but maybe the most interesting thing is ten Nobel prize-winning economists, 500 others, and the man who was the principal author of Mr. Perot's economic program have endorsed the Clinton-Gore program to rebuild America and move it forward--because they know it represents the best hope for change.

	In the last week, I hope that at least in my campaign, we can lift the sights of the American people and focus folks on the future, on what is going to happen the day after the election. All this name calling and stuff--I was in North Carolina yesterday, and they were running some off-the-wall ad on agriculture policy, and everybody that reviewed it said they just made it up. You know, they just made it up. I mean, Al Gore lives on a farm and I represent a farming state, and they were trying to convince the farmers in North Carolina we were going to put them under. And as I said, I'm in the South, I guess I can say this one more time, when it comes to farming, Bush and Quayle don't know "Come here" from "Sic 'em." I don't know where they get off--

	But I want to tell you, I don't--I think the important thing is what are we going to do after the election, because after the election, there will be no charges to answer, nobody to make fun of, only the American people, their problems and their promise out there, and the issue is what are we going to do to move our country forward and lift our country up. That is what I got into this race to talk about.

	I have tried to build a new Democratic party that believes in growth in the private sector; that believes in not bigger government but more effective government; that believes in partnership between government and business and labor and education; that believes that we don't have a person to waste and we have to have a real education presidency; that believes that we have to finally become the last advanced nation to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans so we can strengthen this economy; a party that believes that there are some things the American people must do for themselves and the best thing the government can do is to empower people to control their own lives, to strengthen their own families, to make their own communities work, and that that is the role of government in the post-Cold War era.

	What does all that mean? It means that in economic policy, no more across-the-board tax cuts for the wealthy, but say to the wealthy, if you want to lower your tax bill, here's the way we're going to do it: We'll ask you to pay your fair share but then give you incentives. If you want to lower your tax bill, invest in an American plant, an American small business, new American technology. Put the American people back to work.

	This is a free enterprise country. I want to create more millionaires in my presidency than Bush and Quayle did, but I have this crazy idea that they ought to make the money the old-fashioned way, by putting the rest of America back to work and giving our people good jobs.

	We ought to have a defense policy that leaves us with the strongest defense in the world, but one adequately designed to meet the challenges of the post-Cold War era, and then we ought to do what Sam Nunn says. We ought to take the folks that aren't going to be in the service and give them a chance to earn military retirement and serve their country here at home, as teachers or police officers and making contributions to kids in trouble. We ought to take every dollar--and this is a big difference I have with this administration. They took all the defense cut money for the last four years and put it into paying off the S&L mess or escalating health care costs. I say we ought to reinvest every dollar of it in American transportation systems, communication systems, water systems, solid waste recycling systems, breaking the bounds of technology to create jobs for the twenty-first century in this country. We could create more jobs than we lose if we reinvest the money in the right way.

	They say the government has no role in trying to promote a strong economy. Look at those airline pilots standing up there. You know that there's some of those folks in those wonderful uniforms at every rally I do? And you know why? Because in the last twelve years, the airline industry and commercial aviation in this country have been battered because of the crazy policies of this government which allowed people to take over these airlines with massive debts, reduce the maintenance schedules on the airplanes, cut back the service personnel, the pilots and the airline attendants, weaken the financial condition of the airlines. Now they're talking about letting foreign interests buy into our airlines, and we don't get access to their markets.

	And they've let Europe spend $25 to $40 billion developing an airbus which has nearly bankrupt McDonnell Douglas, which has put Boeing on the ropes, because we do not get it. You cannot have across-the-board tax cuts for the wealthy; you have to have a system to say make money by investing in this country and making us competitive.

	We believe--let me say one other thing. As I came up this river today, I thought about something else. We believe that it is good for the economy over the long run to figure out how to protect the environment. If you look at this--let me give you another example of the difference in the Democratic party I want to lead and where we are now. I do not want to regulate business to death. I come from a state which has strong small business growth, strong job growth, where manufacturing jobs increased at ten times the national average in the eighties. I'm a job creator, not a job destroyer. But I know if we do not preserve the Earth that God gave us, in the end we won't have an economy to make a living out of.

	So the issue is--and this is a very important issue. Do you know that 70 percent of the environmental technology sold in America is manufactured overseas because we spend all of our time trying to tell people how they didn't have to comply with environmental requirements here, while our competitors spent all their time giving incentives to businesses to figure out how to clean up the environment? If we had given incentives to people to develop these new technologies, we could have created jobs in clean air, clean water, restoring the soil, replanting the forests, rebuilding the economy. That is what we ought to be doing.

	And finally, let me say I believe that we'll give you an administration that really practices family values. And let me give you an idea of some of the family values I think we ought to be for in this country. First of all, I would sign, not veto, the Family and Medical Leave Act. Seventy-two nations will give a family a little time off from work unpaid when there is a baby born, a sick child, a sick parent. Seventy-two countries. I think it's wrong for us to be told we can't. Do you ever notice, the more I stick 'em, the louder they scream? Did you notice that?

	I believe that we ought to have the toughest possible system of child support enforcement in this country. People should not be able to cross this river and go in another state and get out of the obligation to support their children because of the way the legal system works. We ought to use the national tax system to keep up with people and enforce child support orders.

	I believe we ought to make welfare a second chance, not a way of life. I believe we ought to invest in people, really invest in them if they're trapped on welfare. Give them some money for education and training that means something. Support their children with medical care and child care, and then require people to work after you've taken care of their kids.

	And I'll tell you who needs a tax break in this country. There are millions of Americans out there every day, the unsung heroes of this economy who get up every day. They work forty hours a week, they've got kids in their house, and they are still living in poverty. We ought to have a tax system that lifts them above poverty. If you work forty hours a week, you've got a child in the house, you shouldn't be poor in this country.

	I think we ought to do something for all these young people that get in trouble. You know, the first-time non-violent offenders in this country today usually are undereducated and have a drug or an alcohol abuse problem. And you know what happens to them in most places? They either get off where they go on probation with some poor, overworked probation officer and nothing happens to them, or they go to prison where they learn how to be good criminals. What should we do? We ought to do what Georgia has started to do: we ought to have a national network of community-based boot camps where people can work, get education, get drug treatment, and get reconnected to the community. Those are the kinds of family values we ought to have.

	We ought to have a national network of community banks in inner cities and in rural areas that make loans to poor people to create free enterprise. That can be done. I've seen it in Chicago, I've seen it in Arkansas, I've seen it around the country. We need to make free enterprise work for everybody. There are a lot of people who are locked out and left behind who could make a living if anybody would take a chance on them. Those are the kinds of things that I want to see done in this country.

	So I say to you, my fellow Americans, let's think for six days about what's going to happen after the election. Think how you're going to feel--my running mate Al Gore has this wonderful thing, I can't do it as well as he does. But he says, "Think how you'd feel if you went to bed on November 3rd and you didn't know who won the election, and you woke up on November 4th and it was rainy and cold and drizzling. You had sleep in your eyes and you struggled out and picked up the newspaper and it said 'Four More Years.'" "But," he said, "think how you would feel if you woke up and it was a bright, sunny morning, and warm and clear, and the leaves were turning, and you could smell the fresh coffee. And you walked out and you picked up the newspaper and it said 'A New Day: Change is on the Way.'"

	I did not enter this race for president to run my opponents down. I entered this race to lift the American people up, and I want you to help me do that for the next six days.

	Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you.

AIRLINE INDUSTRYBANKING/LOANS/CREDITCHILD SUPPORTCRIME--JUVENILE OFFENDERSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNENDORSEMENTS--PRINT MEDIAENDORSEMENTS--PRIVATE ENTERPRISEENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYFAMILY LEAVE POLICYGLOBAL ECONOMYGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSINCOME TAXINFRASTRUCTUREPOVERTYWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     >J 
J J  J I
 I I I I I I I I	 9	 )	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	 m 	 _ 	 2 	 ( 	 