

	I have talked across this country about bringing America home. And I find a deep yearning for that goal here in West Virginia.

	For West Virginia has known in her own lifetime how the values of human life and human dignity can be downgraded and forgotten. And what has happened in West Virginia in the past has been happening to the government in Washington over the past several years. The large corporate interests have taken precedence over human interests. The notion of progress at any price outweighs the notion of human-industrial partnership, and the use of controlled technological power for the few has overthrown the use of technology for the people.

	West Virginia has suffered tremendously over the past decades, but we still have the time and the will to bring her home again--home to her great natural resources which have dazzled the tourists and fueled the energies of the nation; home to the proud and independent people who have toiled long and hard in the hills and valleys of the state; home to the great ideals of equality and happiness which were the true aims of our American revolution.

	But we must begin now. We must begin now to make the people and the earth of West Virginia whole again. We must begin now to see that the government in Washington is once again sensitive and open to the needs of this state. We must begin now to end the bloodshed of mine disasters and the scarring of the soil.

	I have talked much in my campaign about ending the bombing of the countryside of North and South Vietnam. But we must also end the bombing of the hills of West Virginia.

	Today the mineral and timber resources of the state are being torn furiously from the land by the practices of strip mining and clear-cutting,
techniques which leave gaping wounds that will never heal. The question is not whether coal should be produced or timber cut down, but how coal is extracted and how timber is collected. Those present methods of production must end. We must bind up the wounds of the soil and return those great natural resources to the good earth and the good people of this state.

	There has been little help from Washington. The United States Interior Department, under Richard Nixon, has allowed strip mining to continue to gouge the land without approved exploration plans. The GAO recently reported that the Department's own regulations, designed to protect public lands from uncontrolled stripping, have been enforced laxly or not at all. It may be necessary to shift the Act's enforcement powers to the Environmental Protection Agency.

	In my Agenda for Human Concerns in Appalachia, I have stated my firm position that the strip mining of coal must be ended. I have continued to push for my own legislation in the Senate--which is similar to the bill introduced by your Congressman, Ken Hechler--to accomplish that goal.

	I have also called for an end to clear-cutting operations in areas of the Monongahela National Forest. This follows the proposal made by Senator Jennings Randolph last year. As a further approach to this problem, I have suggested the establishment of a Task Force to make recommendations on changing this practice in all National Forests.

	We must convert the spoil banks, the gob piles, the abandoned tipples, and the settling ponds, which all result from strip mining, into the rich soil and clear blue lakes for which West Virginia is famous. We must turn the barren timberland of the state back into the beautiful forests which have always graced the landscape of the state.

	These efforts will not permanently lose jobs for the miners and the loggers. Alternative work is available, and during any transition period, relocation allowances can be provided. The same skills employed in strip mining can be put to use in building homes, into constructing new roads and into beautifying the state's recreation areas for the burgeoning tourist industry which is today outstripping all other employment in the state.

	But as important as it is that we repair and conserve the natural resources of West Virginia, nothing can take precedence over protecting and strengthening the human resources of this state.

	For the people of West Virginia have also been exploited for too long by large corporate interests and by indifferent governments. In the scramble for profits, West Virginia and Appalachians have been sacrificed to lax safety standards in mines and factories, to black lung and brown lung diseases, to low wages, and to malnutrition.

	It is simply outrageous that in the year 1972, American citizens in West Virginia and its environs can still be treated with less respect by employers than the machinery in the coal mines and the looms in the textile plants. It is no less outrageous that the Nixon Administration, which has made "law and order" a Republican banner, has deliberately refused to enforce laws on the books to prevent accidents and disease in the coal fields and cotton mills, and to compensate sick and dying men, widows, and children, for the lives which have been wasted in the headlong corporate pursuit of the dollar.

	Consider the 1969 Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act, a noble attempt to right the safety wrongs of many past coal generations in West Virginia. The Nixon Administration's response to this legislation has bordered on gross negligence. The top enforcement officer of the Bureau of Mines, which enforces the Act, was a public relations specialist until he left recently to become an assistant to Clark MacGregor, Richard Nixon's campaign manager. The remaining staff is dominated by representatives of or sympathizers with the very industry which the Bureau was supposed to regulate. So it is not surprising to read a GAO report in March 1971 which finds that the Bureau made only 31% of the legally required safety inspections and only 1% of the legally required health inspections. And beyond that the Bureau did not even close mines after repeated safety violations were found.

	Less than ten months ago, a second GAO Report accused the Bureau of failing to assess and collect fines vigorously against mine operations for safety violations. Of the $12.5 million assessed in safety penalties against mine owners, the Bureau had refused or forgiven $2.7 million, and collected only $1.4 million, leaving an uncollected balance of $8.4 million

	With disasters like Buffalo Creek, West Virginia, Mannington, Kentucky, and Blacksville, West Virginia still fresh in our memories, the lackadaisical approach toward mine safety adopted by the Bureau of Mines is an outrage. The only solution that we as Americans can accept is that no miner ever be allowed again to die in any mining accident.

	It is with these thoughts in mind that I have recommended that enforcement of the Act be shifted to the Department of Labor away from the Interior Department, and that other measures, outlined in the Agenda for Human Concerns, be taken immediately.

	But the failings of the Nixon Administration extend beyond the coal mines. They extend as well into the factories and shops of this country. The landmark Occupational Safety and Health Act, which was passed in 1970 to provide workers with safeguards against chemicals and noxious air, including cotton dust, and other factory related disabilities, has practically atrophied from disuse and secrecy. With the present number of federal inspectors, it would take between twenty and thirty years to make just a single inspection of all worksites covered by the Act.

	There should be a minimum number of 8000 federal inspectors and
4000 industrial hygienists nationwide. All citations on companies
should be made public. Only the most rigorous enforcement of the Act
i11 provide the most secure and safe environment for our working people.

	Finally, we must assure that the men who have suffered black lung and brown lung, as well as their families and widows, receive fully adequate federal benefits. The claim denials by the Nixon Administration under the Black Lung Compensation Act, and the foot-dragging by the Nixon Administration on the Brown Lung Compensation bill now in Congress, must be replaced with active concern in the White House.

	We must also continue to expand our efforts to feed the hungry of West Virginia. As Chairman of the Senate Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs, I have advocated liberalization of food stamp distribution, the preservation of emergency food and medical services, and a stepped-up school lunch program.

	And we must let our citizens of this state and of Appalachia back into the decision-making positions of our society.

	I have advocated in the Agenda for Human Concerns that ordinary people be given a chance to participate in the Black Lung and Brown Lung Compensation Programs, in the decision-making on new hydroelectric power projects, in our National Forest Programs, and in the Appalachia Regional Commission.

	During the mine wars in Eastern Kentucky in the thirties, Florence Reece wrote a song which became the theme of the workers' movement. The refrain of the song was, "Which side are you on?" I want to tell you today that George McGovern is on the side of the people of West Virginia and on the side of the citizens of Appalachia. And it is together that we will finally fulfill the rich promises of this beautiful land.
COAL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONHUNGER (UNITED STATES)OCCUPATIONAL SAFETYPUBLIC ASSISTANCE--FOODTIMBER INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     % |% v% r% j%
 ^% Y% T% O% B% @% % %	  	 q 	 Y 	 C 	 0 	  e: