

	In this city of Chicago, in the early hours of a July morning last summer, I accepted the nomination of the Democratic party for the presidency of the United States and Senator John Sparkman was nominated for the vice presidency. By the calendar that was just fourteen weeks ago. That is not so long as time is measured, but to one who has spent weeks, as I have, writing, traveling, and speaking incessantly, yes, and listening, to countless thousands of the American people, it has been a long, long time. 

	The end has now come, the cheers and jeers, the tumult and the shouting are almost over, and these are the last words I shall speak to you before the balloting begins tomorrow morning. 

	Anyone who runs for office wants to win. I want to win, of course; but, win or lose, if I have kept faith with myself during the campaign, then I can await tomorrow--and the day after--and all the days after that--in good temper and sober contentment. 

	I did not seek my party's nomination for the presidency. I said on that July night that the burdens of that office stagger the imagination; that its power for good or evil smothers exultation and converts vanity to prayer. Today, fourteen weeks later, the solemnity and the enormity of the responsibility we ask you to entrust to us grows ever more sobering and humbling. 

	I said when I accepted that I would fight to win with all my heart and soul. That I have done, sparing nothing of myself, encouraged and assisted along the way by many friends, new and old, who have spent themselves no less. 

	I've enjoyed the fight because I believe in our cause. I believe the Democratic party, over the long sweep of its history and our history, has performed a great mission as a mechanism for the expression of political opinion, the development of policy, and the attainment of a truly democratic society in which the people are sovereign. I believe in a people's party--call it what you will--a party that reflects in policy, program and action the interest of all, not some of the people. 

	I believe the Democratic party is the people's party. It belongs to no one, because it belongs to everyone; and the world, the nation, and everyone in it, are the better, the safer, for it. I believe that with even greater conviction than when I uttered those words fourteen weeks ago. 

	And I also said when I accepted the nomination--let's talk sense to the American people. I said that it was better to lose the election than mislead the people; that this was a great opportunity to educate and elevate a people whose destiny is leadership, not alone of a rich, prosperous, contented country, but of a world in ferment. 

	Looking back I am not wholly content that I have said or said well everything that was in my heart. I am not sure that I have kept all of our concerns, national and international, in proper balance and perspective. I am not sure that I have made my views on all of our concerns as clear and precise as I would have liked. 

	But I have not evaded and I have tried and tried diligently, day and night, to talk sensibly, honestly, candidly about our many problems. I have tried to explain the issues as I see them, and the records of the parties. I have tried to educate. If I have not succeeded altogether, I have certainly educated myself about those questions, and also about those wonderful human beings that are America. 

	Talking sensibly and honestly is not always easy. It means saying things that sometimes people don't like to hear; it means risking votes, and candidates are not supposed to do that; it means saying the same thing in all parts of the country and at all stages of the campaign. 

	It means avoiding political expediency and dealing forthrightly with individuals regardless of the party labels they wear or the votes they can deliver. It means trying to find out what really are the major problems, to get under their surface, to say exactly where one stands on them and what one proposes to do about them. 

	It means trying incessantly to keep the important things foremost, and not be diverted by the sideshows, the assaults and the falsehoods that clutter our campaigns. 

	As I think of these things here at the end of the long road, a lot of memories of these crowded weeks flood in upon me. 

	I remember the night at Dallas, when I spoke to Texans of my views about tidelands oil. 

	I remember the crowd in Detroit on Labor Day when I said I would be the captive of all the American people and no one else. 

	I remember the evening in the railroad station at New Haven when I identified a powerful Democratic leader as not my kind of Democrat. 

	I remember the American Legion convention when I said that those who have served this country must always be Americans first and veterans second, and that our free-enterprise system must include free enterprise for the mind. 

	I remember the audiences down South listening to what I had to say on the subject of civil rights. 

	In these and many other cases there were those who pointed to their perils and urged another course. That would have been easy--but I would not feel as good as I do sitting here tonight on election eve. 

	Looking back, I am content. Win or lose, I have told you the truth as I see it. I have said what I meant and meant what I said. I have not done as well as I should like to have done, but I have done my best, frankly and forthrightly; no man can do more, and you are entitled to no less. 

	I have told you over and over how our economic well-being has been built step by step for all the people, not just the few, and why I am concerned that the economic well-being of America, why your prosperity, cannot be safely entrusted to the party of fear, inaction, boom and bust. I have told you about our vision of an ever-growing abundance in this heaven-blessed land. 

	And I have told you over and over that we are winning the worldwide struggle with Communism; that step by step from Greece and Turkey to Korea the grand alliance of the free has thrown back the enemy; that it is years now since any new peoples or new lands were enveloped by the Kremlin's dark shadow. 

	The Korean War and the miserable stalemate there must be freshly reviewed by fresh minds. Solution, settlement and an armistice there is the first order of public business. But Korea is only one aspect of the Communist conspiracy against the free. 

	And this is no time to hesitate in doubt and confusion about the dangerous world we live in, for "on the plains of hesitation bleach the bones of countless thousands, who, on the eve of victory, rested, and resting died." 

	As I said earlier this evening, I have been listening as well as traveling and talking these past three months. And what I've heard all across the land belies the sorry campaign picture of a nation divided, feeble in faith, ruined by debt, threatened with bankruptcy, a nation afraid, a nation cowering before her destiny. 

	No, I've seen and heard the deep-throated courage and confidence and faith of strong men and women and happy children--people who still believe in one another, in spite of all the timid, doubting men. And I thank them every one for the reception they have given me--for their infinite courtesy and their heartening friendliness. 

	I have asked you for your support for my candidacy. I ask you now for support of our common faith in this country. The confidence we've inherited is our greatest wealth, the source of our strength. 

	Whatever the electorate decides, I ask that we close our ears, once and for all, to the cowardly voices of hate and fear and suspicion which would destroy us; that we dedicate ourselves, each one of us alone and all of us together, to that belief in ourselves, that trust in each other, on which the greatness of our country rests. For, believe me, the future of the world depends on it. 

	Tomorrow you will make your choice. I would urge every eligible American to exercise the greatest privilege bestowed upon us--the right to participate in deciding his own destiny. 

	If your decision is General Eisenhower and the Republican party, I shall ask everyone who voted for me to accept the verdict with traditional American sportsmanship. If you select me, I shall ask the same of the Republicans--and I shall also ask our Lord to make me an instrument of His peace. 
HISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESKOREAN WAR     c! /! )! %! !
 ! ! !          	 3 	 
 e: