
	[Missing text] all the others who have already spoke here, Congressman Jefferson and Mary Landrieu, my other state co-chairs, and Congressman Jimmy Hage, your congressman, Governor Edwards and all the others who've been up here. And I want to thank Wayne Peace for keeping you happy for a while while I came in from Florida. I appreciate especially what the two senators said.

	You know, this has become an amazing election for me in the last few days. When I got into this race, my fellow Americans, I didn't have any personal ill will toward this administration. I just knew that trickle-down economics was a failure. I was tired of seeing people work harder for less. I didn't want to see my daughter and all the children in this crowd grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents, and I thought we could do better. And that's what drove me into this race. But look at this last few weeks. Now, my opponent, Mr. Bush, says we should trust him for four more years.

	 After the worst economic record in fifty years, after a $1,600 decline in family income, after unemployment going up, poverty going up, one in ten Americans on food stamps, 100,000 Americans a month losing their health insurance, I thought that was bad enough. But look what's happening now. They come to Louisiana and they put an ad on the radio saying that I'm going to shut down offshore drilling. Did I ever say that?

	 What happened? They made it up.

	I was in North Carolina last night with the Louisiana agriculture commissioner and the agriculture commissioners of seven other states, representing seventeen states total, endorsing the Clinton-Gore ticket as good for farmers. And they got an ad on in North Carolina saying we're going to make every farmer get a permit from a government agency to plant their crops and shut half of them down. Did I ever say that?

	 They made it up.

	This morning I was in Georgia with the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Sam Nunn, the most respected person in the Congress on defense matters. And the day before, Bush people had been going all over Georgia saying that wherever there was a military installation, whatever it was, I was going to shut it down. Did I ever say that?

	 They made it up.

	You know, it's a good--this year--I'll say one thing: the politicians always jump on the media, but this year the media's done one thing really well. They've got a truth squad on all these ads, and everybody that's analyzed Bush's ads attacking my position on taxes, attacking my economic program, attacking all these things, says he made it up. There's no basis for it. This is a guy that wants you to trust him with your future? He told you "read my lips" last time. He told you 15 million new jobs. He told you you'd be better off than you were four years ago, and now he's telling you whatever he thinks you want to hear to scare you about me and get your vote on Tuesday. You know, when I was raised up the road in Arkansas, we had a saying: "Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me." We're not buying it this time, Mr. Bush.

	I get tickled. Look at what we're reading about in the paper. He says, "Trust me," and then you pick up the newspaper every day and look what you read about in Washington. This is your government. First, the Justice Department is investigating the FBI, and the FBI is investigating the Justice Department. They don't have any time for criminals anymore. They're too busy looking at each other. Then there's a lawsuit in Atlanta over Iraqgate, over the deferral or the diversion of money that you paid for in your taxes to build up Saddam Hussein, and the CIA and the Justice Department under Bush are fighting about which one of them lied to the federal court to cover up this country's actions. Then, as I live and breathe, the State Department, in this high-toned administration, has three high-level employees that investigate my passport files to see where I went twenty-three years ago. They could have asked me; I'd have told them. Now, wait a minute. And I thought, well, that's all right; we know how political they are. Then they go and investigate my mother? My mother. These guys--these three federal employees have got nothing better to do than to go look into my mother's passport file between 6:00 at night and 10:00 at night. The one interesting thing about this is they waited, these three guys did, until the business office closed in the State Department. They waited until all the government employees had gone home, and then they sneaked over to this building where all these files were, and they rummaged around for four hours, until 10:00 at night, bumping into each other. And you know what was funny? I'll bet you that's the first time since Bush has been president that any of those buzzards worked 'til 10:00 at night. They violated the law. Have they been fired? Have they been reprimanded? No. They work for the most political administration in modern history that will do anything to stay in power.

	You know--I hear these people--I hear them screaming over there. Just blow them off. We've only got to put up with them for one more week. One more week.

	 Let me tell you something, folks. Among the more bizarre episodes in this campaign has been the other two candidates charging that they, the other campaign, the other two guys in charge, that their campaign had investigated each other's children. Let me tell you something, folks. I ran for president because I was interested in looking into your children and their problems and their promise and their future, and that's what this election ought to be about.

	If this administration had a record it could run on and a vision of the future, they wouldn't have to spend all their time running me down. They could spend more time building you up. And that's what we ought to be doing.

	I have worked hard with Senator Breaux and Congressman Jefferson and Mary Landrieu and a lot of other people in an organization called the Democratic Leadership Council to build a new Democratic party, a party that could appeal to all Americans, a party that believes in promoting growth in the private sector, that believed in requiring more personal responsibility of people who get benefits from government, who believe that we are one nation, that we've got to come together across racial and income and regional lines and go up or down together, that we don't have a person to waste. And we have changed. We have changed the Democratic party for the first time in a generation. You can tell it because we're running proudly on our platform and the Republicans are running away from theirs.

	And now I ask you to think about this. In the closing days of this election, when you hear all these mudballs thrown back at me, ask yourself this question: What difference will this make on the day after the election? You think about your life on the day after the election and you think ahead to the next four years. I stand for an economic program that will be good for Louisiana and good for America. I stand for the proposition that we ought to end trickle-down economics. No other country follows it. Our idea here under Bush and Quayle is to just lower taxes on the wealthiest Americans, raise taxes on the middle class, get out of the way and see what happens. Well, you know what happened. We've doubled the deficit. Income's down. Unemployment's up. We're in terrible trouble. What we ought to do is ask the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share and then say we're not interested in hurting people with money. We want to make more millionaires. But if you want to make money under our administration, you'll have to do it the old-fashioned way: Invest in factories, in small businesses, in new technologies. Put the American people back to work and you can make lots of money.

	We believe that we can revitalize the American energy industry by having a strong environmental policy. If this administration hadn't tried to gag the Clean Air Act with paralyzing amendments, we could have been producing more natural gas for use in America by Americans to clean up the air years ago, but they didn't believe in it until election time and we put the heat on them. If you want a president who will really do something to revitalize the natural gas industry and to move America away from dependence on foreign oil, vote for Bill Clinton. Vote for me. That's what we'll do.

	Folks, I come from a state that doesn't have as much natural gas as Louisiana, but we've got more than most. I am not going to become a president that will shut down the source of energy that can liberate our country from dependence on foreign oil and clean up our environment at the same time and put our people back to work. I'm going to push it forward.

	The second thing I want to say is, if you want somebody who will take action on health care, you only have one choice. We ought to control health care costs and provide affordable health care to all. Every other country does a better job at that than we do. I believe we can do better. We are going to go bankrupt in this country if we don't put a lid on health care costs and find a way to provide basic coverage to all Americans. Our competitors do it and so can we.

	I believe that we need a real education president in this country. And here is our proposal: Teach everybody in the work force to read in the next five years and give them a chance to get a high school diploma and lift the incomes of Americans. Give every young person who gets out of high school who doesn't go on to college the chance to get at least two years of further education in an apprenticeship program so they can get good jobs, not dead-end jobs. And open the doors of college education to all Americans. Don't let them be run out because of money.

	My friends, this is a big issue in your state and mine and in America. The average college dropout rate is more than twice the high school dropout rate because of the cost. I say let's scrap the student loan program and instead have a national trust fund out of which any American can borrow the money to go to college, but we should require people to pay the money back either as a small percentage of their income after they go to work, at tax time so they can't beat the bill, or even better, by asking them to serve in a domestic peace corps to rebuild America--to be teachers, police officers, to work with the elderly, to work with people with disabilities, to work in housing programs, to solve the problems of this country from the grassroots up without a bureaucracy and rebuild America to educate a whole new generation of Americans. We can do better than we're doing. We can do that.

	The last thing I want to say about what I offer is this--not just opportunity but responsibility. I challenge all of you to face the fact that no person running for president can promise you to make the world the way it used to be. The average eighteen-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. Nobody can repeal the laws of change. The question is, how can we make these changes our friends and not our enemies? We have to require more responsibility. We have to say to our business executives, "We will give you more tax incentives to rebuild America, but no more tax breaks for moving your jobs overseas." I'm tired of that. We'll have to say--we'll say to our students, "We'll pay your way to college, but you need to give something back to your country." We have to say to working people, "We'll provide you a system of training in a healthy economy, but only you can keep yourself well-educated and well-trained and more productive every year."

	We will say, on the question of family values, we're going to say to people on welfare, "Here is more investment in your education and in health care for your children. Now you must go to work when you can and you can support your children."

	We will say--it is a national scandal that too many people bring children into this world and try to leave them for the government to raise. We're going to have a much tougher system of child support enforcement. You're not going to be able to get away with that if we're president.

	We will say to young people who get in trouble for the first time, "We're not going to leave you alone or send you to prison if it's not appropriate. We ought to have community-based boot camps where you can get discipline and education and drug treatment and work to rebuild your communities and get connected for a second chance in life."

	My fellow Americans, that's what I represent, a new Democratic party for a new America--job growth, income growth, education, health care costs, personal responsibility. And I want you to know this: We're also going to change the way this government works. I want to reduce the influence of lobbyists, political action committees, and special interest groups, and I want to cut $140 billion in unnecessary spending over the next five years. We don't have a dollar to waste either. Every dollar we can spend on a job for you is a dollar well-spent. Every dollar we spend on a government program that doesn't work is unconscionably wasted with the deficit we've got. And let me say this: There's been a whole lot of talk about change in this election. But of all your choices, there's only one person in this race that ever balanced a government budget. There's only one person in this race that ever did anything to limit the influence of lobbyists and interest groups. There's only one person in this race who has never been part of the Washington insider establishment, and that's the same person that made the best choice for vice president, Al Gore, and he needs your help.

	Folks, I don't know if you like the comic strip Peanuts, but I do. And when you think about all these people chanting in the background and you listen to all the drivel they're going to put on the radio and television in the last few days, all these attacks that are bogus as a three-dollar bill, just remember what Lucy said in Peanuts: "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can." That's what they're doing.

	I'm telling you, folks, you know what it's been like these last twelve years in Arkansas and Louisiana and Mississippi. You know what we have been through. We have suffered more from trickle-down economics than any people. And too many of our people have continued to vote for their side, for trickle-down economics, the politics for the rich and powerful, because the Democratic party has not given them an alternative they could tie to, relate to, believe in and support. That has changed now. That's what I tried to do in picking Al Gore and staking out a new direction and telling the American people the truth, that we're all going to have to change. And now you can be a part of that. Let me tell you, from coast to coast, people are joining that person with a sign out there that says "Another Republican for Clinton and Gore."

	In many states, the people who organized the Perot petition campaigns have endorsed our efforts. In Oregon the other day, the state's biggest newspaper, in Portland, for the first time in 142 years endorsed a Democrat for president. In Connecticut, the Hartford newspaper, for the first time in nearly 200 years, endorsed a Democrat for president. Twenty-four retired admirals and generals, including the deputy commander of Desert Storm and Admiral Crowe, who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Bush and Reagan, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket for president because they want a change.

	But most important, folks, there are people who just walk around every day working hard and doing the best they can who need what we can offer. Yesterday in North Carolina, on our trip, a young man took out a dollar and gave it to me, a ten-year-old boy. And his daddy said, "My son wants you to have this to pay down the deficit. We're tired of seeing the economy go down and the deficit go up." A woman put her arms around me and cried. She said, "I've got a master's degree and I can't get a job." In Grand Rapids, Michigan, a woman came up to me, a single mother with five children; she said, "I'm doing the best I can and I fall further and further behind because nobody cares about me."

	Let me tell you something, folks: I care about you. I came from your roots. I understand what you're going through. I have represented a state not unlike your folks, and I will not forget where I came from. If you vote for me, I'll make some mistakes because I won't wait until election time to do something. I'll get up every day trying to do something to move this state forward, this country forward and our people forward. I ask you to think about this: How are you going to feel on November 4th if you're stuck with four more years? How are you going to feel on November 4th if you've got the promise of a bright new day of change, of an America living up to its potential?

	You've got a week. I ask you to talk to your friends and neighbors, to tell them there's a tired old Republican party that many Republicans have abandoned. It's run out of ideas and energy and direction and passion. It spends more time looking into its opponents than it does looking toward the future. They've run out of everything good and we ought to run them out of town. You can do it if you'll help me. But most important of all, I ask you to remember this: I did not get into this race to run them down. I entered this race in the hope that together we could build you up. Let's make America what it ought to be beginning on November 3rd. I need your help, Louisiana. Be there for me and we can take our country back. Thank you, and God bless you all.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGLOBAL ECONOMYGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESNATURAL GAS INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     F }F wF sF kF
 `F [F VF MF DF BF 8F	  	  	 s 	 e 	 8 	  e: