

	It's a great night to be a Democrat in Boston. Yes, and I'm here to tell you that it's a great year to be a Democrat in America.

	In the last five days I've been in New York, then out to Illinois and New Mexico, and California and Arizona, and now back here to Boston. And nobody could have been with me in my recent travels without realizing that America has awakened from its sleep, that the fires are burning--and that it's going to be a hot time in democratic Boston and in democratic America a week from tomorrow.

	Last Thursday night we had the biggest and most enthusiastic meetings that were ever held in Nassau County and Westchester, New York. We got down, there, to the brass tacks of the deceit that has marked this Republican administration and this Republican campaign--and I know now from what I've seen and heard that America isn't being fooled any longer; that the mists over the Potomac are rising at last.

	Friday night Estes Kefauver and I talked with thousands of farmers gathered for Democratic Farm Day in Illinois. There were no cheers for Ezra Benson. I don't need to tell you that the first change the Democrats are going to make is a new Secretary of Agriculture.

	In San Francisco and Los Angeles we had two of the biggest rallies in the history of the state. The issue there where they know him best--and everybody knows in his heart it is a central issue in this campaign--was Richard M. Nixon. Well, believe me, nobody's being fooled about that issue either.

	And now we're here tonight at this great meeting in Boston.

	I am honored, indeed, to have been introduced by a man whose personal friendship I value so highly, and whose leadership America seeks so eagerly, your Senator, Jack Kennedy.

	And I value, too, this opportunity to say here to you people of Boston and of Massachusetts how grateful we in the Democratic party and in the nation are, for all he is doing, to your--and our--great public servant, John McCormack.

	I salute, too, as one of the outstanding young, brave, independent-minded and effective new generation of Democratic leaders, your next Governor, Foster Furcolo.

	I could not proceed with my intended remarks here tonight without taking note of great events in the world which are on all our minds.

	The brave men and women of Poland and Hungary, who are riding all on the barricades of freedom these days, deserve the humble and reverent respect of free peoples everywhere. What is happening in those countries now is a testament to the unshakable faith that sustained their peoples during the dark years--the profound faith in God's goodness and that the day of deliverance would come. It is that faith that has always kept liberty alive. The Russians have the guns, the troops, and the tanks--but the Poles and Hungarians have faith, and the courage that faith provides. And we pay particular tribute to the church leaders in those countries who have done so much to help their fellowmen carry on during the black years. But now they, too, are triumphing. We are overjoyed tonight at the news that Cardinal Wyszynski was freed from arrest only a few hours ago. I hope this means that in Hungary Cardinal Mindszenty will soon be freed, too, and that religion is on the threshold of a new birth of freedom in Eastern Europe.

	It is harder to speak about today's ominous and confusing developments in the Middle East. But I must say this--and this is only to repeat what I have been saying throughout this campaign. The government in Washington has been telling us that all is well in the world, that there is peace, that there is--as the president announced only a few days ago--"good news" from the Middle East.

	These reassurances--as today's news confirms--have been tragically less than the truth. The world we walk on is mined with trouble from Korea to the Straits of Gibraltar, and we're entitled to the truth about it. We've got to be trusted. We've got to be ready to meet our problems, to face them squarely and make the right decisions. Instead, during four critical years of onrushing history, we've been patted on the head and told that everything's all right. This is dangerous--dangerous to our very survival in a troubled world. This is all part of what I wanted to discuss, in fuller detail than time now permits, with you here tonight.

	I think that a most significant and basic development in American government during these past four years is the extent to which the administration of the nation's affairs has been taken away from the people. It has been turned over to a board of directors--men selected not for their familiarity with ordinary people and their interests, but for their ability to make money.

	My Republican opponent was defending recently his appointment as Secretary of Defense the man who was head of our largest corporation. "Who," he asked protestingly, "would you rather have in charge of (this Department), some failure that never did anything or a successful businessman?" It seems to me a sad commentary on America's sense of values when our President puts what he calls "successful businessmen" on one side of the line and then implies that all other men are failures, and unqualified for democracy's top jobs. Nowadays Abraham Lincoln wouldn't even rate a job in the Cabinet. 

	This turning over of the people's business to representatives of a single interest has been accompanied by a virtual abdication of responsibility by the President in many fields--an abdication written now in a long public record. Let me mention just a few cases:

	Early this year, the President was asked, for example, about the Republican opposition to the bill to help out the parts of our country where there is severe unemployment. He said in reply, "You are telling me something now that I didn't know." Well, I think a President ought to know when his own party leaders are defeating legislation designed to help communities where there are more people than there are jobs.

	When he was asked why the administration didn't foresee the great demand for the polio vaccine, the President said he didn't know. Well, I say that he ought to know about government business as vital to our children as that.

	When he has been asked what his position is about the so-called right-to-work laws, the President has declined to say whether he agrees with his Secretary of Labor, who opposes these laws, or his Secretary of Commerce, who supports them. I say that the President's position about such an issue should not be a secret.

	When he was asked whether he endorsed the Supreme Court decision on desegregation in the public schools, the President said, "I think it makes no difference whether or not I endorse it." Well, I think it does make a difference how the president, the people's spokesman, thinks about great social changes in America. And I think it even more important for leaders not to evade leadership.

	The President was asked this year whether Russia was leading us in guided missiles. He answered that he was "astonished at the amount of information that others get that I don't." I suppose we must assume that the President just doesn't know, either, of his Secretary of State's incredible blunders--which have helped the Communists in a few months gain the foothold in the Middle East sought by the Czars for centuries.

	The President is a man of good will and good intentions. But this is a great and fateful election, and the one and last chance to audit the books, to cast up the accounts, for four more years. And in the last four, he has turned over more powers than any President before him to the men around him--men not elected by the people--and has himself withdrawn increasingly from active direction of the government. The result has been that our government has been taken further and further away from the people.

	And in this campaign, which is now drawing to a close, there has been even more disturbing evidence of the Republican leaders' belief that this country can be governed without the people's help.

	Senator Kefauver and I have presented--day after day--in every state and in scores of cities, large and small, across the country--the great national issues. We have told the people the truth about what we think and would like to do about our problems. But our adversaries treat the American people like children who can be amused with circuses and then put to sleep with lullabies.

	I'm tired frankly of having the truth in the campaign answered with Republican sneers--especially when the truth is about the issues of life and death. We have told the people of the danger to us and to our children, to all mankind, in the continued explosion of angry, poisonous superbombs. Over 300 of the nation's leading nuclear scientists have backed up this warning. I proposed way back last April that America try to lead the world out of the dreadful vise we are in.

	Yet the Republicans sneer and call it "nonsense" and a "theatrical gesture," even though we are now learning that the administration itself had been giving serious consideration to this same or a similar proposal.

	When I have suggested stronger, more efficient armed forces than the inefficient, expensive, and undemocratic draft system provides, they scream in unison that I'm trying to weaken our armed forces. Yet leaders of our defense services have been saying the same thing for months. And the Democrats in Congress have even forced the Eisenhower Administration to do more for our defenses than it wanted to.

	The Republican refrain is, "Don't listen to the Democrats. Just trust Ike."

	We Democrats have told the people the plain and sorry truth about the failures of the Eisenhower-Dulles foreign policy. We have shown--with facts, not with slogans--how they have not been able to meet the challenge of the new Soviet tactics. We have outlined bold, realistic programs to win back the lost ground in the Cold War. Yet the Republicans sneer at these facts, drown them in a torrent of slogans, and television theatricals. "Don't believe what you hear," say the Republicans. "Just trust Ike."

	We Democrats have told the people the plain and sorry truth about the Republican record of paralysis or retreat on schools, on health, on farm policy, on natural resources, and on the cost of living. "Don't worry," they say, "just trust Ike."

	And that's the 1956 Republican campaign, and the Republican program for this great growing country of ours in this fateful year of decision: Trust Ike, and don't ask questions. It is very simple--and it is based on contempt for people's intelligence.

	Well you know, we've got an old-fashioned belief in this country: that the reason we've done so well over the years is that we've always trusted the people's judgment--and never any one man's or any single group of men.

	And there's another trouble: Trust Ike? Well, that's only part of it. Who is it that's to be trusted when Ike isn't there?

	Are we supposed to trust our foreign policy to the man who boasts of teetering on the brink of war--John Foster Dulles?

	Shall we trust the farm problem to the man whose policies made it so much worse and even increased the surpluses--Ezra Benson?

	Shall we trust the Defense Department to the man who trusts what is good for General Motors most of all?

	Shall we trust our liberties to an Attorney General who impugned the loyalty of President Truman--Herbert Brownell?

	Above all, are we seriously asked to entrust the destiny of America--the future of our children--the decision over the hydrogen bomb--to the vice president of the United States--Richard M. Nixon?

	I could go on but the short of it is that President Eisenhower is the front man of the Republican party, and the reason for the chorus of "Trust Ike" is that they don't dare say "Trust us Republicans." And they certainly don't dare say "Trust Nixon."

	This man's very political existence is a satire that mocks the aspirations of democratic government in America. We have to choose both a president and a vice president in this election. And we are not going to vote with our fingers crossed. We're not going to gamble with America's future. It's too important.

	So much is at stake in this election. There is so much to be done, so much we want to do, so much we can do in this age of abundance, in this land of plenty.

	We know what we want America to be--and we mean to make it what we want it to be.

	We mean to make it a land where everyone has a decent roof over his head and can feed and clothe his children properly; a land where children can learn from good teachers in good schools; a land where the doors of opportunity are open to all alike.

	We mean to make it a land where the sick can find adequate medical care, whether they are rich or poor; a land where we can all look forward to a tranquil security in the last years of our lives; where everyone who wants to work can find a job; where savings and pensions will not be washed away in a tide of rising prices.

	We mean to make it a land where people can talk and worship as they please, can speak their minds without looking over their shoulders, where they can be themselves.

	And, more than this, we want to resume leadership once again in the great struggle of our times for peace and freedom in the world--leadership to halt the spread of Communism; leadership to help the oppressed throw off their shackles; leadership to rid the world of the horror of hydrogen suicide; leadership to save the vast peoples where hunger and hope for freedom are spreading; leadership to refresh the great alliance; leadership to rebuild the common purpose and the fighting faith of the forces of freedom.

	The promise of the New America is limitless. The challenge tests us all. And we can only meet it together--as people--working through a government which takes its decisions and finds its power and its inspiration in the wisdom and strength and the ideals of all the people. 

	Whether we move boldly ahead to fulfill our destiny, or whether we spend four years in delay and defeat and deceit, this is the issue we decide a week from tomorrow.

	We know what that decision will be. It will be a victory for the Bill of Rights, a victory for peace, a victory for the truth, a victory for the servant of all the people--the Democratic party.
CABINET OFFICIALSCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALMILITARY RECRUITMENTNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGPRESIDENTIAL POWER     9 8 8 8 8
 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8	  	 p 	 R 	 : 	 & 	  e: