
	Three more days. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you for being here.

	Thank you for your spirit and your determination to change this country. We're going to do it in three more days.

	I want to say, first of all, how very grateful I am to all my friends from Georgia, especially those here on this stage with me who have done so much to help me along this campaign trail and to help to make this state a better 
place. You know, in the early days of my year-long campaign to change this country, when the going got tough, Georgia was there to lift me up. And Georgia can bring us home on Tuesday.

	I want to thank Senator Nunn for his strong support and his leadership. And I want to ask you to remember this: if you vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore on Tuesday you're also going to give Sam Nunn a chance to have even more influence over the national security and national defense of this country.

	I want to remind you that no president in a democracy can act alone. I need help. You need help. We are going to have to work together. It is time to end the politics of blame and division and denial. Wyche Fowler in the Senate, Cathy Steinberg and Cynthia McKenney in the House of Representatives--that can bring an end to that sort of politics.

	I also want to say something else. In spite of how it came out, I was really proud of the Atlanta Braves in the World Series. And I think you were too.

	And of all the people who are here, I don't want to offend my friends on the platform, but I was most overcome by being able to meet Hank Aaron for the first time today. I thank him for his support and his radio ads. If we win here on Tuesday maybe he can get credit for even one more home run in the record books.

	I want to say how grateful I am to Congressman John Lewis and Congressman Jones and how wonderful it is to see Mayor Jackson up and around. And now that he's got that new slim figure I could get my arms around him today. I loved it.

	I want to thank Michael Sides and Mel Pender--you see the kids are [missing text], right? If we had five more rap singers I could run my vote up 10 or 12 points, I think.

	I want to say one other thing. I'm glad to be here at Lieutenant Governor Howard's alma mater, which won a football game last night. Maybe that's a good omen for me being here in the football stadium.

	Lastly, I want to thank your governor, Zell Miller, for being by my side through thick and thin and for giving one of the most moving speeches ever given at a Democratic National Convention, reminding people that, after all, you can come from a little place in the South and do good things.

	And many others I would like to recognize. My friend Calvin Schnerry and others up here. But I want to say one special word of thanks to your Secretary of State, Max Cleland, and all the Vietnam veterans who are here who have helped to make this campaign a real campaign to heal America and to unite America.

	You know, Mr. Bush said that Al Gore and I were crazy a couple of days ago. He called us--Doctor? We need a medic here. We got a medic? I know we got one here. Where are the medics? Right here in front. Here she comes. Please, come here. Right here in front. They'll be right there.

	Anyway, Mr. Bush said Al Gore and I were crazy the other day. And you talk about something scary on Halloween. If we're crazy, think of the alternative. I'll tell you want I think is crazy. Crazy is a president who says we ought to reelect him with unemployment going up, incomes going down, poverty going up, one in ten Americans on food stamps, 100,000 people with no health insurance every month. Now that is crazy.

	I'll tell you something else that tickles me. You heard Senator Nunn saying that Mr. Bush badmouthed me as being from a small southern state. And that's what he does in the North. In the South when they campaign, they try to convince you that Gore and Clinton are these radical people who have no values like yours and we're going to trample everything Americans hold dear. He tried to perform plastic surgery in both parts of the country.

	In one state he says we're environmental radicals, and in the next time he goes to a state he says we pollute the environment. In one state he says I'm too liberal. In another state he says I'm a backwater redneck. In Louisiana they make an ad about energy. In Georgia they make up charges about defense. In North Carolina they make bogus charges about our farming record. I told some people in North Carolina the other day, when it came to farming, Bush and Quayle don't know "come here" from "sic 'em" and they still try to badmouth us.

	Now Bush says trust me to revive the economy. That's like hiring General Sherman for fire commissioner in Georgia.

	My fellow Americans, in the last three days of this campaign, even though we've all had a good time and had a lot of laughs and done a lot of fighting, it is important to focus with some seriousness on what is really before us. The truth is that most of the charges in this campaign from my opponent don't amount to a hill of beans. My record on taxes, on spending and on job growth is better than the Bush administration's.

	But the real thing that matters--the real thing that matters is not our yesterdays, but our tomorrows. And I ask you to think for a moment about what our tomorrows will be like if we vote for change and what they could be like if we don't. The growth challenge for America today is to recognize that at the end of the Cold War we are having to compete for every job we get. We live in a world in which what we earn depends on what we can learn. We live in a world in which we don't have a person to waste. We cannot afford it to be divided by race, by gender, by income, by age, by region--all those old-fashioned ways of dealing with people are nutty. That's what's crazy.

	We live in a time when we are either going to decide to make change our friend or let it continue to harm us. I offer a new direction in a new Democratic party, committed as the Democratic party here in Georgia has been for years to bringing people together across racial lines, to growing the economy through the private sector, to educational excellence, to finally, finally controlling health care costs and providing basic health care to all of our people--to challenging the American people, all of us together, to change.

	There is something for everyone to do differently and better in the world that I seek to move into for our nation. We want to say to our business executives and to the wealthiest Americans, we want you to make more money. I desperately want to make more millionaires as president than Bush and Quayle did. But I have another one of those crazy ideas. I want people to make a million dollars the old fashioned way, by putting the rest of America to work in new factories and new businesses and new technologies.

	We want to say to the working people of America, we owe you affordable health care, a good education system, and a growing economic environment. But nothing we can do for you will take up for what you must do for yourself to continue to be more productive. Every day in every way we will all have to change. No one can repeal the laws of change. But we're going to make change your friend if you will work hard and play by the rules. I'm tired of seeing people punished for doing that. And they'll be rewarded in our administration.

	We want to say to the cities of America, we want to empower people to take control of their own destiny again. We want to bring free enterprise back to the inner cities and the poor rural areas. We want to invest in rural health clinics and urban health clinics. We want to help our kids stay alive. We want to help them stay away from AIDS, from unwanted pregnancies, and help them move into a bright new future with a good education and a good economic opportunity and empowerment and responsibility for all. That's what we stand for.

	Perhaps more than any other, the idea that embodies what this administration stands for, if you will elect it on Tuesday, is the idea of opening the doors of college education to all Americans--not as a gift, but as a challenge, a challenge to every young person that says, we're going to open the doors of college education, no questions asked about income, but we want you to give something back to your country. Either pay the loan back as a small percentage of your income after you go to work, at tax time so there'll be no more beating the bill. Or even better, by being part of our crusade to rebuild America, a domestic peace corps, work your college loan off, work it off.

	Think of it. Be a teacher. Be a police officer. Work with people with disabilities or the elderly to help them stay at home and stay independent. Work with children to help them stay out of trouble and to give them a good future. Work in projects to build houses for the homeless and the working poor. We could solve the people problems with America, not with government bureaucracy, but with folks from the grassroots up, and educate a whole generation of Americans. It will be the best money we ever spent.

	My friends, you're going to have to decide about what America will look like on the day after the election, and what America will feel like. The other side has made up their charges and run their negative ads. They've followed that old comic strip, Peanuts, Lucy's admonition, "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can."

	They've got the Justice Department investigating the FBI and the FBI investigating the Justice Department. No time for criminals anymore. They're looking into each other.

	They do have time in the State Department to look into my mother's passport records. You read about that? Now, wait a minute. It's not all bad. I mean, imagine this. After the government offices close one night, three highly paid political appointees at the State Department departing from all past tradition, using their powerful political ins, sneak in a dark building, go into a dark room where there are all these old files there, bump into each other and get dirt on their nice suits, and they look for four hours trying to find some dirt on my poor mama. But there's some good there. It's the only time since Bush has been president that those three hacks worked till 10 o'clock at night.

	I say that, not just to make you laugh, but to make a point. If you vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore, there'll be a lot of nights when we work till 10 o'clock looking into your problems, your promise, your future, your America--building people up, not tearing them down, lifting people up.

	On Tuesday, I ask you not to give us a victory of a political party, but a victory for the people of America. The most rewarding thing in the last month has been seeing all these people come to this campaign from all races, all regions, all incomes, both political parties, twelve retired admirals and generals including the Deputy Commander in Chief of Operation Desert Storm, Admiral Crowe, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorse the Clinton-Gore ticket for change. Newspapers from coast to coast, from the Hartford Courant to the Portland Oregonian, in a hundred years never once endorsed a Democrat, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they know we're going to change. This is people from all walks of life who had never voted for a Democrat before endorsed our ticket because they want a change.

	This election, in the end, in these last closing days, is the age-old American conflict between change and the status quo, between people having the courage to vote their hopes or falling back and voting their fears. It is as clear now as it has ever been.

	Listen to the charges and the counter-charges. And listen to what Al Gore and Bill Clinton hope to do, with you, not for you but with you, to change America.

	Imagine how you will feel on January the 20th if instead of four more years of blame and denial, division and diversion, we are all locking hands, walking down Pennsylvania Avenue, to take our country back, to take our government back, to take our future back.

	Georgia, Georgia. If it were not for you, I would not be here today. Stay with us. Bring us home on the third and help us elect America what it ought to be. Thank you and God bless you all.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVES     l1 81 21 .1 &1
 1 1 1 
1 1 1 0	  	 e 	 G 	 