

	Your heartwarming welcome means more to me than I can possibly say. It makes me want, in return, not to make a speech to you, but rather just to say what is in my heart: that it is wonderful to be home again, among old friends. God bless you for being here.

	This business I am presently engaged in means that most of my time is spent in looking ahead across the next four years--for a candidate, if he is responsible, regulates his pursuit of office by a careful measuring of its obligations. But I find myself thinking this morning almost entirely of another four years. They were the ones I spent here with you. They were the most satisfying four years of my life.

	We got a lot done during those four years. There is no point in listing those things now. What they added up to was making government in Illinois a cleaner, livelier, more exciting, and more human sort of thing--that was bigger than we were--and made our own lives seem therefore fuller of meaning.

	I do want to say one thing about those accomplishments. When I think of them now--and I do so often--I find each of them fixed in my mind in terms of the people, many of you among them, who did so much more than I did in getting those jobs done. I know that what life--public life--has offered me since has been very largely the result of what we did here--all of us--together. And I always have the feeling that there was never adequate opportunity to say thank you.

	Of what has happened in the past four years to our venture in good government in Illinois I shall say nothing here today--except that, like all of you, regardless of partisanship, citizens who love Illinois, I too have felt a deep hurt at the recent revelations of almost unbelievable abuse of the obligations of stewardship of this state's affairs.

	I want to think of our gathering together here today not as members of any political party, but as friends and old neighbors. You will understand though, I am sure, my wanting to say a word about a man whose future has suddenly become of great importance to us all as the new Democratic candidate for governorship. I commend Dick Austin to you as a fine man, a man of effective integrity, a real fighter for what you and I believe in.

	I knew Mr. Austin when he was in the state's attorney's office in Chicago. He was respected by everyone as a man who always had his facts straight and who fought hard and fairly for the people's case, the public cause. I knew him when as a special prosecutor he cleaned up the mess of the Moretti case and sent to the penitentiary for life a man who thought he was immune from prosecution.

	When he became a candidate for the bench in 1953, the Chicago Bar Association termed him "a man of ability, character, and integrity, well qualified to be a judge." He led the Bar Association poll and he led his party's ticket in the election. He has won everyone's respect as the wise and fair-minded Chief Justice of the Criminal Court of Cook County.

	May I then, respecting the bipartisan nature of this occasion, recommend Dick Austin to any satisfied Republicans here as a worthy opponent, and to all the rest of you as a great governor.

	Am I am going to say, too, out of a great personal admiration which rises far above partisan prejudice, how proud I am that the Democratic candidate for the Senate is Dick Stengel.

	Dick was one of the Democratic leaders in the House of Representative when I was governor, and I know him as an outstanding example of the younger liberal leadership of the Democratic party in the nation. He will prove himself an able spokesman for our state and our nation.

	I wish there were time today to talk with you a little--still without making a speech--about some of the issues which are shaping up in this year's national election.

	The issues are not peace and prosperity. These are things we agree on. The issues are how we go about getting them, how we make this a prosperity not just for some of us, but for all of us, how we go about using this prosperity for the things we need most--like schools and how we achieve a lasting peace in all the world.

	I think it's too bad that when we talk about improving things as they are the charge is made that we are selling America short. Take this matter of prosperity. Of course times are good--at least for some. They ought to be. We are a country fabulously rich in resources, with an industry geared to record-breaking production, an alert and skilled labor force, a citizenry spurred by hope and confidence. But surely none of us believes that our task is finished, that we can stop and rest now, that all we need to do is hold on to what we have.

	Here in Illinois where farming is so close to us all, and here in Springfield where jobs and business depend so much on how the farmers are doing, we know that something more has to be done to firm up this part of our economy. But it isn't just that farming is the backbone of our whole economy. It is even more that we know, for they are our neighbors and our personal friends, that the farm family is a vital part of America as it has always been and as we want it always to be. These farms are our roots as a nation. We want to do what is necessary to see that living is as good in these prosperous times on the farms as it is in town.

	We know, too, for many of us grew up on farms, that no farmer wants today's farm problem met with any handout program. We must rather work out ways of using what he produces--and there is great need for all of it; and ways for seeing to it that he gets a price for what he produces that represents a fair share in our national abundance.

	We know, too, that in too many industrial and mining areas, including some here in Illinois, particularly in southern Illinois, serious pockets of depression have developed. Senator Douglas has introduced, to meet this problem, what is called the Area Redevelopment Bill. It is designed to help communities with chronic unemployment to help themselves. This bill got buried at the last session of Congress. I won't go into the details of that in this nonpartisan occasion. But its passage seems to me one of the most important items on Congress's agenda when it is reconvened.

	There is so much to do, so much more than just hanging on to what we have, keeping things as they are. I think often of the Bible story of the talents. The steward who wrapped his talent in a napkin and returned it whole and undiminished was condemned to outer darkness. It was the steward who increased his talents from five to ten who merited the "well done" of his Lord. It is not enough for America just to hold on to what we have.

	Even more is it true that our hopes for peace in the world are still far from realization, the ultimate peace far from being won.

	I said earlier this week at the American Legion Convention in Los Angeles that:

	"There is not peace--the peace we seek--while our sons and brothers are still being drafted for two years of military service, their schooling interrupted, their normal lives postponed.

	"There is not peace--real peace--while more than half of our federal budget goes to an armaments race with the most powerful military despotism the world has ever known, and the earth's atmosphere is contaminated from week to week by exploding hydrogen bombs.

	"There is not peace--which can only mean world peace--while millions chafe in Communist chains. In Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and even some parts of Latin America, ugly tension and unbridled nationalism are mixed up, often in dangerous ways, with hopes and aspirations we all respect." 

	We will debate in this election campaign which party offers the most responsible program for peace. We should debate freely what seem to us the failures of either party in pressing toward peace. But let's agree that all Americans and both political parties share an equal passion for peace; let's be honest even in an election year.

	There is much to do. There are hard tasks ahead of us. And yet the great, encouraging fact of our times is that we have all we need to accomplish these tasks--the material resources, and more than that, the inspiration of great ideals.

	I find myself thinking often, as this campaign opens, of Lincoln's words as he spoke at this very place at the opening of the campaign of 1858, almost exactly a century ago: "We shall not fail" he said, "if we stand firm; we shall not fail."

	Yet for some reason, the warmness I guess that anyone feels as he returns to a place he loves, there is even more in my mind what Lincoln said, again in this place, as he came back at the close of that campaign: "I stand here surrounded by friends, some political, all personal, I trust." Those are my feelings today.

	Must leave--long journey--wherever it leads--always be Springfield--central Illinois--and you to look forward to.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTILLINOIS     Z# &#  # # #
 # # " " " " " "	 0 	  	  e: