

	DUNCAN: Governor Stevenson, I am very proud and happy on behalf of the people of our community to present you with the key to the City of River Rouge, and may you always remember this little trip to our city and always feel welcome to come back at your pleasure.]

	STEVENSON: Mayor Duncan, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen: I think this key is big enough to get in anywhere; I think it might even fit the White House.

	I am very glad to have this opportunity to stop off here at River Rouge and I am very flattered by your coming out here to hear me. I remember hearing a young graduate from a theological seminary--a young minister--saying one time--he was very excited; he had just gotten his diploma--he was standing in line and he said, "I am now prepared to do the Lord's work, providing it is honorable."

	Well, we Democrats think we are doing the Lord's work and we know it is honorable. We Democrats feel that we are carrying on a long tradition of working for the people; we mean the great mass of the people, not the few, the many. And it is becoming pretty clear that there are two basic things in people's minds as this election this autumn approaches. I suppose you would all agree that one of them is peace and that the other is prosperity; and it is clear too that the positions of the two great parties on these issues are exactly the same as they have been for the past twenty years. The Republicans say they are for peace and for prosperity and don't do anything about it, and the Democrats say they are for peace and prosperity and they do something about it.

	Whenever I hear one of these Old Guard Republicans say that the first job is to cut taxes and then we will worry about the national security, I think of that old, tired, weary man who was riding along in his car and he said to his chauffeur, "Drive over that cliff, James; I want to commit suicide."

	You know what the Democratic party stands for on domestic issues. You know that our convictions have been written in the statute books of this country over the past twenty years; they are written in your own lives, in your jobs, in your system of social security, in your housing, in education, in the abundance of opportunity that we now have. And you know, too, that the Republican party all along the line have bitterly resisted with unrelenting determination every important measure of social advance in the past twenty years; it stands for a hands-off policy, for letting the economy boom and bust, first into inflation and then into depression.

	Twenty years ago, after twelve years of Republican do-nothing and care-nothing policy, this nation was flat on its back. The system had run down; the machinery had stopped working, just like a broken clock, and the Republican administration was dispirited, baffled, and helpless, and then a great Democrat became president of the United States--and this nation will never forget, and this town will never forget what it owes to that immortal leader, Franklin Roosevelt. Under Roosevelt and a Democratic Congress, the American people began their long and their hard climb up out of the pit of depression; government at long last was warm and vigorous and understanding and decisive; government at long last cared about the people of this country and because it cared about the people, it released the people's energies. In twenty years our people have built a new America, a strong and a friendly America, big enough to take care of its own, productive enough to assure a steadily rising living standard, fair enough to fight for equality of opportunity for all.

	Some people say that now that we have these things, it doesn't much matter what political party holds our country's reins. And that kind of attitude reminds me of the old boss of the wrecking crew who said, "I can easily wreck in a day what it takes them a year to build."

	I warn you to look out about the wrecking crew that is waiting to move into Washington. It is completely clear now, I think, to the most objective observer that my opponent has accepted the principles of the Old Guard and he has accepted them lock, stock and barrel. Senator Taft, after their armistice meeting--he issued the surrender terms, not General Eisenhower. And subsequently, even while I was in Columbus, Ohio, myself, Senator Taft announced that he was confident that the Republican administration in the event of General Eisenhower's election would be exactly the administration that he, Senator Taft, would want, and they did the job completely in those years that many of you younger people have forgotten but that we older people will never forget.

	Even in the past five years They have voted almost a straight ticket in the Congress, and always against the people. They have voted against farm parity price supports which mean security for farmers; against fair collective bargaining, which means security for American labor. they have voted against the Social Security changes, which mean fuller security for more of our older people. They have voted against inflation controls, which mean security for all of us against inflation--an enemy almost as inscrutable and as deadly as Stalin himself. They are always against everything and for nothing. It is the same old do-nothing, hear-nothing policy.

	And as for their candidate? Well, as I say, he has given the Old Guard a first, and a second, and a third mortgage on whatever principles with respect to our domestic policy he may have had. The Democratic program for America isn't complicated. It is simple. We stand for the people. Our programs stem from what we think are the people's needs. And, I don't mean just a few people--I mean all of them. That means equal opportunity for all, regardless of race, of color, or of creed.

	Most of all, my friends, we stand for peace. Not another war to end all wars--for peace without war, with God's help. We are not making promises that we can't fulfill and we will not play politics with promises that we cannot keep. So we are talking straight talk to the American people. We are recognizing that the course ahead of us is a stern course; that there are no easy, simple, cheap solutions: For war, for Communism, for want, for hunger, and for misery all over this world.

	We believe with all our hearts that we can make this nation strong; that we can keep good times. And, if we can, we can avoid war abroad that would inevitably destroy the world and the civilization that we have made and that we love. It is toward this purpose that we direct our best energies and efforts, and it is toward this purpose, too, that we have companions in this mighty battle for a better America and a safer, surer, more secure world.

	I am happy to be here with some of them this afternoon--with your governor, Hennen Williams; with your senator and my old friend, Blair Moody; also with your congressman, whom I expect to need very badly in Washington, Mr. Lesinski. I am deeply touched and grateful to all of you for going to the trouble to come out to hear me this afternoon.

	We think our cause is a just one. We know it is the people's cause. But that has been the tradition of the Democratic party; that the well-being, the power and the influence in this country doesn't flow over from the top from a brimming cup and run down the trunk, but that it creeps up the trunk from the myriad roots that are the people. This is the basic distinction between the philosophy of the Democratic party and of the Republican party. We know we are right. We know we have worked hard to accomplish these objectives against bitter resistance all along the line. We know it is imperative that these things go on. We know that the difficulties we confront are many. We know that minor issues, minor diversions, have converted a lot of people. We know there is discontent, there is misery, there is anxiety in this country, and there always is at a time like this. These are the things we have to overcome because we have to keep our eyes steadily on the ultimate objective, and that objective is the continuity of peace in the world and prosperity in this country.

	Thank you so much. I am grateful to you for coming here.

	SPEAKER: Glenn would like to present a little token of appreciation to Governor Stevenson.

	SECOND SPEAKER: Governor Stevenson, at the beginning of your speech the mayor of River Rouge presented to you a key which we think will open most any door throughout the United States. However, in case it doesn't, we have a little token to give to you that we know you will be able to get in with, and will bring things to order with. So, on behalf of the steelworkers, it gives me great pleasure to present to you this famous steel gavel which was run off on a lathe this afternoon by a steel worker.

	STEVENSON: It reminds me of a story. I don't know whether you ever heard the one about the fellow who was sitting listening to an after dinner speaker and the chairman finally got up at the conclusion of his very long and tiresome speech--and it sort of reminds me of mine--and he tried to strike the table. Instead of that, he struck the bald head of this fellow who was sitting down there falling asleep listening to the long speech. He raised his weary head and said, "Hit me again, I can still hear him."
AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINFLATIONORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTES     -& % % % %
 % % % % % % C% 8%	  	  	  	 m 	 D 	 " 	  e: