

	Cardinal Krol, thank you very much. Governor Thornburgh; Senator Arlen Specter; Congressman Larry Coughlin; two candidates for Congress, Elise du Pont and Dave--I can't read my own writing here, Dave...

	That's right. You know. Okay. All right. And to all of you, dzien dobry [good day]. Well, since my childhood I was always told about the luck of the Irish. And after the Illinois lottery, that phrase is bound to be changed a bit--the luck of the Polish. Now, that has a nice ring to it, doesn't it?

	I think we're all winners because we have the great good fortune to be living in the United States of America. And I think we're all winners because we have the great fortune to be living in the United States of America. And I have the delight of being back in the great state of Pennsylvania.

	I realize that I repeated myself when I said something there, but if I had to say something twice, I don't know of anything more important to say than about the pleasure of living in the United States of America.

	When Pennsylvania was one of the original thirteen states, little did I realize at the time that someday there would be fifty.

	This has been a most inspiring day. This shrine with its magnificent stained glass stands out not only as a monument to the heart and soul of Polish America but as a tribute to the cause of human freedom itself. And those who chose the location for this shrine did their job well.

	Not far from here, our Declaration of Independence was penned and our liberty proclaimed. Not far from here, General George Washington and his ragtag army, many of the soldiers without shoes, endured a winter of despair. And it was in that time of darkness for America when giants in the cause of human liberty stepped forward and helped turn the tide.

	Etched in the stained-glass windows of this shrine are the images of Casimir Pulaski and Tadeusz Kosciuszko. These heroes from faraway Poland helped spark a flame of liberty that still burns white hot in the soul of all who cherish freedom. And from what I'm seeing today, that is especially true of the Americans of Polish descent.

	I just had the opportunity of visiting the memorial to that great Polish statesman, composer, and pianist Ignace Jan Paderewski. He saw in the eyes of Polish immigrants a great love of freedom. "Wherever peoples gather," he said, "...to crown a hero with the laurels of liberty, there you can boldly take the leading place because you are Poles."

	Well, I was honored to welcome such people to lunch at the White House just a few weeks ago, the veterans of the Polish Home Army. Their valor in the struggle against Nazi oppression has never been surpassed in the annals of human conflict. I was more than a little in awe of them. And I'm proud that after forty years, the proper tribute has finally been paid to the commanders of the Polish Home Army.

	Those who believe that they have crushed the Polish spirit with guns and brute force are wrong. They should remember the Polish Home Army and remember that lesson of history: Poland may be temporarily subdued, but the Polish people will never be defeated.

	It wasn't that long ago when a new force for freedom emerged in Poland, the Solidarity union movement. And four years ago, when I kicked off my campaign, I was joined on the platform in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty by the stepfather of Lech Walesa, a working man with strong arms who emigrated to this country and could speak to us only through an interpreter. He's passed away, I'm sad to say, since that day. But his son lives on, and no matter how they try to suppress it, so does the spirit of Solidarity.

	We Americans have a natural sympathy for those who suffer under the oppressor's boot in Poland. We see in the Polish people a mirror image of our own commitment to the simple virtues of honesty and hard work. The millions of Polish immigrants who came to America--many were your own fathers and mothers--these brave and sturdy people helped shape the American character. Their energy, sweat, and muscle built our factories; their moral strength is part of our national backbone.

	We Americans who are not related to Poland by blood are related to her by spirit. Just as Polish immigrants decades ago bolstered America's resolve to live up to its ideals, so, too, a brave son of Poland now inspires all of mankind. The world is truly blessed that in this time of peril and confusion a spiritual leader of great historical significance is with us. We've sought his advice and guidance on numerous occasions, and I can only say, thank God for Pope John Paul II.

	You know, when I was in the chapel earlier I could sense the love and pride that went into the recreation of the Black Madonna. And I'm told that as a symbol of the brave Polish people's religious faith and freedom, Our Lady has been a special inspiration to the Holy Father.

	During our modern times, when tyranny darkens much of the world, it is fitting that the Pope should find strength and solace from the Lady enshrined on the Hill of Light. Pope John Paul has said, "Freedom is given to man by God as a measure of his dignity." And "as children of God," he said, "we cannot be slaves."

	I have to interject something here. I have seen held up several times back there a banner with regard to Yalta. There is one thing about that that I have to say. Let us not be tempted into giving Yalta as coverage to those who have violated that agreement; that the agreement never gave them the power to dominate the countries of Eastern Europe and Poland as they have.

	All right. All right.

	Our country's days of apologizing are over. America is standing tall again, and don't let anyone tell you we're any less dedicated to peace because we want a strong America.

	I've known four wars--four wars--in my lifetime, and not one of them came about because we were too strong. Weakness is the greatest enemy of peace. We're trying to build a future for our children that is free, prosperous, and secure--a future of boundless hope and opportunity. And we're not doing this by wishful thinking in foreign affairs or by going back to economic policies that failed.

	Our new beginning is a far cry from the defeatism, decline, and despair of only four years ago. We were then on the edge of an economic disaster. Today we're in one of the most powerful economic expansions in forty years. More than six million people have found work in the last twenty months. Our European allies are calling this "the American miracle." Small business incorporations are at a record high. Productivity is robust again, with research and development paving the way for an even brighter tomorrow. And, my friends, I said this the other day, and it's worth keeping on saying: You ain't seen nothin' yet.

	All right. All right.

	While all this is happening, inflation has been knocked down from 12.4 to 4.1 percent. And, you know, when I hear some people talking about fairness, I'm reminded of the Misery Index they devised by adding the inflation and unemployment rates. But when they were in charge, the Misery Index was over 20. Today it's 11.6, and we'll bring it down more if they'll just stand aside and get out of the way.

	Now, I know that some would never give us any credit and, frankly, the credit doesn't belong to us. It belongs to you, the people. Our victory against inflation, the wonderful resurgence of growth--these are your victories; they're America's victories. If I could just offer a little friendly advice for our critics: Next time, rather than say things that seem to run down America, how about giving the American people a pat on the back?

	You in the Keystone State certainly deserve a pat on the back. You're aiming high, striving to make Pennsylvania's economy strong and competitive for the future. And I happen to believe you're blessed with one of the best governors in our nation today, Dick Thornburgh. Dick has a great gift of being able to pull together the many strengths and resources of your people.

	Your governor's Ben Franklin Partnership Program is a model for America. You can be proud that your state government, the business community, and many of your fine universities--like the University City Science Center, Pennsylvania, Penn State, Lehigh, Bucknell, Lafayette, Carnegie Mellon, University of Pittsburgh and others--are working in harmony to spark technological growth and create secure jobs for the future. You can be proud that Pennsylvania is leading the way and showing it can be done.

	And what you're seeing in America is a fundamental change in the direction of our country. No longer is an ever increasing share of your earnings being drained off into the federal coffers. Today more of your earnings are staying with your families in your neighborhoods in your state, right where they belong.

	Now, we've got challenges to overcome, but we won't overcome our problems by going back to the days when the federal government was taking more and more, knocking the economy right off its feet in the process. Raising taxes is an old answer. Some say it's the only answer. I say it's the wrong answer.

	You know, I hate to say this, but I'm afraid the age factor may play a part in this election. Our opponent's ideas are too old.

	All right. I won't fight it.

	But you know, I hate to say this, but they also seem to treat each new idea the old-fashioned way--they reject it.

	We're breaking new ground. And we must have the courage to keep moving forward with an historic simplification of the tax system. We intend to make the tax system more fair, easier to [missing text].
CATHOLICISMECONOMY--GENERALIMMIGRATIONPAPACYPATRIOTISMPOLANDPOLISH AMERICANSTAXATION--GENERAL     & & & & ~&
 t& o& j& `& T& R& & &	 ] 	 R 	 B 	 7 	 1 	 ' 	 ! 	  e: