

	General Eisenhower: I am Dwight Eisenhower. Tonight, some very distinguished people have gathered here with me to discuss a few of the recurring issues in this political campaign. To introduce them to you and to explain further what we are about to do, I want you to meet a man already well known to you, Conrad Nagel.

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General.

	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We welcome you to this program which is sponsored by the Citizens for Eisenhower.  The purpose of this little group meeting tonight, with the permission of the General, is to pose certain questions to him. These questions are most frequently asked of us when we are discussing the General's candidacy.

	General, I fully realize that you have discussed these questions many times during your political speeches during your campaign, but we thought it might be a good idea, perhaps, to pinpoint them to clarify them. They are pertinent to so many of our people.

	Before we do that, may I present our guests. First is Mrs. Mary LaGuardia, whose late husband was the mayor of New York City. Next is Mrs. Irving Berlin, whose husband has filled our world with such exquisite melodies. Third is Mrs. John Warner, whose father, Al Smith, was one of our greatest Americans. Fourth is Mrs. Robert Patterson, the widow of our late, great Secretary of War.

	And now, General, we will get right into the questions. I think that Mrs. Berlin has something she wants to ask you.

	Q: Mrs. Berlin: Well, there is a question that has been asked of me, General, and this is it: Have you made any deals with any part of the Republican Party? In other words, are you the captive of any group in the Republican Party?

	A: When this campaign started, Mrs. Berlin, I pledged the American people that I would be a "No Deal" candidate, that I would make no kind of arrangement or agreement that even by misinterpretation could be called a deal or a political favor with anyone. Now, I not only have kept that pledge, but I would be glad to make that pledge again, right this minute. I am and will continue to be a "No Deal" candidate.

	As for being a captive of anybody, I am sixty-two years and two weeks old this evening. If there is anybody alive who can make any claim whatsoever that I am his captive, or have ever been his captive, I should like to meet him, because it just isn't so.

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General. Mrs. Berlin, the General said he was a "No Deal" candidate, not a "New Deal" candidate.

	Mrs. LaGuardia, I believe you have a question.

	Q: Mrs. LaGuardia: Yes, General. A lot of people are asking about the secrecy of their votes. Many letters come in from working men and working women asking if a political boss or a union leader will know how they vote when they go into the polls. It seems a silly question, but they want to know is it absolutely a secret vote?

	A: One of the greatest privileges of this country, Mrs. LaGuardia, is that no one has to consult anything but his own conscience when he goes in that election booth. Now, there are countries in the world, totalitarian countries, where we have controlled voting and anyone who attempted to cast a vote except for the picked candidate would suffer a very great deal. But here you pull that curtain and you vote as you please and not even your most intimate friend can find out how you voted unless you tell him.

	Mr. Nagel: Now, I think Mrs. Warner has a question.

	Q: Mrs. Warner: General Eisenhower, a great many people are concerned about the mess in Washington and the importance of cleaning it up. But they also know that there are a great many civil service workers who are not responsible for those scandals. Now, you have said that you were going to make a clean sweep. Well now, will that clean sweep include these civil service workers?

	A: Not only will these civil servants be protected, but efficient civil servants have absolutely nothing to fear from this crusade that is coming in to clean out Washington. I would like to take the opportunity to pay them a little tribute. I have worked with those people forty years and more. I have worked with them in different departments. I have yet to find any people working anywhere who have shown more dedication to the country, more loyalty and more efficiency than the great mass of America's civil servants.

	What we do intend to do, though, is to clean out all these political bosses they have had and give them outstanding men and women, men and women of prestige, as the heads of those departments of whom these civil servants will be proud.

	Mr. Nagel: That is an excellent answer. Mrs. Robert Patterson, I think you have a question.

	Q: Mrs. Patterson: General, here is a fantastic one, because I know that you care for the welfare of the soldiers as much as I do. It is a letter from a soldier saying he heard you were going to cut soldiers' pay. Is there any basis for believing that?

	A: Mrs. Patterson, because of your long connection with the fighting services, you possibly know just how angry this continued allegation makes me. I have answered this question in posts and stations throughout the United States in the last 60 days. So much so that finally I dug up a little report that I submitted to the Secretary of War in February, [missing text]. Sometimes it is well to quote yourself, to go right back to the record and see what you did say. If you will bear with me, I will read this little paragraph from that report, page 285, by the way.

	"To improve the lot of the soldier and the appeal of the military service, energetic steps must be taken. I personally suggest an additional premium for service in Korea and in the Islands of the Pacific, west of Hawaii."

	And that, you know, was before we were in the war in Korea.

	"Urgently needed are better housing for dependents at home and overseas stations, and increased recreational facilities and ratings comparable to civilian occupations."

	Now, I went on to enumerate some other things, but that is what I went on record officially as stating. I am very, very hopeful that this lie will soon cease circulating, and I have great confidence that the men who have served with me for many years in these armed services will more readily believe in my friendship for them--my belief in them, my appreciation of their services--than they will believe that kind of rumor circulated by someone that I do not know at all.

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General. Mrs. John Warner, I believe you are next.

	Q: Mrs. Warner: General, there are all sorts of rumors about cutting back social progress and cutting down on social security. Now, I know that those rumors don't jibe with your campaign speeches, and I would like to hear you tell us about that.

	A: Well, first of all, Mrs. Warner, it is bunk--just plain bunk. Now, to show you to what desperate straits the opposition is reduced, of course, you understand they can't defend this miserable record of the last seven years so they have to spread stories of the scandal-mongering type in order to have any appeal at all in this political campaign. One of the things they have done is to drag out of context a statement I made some time back in 1948 when I was explaining to an audience of mine how much more there was to being an American, how much deeper were an American's aspirations than mere animal security and comfort--that mere physical security was not all that we wanted.

	I explained that in institutions, specifically a prison, there was security. There is a warm place to stay, there is a bed, there is food, there is clothing, and there is hospital care. But I pointed out that none of us wanted to go to prison; therefore, there was more, gloriously more, to being an American than just wanting security.

	I insisted that it was up to all of us to preserve the opportunities of American life; to give each of us a chance to develop spiritually, intellectually, and all the ways we wanted to; to work for our communities, our families, ourselves, our nation; and to reach human satisfaction in that way.

	But they take this one little sentence out of context, really, to distort--even worse, actually to change--my complete meaning before the American people.

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General, I think Mrs. Irving Berlin has a question.

	Q: Mrs. Berlin: In this campaign, General, the president has accused you of bigotry. He even went so far as to say that you had accepted the master race theory of the Nazis. Would you speak on that?

	A: When I first heard that, Mrs. Berlin, I confess I was very angry and I was going to blaze out with an answer of my own. Before I could do so, I had very wonderful friends, great friends of mine, who rushed into the breach--Cardinal Spellman, Rabbi Silver, Barney Baruch--and handled that base calumny a lot better than I could if I had talked a week. I can't tell you how proud I am of friends who just moved in and made it completely unnecessary for me to answer that one.

	Then, further to that same point, there has been brought up my attitude about the McCarran Act. Do you know, that act bears the name of two administration Democrats--McCarran and Walter--not Republicans, as these people would have us believe--administration Democrats. Finally, this act was passed over the president's veto by both Democrats and Republicans. Now, there were certain things that had to be done. The old laws, fragmentary laws, had to be codified, and that they, undoubtedly, led a lot of people to vote for the overriding. But the fact is it is well-known that the law in many of its provisions is unfair and unjust, both to ourselves and to the other people, and it must be corrected.

	Let me make an observation in connection with this overriding of the veto. Ten of the chairmen of the fifteen standing committees in the Senate--ten administration Democrats--voted for overriding the veto. Have either of my opponents in this campaign disavowed those people or tried to purge them from their party? It is a question I would like to hear them answer.

	Mr. Nagel: General, if you don't mind, I would like to interpose a question of my own. I was born and raised in Iowa, in the farm country from which you come, and the present administration has flooded the farm areas with this little paper of which I have a copy here claiming that if you are elected, you will pull from under the farmer the carpet. Now, I wonder if you have seen this.

	A: Oh, yes, someone brought this to my attention. It is just one of the items in the long list of things I call the opposition's scandal sheets. First of all, my background is entirely in the farming region of Kansas, as you know. On top of that, I own a little farm now. I have no idea of pulling the rug out from under farmers. But, far more serious, and of more weight than those two considerations, is this fact: Both my associates and I have gone on record--I did specifically at Kasson, Minnesota and at Omaha and in Memphis--explaining in detail exactly what we propose to do about these farm programs. First, we said we would support the present laws right down the line in spirit and in letter. And on top of that, realizing that certain provisions of some of these laws would expire in 1954, we said, "We will instantly begin to draw in actual dirt farmers. People who are producing on farms, bring them in from each section of the country, whether they produce perishables or staple crops--bring them in and consult with them."

	Moreover, unlike the present administration, we would give great heed to their advice. We want farmer-built policies with farmer-run programs. We want to keep this business of farming where it belongs--in the hands of the farmer--and bring the government in to make certain that he does not suffer from disasters over which he can exercise no control himself. We will support research, R.E.A. programs, and all that sort of thing.

	Now, let me address a word to the city people about this farm program. I know that the housewife, when she takes her market basket down to the corner store, finds she is paying at least twice as much, and more, for a bag of groceries now as compared to 1939 prices. She is apt to say, "The farmers are getting rich at my expense." Far from it. The farmer's cost of production has gone up so high, his income is falling off, and his taxes are going up at the same time--that he is caught in the same squeeze that each of us here this evening feels--high taxes and high prices--all because of governmental bungling and fumbling.

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General. I hope a lot of my friends back in Iowa were listening to that. Mrs. LaGuardia, I believe you have a question now?

	Mrs. LaGuardia: General, we know what serious situations we face in Europe and in Asia. What about the Near East? Isn't it important for us to be helping a country like Israel?

	A: I cannot tell you how important it is. I became especially interested in Israel shortly after the close of the war. Ben Gurion came from Israel to visit me in Europe, and with me, we visited many of the camps where the remainder of the Jewish population--that had not been eliminated by the Nazis--were still living under terrible conditions. We set about rescuing them, bringing them back to some degree, you might say, of human decency. They were downtrodden until it was almost brutal to try to describe it.

	Shortly after that, as we know, Israel was recognized as a separate nation. Ever since then, I have been much interested in Israel because of the very great chance we have of establishing in that area a spot that will be a representative of Western civilization. Now, if it is going to be that, it must necessarily, make a living. We want to develop for it markets to make it economically strong, so it can be a fine, proud nation in that region.

	I have had some correspondence with Dr. Silver about this question, and I think my ideas are probably best summarized in a final paragraph of a letter I wrote him a couple of weeks ago on something of that sort. I will read it if you don't mind.

	"The state of Israel has given every indication of being a progressive democracy which is desirous of cooperating with the free world in the defense of human freedom against totalitarian aggression. It is in the interest of the United States and of all peace-loving nations that political and economic aid to establish their own security should be extended to Israel--and to all countries in the Middle East which are similarly intentioned--to an extent consistent with the sound, overall mutual aid program."

	Doctor Silver has expressed to me his extreme satisfaction with that statement of view.

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General. Mrs. Robert Patterson, I believe you have a question now?

	Mrs. Patterson: Yes, those of us who are supporting you believe you can end the Korean War quicker than your opponent. Now, that will be wonderful. But there are people who worry about the military production being reduced. They want to know if there will be trouble in getting jobs then. Can you answer that?

	A: Well, of course, that question assumes that this great country cannot be prosperous unless we are either having a war or preparing for war. To my mind, that is a completely false assumption and we should not entertain it for a minute.

	Let us take just this one factor in this problem. We are now putting many billions of dollars into things that are negative in purpose--defense security, guns, ships, planes, regiments. They have no purpose except to defend what we have. Now, no matter in what way we spend that money, through what sources--private sources or municipal or state--if we begin to buy with that same money hospitals, roads, schools, all of the things we need at home--better housing for all those hundreds of thousands who are living in substandard housing today--why should there be any falling off in our prosperity?

	Now, Mrs. Patterson, there is another point about this. With each step toward peace that allows us to reduce our war production a little bit, we have better conditions arising in the world, conditions more conducive to trade. We need many, many raw materials desperately, as you know--tungsten, tin, uranium, manganese, rubber, and many of them--all the time. We will take those in greater and greater amount to satisfy the needs of our growing population, which goes up six thousand every day, you know; while we will have greater surpluses to ship those people to pay for the same thing, and that will result in profitable trade for both sides.

	So our best years definitely lie ahead, contingent upon establishing peace in the world that will allow us to expand this trade with mutual benefit to both--not being any Santa Claus about this--but with mutual benefit to both sides.

	Let us then take and add to that rough vision this thought: All of our examination and our analysis--our experimentation and advances in atomic science or nuclear fission--it is all now directed toward destruction--killing each other. When we can take all of that vast possibility and devote it to human betterment; when we can take alongside of it industrial chemistry--say, radar research--the vast scientific advances of this country--in my opinion, we are going to make an America which--in its great standards of living, in the brightness that we are going to see someday--is far beyond the imagination of any of us.

	Do not, for one moment, believe we have got to have dissension, war or near war in the world to have prosperity in this great country of ours.

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General. Now I am going to interpose a little question. Last week in Detroit you made a speech saying that the present administration blundered us into the war in Korea. Last night, President Truman put the blame back onto you. Do you mind if I ask you who is right?

	A: You know, fortunately, Mr. Nagel, this morning there was a very significant item in the paper. It was this: There was quoted a top-secret document of the American Defense Department. How it got there, we will never know probably. But that top-secret document brought out one fact that really answers your question. It was this. There was a military estimate made in September 1947 by military men, and it had this conclusion: The military occupation of South Korea is not essential to the military security of the United States of America.

	Now, it would not seem that there is any very great connection with that military estimate and a political decision to abandon Korea, which was made two years later. Yet that is exactly what is now claimed. And how was this top-secret document released? Wouldn't you like to know? Many Americans would. But out it comes, published in the newspapers.

	The claim is made that that secret military estimate was responsible for our highest political leaders making a political decision in 1949. If that is true, what these political leaders are saying is this: "We abdicated our authority and responsibilities as the political leaders of the United States, the civilian political leaders of the United States, and took a military estimate on an entirely different subject two years old as our alibi."

	A: A little thing along with that, Mr. Nagel, you might consider also. I have stated several times that the Republic of Korea coveted and deserved the honor of defending its own front lines so far as it was able to do so. There have been serving in Korea during these past years--and you know I have been in Europe for a year--there have been serving men of great distinction who are old, old friends of mine, and from them I have had many reports about the South Koreans. Their reports on the military qualifications and capabilities of the South Korean soldiers are glowing--glowing no less. They give specific instances of their great heroism, courage and stamina. And they have said, "Had these programs of training, organizing and equipping these men been pursued assiduously from the very first moment we got in that war, we would be in a position now that our casualties wouldn't have to be so heavy." I believe that and I believe we should push those programs just as fast as we can right now, because everybody admits there is no simple, easy patent medicine answer to the Korean situation. So what must we do? Get partial answers that improve our situation every minute. And when we get to the point that we are not having to provide the great bulk of the men, as well as the great bulk of the munitions and all of the rest of the costs out there, then the other side will have a little different look at this problem. I believe that thoroughly and I am quite sure that no experienced soldier would challenge that idea.

	Mr. Nagel: I think an interesting bit of information might be, General, if you could give to us, approximately how many Korean soldiers do you think Korea could provide?

	A: I have had no specific reports on that, but I have seen reports in the paper. I believe President Rhee said at one time that they could furnish a total out of their 20 million population of at least 3 million soldiers. Another thing: The Korean Ambassador to the United States, in making a speech and pleading for the right of the Koreans as a proud people to defend their own front lines said, "Give us guns, save your sons." And another report said there were about 750 thousand men who were now available for training and could be trained and organized and put into the lines. Of course, I don't mean to say that is very rapid. You have to provide certain leadership, and advice and all the rest of it. But they rapidly learn their business.

	Mr. Nagel: I see. Thank you. One of the ladies has handed me a question here. She seems a little too shy to ask it herself. So I will ask it for her. General, Americans are concerned about Communists in government. What do you think should be done about this problem?

	A: I have expressed myself on it of course a number of times. But personally I don't think we can be too careful in uprooting Communism from government. One of the points I have made is this. When we get the outstanding men of the United States, men and women, from every section and from every walk of life, men and women who are incorruptible themselves, they are not going to appoint to important positions people who are corruptible. That is the first thing. But if they do find one of these people who has erred and has gone the wrong way and is disloyal to America, they will be very, very tireless in searching them out, digging them out. It is my contention there is plenty of power in the American government to do this. We have got the FBI and all sorts of investigative facilities, and if there is the will we can do this and never violate one single iota of the American doctrine that every man is innocent until he is proved guilty. We don't need to besmirch the good name of any man to get rid of this thing if the Executive Department from top to bottom is determined to do its part.

	Mr. Nagel: Another good answer. General, we have about a moment left. Mrs. Berlin has a question here. She wants to go back to Korea for a minute. Your statement that you are going to Korea has been described by the opposition as a grandstand play. 

	A: Well, as you know I have been in a few military campaigns. And I found this. In order to know what I should do, it is quite necessary to go to the spot where action is taking place, to find out what the people feel, what are the conditions there, what is their state of morale. If anybody occupying a position of responsibility with respect to that war can't learn something by going out there, then, in my opinion, he is rather blind and doesn't know what he is looking for, because I tell you flatly, Mr. Nagel, if I thought that going out there could save one American life--if it could keep from one American home the grief that comes from the loss of a dear one--then such a trip would be worth while. In any event, if I am charged with the responsibility of the post that I am now standing for, I am going. 

	Mr. Nagel: Thank you, General. We have about three seconds left. I am afraid that isn't enough time to ask another one of these questions. But I do feel that we should all express our great appreciation for your being here. Coming from the Middle West plains you will remember, as I do as a kid, that many of these great political problems were usually solved around the old red pot-bellied stove in the corner grocery store. I think that we have perhaps achieved a little of that feeling here tonight, General--your warmth, your friendship, the clearness with which you have discussed these questions.

	A: You remember there was always a barrel of dried prunes there you could reach over and get.

	Mr. Nagel: Dried prunes or crackers. So I feel we have been sitting around the pot-bellied stove here, tonight.

	A: I am sorry Mamie couldn't be here but she has been very busy and has had problems of her own, too. She would like to be here, too.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEESCOMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--BIGOTRYECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSISRAELMILITARY PERSONNELSOCIAL SECURITYVOTING RIGHTSKOREAN WAR     Rc c c c 
c
 b b b b b	  	  	  	  	  	  	 ] 	 > 	 8 	 & 	   
 e: