

	Good morning, and my great thanks to all of you for coming here at this hour, and also my sincere thanks for this beautiful day. I suppose we can attribute that to the Democratic Committee. I think perhaps if you lowered the signs, those behind you could see a little better, although I am very frank to say it has always been very hard for me to understand why anybody would want to see me, but they seem to want to.

	I am most grateful to all of you for coming out here at this inconvenient hour and I appreciate your courtesy, and I am sure that your presence here is a good omen both for the Democratic party and for our country. When so many people get up so early in the morning to hear about the great issues on which we will make a decision next Tuesday, we can all feel confident that the future of America rests in responsible hands. It is a sign that every one of you is taking seriously your duty as a citizen; for, in our country it is the people who make all of the final decisions.

	I know that the people of Pottstown already understand the fundamental problems that confront our nation. You have proved that year after year by voting Democratic, even when you were completely surrounded by hordes of apparently incurable Republicans.

	You remind me of a little girl that my grandfather used to tell me about in a remote farmhouse out in our part of the country, in Illinois. When he went in there one time he asked the family what their political faith was, and they said, "Oh, we are all Republicans down here except little Sarah." And he said, "Well, how do you explain little Sarah?" And he said, "Well, you see, little Sarah took up reading."

	The plain and simple lesson that all of us have learned in the past twenty years is that the security and the well-being of every individual in this nation depends on the security and the well-being of all of the people. You citizens of Pottstown have had a chance to understand that fact perhaps better than most, because the steel that you made here has gone into the building of nearly every corner of the United States. The girders that you have made have gone into the Golden Gate Bridge--across the Golden Gate at San Francisco; the George Washington Bridge--across the Hudson in New York. 

	Well, I don't know why he should be particularly partial to that bridge. They are both good as far as that goes. And you know it has also gone into the farm machinery that is at work all over my state of Illinois.

	You know from firsthand, I think, that your prosperity rises and falls with the prosperity of the farmers, the workingmen and business all over the United States. This simple lesson apparently is something that the Republican Old Guard seem never to have learned. And evidently the good general hasn't either. At least since he swallowed Senator Taft and the Old Guard. Now, I might say that he seems to have swallowed them hook, line and sinker--and there are plenty of hooks on that line. As to the sinkers, he won't hear about that until next Tuesday.

	People are always asking me--I talk so confidently about the result of the election. Of course, I would probably be the last one to know, but I couldn't but think of a story about an old Irishman who was standing on the street corner in my home town in Illinois and a funeral went by. A German nearby said--evidently thinking that the Irish have all the answers to everything--and they usually do--he said to him, "Patrick, whose funeral is it?" and he said, "Well, I couldn't be saying for certain, but I dare say it belongs to the lady or the gentleman who lies in the coffin that is passing there." Well, I don't feel that the result of the election is necessarily a coffin, but my own speculation as to the result would have to be pretty much like his. I don't think I am going to be in the coffin.

	Our party is determined to prevent another catastrophe like the Great Depression. And it has a specific and workable program to keep our nation prosperous and strong. Our platform calls for decent housing, for more and better jobs, for a better break for the workingman and -woman, and for the farmer and the small businessman. It calls for improvements in our social security system, for new schools and hospitals. It calls for action on the problem of high prices--and, most of all, it calls for a determined and persistent resistance to Communism, and for patient efforts to build a peaceful world.

	The Democratic party doesn't believe in making promises it cannot keep, but we are proud of our batting average on the promises that we do make over these past twenty years. When we say that what we need is a new labor relations law, we mean just that. We mean that we need a law designed in the best interests of the workingman and of business as well and, finally, of the public, because the public has a stake in every wage loss and every work stoppage in this country--and that this new law should replace the Taft-Hartley Law.

	I think you know the principles which underlie our new law, because we have spelled out those principles in considerable detail in speeches all about the country.

	Our good friend, the general, says of late that he is determined not to turn the clock back. I sometimes wonder about that clock. I thin perhaps before they worry about turning it back they had better get a clock that keeps the time.

	I remember a story about a fellow who borrowed a clock--a farmer--when his broke--from a neighbor. It didn't keep time very well, and he couldn't figure it out at all. Finally he went to the neighbor and he said, "This doesn't work. I can't understand it. I can't understand, all day it is running away. And he said, "Well, you see, that clock, when it points to 12, and it rings 4, and it strikes 4, then you know it is 9 o'clock." And, my friends, the old farmer said to him, "What kind of a clock is that?" and he said, "Well, that is a Republican clock."

	I wish I had time here this morning to talk with you about the great overshadowing problem of our war in Korea and the progress in building a peaceful world. I have spoken about these problems many times and I hope that I have been able to make our position clear. I have not promised any easy way out for I know, as I think you do, that life doesn't offer easy ways out. But I have said, too, that if we persist in our efforts, if we build our strength, if we stand ever ready to discuss our problems with a firm devotion to principle and with a spirit of good will, then I believe with all of my heart that we can and will safely win our way to a secure and a peaceful world.

	And I can tell you that to this task I would devote all of my energy and strength for this is the most important task of all. If you should do me the great honor of voting for me, I hope you will remember that a President needs not only the support, the confidence, the patience, the forbearance and the understanding of the people but also a sympathetic Congress; and I should like to commend to you with all of the emphasis that I command and with all of the confidence that I command, two extremely able Democratic candidates, Judge Guy Bard for the United States Senate and Frank Keegan for the House of Representatives. They would be an invaluable help to me, and I am sure that they would represent you and your interests very well.

	I am most grateful to you for coming down to the train. I am most grateful for this very warm and friendly greeting. Ours is an enormous undertaking, to carry the message of the Democratic party to the people all over the United States, from coast to coast. It has been a great experience for me, one for which I shall be forever thankful, come what may and the well-being, the confidence, the good will of the American people that I have met everywhere--perhaps, even regardless of their party--is one of the most encouraging things about the American scene, about the health of our democracy. We are willing to listen; we are willing to read the newspapers--although, unhappily, we don't have many newspapers on the Democratic side for you to read; we are willing to devote our education and our energy to some comprehension of these major problems that confront us in this most critical period in history. And I for one, as a candidate of one of the great parties, for the most responsible job in the world, I am deeply grateful to all of the American people for the courtesy and the friendliness and the patience with which they have listened to our story from coast to coast.

	And before we go, I wonder if you would afford me the opportunity of introducing to you some charming ladies that we carry aboard the train. I sometimes am afraid we are not going to get--I think the ladies are here to stay myself. I should like to introduce to you the Vice Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards, and my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives. We also have aboard the national co-chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson which has done such invaluable work in enlisting the support of the Independents--and by the way as we have noticed as we have traveled all over the land during the last few days, the Ike buttons are falling off the lapels as the autumn leaves are off of the trees--I should like to introduce Mrs. Dick of Chicago, of the national co-chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson.

	MRS. FULLER. Governor Stevenson, the Volunteers for Stevenson of Montgomery County, representing the Democrats, labor and all of Montgomery County which is switching to Stevenson, thank you for coming here, thank you for your wisdom, your inspiration and your humor; we ask you to accept these shirts manufactured in Pottstown and wear them in the White House.]

	Well, I am very grateful, indeed, to you. Mrs. Fuller, and to the management and employees of the Pottstown Shirt Company. I haven't lost my shirts yet but I've got some dirty ones.

	And finally I should like to introduce to you, if I could, a distinguished and beloved woman of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Emma Guffey Miller.

	I am so grateful for this sun--they gave me snow all day yesterday.
KOREAN WARORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSTEEL INDUSTRY     F( ( ( (  (
 ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '	 0 	 & 	  e: