

	Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a great privilege, and my first and most pleasant duty is to extend my thanks to you.  Each has taken an hour out of his busy day to come out here to allow me to look into his face, to exchange with him an idea or two, at least a friendly hello as I go on my way in this political campaign. I am particularly honored--and I think the word is intrigued--by the identity of the man who introduces me today.  I have known him for years.  I was a major in his office when he was the high exalted Secretary of War, and that is high to a major.  Then some years later he became a civilian; the wrong party had gotten into power.  But he had kept his reserve commission and he came into my office where now I am something of a VIP.  He said, "Ike, what do you want me to do in this war?"  I said, "Why, go out to Australia and get some supplies in to the Philippines."  "When?" he said.  "Now," said I.  And he was on the way to Australia that night. Those were rather bizarre circumstances, but I doubt that either he or I at that time could have in our wildest imagination pictured the circumstances of this meeting, when he should be introducing me to a distinguished gathering of New Mexicans when I am the standard bearer of a great crusade intending to displace now that party that returned him from official to civil life so many years ago.

	This, of course, is a political trip that I am on, but I came down to your great state only last summer and went over to Gallup.  We had a fine Sunday.  Your Governor Meecham was gracious enough to ask me back, and at that time I promised him that I would be here during this campaign.  So today, if nothing else, at least I am keeping my word given to him at Gallup on that Sunday many weeks ago.  I must say this is one time it is no obligation to keep my word; it is a great and real treat and privilege.  Now, Pat Hurley and Governor Meecham are part of the leadership of the team that I spoke of, the crusade whose first objective is to displace in Washington bad government with good government.  All of your candidates that are a part of this crusade in New Mexico are needed, ladies and gentlemen, to play their part in the Congress, in the Senate, and of course they will be represented also in the Executive Departments when we have that kind of government.

	I think before proceeding further I should like to make my vow, pay my tribute, to the University of New Mexico.  It is not only, ladies and gentlemen, that I am a university president on leave myself.  The length of my leave, incidentally, will be determined by you people in November.  But I have been one of those fortunate men in the United States who has been privileged to spend his life with young Americans.  The people in our fighting services are usually among those of a very youthful age, and it has been my privilege to serve with them and to learn from them that they never forget the basis of our civilization, a basis which is spiritual and moral in character.  They can perform anything, which I have seen them do on the field of battle.  But when they do it they do their best, and really they can put out their maximum only when they believe in a cause.

	Today, we have a cause which is spiritual and moral because we intend to replace, wherever it may be, dishonesty in government with honesty.  Whenever there is waste, we intend to replace it with frugality.  Wherever there is extravagance, we intend to replace it with economy.  Wherever there is inefficiency, we intend to replace it with businesslike methods.  And where there is bungling in leading our world toward peace, we intend to marshal a band of devoted, intelligent, forward Americans who can surely command the respect of all our country and in doing so, command the prestige abroad that is necessary if we are to lead the world toward peace.  In a nutshell then, folks, that is the spiritual and moral basis of the crusade in which we are engaged, and because it has those qualities, I venture to appeal to the young to give it your consideration and to decide what you want.

	My young friends, remember, if I am lucky I shall have twenty years in this country; you will have sixty.  Now, that is a comparative measure of our relative stakes in this great country.  Wherever America goes, you will be there.  It will be part of you and you will be part of it, and the decisions you make now are going to rule and influence your lives throughout their duration and they are going to influence the words you will be able to say to your young compatriots.  When it comes your own time to stand up in a spot like this instead of sitting there, you will say to your young friends, "I am proud to turn over to you the kind of America that we had back in the period of that World War II."

	The land of opportunity, the land of freedom and the land of liberty that you must turn over to your young people, and you can do it only if you never forget the spiritual basis upon which we were founded.  You must never forget that our forefathers had to say, in order to explain this government, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights--in no other way is it possible to explain free government, and if you will never desert that path, my young friends, you shall not go far wrong.

	Another tribute I should like to pay today is to those units of this great state that had to pay the price of American unpreparedness in the past.  They paid seriously; their sacrifices were great.  To their survivors present here today, my salute, and with you I join in prayerful tribute to those who have gone before us.  In any event, theirs now is joined with the blood of all those great patriots who have brought this country from the very first founding on the Virginia and Massachusetts shores down here today, and remember, we are here at this meeting exemplifying, symbolizing one of the great things of America.  I can be here to criticize an administration in power and you can be here freely to listen to me do it.  You can express approbation of my remarks or you can disagree.  In many countries of today, if you occupy your present position, if you had that temerity, you would be put on the salt mine train by morning and I would be on the gallows.  So let's never forget, when we participate in this kind of a gathering, that it is America--another privilege to keep.

	To my friends whom I met at Gallup some weeks ago, my friends who were the first inhabitants of this broad land, I pay my tribute to their gallantry in the war, to the record they established.  Today I want to make them a pledge.  Because I believe so sincerely that all government must be close to the people--that Washington two-thousand or three-thousand miles away from this spot is unable to know or solve our problems as well as they can be solved locally--I want to assure these people that any official of government set up to advise with them or to direct any affairs in connection with them will be selected in the new administration only with their counsel and advice.

	I want to tell them also, that as I fight discrimination among our citizens in all its forms, that wherever there is in our procedures and our practices of today anything that smacks of discrimination, they will find me on their side combating it.

	Now I think all of you here today would join with me in the expression of a few thoughts concerning our southern neighbors, and to the people of Spanish descent who are now proudly our own citizens.  It was my great privilege shortly after World War II to visit Mexico City and discuss with their officials problems of mutual interest, particularly as they applied to the question of security.  And in the course of those conversations, this point came up:  Our border, our common border here, has today become one of the strongest in the world; the only one that I know that matches the strength of this border is our northern one.  On both our flanks we have been blessed by the Almighty with friends, and a border that is protected by friendship is stronger than any that is protected by forts and guns and ships and planes.  Now these latter appliances--this kind of military strength--we must, unfortunately, in this day and time, maintain in greater strength than we should like; it is absolutely necessary.  But it is not necessary, so far as our security from our northern and southern neighbors is concerned.  Indeed, with them, cooperation and the spirit of partnership grows apace, and they stand, in both cases, as examples of the kind of spirit and action we should like to promote throughout the world.

	Before I leave, I would like to leave with you one thought about this problem of promoting peace in the world, because it has to do with the decision that you are going to have to make in less than four weeks from now.  Peace in the world will be impossible without a strong America.  A strong America is not one that is featuring merely military power; it must be economically strong or it cannot support military power.  It must be solvent or its economy will be destroyed.  And in addition to providing its own military strength, it must provide so many things that will allow others to join with us and share the burden of defending ourselves against the further encroachment of Communism.

	To produce this kind of strength in America, the first thing we need is a united America.  I would be the last to say that we should agree as to the particular practices and procedures of anything we do--business, education, family life, religion, anything else.  The differences we have are healthy as long as they are confined to method and practice.  When it comes to the problem of aspiration and purpose in the world, what are we trying to do?  What is the general nature of our effort?  What is its wisdom?  Those are the things behind which we must be united.

	Now, how can you be united?  Someone must take the lead; it is the national government you designate.  Unless you can give that government your faith, your trust, your belief--unless you are convinced that it is honest, that it is serving you in the cause of peace and not merely striving to perpetuate its own power, not merely trying to be a special interest in favor of itself--
you cannot united behind it.

	It is of first importance, therefore, that you obtain, that you select, that group of people from among the groups that you want and believe in, if we are to make progress toward peace in the world.  With this united, strong America, there is no reason why this progress should not be reasonably rapid.  Certainly we can quickly be launched on the definite road toward it, because all those other nations in the world who share our hatred of Communism will join with us, in the certainty that, in spirit, in purpose, and in objectives we are one--because we cannot buy allies merely with dollars; we cannot buy loyalty and friendship.  Ladies and gentlemen, those things come from integrity, honesty, straightforwardness, wisdom and a love of humanity.  That is the kind of people you should seek out.

	The men joined with me in this crusade--and they are Republicans and they are Democrats and they are Independents and they are people who have never voted before--but they are determined that, so far as God gives them the power to see right and justice, they will observe right and justice to all men--particularly to all Americans--among whom they shall make no distinction according to race or creed or color.  Their guide will be the benefit of all America.  They shall not come before you and make promises--promises seeking to purchase the support of one class at the expense of all or at the expense of another.  They know that, except in the prosperity of all America, no part can prosper long.  But in that pledge to work for the good of 155 million people, they submit their record to you and gladly leave the decision in your hands.

	Again, my friends, my thanks, and my assurances of the deep sense of honor I feel that you have gathered here today.  I shall hope sometime in the future, no matter what my capacity, to come back here to enjoy what I have been told all day, since I landed at the airport--is the finest fishing in the world. 

	Thank you very much.

COMMUNISMFREEDOM OF SPEECHGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMEXICONATIVE AMERICANS     1 0 0 0 0
 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	 M 	 D 	 3 	  	  e: