
	[Missing text] for that emotional, wonderful speech, a testament to the kind of America we ought to have and to the service he's given you in many years in Congress. I know you appreciate him.

	I want to say to all of you how glad I am to be here at this Fall Harvest Festival. I know we've got some of our coordinators out here, and I want to say that we have 20,000 volunteers listed here in Michigan for election day, but we can use a few more. We want to roll them up in Michigan, and we need your help to do it.

	Folks, you can tell a lot about this election by what we think it's about, the various candidates. You take the present administration in Washington. I never thought I'd live to see what we've seen in the last few days. Today in the newspaper it says that the Pentagon pleaded with Mr. Bush not to coddle Saddam Hussein right up to the point where he invaded Kuwait, but he kept on giving him money. Today there's an article in the New Yorker magazine that says that after all of Mr. Bush's claiming he was out of the loop on Iran-Contra, it turns out he was part of a bizarre scheme to get Iran deeper and deeper into this scandal. Today we learn that Secretary of State Baker pushed for giving more money to Saddam Hussein even after he was warned that Hussein's government, Saddam Hussein's government, was involved in criminal activities.

	And look at this. Can you believe it? In Washington, they've got the FBI and the Justice Department investigating each other. They don't have time for criminals anymore. They're looking into each other.

	They've got--in Washington, the Bush administration has got the CIA and the Justice Department fighting over which one of them lied to the federal court over this Iraq scandal. And we now know that three political cronies in the State Department actually spent their time not only looking into my passport files, but investigating my mother.

	Now, the only thing about it was, they had these three political hacks that sneaked into the passport file room between 6:00 and 10:00 at night. The only good thing I can say about it is that's the only time those political hacks worked until 10:00 at night the whole time George Bush was president.

	And now it turns out today, Mr. Perot is accusing Mr. Bush of investigating his children. So now we've got this bizarre situation where Bush and Perot have accused each other of investigating each other's children. I want to tell you something, folks. I want to investigate your children--their problems, their promise and their future. That's what this election ought to be about.

	How in the world these people can be talking about this when the state of Michigan has lost 125,000 manufacturing jobs since Bush has been president, when this country has lost 1.4 million manufacturing jobs, when most Americans are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago, including most of the people in this audience today. How can they be talking about each other? They ought to be talking about you and your future. That's what I'm committed to, putting this country back to work with good jobs.

	You know, I think this country needs a job creator, not a job destroyer, as president. I got into this race for president because I was sick and tired of seeing our people work harder for less, because I saw people in my state work over and over and over again, working their fingers to the bone and falling further behind. I got into this race because I didn't want all the children in this office, including my twelve-year-old daughter, and all the children of America to grow up to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. I think we're better than that, and I think we can do better than that.

	Do you know, my fellow Americans, that in Japan, 28 percent of the work force works in manufacturing? In Germany, 32 percent of the work force works in manufacturing. But in the United States, only 16 percent of the work force works in manufacturing, going down every day because the people you've had in charge have followed trickle-down economics. They've rewarded big money. I want to reward the hard-working people of America, rebuild the manufacturing base and rebuild the American economy.

	You're going to have to make up your mind in this election whether you want somebody who is seriously committed to rebuilding the job base of this country or not. In the 1980s, when manufacturing jobs declined by 6 percent in America, by more than that in Michigan, they increased in my state by 11 percent. This year, no matter how much Mr. Bush tries to convince you to the contrary, his own government says Arkansas leads the nation in private-sector job growth; more new jobs in Arkansas than in the entire country since George Bush has been president. That's what we need for America.

	We ought to be sick of these people telling us that this election is about something--about anything other than your future and your family and the values you live by and whether you're going to be rewarded. I'm telling you, folks, I am sick and tired of this. I have worked for a dozen years to help people keep their jobs, to create new jobs, to maintain good manufacturing jobs.

	And what has this administration done? They gave a $300 million trade break to Japan by letting in their multipurpose vehicles and lowering the tariff on them. And did we get anything for it in return? No--nothing. We just gave it to them. We gave it to them while the trade deficit with Japan was going up and the jobs were going down. It is wrong. I want more trade. I want expanded trade. But if somebody wants something from the United States under my administration, they're going to have to do something for the United States so we both grow together.

	Look what this administration has done. They have spent your tax dollars, your hard-earned tax dollars, to provide low-interest loans to factories if they would shut down and move to Central America when those same factories couldn't get the loans to modernize their equipment here. I say more incentives for new plants, new equipment and new small business in America, and stop subsidizing moving our jobs overseas. Let's subsidize building our jobs at home.

	This administration advertised with your tax dollars that American factories should go to Central America, where people work for 57 cents an hour. And they didn't even help the people in Central America. They gave the money to people who lowered their wages so that after they'd done this for a year, they'd cost jobs in America, thousands of them, and driven wages down in Central America.

	I say we ought to have a trade and investment policy that builds the American economy and helps wages to go up here and in Central America instead of driving them down with trickle-down economics, treating working people like they were dirt. We can do better than that.

	When you strip away all the rhetoric and all the bull and all the charges, when it all comes down to it, the question is, are you going to have a president who is committed to rebuilding opportunity for the American people who are willing to work hard and play by the rules, willing to educate themselves and change, willing to build a new future? Look, I have worked for a dozen years at this. A lot of people can say, "Well, vote for me; I'll do better next time." That's what Mr. Bush says. He says, "I'll focus on America if you give me one more break." Thanks a lot.

	You know, a lot of people can claim, well, they're outsiders. Let me tell you the facts. Of all the people you can vote for president this time, of all your choices, only one of them has ever balanced a government budget. Only one of them has never been part of the Washington lobbying scene. Only one of them has ever done anything to restrain the influence of lobbyists and special interests on the political process. Only one of them has ever passed a program to help people through a legislature to create jobs and improve education, and that's the same one that made the good vice presidential choice of Al Gore--Bill Clinton. You need to help me get elected.

	My fellow Americans, we are in a new and exciting and challenging time. Too many Americans have been hurt by the changes of this time because we have no plans to take advantage of the changes. When things are changing, change will be your friend or your enemy, and you have to decide which it will be. Change has not been our friend because we've not committed ourselves to education of our children and our adults as we should. Change has not been our friend because we've cut the defense budget without reinvesting every last dollar in rebuilding the American economy.

	That's what I want to do, take that money and spend it not on higher health care costs, not on the S&L bailouts, but spend it on roads and transportation systems and rail systems and water systems and environmental cleanup systems, putting the American people back to work by cleaning up the environment and building the economy.

	We need new ideas for America. And we don't need a bigger government, but we need a government that works. Let me tell you this again. It's inconvenient for the Republicans who are attacking us, but my state has the second-lowest tax burden in the country, but we have increased investment in jobs and education and the environment. And in trying to move our country forward, I think that's what we want for Americans.

	And I'll tell you this: We need some new ideas that impose more personal responsibility on people. In our state, we are doing something we ought to do around the country: take first-time non-violent offenders, particularly those who've had drug problems, and instead of sending them to prison where they can learn how to be first-class criminals, or putting them back on the street when they think there are no consequences, put them in community boot camps and let them do work and education and training and get reconnected to society.

	Change the welfare system as we know it, make it a second chance, not a way of life; investment in people. We ought to give people a real chance, invest in people who are on welfare, invest in their education and training and support for their children, and then require them to go to work, and if there are no jobs, create those jobs.

We ought to have the toughest possible system of child support in this country. You ought not to be able to cross the state line and get out of taking care of your kids. We have never put the power of the federal government behind the child support enforcement system like we should. Give me a chance, and I'll do it. The little children of this country deserve to know that their parents are taking care of them. That's not something the government can do nor something the government should do if people can do it for themselves. These are the kinds of things that we ought to do.

	And let me give you one last new idea, one that embodies the themes that I've been hammering for a year now. People who get opportunities should assume responsibility. We should become a stronger community by doing things for each other. That's my plan to open the doors of college education to all Americans. And here's how it would work.

	I want to take the best of the American GI bill and the American Peace Corps, to come out with a national trust fund to rebuild America. You can borrow the money to go to college and pay it back as a small percentage of your income after you go to work, at tax time, so you can't beat the bill; or in the alternative and better, the people of this country can pay their college loans back by working for a couple of years as teachers, as police officers, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities to help them maintain their independence, working with our children to keep them out of trouble, working in housing programs to help solve the homeless problem.

	You think of it; we could solve the problems of America and generate a whole new thrust of Americans with education second to none in the world. We need new ideas. We do need an outsider who can make government work. But more than anything else, we need somebody who wakes up every day not investigating his opponents, but investigating you--your problems and your promise and your future.

	I believe in this country. I believe in its promise. If it weren't for the American Dream, I wouldn't be here today. I believe in what I have seen in the faces of Americans all over this country on these bus trips. I believe in the stories that I have been told by Americans who want to do better.

	This morning when I left Grand Rapids, a woman came out to the airport with her children to see me, and she started crying. She said, "I am a single mother. I am raising my five children. I am working as hard as I can. I want to be part of your American family, because I want the American Dream to live for my kids." That's the kind of person I'm fighting for in this campaign. And let me tell you, we only have to put up with this if you're willing to fight for change for nine more days--nine more days.

	You think about it. Look at what they're doing in their campaign. Every day Mr. Bush goes out and just creates another fairy tale. He pulls out his pocketbook, his wallet, and says, "You'd better watch your pocketbook if you vote for Clinton." Now, remember, folks, remember, Bush increased spending by more than any president in over two decades. Bush asked Congress to spend more money than it did. He tried to outspend Congress. Can you believe that? Bush increased regulation by more than any president in two decades. My state has the second-lowest tax burden and the highest job-growth rate in America, and I'm the only person to ever balance a government budget. I'll tell you who's going to pick your pocket--George Bush. He did it once, and if you give him another chance, he'll do it again. But you know, we're not buying it this time. No more! No more! No more.

	Let me say this. With all respect to all of you, you know as well as I do, we did not get into this mess overnight, and we'll not get out of it overnight. You know that there is no perfect person who could be president. But you have given me a chance to come here to Michigan and to Saginaw to make my case. I haven't seen him here today, but I want to thank Dennis Finning and Local 455 of the UAW for letting me come here in the springtime to make my case there.

	I do not promise to be a perfect president. If you elect me, I'll make some mistakes, because unlike the guy that's there, I'll do something from day one. I'll get up every day, going to work and try to get something done. But I'll tell you this: We will make progress. And I'll wake up every day in that White House with the idea that it is not my house, it's your house. And I am nothing more than a temporary tenant and your chief hired hand, and that if it hadn't been for you, I wouldn't be there. And the only purpose of the presidency is to use the power of the presidency to help people.

	They have used the power of the presidency--they have used the power of the presidency to help their special interest friends long enough. They have abused the power of the presidency for their own political purposes. It's time you had somebody who really believed in change and really fought for it, who really believes in you and your future, who really believes that we ought to exalt hope over fear.

	Now, for nine days, you're going to see a battle for the spirit of America, an intense battle in which people talk about change. But you ought to know there's a difference between talk and action. I've given you action. People will talk about you and your interests, but remember where they were when your interests were being savaged in the last four years. People will raise fears. The Bush campaign is nothing but a collection of the same old fears that this tired old Republican party has raised now. They've been in too long. They've forgotten about the power of government to help people. They've used it to help themselves and help their political cronies, and we've had it long enough. They've run out of ideas and energy and direction, and we need to run them out of Washington on November the 3rd.

	I'm going to ask you one last time: Will you help me change the future of America? Will you help me restore hope to the American Dream? Will you help me bring the American people together across the lines of race and region and income? Do you believe we can do better? On November 3rd, make it so. Let's change America and lift America. Thank you, and God bless you all.

ARKANSASCHILD SUPPORTCRIME--JUVENILE OFFENDERSEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--JAPANGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSJOB GROWTH/CREATIONSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSBUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESMANUFACTURING     B B B B ~B
 sB nB iB bB ZB XB NB	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	 S 	 @  )   e: