

	Fellow veterans, fellow Legionnaires. I can't help remembering that when I said "fellow veterans" to you at this convention four years ago I did so with a considerable degree of self-consciousness. My brief service as an Apprentice Seaman in 1918 hardly seemed like a sufficient claim to veteran status.

	But today I felt no such compunctions. Since we last met I've been through one war and started another one. I've stormed a thousand barbershops and sallied forth in the darkest night to rally my forces. I've eaten more meals standing up than sitting down. I've been shot at by friend and foe alike--and returned the fire. Indeed I've even made a foe a friend--and I am honored to have him here with me and to present him to you--Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee!

	I remember, too, approaching the Legion convention four years ago with a more serious kind of concern. I had things in mind I wanted to say about patriotism and freedom, and I felt that the Legion convention was the right place to say them. There were some who warned me that I shouldn't say those things to you--that you wouldn't like them. But I had confidence in the instinct for fair play on the part of men who had offered their lives to their country, and my confidence was not disappointed. I have an abiding gratitude to you for your reception in New York four years ago--and for your reception today.

	This has been a month of conventions for my native state of California. No sooner had the Republicans evacuated San Francisco than the Legion occupied Los Angeles. I don't want to say anything which would impair the brotherly relations between these two great cities, but I can't resist the feeling that Los Angeles this time has had slightly the better of the deal. There is something more appealing about the gay and gaudy discordance I see here on every hand than there was about the disciplined harmony, which I saw on television two weeks ago. It is odd to reflect that the Republicans were as well drilled as a cavalry regiment, while the Legionnaires are as happy and freewheeling as if they were--well, Democrats.

	I had originally thought to discuss with you today some of the problems which are considered the particular concern of veterans. I have changed this original intention for two reasons.

	The first is that the Democratic platform contains a clear and concise statement of the position of the Democratic party on these issues. It states squarely our conviction that the Veterans Administration should be continued as an independent federal agency; that its hospital system should be maintained; that the veterans' preference laws and the VA home loan program should be fairly administered; and that service-connected disability and the survivors of those who have passed away in service or from service-incurred disability should be adequately compensated.

	This platform is more than a pledge to repay a nation's debt. It is an expression of gratitude rising far above obligation. It says what the Democratic party stands for. It says what the American Legion stands for. And it says what I stand for. And we mean what it says. 

	But I had another reason for changing my original intention. As I listened to some of the proceedings two weeks ago in San Francisco, I heard repeated there a set of propositions which seemed to me to present another kind of veterans' issue--and one of surpassing importance, not only to veterans, but to all of us as Americans.

	Nothing matters more to any of us--as veterans and as Americans--than peace. Yet at the Cow Palace in San Francisco this subject was twisted and tortured into what I must in all soberness describe as a shocking abuse of the elementary political decencies on which the democratic process depends.

	I want to say bluntly that the attempt to identify responsibility for the wars of this century with the Democratic party insults tens of millions of Americans and does no credit to those who make these charges.

	I want to say further that the sustained Republican attempt to imply that the Democratic party is a war party and that these wars were needless, that they were fought in vain, cheapens the sacrifices of two generations of Americans. And I am deeply concerned to try to repair the grievous injury these charges do to the honor, the courage, the lives and the deaths of two generations of brave men--soldiers and statesmen.

	Is it honorably contended that others would have done differently in 1917? Would they have stood idly by while our ships were sunk by U-boats and the Kaiser overran Europe?

	What would they have done when we were attacked at Pearl Harbor? Would they have permitted Hitler and Tojo to overwhelm the forces of freedom?

	What would they have done in June 1950? They talk a cold, dynamic foreign policy. Would they have sacrificed collective security in its first test; would they have given the Communists a free hand in Korea and through that gate to all of Asia?

	Would the Republicans have done these things? Of course not. They voted for war in 1917; they voted for war in 1941, and they voted the appropriations to support the U.N. in Korea in 1950.

	I, for one, am proud that America faced her responsibilities courageously in these crises. I am proud that it is not my party which now suggests that these wars were unnecessary, that the service, the sacrifices, and the glorious victories of America's men and women were in vain.

	And I want to say that the Republican charge that under the Democrats prosperity depends on war is of the same order of infamy. The truth is that the Second World War was not followed by a depression, and that the readjustment of the American economy after that greatest of all dislocations was accomplished under Democratic management speedily, painlessly, and with ever increasing prosperity. And none can deny it.

	The truth is that defense expenditures have averaged much more each year under Eisenhower than they did under Truman; and that if our prosperity has ever been dependent on spending for war--it is right now.

	And I must add another item to this catalog of political deceit: I mean the claim that Democrats were responsible for the Korean War and that the Republicans stopped it. I have been told that the danger of misunderstanding what I say about this makes its discussion politically inadvisable. I am frank to say that some things seem to me more important than political safety. Honor and honesty are among them.

	This claim is as miserable a fraud as has ever been used by a political party to confuse and embitter a people who must govern themselves by facts, not fiction. The Communists were not stopped by politicians--they were stopped and thrown back by our fighting men and their gallant allies! Many brave men gave their lives to halt the Red armies and force them to come to terms. We all owe these fighting men a great debt of gratitude, and I am glad to have this opportunity of paying my personal homage for their deeds.

	The Republican leaders know that the Korean War commenced when Stalin and the Communists, frustrated in Europe, turned East toward helpless unarmed Asia and the great industrial complex of Japan. And the Republican leaders also know that they did not stop the Korean War.

	They know that after Stalin died, the leadership of the Soviet Union was confused and bitterly divided; that the stalemated war was unprofitable to Communist China, and that the Communists quickly ended it on terms essentially the same as those proposed in 1952 under the Democrats.

	Many American leaders, including Senator Taft, clearly understood that with the Communists on the defensive, a new opportunity was at hand for a wider Asian settlement. Yet the Republican administration settled for the limited truce. The Chinese strength thus released from its involvement in Korea was diverted southwards to turn the tide in Indochina and to step up the pressure against Formosa, and to vastly enhance Red China's influence in Asia. And Korea continues still armed to the teeth; still divided; still a heavy drain on the U.S. 

	It is not only to correct history's distortion, not just to defend the honor and sacrifices of brave fighting men and of courageous men who had to make the great decisions, that I plead here for honesty in our national debate about war and peace. There is an even more important reason for putting a stop to playing politics with peace.

	The ultimate peace we all want is not yet won. There is not peace--the peace we seek--while our sons and brothers are still being drafted for two years of military service, their schooling interrupted, their normal lives postponed.

	There is not peace--real peace--while more than half of our taxes goes to an armaments race with the most powerful military despotism the world has ever known, and the earth's atmosphere is contaminated from week to week by exploding hydrogen bombs.

	There is not peace--which can only mean world peace--while millions chafe in Communist chains. In Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and even some parts of Latin America, ugly tensions and unbridled nationalism are mixed up, often in dangerous ways, with hopes and aspirations we all respect.

	We are in an election year--but this does not excuse us from acting responsibly. Peace is not an issue in this election. But how best to deter aggression, how to turn the turbulent, tempestuous forces of change that mark this historic era into the building of a safer, sounder world--these are very real issues and must be discussed soberly and thoughtfully and freely.

	This debate is poisoned by the claim of either party to a deeper love of peace than the other. I respect President Eisenhower's sincere and heartfelt devotion to the cause of peace. And I propose that all who speak for the Democratic party accord to our Republican friends the same devotion to the common cause of all Americans.

	And I think the cause of peace will be advanced if we hear no more of the kind of demagogic partisanship which was displayed in San Francisco and which we have been hearing for years. And as long as I'm giving the Republicans advice, let me suggest that America's cause will be served by a lot less complacency about the state of the world and a lot more truth, too!

	Let's debate in this election campaign which party offers the most responsible program for peace. Let's debate freely what seem to us the failures of either party in pressing forward to peace. But let's agree that no false political capital be made of what history denies; let's agree that all Americans and both political parties share an equal passion for peace; let's be honest even in an election year!

	I see our situation today as one in which the struggle for peace and security must be waged on three fronts. One is military. One is economic. One is moral.

	We cannot allow ourselves to become obsessed with any single one of them. We can lose this fateful contest on any front. To do so we must be willing to face the facts in each area--good or bad, encouraging or alarming. We have had enough--too much--of slogans, contradictions and advertising. It is time to return to the basic principle of a sound foreign policy--the principle that we cannot win respect and followers by kidding ourselves.

	First, as to the military front in the Cold War. In this nuclear age war holds no more promise for men of ill will than for men of good will, for there is no victory in common death. And there is no assurance, when men fight to kill, that a small war will remain small, either in area or weapons. But until there is worldwide agreement on a safe, effective system of disarmament, we cannot abandon armed deterrents to war, and must maintain and strengthen our national defense and the defenses of the Free World.

	Our guiding principle must be a degree of preparedness, which will make military aggression at any level unprofitable to our enemies, even as Korea proved unprofitable to them. Thereby we will force the great twentieth century struggle out into the safer arena of diplomacy, ideas, and economics.

	While I make no pretenses to special competence, I have thought that a powerful strategic air force must be the first element in this defense establishment. The risk of letting the balance of air and atomic power shift against us is one we must not run--though unhappily, this seems to be exactly what is happening today. We hope we will never have to use this air force. And the stronger it is the less likely its use will be. But exclusive reliance on strategic air power would seem to mean that we are committed to an all-or-nothing strategy. The danger in this is that in an emergency we would be forced to choose between appeasement and annihilation--between doing nothing and too much--with hideous consequences. Yet this appears to be exactly the administration's strategy.

	While the Republicans say that we cannot afford the balanced defense establishment which is proposed, I would say that we cannot afford an unbalanced defense establishment. And I insist that the richest and most productive country in the world can adequately defend itself against the threats posed by a country with a third our productive power.

	I am not contending that we must have a larger defense budget. That is a question to be faced and decided after the determination of what constitutes a balanced defense. But the American people do not yet have the necessary facts. We hear rather only the echoes of the bitter controversies and rivalries which infect our armed forces as they never did under a civilian president.

	It is clear that we must rethink the problems of military strategy and military requirements in the atomic age. Many military thinkers believe that the armies of the future, a future upon us now, will employ mobile, technically trained and highly professional units, equipped with tactical atomic weapons. Already it has become apparent that our most urgent need is to encourage trained men to reenlist rather than to multiply the number of partly trained men as we are currently doing. We can now anticipate the possibility--hopefully but responsibly--that within the foreseeable future we can maintain the military forces we need without the draft.

	I want to say two things about this prospect: First, I trust that both parties will reject resolutely any thought of playing politics with this issue which strikes as closely into every American home as the Korean War did in 1952, and is susceptible to the same political exploitation.

	Second, I think it is the national will, shared equally by every American--candidate or voter, Democrat or Republican--that the draft be ended at the earliest possible moment consistent with the national safety. I subscribe with all my heart to this purpose.

	I have been speaking of the defenses we need--to deter aggression if possible, to defeat it if necessary. But in the atomic age no plan for defense is enough unless it is accompanied by a plan for disarmament--that is, by a practical alternative to war. As I have said, war is no longer, if it ever was, a rational means of adjusting differences among nations.

Unilateral disarmament offers no solution to the problem, as we have learned the hard way. We must search endlessly, therefore, for practical steps toward a world in which differences must be settled without the use of force or threat. Peace requires a social inventiveness to match our technological ingenuity--if the unity of mankind is to be a unity in life and not in death.

	Practical steps can be taken. Many have been proposed. And in this connection, I regret that the administration chose to casually dismiss my proposal last spring to halt further testing of large nuclear devices, conditioned upon adherence by the other atomic powers to a similar policy. I call attention to the fact that these other nations have subsequently announced their willingness to limit such tests.

	Finally, I deeply believe that it is the destiny of our generation to choose life or death, not only for ourselves and all mankind--and that no nation, no civilization has ever been called to a mightier, more urgent task.

	And now, of the other two equally important fronts of the struggle for peace.

	On the economic front, I will have more to say on other occasions, but let me emphasize today that we cannot deal with the great revolutions of our time--the revolutions against poverty and against foreign domination--just by military pacts and anti-Communist exhortations.

	Who would have thought a few years ago that half of all mankind, some twenty-two nations, would be independent by now? The current of freedom that is sweeping the world is without precedent, and it is implacable, irrevocable, and irreversible. Along with this great political awakening scores of millions have learned too that hunger, poverty, and pestilence are not the immutable destiny of man, and they are demanding a better life--and quick!

	In many ways, it is sad to relate, the Communists have succeeded in exploiting these revolutions. We say they are cynical, and of course they are. But they are shrewd, too, and realize that in this new era victory is more likely to be won by appealing to man's hopes than to his fears.

	Our foreign aid programs are not accomplishing their purpose. The emphasis has been heavily military, but we cannot meet the hunger of the underdeveloped countries for economic growth and political independence by sending them sermons and guns. If we cannot meet the challenge of economic betterment by voluntary democratic means, we risk the loss of the struggle in that vast uncommitted area which may well determine the balance of world power in the second half of the twentieth century.

	Finally, of the moral front:

	It is on this of all fronts that it seems to me America is most powerfully armed--and has used its power to least advantage. A few years ago, we stood in the eyes of the world as a brave and generous nation, a nation which had gained by its history and its sacrifices title to the confidence and support of the free people of the world--the old democracies of the West and the new sovereignties of the East.

	Today the structure of our alliance is enfeebled--from Iceland to Greece and from Turkey to Japan. Today people, once our admirers, view our postures with derision and our purposes with mistrust. Our leaders look foolish when they cannot agree whether to fight or not to fight in Indochina, whether neutralism is moral or immoral, or whether the Soviet Union is growing stronger or weaker, whether to help or not to help with the Aswan Dam, and whether to leash or unleash Chiang Kai-Shek--or maybe both! Four years of threats and smiles have diminished respect for our words, as four years of boasts and bluff have diminished respect for our will.

	The image we present to the world has too often reflected the internal conflicts in the Republican party, has too often been one of bullying tempered by irresolution. And let me remind you that, in foreign policy, "how" is often as important as "what"--how a great nation behaves is often as meaningful to others as what it proposes.

	How far short we are falling of the radiant promise of mighty America, the child of revolution! I do not believe that America's moral influence, or spiritual power, has run out, and that we can influence others in the world only by brandishing our military might. I believe that our best weapon is still the power of our ideals--the American ideals of independence for nations and justice for man--the ideals which today animate Asia and Africa and the myriads emerging from the shadows of colonialism and imperialism.

	We can lead the world, in the end, only as we remain true to our own ideals of freedom and justice. I am saying, for example, that we cannot convince others that we really believe in justice when mobs prevent Negro children from lawfully attending school, any more than we can convince other people that we really believe in liberty, when snoopers and censors, conformity and fear, curtail freedom of inquiry and expression in our own land.

	Like charity, foreign policy begins at home. And an American policy for peace can only come from a nation genuinely dedicated to the great purpose of the American experiment.

	That is why those who play politics with foreign policy are enemies of peace. (I would remind you that the Republican-controlled Eighty-Third Congress harassed the Republican president so much that he even considered forming a third party. It was only when the Democrats took over in 1955 that the president was permitted to play his constitutional role.)

	Our history reveals many occasions when playing politics with foreign policy beclouded our resolution and even drove us to unwise action. We can afford that no longer.

	The desire for peace is not a partisan monopoly. It is not a political issue. But the method of achieving peace raises questions, serious questions, questions that must be decided for better or worse. So let us discuss them. But let us not impeach the motives of one another. In this way, debate will become, not a source of acrimony, but a means of enlightenment. In this way, and only this way, can the democratic process function well and widely in the new era that lies ahead--an era in which the abolition of war is not a visionary ideal but a practical necessity.

	I am confident that we can enter the portals of peace if God grants us the wisdom and courage to act greatly in a great moment of history.
AIR FORCEECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFOREIGN AID--GENERALKOREAN WARMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)VETERAN BENEFITSVETERANSWORLD WAR IWORLD WAR IICOMMUNISMMILITARY PREPAREDNESS     V U U U U
 U U U U U U U U	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	 h 	 M 	 = 	 5 	 *     e: