

	The President spoke to you about the Middle East crisis last night. The networks have been good enough to accord me time to speak tonight, and I want to tell you how this crisis came about, this crisis which is so threatening to peace and to our interests in this strategic area.

	This matter should be above politics--if anything can be a few days before election--because all Americans suffer from any failure of our foreign policy, and from war anywhere in the world; for in this hydrogen age, war is contagious.

	I have only a few moments so let me hastily sum up the central facts of the situation. I can find no better way to do this than to read you a sentence from a special dispatch from Washington in today's New York Times: "The United States has lost control of events in areas vital to its security. This is the main conclusion of serious and well-informed men here tonight concerning the U.S. role in the Middle East crisis."

	The condition which confronts us is stark and simple--our Mid-Eastern policy is at absolute dead end. And the hostilities going on tonight in which Israel, Egypt, Britain, and France are involved reflects the bankruptcy of our policy; and they have given the Soviet Union two great victories.

	The first Communist victory is the establishment in the Middle East of the Russian influence for which the Czars sought in vain for centuries and which Communists have now achieved in a few months.

	The second Communist victory is the breakdown of the Western Alliance. This has been a supreme objective of Soviet policy since the end of the Second World War.

	As the climax, the United States finds itself arrayed in the United Nations with Soviet Russia and the dictator of Egypt against the democracies of Britain, France, and Israel.

	A foreign policy which has brought about these results--which has benefited Communism and has cut our own country off from our democratic friends--is a foreign policy which has failed. And, at a time when the uprisings in Poland and Hungary are opening the Soviet world to freedom, the strategic Middle East is opening to Communist penetration.

	I have three points to make tonight.

	The first is that this series of failures could have been averted--that they were in great part the result of ill-consideration and mistaken policies of this administration.

	The second is that this administration not only made mistake after mistake in its Middle Eastern policy but has withheld the consequences from the American people.

	The third is that there are many things which might have been done in the last year to avert war in the Middle East.

	The Middle East is one of the most important strategic areas in the world. It has three-quarters of the world's known oil reserves and it controls the land, sea and air communications linking three continents. All nations which have sought world domination have wanted to control the Middle East.

	When President Eisenhower came to office in January 1953, Communist influence in the Middle East was at a low ebb, and the area was more free of violence than it had been in years.

	Things changed.

	Secretary of State Dulles began by giving General Naguib--Colonel Nasser's predecessor--a pistol as a personal gift from President Eisenhower. The fateful symbolism of this gift was not lost upon Israel or the Arab States. It was the token of a new policy called "impartiality" between the Arab States, on the one hand, and, on the other, the new democracy of Israel whom they had vowed to destroy and whom we and the United Nations were pledged to defend.

	Following this, pursuing the new policy of trying to build up Nasser as s bulwark of stability in the Middle East, the United States pressured the British to evacuate their great military base along the Suez Canal without making any provision for international control of the canal.

	Then Mr. Dulles fanned the flames of ambition, nationalism, and rivalry in the Middle East with the so-called Baghdad Pact as a defense against Russia. But its military advantages were far outweighed by its political disadvantages. And it was particularly offensive to Nasser--the very man whom he had been trying to build up.

	Then in 1955 Colonel Nasser's negotiations for some arms from the United States bogged down in everlasting haggling. And so he negotiated an arms deal with the Communists.

	We not only failed to stop the introduction of Communist arms into the Middle East, but we refused to assist Israel with arms, too. We also refused to give Israel a guarantee of her integrity, although we had given such guarantees to others. And in the meantime, we dangled before Colonel Nasser the prospect of financial aid for building a great dam on the Nile.

	In time, the bankruptcy of the Eisenhower administration's policy began to become evident even to Mr. Dulles. It became clear that Colonel Nasser was not a bulwark of stability but a threat to peace in the Middle East. Thereupon President Eisenhower abruptly and publicly withdrew the aid he had led Colonel Nasser to expect. As anyone could have foreseen, Colonel Nasser promptly retaliated by seizing the Suez Canal.

	Driven by our policy into isolation and desperation, Israel evidently became convinced that the only hope remaining was to attack Egypt before Egypt attacked her. So she took her tragic decision.

	Here we stand today. We have alienated our chief European allies, we have alienated Israel. We have alienated Egypt and the Arab countries, and in the U.N. our main associate in Middle Eastern matters now appears to be Communist Russia in the very week when the Red Army has been shooting down the brave people of Hungary and Poland. We have lost every point in the game. I doubt if ever before in our diplomatic history has an policy been such an abysmal, such a complete and such a catastrophic failure.

	It is bad enough to be responsible for such a disastrous policy; I think it is almost worse in a democracy to try and conceal the truth from the people. But this is what the Eisenhower Administration has done systematically with regard to the situation in the Middle East.

	It was only a few days ago--on October 12th--that President Eisenhower himself said in a political telecast: "I've got the best announcement that I think I can possibly make to America tonight. The progress made in the settlement of the Suez dispute this afternoon at the United Nations, is most gratifying... it looks like there's a very great progress that's behind us." And the next day Vice President Nixon gave his views. "We have kept the peace," Mr. Nixon said, "and it appears that Mr. Eisenhower's tolerance and wisdom and leadership will serve to avert armed conflict in that part of the globe."

	Either the President and the Vice President did not know how serious the situation was in the Middle East, or they did not want the American people to know--at least, till after the election.

	And only last Sunday--just four years ago--Mr. Dulles said in a television interview that the United States, Britain, and France "have developed a common policy, and I think it's amazing the degree to which we have had a common policy... and the fact that there are certain minor superficial difficulties as to details about just how you handle tolls, or how much is going to get paid to Egypt and how much isn't, doesn't detract from the fact that we have a common policy." The "superficial difficulties" of Sunday became pretty formidable by Tuesday, when Britain and France broke with the United States in the U.N.

	This is but a brief summary of this sorry chapter, but I think it demonstrates that the Middle Eastern policy of our government in Washington was blundering and mistaken, and that it has compounded its blunders by a consistent policy of misleading the American people into believing that all was well in the world.

	But the question now is what to do about it.

	A year ago on Armistice Day 1955, I discussed the Middle Eastern crisis in a speech at Charlottesville, Virginia. I pointed out the growing dangers in the areas and suggested that United Nations guards should patrol the areas of violence and collision and keep the hostile forces apart. I said that I would take decisive acts of statesmanship to head off all-out war in the Middle East.

	As late as the summer of 1955 at the Geneva Conference, if the president had taken an insistent stand against the shipment of Communist arms to Egypt, I am convinced that the Communists would not have risked arming Egypt as they have.

	Had the Eisenhower administration taken a firm stand in the Middle East, had it aided Israel with arms and territorial guarantees, we might, I believe, have been able to prevent the present outbreak of hostilities. And if this government had not alternately appeased and provoked Egypt, I do think that we would command more confidence there and in the Arab world.

	But all this is behind us. What can we do now to deal with the crisis in front of us? It appears that President Eisenhower is now approaching this problem by trying, very properly, to check military action. But this will only restore the situation that existed up until four days ago. I say this betrays a complete lack of understanding of the crisis. The situation of four days ago was one when events were threatening strangulation of our European allies, the destruction of Israel, and increasing control of the Middle East by Communist Russia. Just to restore that situation would be another setback for the West.

	I would not condone the use of force, even by our friends and allies. But I say that we now have an opportunity to use our great potential moral authority, our own statesmanship, the weight of our economic power, to bring about solutions to the whole range of complex problems confronting the Free World in the Middle East.

	The time has come to wipe the slate clean and begin anew. We must, for a change, be honest with ourselves and honest with the rest of the world. The search for peace demands the best that is in us. The time is now. We can no longer escape the challenge of history.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)EGYPTEGYPT--SUEZ CANALMIDDLE EAST     s( ?( 9( 5( -(
  ( ( ( 
( (  ( ' '	 U 	 E 	 <  !     e: