

	Thank you very much.  Thank you very much, Claude, for that very kind introduction.  Claude Pepper says he's not feeling well.  He's got a cold.  If he can do that when he's sick, I'd like to be around with him when he's really feeling good.

	Claude is one of my oldest friends and one of the most decent public servants in the United States today, a conscience for our country on issues that bear on social justice.  Let's give Claude Pepper a special hand for honoring us with his presence here today.

	May I say a special word of thanks to the Jewish Community Center?  I've heard about this center for some time.  I've never been here, but it's as good as everybody said.  This is a magnificent center, and I know you're glad to be here.  You're proud of the work that's being done here, and those of you who are leading this center, who helped develop it and bring it forward, you're doing what our nation needs.  You're doing what our citizens need, and I'm going to come away from here remembering a wonderful facility and a wonderful day.  Thank you for letting us hold our event here.

	To Governor Harry Hughes, thank you for your presence.  Congresswoman Barbara Mikulski, who serves as the national chair of my campaign; Congresswoman Mary Rose Okar from Cleveland, a leading expert and leader in senior citizens work in the Congress; to your good attorney general, Steve Sachs; and Mike Barnes, of course; and Charlie Gilchrist and Charlene Drew Jarvis.

	And stand up here, Paul.  The reason I wanted you to take a good look at Paul Sarbanes is that the United States Senate was in session all night.  They adjourned this morning at 8:30 a.m.  Paul Sarbanes was up all night fighting for Maryland, and he got in his car to come to this rally.

	And look at him.  Look at him.  A great senator who doesn't need any sleep.  Would you like to explain this one?  He doesn't want to explain it.  Geritol does wonderful things.

	And to all of my friends here throughout the audience, and those of you in the front row who are leading a national effort for me and for our country for justice for senior citizens to make this crucial issue clear to the American people, I thank you for your support.

	Every significant leader in America who believes in Social Security and Medicare and help for the disabled, I think every one of them supports Walter Mondale.

	That ought to tell you something about the clarity of this issue.  In a few of these issues, it's maybe a debate, but on who is best for justice for senior citizens, there's no debate at all.  His name is Walter Mondale, and her name is Geraldine Ferraro.

	I had, as you know, a dear, dear friend who encouraged me to go into politics and was almost a father to me.  He used to talk about what he called the moral tests of government.  He said two of the most important were how we treat those in the twilight of life, our elderly, and how we treat those in the shadows of life, the sick and the disabled.

	A half century ago, America unfortunately was failing every one of those tests.  When workers became disabled, they and their families were plunged into despair.

	When serious illness struck, most of them couldn't afford a doctor or a hospital.

	After a lifetime of hard work, senior citizens were usually seen to be too old to work and too young to die.  We were not at all decent to our fathers and our mothers.  For many, it was the poorhouse that greeted them and thanked them for a life of work.

	Together as Americans, we changed that.  Now, life is much better, more secure than it was fifty years ago.  People like Claude Pepper and Bob Ball and Arthur Flemming--I'm not going to go down this because they're all here--made that difference.  Let's not go back to those days one inch.  Every one of those victories has helped this nation.  We're a better nation.  I am proud of those programs, and I am not going to let them touch a single dime of it.  I'm going to protect it.

	Now, there's a little thing going on Sunday night called a debate, and my hope is that one of the questions will involve these differences about Social Security and Medicare and help for the disabled.

	Do you know what we're going to hear from Mr. Reagan?  "I'm the best friend those programs ever had."  He'll want you to believe that.  So why don't we just go over the record?

	First of all, when Mr. Reagan started his campaign, he said, "There's one thing I can tell you for sure.  You ain't seen nothin' yet."  I agree with that.

	When it comes to helping senior citizens, we haven't seen anything at all.

	Look at what they did this last time.  First they took an ax to Social Security even though in the 1980 campaign, as Claude pointed out, they promised to use his words to support and defend the integrity of the Social Security system.

	Once elected, they took a big meat ax out and tried to cut 25% of the Social Security program.  Minimum benefits for the poorest, burial benefits, educational benefits for the survivors, usually a widow trying to get her kids through college, help for people who had to retire early because they were wrecks.

	They tried to cut $200 billion out of Social Security and ruin it for millions of Americans.  Fortunately, the Congress wouldn't let them get away with it.

	They promised when they ran that they were going to protect Medicare.  Remember, they were going to protect the safety net?  Once again, right after taking office, they broke that promise.  They cut it by $15 billion.  They want to cut it by $20 billion more, and the current budget proposal by this administration raised the cost of hospital care for the average senior citizen by 70 percent, which of course most seniors don't have.

	As a result, today many seniors live in daily fear.  They know that illness can wipe out a lifetime of savings.  I'm sure that if we spent an hour here, we could hear some real hair curlers.

	I talked to some people in Florida.  One of them came up and said, "My wife has asthma.  She went to the hospital last week for four days.  She came home and I got a bill for over $2,000 and I haven't got the doctors' bills yet."  He said, "How am I going to pay that?"

	Everyone in this room has a friend who could tell you a story like that.  The fear of the cost of a major illness is a profound fear for seniors and for everyone else.  That's what Medicare is all about.

	Finally, they declared war on the disabled.  In March 1981, this administration began what can only be called a cruel and unfair purge of the disability insurance rolls.

	During the next few months, under the guise of budget savings, they sent termination notices to half a million Americans.  The computers decided who were going to survive.  There was no humanity in it all.  No hearings.  No listening to these people.

	The New York Times called it "official cruelty."  Who are these people?  Mentally ill people.  You know, when you look around and you see these bag ladies walking in the streets.  These pathetic people trying to sleep over grills.  These sad folks who walk around in sort of the twilight zone of life, helpless, defenseless, confused, not knowing what's happening to them.  Handicapped.  Unable to care for themselves.

	These are God's people, stricken down by things that would destroy any one of us, and they need just a little lifeline to keep some minimum dignity and decency to their lives.


	I think it's one of the cruelest things that happened in modern American history because you can't justify it.  That's not what the American people are, and if it had happened once by mistake, that can happen.  But this went on for nearly four years.  Thousands, hundreds of thousands of them terminated from their benefits.  Time and time again, federal courts would rule that it was illegal, and the government would ignore those pleas.

	Let me give you one example.  Sixteen years ago in Vietnam, a sergeant named Benivites was severely wounded while he was trying to save eight comrades.  He had two pieces of shrapnel in his heart.  Both his arms and his legs were mangled, and his lung was punctured.  In recognition of his heroism, the president awarded a Congressional Medal of Honor in 1981.

	Then a few months later, the administration took away, terminated, Sergeant Benivites's disability benefits.

	Last year, the sergeant testified before the Congress.  He was wearing his Medal of Honor.  Let me quote him:  "This administration that put this medal around my neck is cutting my benefits."  He wasn't getting much.  Just enough to survive.

	Is that the kind of country we are?  Is that the kind of people we are?  My answer is a resounding "No!  We are not an uncaring, selfish people."

	The record is a travesty, but here the past is prologue.  You know I've been trying to get Mr. Reagan to tell us how he's going to get that $263 billion deficit down.  He won't answer.

	Finally, the other day, Sam Donaldson penetrated that question-free zone and said, "Mr. President, what are you going to cut?"  This is his answer:  "Take a look at the budgets I've already submitted, and look at the cuts I've asked for and was not given."

	Well, what is that?  Almost all of it is Social Security and Medicare.  Look at the 40 percent they wanted to cut from people who retire early that they didn't get.  Look at the 30 percent they wanted to cut from disability benefits and didn't get.  Look at the $1,500 they wanted to make the elderly pay each year in hospital costs.  That's what they wanted and they didn't get.

	Let me say one other thing--they shouldn't have gotten it.  The Congress is right, and I believe, if I'm correct, they will never get that because the Congress, thank God, won't go along with it.

	There's other evidence of what they're up to.  Mr. Stockman said this--he's the director of the Budget Bureau:  "Our biggest failure was that we didn't create a much bigger package of spending cuts in the beginning.  We should have gone after the big boulders--the social insurance programs."

	Then his boss said the other day that we need to revamp Social Security.  Claude Pepper responded.  He said, "When your boss calls you in and said he's going to revamp your wages, do you think he's getting ready to give you a raise?"

	Now, the truth of it is that the first time they told you they'd protect Social Security and Medicare and disability benefits and didn't, it was their fault.

	The next time they tell you they're going to do it and you believe them, it's your fault.  Don't let them get away with it.

	When you listen to their pledges, listen very carefully.  For example, in 1980 he said this: "We will make certain no senior citizen will ever miss a Social Security payment.  I will make sure benefits are adjusted to reflect the cost of living."

	Sounds pretty good, doesn't it?  But just look at it.  That permits him to cut out everybody who's not on Social Security entirely.  It says it will "protect" payments, but it doesn't say how much.  The Social Security inflationary adjustments said "reflect" it.  They didn't say they would achieve it.  So it's a statement that sounds good, but if you analyze it, it's so full of loopholes, they can do anything they want with it.

	The other day, he repeated an old formulation:  "I will never pull the rug out from under the people now dependent on Social Security."  Sounds good, but what about the people who are going to go on Social Security?  What does it mean, "dependent"?  Does that put a means test on Social Security, which means you could convert Social Security from a right under law to a welfare program?

	If you want to destroy Social Security, make it a welfare program. The genius of Social Security is that you're entitled to it under law because you paid into the fund, and there is dignity to that.  If you're getting a welfare check, there is not dignity, and they will destroy the program just as quickly as they can.  So listen carefully with good ears.  There might be more than meets the eye, as there was last time.

	I am here today about a month from the election to make a pledge that I will fulfill, as I have all my public life.  I will defend security adjusted for inflation for all on Social Security and all who will go on Social Security.

	To do that, we need a president who will cut health costs, not cut Social Security checks.  We need a president who will stop the tax rip-offs, not stop benefits for the disabled.  We need a president who will crack down on waste by defense contractors, not on defenseless senior citizens.

	I'll bet you most of you in this room know where you could buy a coffee pot that costs less than $7,000, which the air force paid for one.  I believe it.  We need a president who will do something about it.  So first I will make sure that that Social Security program is protected for our seniors.  Today the Social Security trust fund is sound.  We don't need a president who will revamp it.  We need a president who will protect it.

	I want to make a pledge. Next year is the fiftieth year of Social Security.  On that year, I want Social Security in as good shape as Claude Pepper is today at eighty-four--sound, solid, and good.

	Second, I will end the war on the disabled.  I will support the court decisions.  I hope the president signs that law that you finally got on his desk.  Let's the rest of us give those poor disabled the security and the dignity that they're entitled to.

	Finally, I will protect Medicare by slamming a lid on skyrocketing health costs.  We need a national health-care cost containment bill.

	We can do three things in health care.  We can let costs continue to soar and pay them.  We know we can't do that.  The second thing we can do is dump more and more of it on senior citizens.  They can't pay it.  That's the way of repealing Medicare.  That's what the Republicans are doing.  The third thing we can do is stand up and get tough on these runaway health costs.  Everybody knows that since it's Medicare money or Medicaid money, Blue Cross or Blue Shield, a lot of times, these providers charge more than they need to, because it's somebody else's money.

	It's our money and it's our future, and we've got to get tough and prevent them from ripping off those programs.

	The Republican plan has been "official cruelty"; mine will be "simple decency."

	Let me close with one story that tells you the difference.  A few weeks ago, I attended a national banquet of Italian Americans at which the president spoke and I spoke.  In that speech, the president gave a compelling story about this Italian immigrant family that came to this country on a modest income, worked hard, and sent their bright young boy through medical school.  The boy later saved the life of the president.  The president said, "I know.  I was the patient."  Very compelling and moving story.

	A few days later, an article appeared in the paper signed by a Dr. Giordano, the doctor who had saved the president's life.  He said, "Mr. President, I'm glad we could save your life.  We all are, but," he said, "there are a few things you should know."  He said, "I got through medical school because I was able to get the help of a low-cost federal loan."  He said, "Most of the people practicing with me got more help than I did."

	He said, "Secondly, these modern medical miracles that you refer to came about because we had presidents who supported the National Institutes of Health and the great research and health centers of our country to expand human knowledge and medical knowledge."

	He said, "Finally, you should know that my father and my mother are on Social Security.  My father has had to use the benefits of Medicare on more than one occasion."  Then he made the point that I think is basic to our difference.

	He said, "For some Americans, they can and should do it all on their own, but," he said, "for many Americans, like myself, every once and awhile, we need a little help, and we need a president who understands that."

	Thank you very much.

DISABLED PERSONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHEALTH CARE--SENIOR CITIZENSVETERANSMEDICARESENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITY     ? ? ? ? ?
 ? }? x? o? g? e? P? E?	 u 	 e 	 J 	 .  &     e: