
	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

	Thank you very much, Mr. Giaza, for that fine introduction. Mrs. Bush, Mr. Valenti, Congressman Guarini, Congressman Torricelli, ladies and gentlemen: I think two disclosures are in order. First of all, I noticed there was great enthusiasm for Georgetown--and not so much for Yale.

	If Mr. Bush and I were both here, at least there would be two of us in the audience and we could agree on something very important.

	The second thing I ought to say is that even though I am a graduate of Georgetown, I don't want to be guilty of false advertising. I was born and remain a Southern Baptist and I hope you won't hold it against me.

	Let me say how glad I am too to be here in the presence of your honorees. Gino Paolucci, who has pressed your cause for so many years to me and to others in public life who were not of Italian descent. Mr. Romiki, who gave a very eloquent statement and a visionary one about the direction we must take. And Sophia Loren, whose magnificent performance in Two Women is still vividly etched in my memory even though it occurred a year or two ago. 

	I'd like to talk tonight about a great Italian explorer, inspired by the spirit of the Renaissance, a man who sailed with a fleet of tiny boats across great waters to places he didn't know existed. And when he came ashore he was in a whole new land. And today, we know that land as Arkansas--

	Really. His name was Enrico Detonze. He sailed down the Mississippi River in 1686 and established the first European settlement in my home state. Now we have a--now we have a little town back home in Arkansas named for him. It's still mostly Italian and every year they have a great festival there. If you're an ordinary politician, you get to stomp grapes in a vat. And if you're real special you get to crown the grape queen.

	It's about 180 miles north of another community my state called "Little Italy." The people who settled there share the same heritage as those who settled in Brooklyn or San Francisco or Boston. They came here with a great love of family and with hearts full of hope. They came, they worked, and they conquered.

	Italian-Americans have brought excellence to every area of our national life, to politics and business, to entertainment and the arts, to sports and law, to education, and to plain old time-honored hard work.

	Just think of all we've received from them. From Barcilotti who so loved learning and [missing text]. From Frank Capra who loved the common man. Lee Iacocca who saved the great American company from extinction. Joe DiMaggio who showed real grace under pressure. And from Congressman Peter Rodino who did such honor to our great constitution.

	There are countless other Italian-Americans, including those of you here tonight, who have enriched our economy and ennobled our culture. Your success is America's success. And that's what America is supposed to be about. If you work hard, you'll get ahead not just materially but in your overall ability to fulfill your God-given capacities. That is as it should be and that is the great legacy of our country.

	I entered this race because I think that future and that legacy is in doubt. This is still the greatest nation in the world. But the most troubling issue we face is the risk of raising the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents in the face of global economic challenges, environmental difficulties, and a world in which how we make out in life increasingly turns on what we can learn.

	Most people today in this country, according to our own census, are working harder for less than they were making ten years ago. There is more poverty and great inequality and serious question about our ability to compete and win in the global economy. And that has placed strains on the way we treat one another. There has been a rise of intolerance in this country in recent years, a rise of ethnic and racial tension, that we have seen in unusual places. I saw a swastika on a temple in Brooklyn, but I know too in the last year there have been crosses burned in the unlikely places of Iowa and New Hampshire.

	There are those who have sought to play on this fear to suggest that some families aren't real families, some Americans aren't real Americans. One person in a public forum even said this country could use a religious war. But I think that is the last thing America needs.

	I went to Georgetown University nearly thirty years ago, a Baptist from a small town in Arkansas, and I became enriched by my exposure to the Catholic faith as well as the Jesuit education. I also found myself drawn to the great Catholic social mission, to John Kennedy's statement that here on earth God's work must truly be our own. 

	I came also to respect and appreciate the world's diversity of cultures and religion and came to understand how much stronger and better America could be if we could incorporate and appreciate them all.

	This is a long and tough campaign in a difficult time for our country. I hope that in this campaign, my contribution can be worthy of the work, the values, and the commitment to excellence that Italians have brought to America.

	President Bush and I may disagree on economic policy, the best way to make America competitive, on how to control health care costs, and cover everyone's health care needs, on issues like family leave and how to get everybody to college.

	But I want to say here before this patriotic group that I honor him and Mrs. Bush for their love for our country and their family and for their years of service to the United States.

	I want--I want us to have a government that is embodied in the idea of voluntary national service that I have advanced in this campaign, a domestic peace corps that would enable young Americans to borrow the money to go to college and pay it back with two years of work for our nation here at home as police officers--or teachers, working the elderly or people with disabilities, making this a stronger and better country.

	I want an America that appreciates all Americans in the way that I saw in an Italian neighborhood in Boston not very long ago with the Irish mayor Ray Flynn. The neighborhood now houses the Old North Church which was so central to Paul Revere's ride. Paul Revere was neither Irish nor Italian, but the Irish mayor sang Italian songs and all of us loved America together.

	As we try to bring out the best in our country and lead to a better world, we must never forget the important ties that we have had with Italy, which has always stood with us when the going got tough, a friendship still key to Western security concerns in the Balkans, North Africa, the Middle East, and the Persian Gulf.

	And we have much to learn from Italy here at home too. A few years ago, I went with President Bush's first chief of staff, then Governor John Sununu, to Italy and I saw miraculous things being done in the north of Italy to help small business people become world-class entrepreneurs by sharing resources and learning and marketing. I brought some of those ideas home and today, in small communities in the southern part of my state, there's a metal workers' cooperative that's been nationally recognized as an economic innovation worthy of the twenty-first century. It's not my idea. It came from Italy.

	I also hope we can remember the legacy of citizenship that we got from the Romans, what they call res publica, the public thing. That's our American republic, something we can be proud of.

	I want to remember especially one Italian-American tonight who's already been mentioned, Judge John Sirica, who in the face of terrible pressure saved our republic from those who had lost respect for the rule of law, who thirsted after truth and brought honor to our name as Americans. That's the kind of judge we need on the Supreme Court.

	You know, I received some criticism not very long ago when I said Governor Cuomo was the sort of person that I thought would be a good judge. But I have to tell you, the reason I said that is that I'd give every penny I've got in the bank for a ringside seat at the first argument between Mario Cuomo and Justice Scalia. Two men of great intellect and greater conviction who have struggled to overcome what must have been at times in their lives a silent prejudice that some Americans still have yet to openly admit.

	If I am fortunate enough to be elected president about a month from now, I know part of my duty is to fight bigotry by setting an example, by giving you a cabinet, a staff, and appointments that look like America.

	I know that part of my responsibility is to live up to the slogan we print on our coins. America's diversity is our strength. We have to be a country coming together, not apart.

	There is no place for bigotry in this land, whether it's directed at African Americans or Hispanics, at Asians or Native Americans, at Jews or people whose last name ends in a vowel. I would remind those who feel that bigotry that America ends in a vowel. Amerigo Vespucci ends in two vowels.

	My fellow Americans, we have much work to do. The test for us in this generation is whether we can reap the benefits of our victory in the Cold War by winning the peace, whether we can make the changes necessary to renew the American dream in our lifetime, to seize the amazing opportunities the future holds. To do that, we'll need the same courage that sustained the immigrants from Italy, from Ireland, from China, from all over the world who came here. The courage of a young Italian, the son of weavers, a middle-class entrepreneur with a dream and no one who would ever give him any seed capital for years and years. He persevered and because he did, nine days from today, we will celebrate his day.

	I say to you tonight that the dream he carried on the Santa Maria, the American dream, may be 500 years old. But it's still much too young to die. And we too in this generation, like Christoforo Colombo in his, have new worlds to explore if we have the courage to make America young again.

	Thank you. Viva Italia. And God bless America.
DISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALGLOBAL ECONOMYGOVERNMENT APPOINTMENTS--MINORITIESITALIAN AMERICANSDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISM     ) ( ( ( (
 ( ( ( ( ( ( 2( ((	 y 	 \ 	 N 	 +  