

	I was reminded that my grandfather, then a candidate for vice president, spoke here in Richmond exactly sixty years ago this week in the old Academy of Music. According to the newspaper account, the audience responded "enthusiastically" to his "exposure of the iniquities of the Republican tariff system," and he took his seat amid "deafening applause."

	For the deafening applause his grandson is prepared to await the conclusion of his remarks, and meanwhile any reference to Republican iniquities will be wholly unintentional!

	Here in Richmond tonight, in Virginia, rich both in history and in the knowledge of its history, I am moved to talk for a few minutes of the past.

	This is not an idle task. We can chart our future clearly and wisely only when we know the path which has led to the present. A great American philosopher has said that those who can't remember the past are condemned to live it again.

	The South is a good place to take our bearings, because in no part of the country does the past--a past of great nobility and great tragedy--more sharply etch the present than in the South. It is a good place to think of the grim problems of war and peace which weigh so heavily on all of us today. For here we can best learn the lessons suggested by the peace of 1865, made when the great voice of moderation had been stilled. I have been privileged to live for four years in Springfield, Illinois, the home of Abraham Lincoln. The victor's settlement permitted the South to keep its charm, its mockingbirds, and its eaten biscuits. For himself the victor retained only the money and the power.

	It took the South decades to recover. During these bleak years, from 1865 to 1912, the Republican party was constantly in power, except for the two discontinuous terms of Grover Cleveland. In one of them my grandfather was privileged to serve as vice president. And, again, between Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt, the Republican party had another long term of rule. The Democratic party, therefore, had the dubious distinction of wandering in the desert for a longer time than the children of Israel after their flight from Egypt.

	For the South this period was a desert without an oasis. But, however hard it was to bear at the time, we in the more fortunate present can view it with a semblance of charity. For the Republican leadership did not neglect the south and other Democrats simply because you were Democrats. In its frozen impartiality it also neglected Republican farmers, small businessmen and working people. Men earned the neglect of the Republican leaders not by their political affiliation, but by being small and poor. And this is why so many people have shifted to the Democratic party.

	The Republican leadership did not merely treat the South with arrogant and massive neglect. It did more. It shackled the South, and millions outside the South, through its control of Congress; its control of money and banking; its favoritism to powerful interests; its espousal of high tariffs, high interest rates and unfair freight rates.

	In the larger sense you became colonials of an empire which, if it was not alien, was at least absentee. Yours was primarily an agricultural economy, depending for cash income largely on cotton and tobacco. Of these you produced far more than could be consumed at home.

	You paid exorbitant rates of interest for mortgage and crop loans. Nobody consulted you about freight rates. You just paid them. Crops sold for what they would bring because farmers could not hold them for higher prices. Bitterly they witnessed prices rise only after their crops had gone out of their hands.

	It is interesting to recall that more than half a century ago southern and western farmers pleaded for government warehouses where they could hold their crops for better prices in exchange for certificates at 80 percent of the market value. The plan was denounced by Republican leaders as socialistic, a phrase they evidently never get tired of. But now, since the Democrats have enacted essentially the same plan, the Republicans approve enthusiastically. Indeed, bidding for the farm vote up in Minnesota the other day, the Republican candidate for president pulled the Democratic platform right out from under me!

	But to return to the past. When you marketed your crops abroad, you sold in free markets for the going price. But when you bought manufactured goods at home, Republican tariffs compelled you to pay through the nose. You have been protesting this injustice since at least the year 1828.

	Of course the Republican tariff wasn't all bad. It generously permitted Americans to worship at duty-free altars; eat from duty-free tin cans; import duty-free yachts; be hanged with duty-free rope; and admire duty-free paintings in museums.

	The Republicans were still at their old game only a little while ago, and I wish we could be sure they would not return to it if they have a chance. Over the protest of over a thousand American economists, they enacted the Smoot-Hawley tariff that raised rates to an all-time high. I need not tell Virginians, or your tobacco-growing and tobacco-processing neighbors, what that did to tobacco exports. Nor need I remind southern cotton growers and cotton manufacturers how they were harmed; or say that this tariff was a turning point in precipitating the worldwide depression of the 1930s.

	But I am not going to talk about the depression when the average yearly income of the families of one southern state was $500. I have said--and I repeat--that I am not running against President Hoover. Indeed, I think all of us have reason to be grateful to him for the work of the Hoover Commission. And the fact of the matter is, I don't know who I am running against, but I strongly suspect it is Senator Taft after all.

	But I most certainly am running against the unchanging and apparently unchangeable attitudes of the Republican leaders. Presidents come and go. But attitudes remain. For a political party, as a man, is the sum total of its inheritance, environment, experience and attitudes.

	Thus, for example, when the depression was coming on, the secretary of the treasury was Andrew Mellon. What was his formula for dealing with the depression? How did he propose to act when the magnificent promise of American life seemed at a shabby and ignominious end? Mr. Hoover, in his recently published memoirs, tells us. It was: "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate."

	That is certainly one way to deal with a depression--the graveyard way. But somehow the American people were less than enthusiastic about it, and they turned to the Democratic party which held out the prospect of life and hope.

	The Democratic party of today was born, then, of the sufferings of the people. It is neither all-wise nor all-knowing, for these are not man's gifts, but God's. But it is now--as it always has been--compassionate, merciful, humane; no stranger to human needs and wants and fears.

	The task of striking off the shackles of the South, begun by Woodrow Wilson, has brought you to your rightful place in the Union not as a matter of charity, not as a sectional matter, but because a happy, purposeful people in a strong, prosperous country is the democratic goal. The southern states, too, it seems to me, have played a large part in liberating men's creative energies and reaching these goals.

	Everywhere this liberation of man's powers during the Democratic decades has brilliantly succeeded, but nowhere has its success been more marked than in the South. Here has come the richest flowering of a great region our nation has witnessed. A new vitality and creative energy is apparent in every aspect of southern culture--material, intellectual and spiritual. Your colleges are crowded. There is a keen interest in the arts.

	Some years ago a famous American critic said that the South was the wasteland of the mind. Yet at that very moment, I am told, so many of your housewives had novels simmering with the soup--among them Gone with the Wind--that many husbands had to wait for supper. And men--in an effort perhaps to keep up with their women, among them your own Ellen Glasgow--were writing books and plays, too. So it was that the Nobel Prize for Literature came to the Mississippian, William Faulkner, a prize that he accepted in an exalted address, extolling the unconquerable spirit of man.

	If this means much to the nation, it also, I am sure, means much to you. Your way has often been hard. Yet you have always held that civilization is something more than the bending of the resources of nature to the uses of man. Man cannot live without bread, but his spirit cannot live by bread alone.

	In the course of this resurgence, I hope that it may be possible for us to keep all that was good of the Old South, while embracing all that is good of the New South. Technicians can make a country, but they alone cannot create a civilization. There are riches in your inheritance which are sometimes overlooked--riches which the rest of the nation could borrow with great profit. I believe it was Gladstone who said that no greater misfortune could befall a people than to break utterly with its past.

	Among the most valuable heritages of the Old South is its political genius, which in many respects was far ahead of its time. Even today some of the finest products of southern governmental thought are only beginning to win the general acceptance which they have so long deserved.

	A classic example, it seems to me, is the Constitution of the Confederacy. Scholars of constitutional law have long recognized it as a sound and most thoughtful document. It contained some brilliant innovations, including the so-called item veto--authorizing the president to disapprove individual items in an appropriation bill, without having to veto the entire measure.

	This inspiration of the confederate statesmen has since been incorporated into the constitutions of about three-fourths of our states, including my own state of Illinois.

	Is it too much to hope that our federal government may soon adopt this priceless invention of southern statesmanship? I hope not, because it is a most useful tool. It has enabled me to veto more appropriations, involving more money, than any governor in Illinois history. And, by the way, forty-six other states had higher state tax burdens than Illinois in relation to the income of their citizens last year.

	In other fields, I am glad to note, the southern talent for government has won the recognition which is its due. Many of your states are among the best governed in the land. Southern diplomats have earned wholehearted respect in Asia and Europe. In Congress southern leaders once again give wise and distinguished service to the nation, especially in the all-important area of foreign affairs. I am proud to have one of them, Senator John Sparkman of Alabama, as my running mate. And I am also proud that other such leaders--each himself a candidate for the presidency--have given me their support--Senator Kefauver of Tennessee, and my distant kinsman, Senator Richard Russell of Georgia.

	Just as the governmental contributions of the South sometimes were not fully appreciated in the past, so too, I suspect, some of the problems of the South have not been fully understood elsewhere. One of these is the problem of minorities--a problem which I have had occasion to think about a good deal, since my own state also has minority groups.

	One thing that I have learned is that minority tensions are always strongest under conditions of hardship. During the long years of Republican neglect and exploitation, many southerners--white and Negro, have suffered even hunger, the most degrading of man's adversities. All the South, in one degree or another, was afflicted with a pathetic lack of medical services, poor housing, poor schooling, and a hundred other ills flowing from the same source of poverty.

	The once low economic status of the South was productive of another--and even more melancholy--phenomenon. Many of the lamentable differences between southern whites and Negroes, ascribed by insensitive observers to race prejudice, have arisen for other reasons. Here economically depressed whites and economically depressed Negroes often had to fight over already gnawed bones. Then there ensued that most pathetic of struggles: the struggle of the poor against the poor. It is a struggle that can easily become embittered, for hunger has no heart. But, happily, as the economic status of the South has risen, as the farms flourish and in the towns there are jobs for all at good wages, racial tensions have diminished.

	In the broad field of minority rights, the Democratic party has stated its position in its platform, a position to which I adhere. I should justly earn your contempt if I talked one way in the South and another way elsewhere. Certainly no intellectually dishonest presidential candidate could, by an alchemy of election, be converted into an honest president. I shall not go anywhere with beguiling serpent words. To paraphrase the words of Senator John Sharp Williams of Mississippi, better to be a dog and bay the moon.

	I should like to say a word about the broader aspects of minority rights.

	First, I utterly reject the argument that we ought to grant all men their rights just because if we do not we shall give Soviet Russia a propaganda weapon. This concept is itself tainted with Communist wiliness. It insultingly implies that were it not for the Communists we would not do what is right. The answer to this argument is that we must do right for right's sake alone. I, for one, do not propose to adjust my ethics to the values of a bloodstained despotism, scornful of all that we hold dear. Second, I reject as equally contemptible the reckless assertions that the South is a prison in which half the people are prisoners and the other half are wardens. I view with scorn those who hurl charges that the South--or any group of Americans--is wedded to wrong and incapable of right. For this itself is an expression of prejudice compounded with hatred, a poisonous doctrine for which, I hope, there will never be room in our country.

	So long as man remains a little lower than the angels, I suppose that human character will never free itself entirely from the blemish of prejudice, religious or racial. These are prejudices, unhappily, that tend to rise wherever the minority in question is large, running here against one group and there against another. Some forget this, and, in talking of the South, forget that in the South the minority is high. Some forget, too, or don't know about strides the South has made in the past decade toward equal treatment.

	But I do not attempt to justify the unjustifiable, whether it is anti-Negroism in one place, anti-Semitism in another--or for that matter, anti-southernism in many places. And neither can I justify self-righteousness anywhere. Let none of us be smug on this score, for nowhere in the nation have we come to that state of harmonious amity between racial and religious groups to which we aspire.

	The political abuse of the problem of discrimination in employment, the exploitation of racial aspirations on the one hand and racial prejudice on the other--all for votes--is both a dangerous thing and a revolting spectacle in our political life. It will always be better to reason together than to hurl recriminations at one another.

	Our best lesson in reason and charity was read to us by Robert E. Lee. It was not the least of his great contributions to the spirit of America that, when he laid down his sword, he became president of a small college in Lexington--now the splendid Washington and Lee University. There he remained the rest of his life unifying, not dividing; loving, not hating.

	As the autumn of 1865 was coming on, General Lee, in one of the noblest of American utterances, said: "The war being at an end, the southern states having laid down their arms, and the questions at issue between them and the Northern states having been decided, I believe it to be the duty of everyone to unite in the restoration of the country and the reestablishment of peace and harmony." Later he said: "I know of no surer way of eliciting truth than by burying contention with the war."

	We have great need of Lee's spirit in this hour of peril to our country, when voices of hatred and unreason arise again in our land. As free men we shall always, I hope, differ upon many things. But I also hope that we shall never be divided upon those concepts that are enshrined in our religious faith and the charters of our country's greatness.

	No one could stand here in Richmond without reverence for those great Virginians--Washington, whose sturdy common sense was the mortar of our foundations, and Jefferson, that universal genius who, proclaiming the rights of man when few men had any rights anywhere, shook the earth and made this feeble country the hope of the oppressed everywhere. And so it is today after nearly two centuries.

	Fortunately for us all, the southern political genius still lives. It flamed not long ago in Woodrow Wilson. It burns steadily today among southern members of Congress, and among many of the leaders of your states.

	Good politics make good government. In this campaign I shall not try to minimize the tasks which we confront. That we shall pass through these troubled times I am sure, not by grace alone, but by faith, intelligence and implacable determination.

	In my travels about the country of late in quest of your confidence I have felt that determination, that indomitable spirit. But nowhere more than here where I suspect it is as strong today as it was in the spring of 1865, when the Army of Northern Virginia returned to their homes. They found a wasteland of burned houses and barns, fences fallen and ditches caved in, weeds, and sorrow brooding over the fields.

	That was in April. But by June a crop was growing. The next year the crop was larger, and the next year it was still larger, and so, painfully and slowly, with no help except their hands and the benison of God, the South started on its long march from desolation to fruitfulness.

	This is part of your great heritage. And if I could speak for all Americans as I now do for myself, I would say that it also is part of the great heritage of America.
AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSAGRICULTURE--GENERALCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHISTORY--UNITED STATESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESLINE-ITEM VETORACE RELATIONSREGIONALISM--SOUTH     I I I I I
 I I I I I I uI jI	 -	 	  	  	  	  	  	 W 	 . 	   	  e: