
	

	"Well, Mr. Chairman, Senator Schweiker, the distinguished guests who are--You're taking up my time. It's the first chance I've had a chance to be on prime time since they shut off the late-late movies!

	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very proud to be here and to meet with you. The message that two young gentlemen are trying to get over is that Christ is betrayed by nuclear weapons. Well, let me say something. Is there anyone in the world who has not believed that Christ is betrayed anytime that we find ourselves embroiled in that greatest of man's stupidities--war against our fellow man? I know there have been some things said by opponents who probably made this, what I've just said, catch you by surprise. But let me state my position on that subject clearly, and then we will talk a little bit more about why we're gathered here today. I have opposed the SALT treaty--not because I'm opposed to negotiating arms limitations, but because that particular treaty legitimizes an arms increase on both sides. I, as the president, would sit at a table with our adversaries for as long as it took to negotiate an agreement that legitimately would reduce the nuclear weapons on both sides to where we represented no threat to each other.

	But, now let me just say what I was going to say--that I am delighted to be here. I'm delighted to be here in the company of your candidate for senator. Now that Dick Schweiker is going to leave us, and Arlen Specter... I am completely convinced that our cause is such that we must be planning, not just for one office or to fill the White House or to make a change there, but from the courthouse to the White House, this must be our task--to get a new political theory and a new economic program in Washington, DC.

	To digress for just a moment, when I left the hotel, I don't know what it is now, but the Eagles were leading 10-0.

	This is a great importance to southeastern Pennsylvania in this election. A very great importance. I think there's a significance in where we're meeting today that again, illustrates the difference perhaps between the philosophy of two parties. Certainly, the difference between my philosophy and that of Jimmy Carter. That is, here, in what is a private independent university in our land--St. Joseph's. And I am very much aware that not only was the president opposed to the idea of tuition credits that would have made it more possible that institutions like this could continue to survive through this terrible inflationary period. But that his newly-created State Department of Education is planning all manner of things to limit and restrict institutions of this kind because their faith is totally in public education only. And believe me, academic freedom is alive in the United States because of the mix we have between public and private education.

	But now, to get down to the business of the evening. You know when a lawyer has a weak case, he shouts a lot, waves his arms and grins at the jury. And I have kind of felt that I was seeing that in the Carter campaign so far. He was on "Sixty Minutes" which he was to talk about his accomplishments. And that left him fifty-nine minutes to fill.

	 And then, there was the heartwarming scene--the wind-up of the Democratic National Convention at Madison Square Garden. Who will ever forget the warmth of that greeting on the platform there as the senator from Massachusetts arrived? The president followed him around as if he were trying to get his autograph. I haven't seen a handshake like that since Mohammed Ali fought Sonny Liston.

	But you're here because you believe in "Commitment '80" because you're dedicated to the idea of turning out volunteers, getting the people of this country to go to work, to change the things that we don't like.

	And I don't think that it's really strictly partisan anymore--yes, it's Democrat versus Republican. But, all over this country, I have found that there are just millions of Democrats who are as unhappy with what's going on as we are today. All over this country--and I've been in these areas where unemployment is so severe. And I want to tell you, in the hands that I've shaken--and there are a great many--and there's a great and high percentage of black hands. And there's an awful lot of hands that are callused. I think that the working men and women of America--of all races and of all creeds--are ready if we will offer them a constructive program that has faith, once again, in the American people.

And that's where you're going to go. I know I don't have to sell you on which side you're on--you wouldn't be here if you weren't on our side. But--and you believe. But let me just, if I can, just tell you a few things that you might like to have in mind when you're out there. Campaigns--sure, there are the ads, there are the big rallies, there are the fundraising banquets, and so forth. But I still believe campaigns are won out there in. the precincts with somebody knocking on a neighbor's door, ringing a doorbell, showing them some literature, talking to them, urging them to get out and vote.

	Do you realize that the biggest block in America is the block that doesn't vote? How can anyone--we ought to have a law that says that no one who doesn't vote can complain about the administration. Do you know that if you stopped to think of it, in the close race between Jimmy Carter and Jerry Ford in '76--almost tied--just a half of a percentage point between them--Jimmy Carter literally represents only about a fourth of the voting electorate of the United States. Another fourth voted for our candidate ... and the rest of the people just didn't vote at all. But, that in a way, is voting also. So, let's get people back recognizing their responsibility in a democracy.

	I'm just going to finish with one more thing about what I think this election is all about. I was down in New Orleans just a few days ago. And the rally had to be moved indoors quickly because of a rain storm. And it was moved indoors onto one of the great excursion paddle-wheelers that goes up and down the Mississippi. As I stood up and looked around, they had some what they call the "Belles of the South"--beautifully dressed young ladies up on the upper deck. And they started calling it "balcony" and I remembered that I was on a ship. But in the middle was a group of small children, costumed in red, white and blue, and kind of standing there, they weren't being very demonstrative. They were too young, really, I suppose, to assume what it was all about. But they were each one of them carrying a sign, and the sign said, "We're what this election is all about." And they are. If I could sum it up, in just one line, what that election is all about is: can we provide for them the same freedom that we knew in this country when we were their age and growing up, which has been lost to a great extent?

	The values that we want to see restored--family, work, neighborhood, peace and freedom--and that's what we represent. Ours is the party of Main Street America, and we're at home in the small towns, out in the rural areas, here in the cities.

	One last thing--in Detroit, equally, a few days ago, I met in a little backyard of a steelworker who had invited in about a dozen of his neighbors, who'd all been laid off or were unemployed because of factory closings--automotive, building trades, steel and you sat looking at them. They took turns across the table, this picnic table, because the yard was so small that even just a dozen really couldn't get around the table all at once. And you looked at a young man sitting there with his young wife, a couple of small children, and they were looking at you. "Do you have an answer? What can be done?" And you just bled inside that you couldn't say, "oh yes, there is an instant fix that can solve this for you." But these workers, in America, in the industries that are so predominant here, in the industries out there through the industrial states on out into the Midwest. They have been betrayed by the present administration and you and I are embarked on a crusade to get rid of that administration and to change the policy of this government.

	Thank you very much.
EDUCATION, HIGHERNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)POLITICAL PARTICIPATIONUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVOTING     D! ! 
! !  
                	 w 	 f 	 2 	  	  e: