

	Platform guests and my Michigan friends: The reason for that background noise at the beginning here was to give you some symbolic evidence that the McGovern-Shriver campaign is taking off for a great victory in 1972 and we feel that way more strongly each day we travel across this country. It is not what we read in the polls or what we read from the commentators, but it is what we see on countless faces in every part of this country and it is the look of people who are determined to put this country on a better path--on the path to peace and justice. And I want to tell you here tonight in Flint, Michigan that I have never been more certain that we are going to win this election than I am right now. 

	We are going to do that because the majority of the people of this country are getting tired of a government whose heart and soul is going for the big interests of the country--for the ITTs and the big grain speculators who have just negotiated this grain deal at the expense of the American farmer. They are getting tired of an administration that can construct a tax system to produce a $9 billion tax cut for the great corporations at the same time that they freeze the incomes of the working people of this country. And I think the overwhelming majority of the citizens of this land want what they have always wanted--which is a government whose heart and soul beats for the ordinary citizen of this land.

	Now I know that at this stage of the campaign Sargent Shriver and I are the underdog, but so was Harry Truman an underdog in 1948; so was John Kennedy an underdog in 1960. They came from behind and they did it because they talked straight to the American people on the great issues that face this nation. Now we don't have working to our advantage a $10 million secret campaign fund that our opposition has, and we don't know who is on that list, and we don't know why the opposition won't reveal it but if they don't have the names of the Board of Directors of the ITT on that secret campaign list then those men are the most remarkable political ingrates in American history. So while the President is sitting there behind the walls of the White House resting comfortably on his Gallup Poll, refusing to talk to the American people, refusing to meet either his opponent or the voters of this country--we are going to use this time to good advantage to go to Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and all the states across this country bringing our message to those who will decide this election on November 7th. 

	Now Mr. Nixon and his supporters launched a new slogan for the Republicans at their recent convention in Miami and they sent up that cry which I am sure you remember: "four more years." And I want to say that I think this country cannot afford another four years of what we have just gone through. And I ask the people of the Flint, Michigan area to think about the fact that the unemployment rate under this administration has now embraced about six million able-bodied men and women who want jobs that are not available and I ask you whether we want four more years of that. I ask you to think about the fact that at a time when our property taxes to support the schools are already sky high, that the president of this country in the past three and a half years has vetoed three educational bills designed to strengthen our schools, to relieve our property tax load--all those bills went down to presidential vetoes, and I ask you if we want four more years of that kind of priority in this country. 

	And it was that same President who after two years of hard work by the Congress of the United States vetoed the most carefully constructed child development, family-related daycare center bill ever passed in the Congress of the United States--vetoed it on the grounds that this country can't afford to deal with the problems of working mothers and little children and these little ones who represent the future of this country. I ask you if we want four more years of that kind of presidential leadership. 

	Now the truth is that the old people who have had to struggle for every dollar that we have added to the retirement benefits--to do that over the opposition of this administration--the farmers who have had to fight for every dollar that they earn with their labor and their investment against the callousness of this big business, special interest administration--the housewife trying to grapple with the mounting grocery prices that confront us everyday--I say that none of these people can afford another four more years of the Nixon-Agnew policies and the time has come to elect new leadership in this country. And looking out on this crowd, many of whom are young people and some of whom have doubtless fought in Vietnam, others who may yet be called, considering the tragic costs of this long and seemingly endless war and remembering that President Nixon was the man who told us when he was seeking our votes just shortly before the 1968 election that those who cannot bring peace in four years don't deserve another chance, I ask you to join with me in doing what this slogan up here calls upon us to do: to bring America home from this killing and destruction and dying that has gone on for too long a time in Southeast Asia. 

	Now I want to talk briefly today about two other themes. I want to talk first about the mounting crime in this country, and remember that here again, Mr. Nixon came into office with a pledge to go to war against crime, and the crime rate has increased by 33 percent in the three and a half years he has been in office, and I am talking about the kind of crime that has sent families fleeing into the suburbs only to discover that the crime has followed after them. The kind of crime that makes people afraid to go out into the streets at night, or in some streets to go out there at any time. The kind of crime that makes deserted caverns of our central cities, of our downtown cities, and I ask you to remember that perhaps as much as 50 percent of that crime is a direct consequence of the mounting heroin addiction that afflicts this country. 

	Now the other day the President spoke to a great international conference on international narcotics and he said that the time has come for us to crack down on these governments that permit the flow of narcotics in international traffic, but what he didn't tell us was that as much as a third and perhaps as much as one-half of this death-dealing heroin that comes into this country is coming to us by means of the very governments that Mr. Nixon and his administration are supporting in Southeast Asia. Every GI that has served as much as thirty days in Saigon knows that you can buy the most devastating and destructive kind of heroin on almost any street corner in the city of Saigon. Every GI who has had his eyes and ears opened by personal experience in that war knows that thousands of our young men came back addicted to heroin, came back exposed to it for the first time. And we know in this country, on the basis of statistics that are available to our own government, that these crooked regimes in Southeast Asia--including the one in Saigon that we have been trying so hard to save--that the men who man those regimes are getting rich at the expense of young American soldiers and now at the expense of children and young people all across this land who are afflicted by heroin and hard drugs by those marketing those products from Southeast Asia. So if the President is really sincere when he says that the time has come for us to cut off both military and economic aid to those governments which permit the shipment of hard drugs into this country, let him begin by ending the war in Southeast Asia and terminating aid to those governments. This is the only way we are going to terminate the heroin traffic from that part of the world, and beyond that, it is the only way we are going to set in motion those forces for settlement and peace that at long last can free our prisoners of war.

	The President deceives the American people when he says that we are bombing and destroying Vietnam because we want to bring about the release of our prisoners. That is how these men got in prison in the first place and every soldier, every student of history knows that there is only one way that we are going to bring about the release of these men who have sat for too long a time in their cells in Hanoi, and that is to end the war that put them in prison in the first place, and that is the course to which I am pledged.

	The other matter that I want to mention here in Flint today and has been on my mind increasingly as I have watched this campaign develop is the tax issue. Remember that this country began with a great rallying cry "no taxation without representation". We ought to modify that a little as we are getting ready for the 200th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence to read "no taxation without justice." Now that means that we ought to do something about the income taxes going up at precisely the same time that nearly 40 percent of all the corporations in this country went through the loopholes last year and did not pay one single dime in federal income taxes. I think it is becoming clear the kind of tax reform that the President has in mind. What he is going to advocate if he wins this election--and we are going to do everything we can to see that he doesn't win it--but he has a secret plan that is not too secret, because it has been leaked all over the government, is that if he wins this election--the day after that election they are going to dust off what is called the value added tax--now that is just a fancy name for a national sales tax and it would have the effect of adding $200 to the tax burden of the average family in this country. This is what Mr. Nixon has in mind--the so-called value added tax, but a sales tax by any other name smells just as bad as this. 

	So I plead here today for a different kind of tax. I plead that we look critically at those loopholes and preferences in our tax laws that permit the most wealthy, the most powerful families in this country to derive the greatest benefit from our tax laws. What I have suggested is a tax reform plan that does not increase the taxes on people who live on wages or salaries, no matter what those wages or salaries are, but which does, at long last, address itself to the injustices in the over-sheltered and overprotected investments that now permit some $22 billion in revenue to escape the Federal Treasury. If we close those loopholes over the next three years, this would release at least $15 or $16 billion a year that we could turn back to the states for the relief of property taxes, to sustain our schools, to provide better education, and to do it without this reactionary unworkable sales tax that the President has in mind for us. 

	So what I call for here to day is not only an end to the war in Southeast Asia, and not only a greater effort to deal with the problems of drugs and crime that afflict this country, but I ask that we reform the tax structure of our nation so at long last we have a system that is fair to every citizen of the country. With that kind of a system, we can move ahead to deal with the areas of neglect here at home, to provide better schools, better health care, better jobs, better housing, a stronger attack on the problems of our environment, better care for our older people--those have always been the goals of the Democratic party when it has been functioning at its best. There is nothing radical about this system, they represent a call upon this nation to return to the great principles with which we began. 

	So as we move into the closing weeks of this 1972 presidential campaign let us recognize that what we are asking ourselves is the question of what kind of a nation it is that we want to be. Let us register that we want America to be a country that stands for peace, that stands for justice, that stands for a fair opportunity for every citizen and if we do that, then American, once again, will become the great and good land that we want it to be. 

	Thank you very much.
CHILD CARECRIME--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALPOWS/MIASPROPERTY TAXSALES TAXTAX REFORMVIETNAM WARDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIES--SOUTHEAST ASIA     0 0 0 ~0 v0
 j0 e0 `0 [0 S0 Q0 =0 30	  	  	 r 	 ` 	 W 	 K 	 B 	 8  - e: