

	Thank you very much.  Bob Echkardt told me, he said, "When you get into that next room with that group you are going to see, you are going to hear some real enthusiasm, and I guess that is right.  I heard a rebel yell or two out there as I came through.  And I just want you to tune up, folks.  Don't stop now.  I mean, we are just getting going.  So, keep those vocal cords in good shape and keep that enthusiasm running high.

	I understand that one of our very dear friends, Don Horne, has been very seriously ill, and I hope that you will convey to him my appreciation for all the work that he has done in my behalf, and also may I point out all the work that he has done for the laboring people, the working people here in Harris County in the state of Texas.  He is a fine Democrat.

	Now, we have quite an array of talent up here, leadership, and a lot of it out there.  I always feel a little better when I have rank rows behind me, alongside of me and in front of me.  I tell you, ask you, just move around anyway you want.

	VOICE:  Keep him in front of you.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Keep him out in front, is that right, walking through those land mines and Don McCulloch, the president--you know, every time I hear that word, that is what made me want to file for this office.

	The president of the Harris County AFL-CIO is a power for good in this state and your county, and he has honored me here by his presence and his introduction.

	Now, there are many others that are with us that I could mention.  I do want to pay my respects to our friends of the building trades and I said I didn't believe that was the name but somebody said it is Peewee Graham.  Is that right?

	VOICE:  That is right.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Where is Peewee?

	VOICE: Back here.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Peewee, I just want to say you are looking in fine shape, and we are just looking forward to having you work with us and do the job that you have been able to do for the labor movement, do that job now in this political movement.

	One thing I want to note immediately is the message that I received from a very good friend of yours.  While I was out home in Minnesota plotting and planning how we're going to proceed in our campaign and sopping up a little Minnesota sunshine--and there wasn't too much of it during the week I was there, it got a little chilly--but while I was there I received a message, a cable from one of the finest men that he has ever served in the Congress of the United States, a very good friend of mine, and I thought you might want to know that he has pledged his enthusiastic, his wholehearted, his unstinting support of my candidacy in this election, and that is Senator Ralph Yarborough.

	Now, Ralph would be here except for one reason:  I appointed him to go to the Interparliamentary Conference.  I don't know, I guess I wasn't quite so sure I was going to get the nomination or I wouldn't have sent him away.  But, he is a very prominent senator and we like to have good people represent our country abroad in these international conferences and he is away, but he will be back, and if any of you need to have a little political injection, Ralph has told me that he is prepared with the needle to do the job and he will be back here to help us out.

	I depend on you.  It is just that simple.  And it is that direct.  I am trying to take my campaign, your campaign, directly to the people.  I have had these meetings, as you know, by the dozens, where we confront an audience, come to an audience, make a statement, and then let the audience participate in what we call the question-and-answer period.  I don't think there is any other candidate that has ever run for the office of the Presidency of the United States that has ever done that, take it as it comes, to let them get up and say what they want to and ask a question and hopefully I can make some responsible response.  I am trying to do that because I want the politics of participation in this country.  I want people who have something on their mind and in their heart to be able to get up and ask a question like a senator does.  You know how senators ask a question.  They make a short speech or a long speech and say isn't that so?

	Or, do you agree with me?  Or, would you like to comment?

	Now, I made a lot of those questions myself, so I speak with some understanding of the manner in which this is done.

	I have a record in public life and that record is pretty well known by most of you.  It may not be known by your sons or your daughters and I hope that you are going to make it known to your sons and your daughters.

	Let me just give you a analogy that I think is somewhat appropriate, when you select the president of your union, you do not take a man on for that responsible position who has  a record of being a strike breaker or a scab or one that has never had any faith or any loyalty to the labor movement.  You check his record and you even have debates in your locals and in your federation and in your conventions about the respective records of the contesting candidates.  You are now electing the president of the greatest union in the world.  The federal union, these United States of America, this federal republic, this great union of ours, and I think you ought to take a good look at the record.  I can't say that a record will preordain what is going to happen but it gives you some indication at least, it gives you some idea of what you might expect.  At least it gives you some feel for the man's character.

	Now, I am not a Johnny-come-lately Liberal.  I have been at this business of public service since 1945.  My first attempt at office was a defeat.  I know the difference between victory and defeat and if you would like to have a little testimonial, may I say that there isn't a thing you can learn in defeat that you can't learn better in victory.

	But I have tasted the bitter fruit of defeat.  I have sipped from the cup of wine of victory.

	The very first campaign I was in I started because I was the endorsed candidate of labor.  I was the labor candidate for mayor of the city of Minneapolis.  When I was elected and re-elected I had the unqualified total support of every segment of the labor movement.  The building trades, the AFL, then separate from the CIO, the Teamsters, the brotherhood, the railroad brotherhood, I had them all, and we went on to win that election. I have never been in a campaign in my life that I wasn't the labor endorsed candidate and how proud I am of that.

	And I am sure you know we have a big National United Labor committee that brings together all of the segments of the labor movement.  It is headed by men of the quality of I.W. Abel and Joe Keenan and, of course, you have seen the ads and many of you are participants through your locals and you are officers in this great United Labor Committee.

	Now, when I served in those days in the United States Senate, you didn't have to look over your shoulders as to where I was going to be.  You could have saved the postage, even though I like to hear from you.  Many times people would write to me and ask me to support this bill or that bill and I would frequently write back and say, don't worry, "I am the author".

	To put it simply, and to lay it on the line, we have been together.  Now, when we do stick together and stand together--as old Benjamin Franklin once said, we are either going to hang together or we are going to hang separately, and I want to tell you I am not much for hanging separately.

	But I know that if we stand together and work together and if we become enthusiastic about our past, we can win this election.

	I didn't enter this campaign to lose.  It was all right when I was a real young fellow to have a little experience like that and even though I feel pretty feisty and pretty rambunctious right now, I do not enjoy the thought, even the thought of any adversity in this election and I know that you don't.  

	I do believe that there is a labor man, a responsible labor leader in this country that wants to see the Republican candidate become the president of the United States.  I just don't believe it.

	And to put it another way, I hope that I am right, that I believe that the labor movement in this country, its officers and its members and its families, would like to see a man who has been their lifetime friend, their friend, right from the ranks of labor.  I think you would like to see your man the president of the United States.

	You know, when we were organizing the AFL out in Minnesota, I was there.  I used to conduct the pro rates of workers' education in my state in the labor movement.  I didn't just come on in as a sort of a fourth cousin.  I am a blood relative, folks, and you are stuck with me.

	Now, we have a great opportunity here.  I have never had the labor movement or its representatives ever ask me to do anything in my public life that was not basically good for this country.  I believe that organized labor has been one of the most constructive, positive forces that this nation has had for good and I believe it with all of my heart.  I know you wouldn't be where you are unless you stood together and fought together, and I know that you wouldn't be where you are unless you had friends in high places and you helped put those friends in high places.

	I know that you don't expect this country to give you special privilege but I know that you do expect this country to give you a fair shake, and believe me, if I am president of the United States, you are going to have a friend in the White House.

	I have been told that there are many of our members in the rank and file of the labor movement that may drift away from us, may go to a third-party candidate or may go to the Republican candidate because they want a change.  My dear friends, change is not always good, you know.  It depends on what kind of change you get.  You can be walking down the street and hope that you go into a park which is a change, but you can also fall into the gutter.  You can have change for good or you can have change for bad.

	Now, every new president brings you change, and even if you didn't have a new president, there is going to be change.  Who knows it better than the members of the labor movement that constantly are affected by automation, science and technology?  Who knows it better than any of us that live in this modern day of the changes that take place--the changes that take place in our living habits, the changes that take place in our thinking, the changes that are taking place in the world, the changes that are taking place in Houston, all over America.

	It isn't a question of whether you are going to have change.  The question is what kind of change, for what purpose?  How are you going to direct these forces of change?  How are we going to channel them?

	Now, there are some people in this country that feel that you can hold back the tides of change just like old King Kanute thought he could hold back the tides of the seas.  You can't.  You will be inundated.  Our question is, how do we harness these forces for good?

	There is a great ferment in this country.  Some people say that the nation is sick.  I just say it is restless.  And there is a lot of difference between a sick nation and a restless nation, a nation that is hoping to find a better way, not trying to cop out or opt out but a nation that is trying to find a way to do a better job, to bring more members into the labor movement, quite frankly, to organize the unorganized, including migrant workers, I might add.

	We are trying to help people lift themselves out of their deprivation, and let me tell you, a lot has been happening.  A lot has been happening.

	You know, one of the real experience, that you get in this politics is to see what is going on in your country and you know, friends, that there are tremendous possibilities in this land that are yet untouched and untapped--great potential.  Just as we found, when we found--you know, in the dry arid parts of our country, people said, "Well, it is no good.  You can't grow anything there."  Then, somebody said, well, what about a little irrigation?  What about just a little extra effort and we will make the fields and the deserts bloom.  And we have.

	In my part of the country we used to have what we called high-grade iron ore, 50, 60 percent pure.  You could come in there, take off a little of the top soil in those great open pits in the great mesabi range and we scooped it out for the great industrial firms of this nation.

	Finally, all the high-grade ore was gone and were saddled with depression, recession, unemployment.  Our young were leaving.  The communities weren't growing up.  The country, that part of our state, was in a slump.  People were on unemployment compensation, public works.  It was almost a hopeless situation.  But there were still people there.  And, then, we discovered that there was also something there that was called taconite.

	What is taconite?  It is just a plain old hard rock, harder than granite.  We found that there were two billion tons of it lying across northeastern Minnesota, two million tons.  Worthless, they said, just like some people say of the poor.  It had always been with us, they said, and nobody had ever made anything out of it, so it would always be that way.  That is what some people say of the poor.

	And then, we found a way to what we call beneficiate it, upgrade it, a process, a costly process, and today we are developing in my state of Minnesota the production of over 15 million tons of taconite pellets.  We exported last year over six million tons of those pellets.  They are over 50 to 60 percent better than pure iron ore and an economy that was prostate, a part of my state that was hopelessly depressed, today is the most prosperous part of the Minnesota because we did something with a natural resources that people said was useless, worthless waste.

	Ladies and gentlemen, that is what you can do with people.  You can beneficiate them.  You can upgrade them.  You can give them a chance.  You can send them to school.  You can train them.  You can give them motivation.  You can help them get out of the bowels of the slums of our cities, and out of the depths of the rural poverty, will come new wealth, new people, better people, real genius, real creative talent if we but put ourselves to the task.  I think we can do it.

	Now, I want to conclude on some, just some practical politics.  There are a lot of prophets of doom and gloom.  There also is--you know, every time a Democratic candidate comes around somebody says, well, you think you are going to win, which is a way of saying you are going to lose.  Well, as a man thinketh, so is he.  So, get that losing idea out of your head.

	I am going to tell you a little story.  When I ran for the Senate sometime ago, 1948, the first time, the primary election was over.  The Republican candidate in the primary election, he got three times as many votes in the primary as I got winning in my primary in the Democratic party, and the headlines of our paper showed that none of the big shots were for Humphrey.  The headlines of the paper showed that I had one-third the vote of my Republican opponent.  The headlines showed that both Truman and Humphrey would take a shellacking.  A couple of hopeless cases in a hopeless situation.

	Well, I will tell you what I did.  I had a meeting just like this.  I called all my friends in the labor movement and we met up on the fourth floor of the Floyd Olsen Memorial Building.  I used to live within a few blocks of there.  So, I did an act of what we call political confidence.  I have never understood how Western Union ever let this happen.  We didn't have any money but I sent out telegrams to about 500 people and, so help me, Western Union let me charge it.

	They put it on the cuff, on credit, and I guess the fact that somebody got a telegram from me instead of just getting a handwritten note or mimeographed sheet indicated that I had confidence, and I invited them all to come to a meeting at ten o'clock on a Friday morning after the Tuesday election to talk about our plans for the coming campaign.  And we had about four or 500 of them on the fourth floor of the auditorium and we closed the doors and I told the men and  the women there, I said, "Just lock the doors.  This is our meeting.  We are going to have this like the Constitutional Convention.  We didn't have anybody around to listen in on us.  We are just going to have a little session by ourselves with the brothers and sisters, now.  We are just going to talk things over."

	I talked to them and I said, I want you to understand something here.  You are looking at the next United States senator from the state of Minnesota.  I want you to understand that.  And I want you when you leave here today to go back to your neighborhoods or wherever you are and go see your relatives this Sunday and you tell them you have just been with the next U.S. senator and tell them there is still time for them to get in on the act, still time for them to be included in on the winning side.  We're confident.  Take your message and go back to your people and to your unions and your church and to your clubs and to your legion post, your VFW post or whatever else it is, and go there with the spirit of confidence.

	Now, I didn't quite believe all that myself, but I did, I want to tell you--I laid it right on the line.

	I wanted to believe.  There were two people who were pretty close to believing it: myself and my wife.

	Well, they listened and then before we broke up I said,  "Now, you know, we're broke, and I don't want to ever be one that creates tension amongst my friends or suspicion.  Ordinarily we get much less than we have anticipated.  And ordinarily somebody comes up and says, you know, old Fred only put in a dollar.  And then, somebody else comes up and says, yes, but you know Susan said she was going to put in ten and I know she is going to tell you that but she didn't put in any."

	I said, "You know what happens, we start doubting each other, and get angry with each other and people spread little falsehoods about each other and it causes disruption and it causes trouble".  I am going to eliminate all this today.  What we are going to do, because I have a headache, I don't want to hear the clank of coins.  I said, I am going to stand here behind this table and I am going to ask you to file by one at a time and as you put that green on the table I will be able to shake your hand and know how much you put in.

	Now, let me say that never was so much raised in such a short time at any one meeting under such noble and honest conditions.  It was absolutely fantastic.

	Well, we went out of there and our people went forth to do battle in the campaign and I want to tell you what happened: we won that election by over 270,000 votes majority, the largest majority ever given a U.S. senator in that state.  Mr. Truman won that election by about the same amount in that state and we started on--I was the first elected Democrat in 100 years in the state of Minnesota.  We waited a long time.  We became a state in 1848.  It took them a 100 years to realize they had been shortchanged in the senate of the United States.

	Now, there are a lot of similarities between 1948 and 1968, just a lot of them.  We have a third-party movement now, just as we had in 1948.  There are some indications that in some states there may even be a fourth-party candidate of some kind or other.  There was one in--there were some in 1948.  You may recall we had Mr. Thurmond, Dr. Dewey, we had Mr. Truman and we then had Mr. Wallace.  Four parties.  And I venture to say that there never were so many stories written about how poor Mr. Truman couldn't win.  I would imagine that they burned more newspapers trying to do away with those stories that were written to try to somehow or other erase from the history of this nation the incredible bad judgment of some of the people that thought they had all of the judgment, but a few copies were kept, like that Chicago Tribune, you remember, that had that early headline.  Wasn't that a pip?  "Dewey Wins."  But it survived and so have we.

	Nineteen sixty-eight.  We have much the same circumstances, much of the same circumstances, and I intend to act just like the man that is the honorary chairman of my campaign.  I am the first candidate for the presidency of the U.S. that has had as his honorary chairman a former president of the United States.  Whenever I get a little down, whenever I feel a little doubtful, whenever I feel a little tired, all I do is pick up the telephone and I call Independence, Missouri, or I get on the plane and go out to Independence, Missouri, and I see Harry Truman, and I want to tell you that all I need to do is see him and I know we can win in 1968.

	So I want you to carry the banner now.  Get out there and move.  Your COPE organization, your different political action organizations, gear them up.  I don't know when your registration is over.

	VOICE: It is over.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: You are all done here on registration?  Then, may I say since the registration is over, it is time for indoctrination.

	And in every community in this state you have friends.  Any of you live in the suburbs?.  There used to be a time that we thought the suburbs were all Republicans.  That is all over.  And I want you to know that every race, creed and color is welcomed in my campaign and you are looked upon as equals.  Every one of you.

	And I want you to know that I am fully cognizant of the, fully aware of the difficulties that many of you face.  The Humphrey administration is going to be dedicated to the welfare of the American family.  You are fathers and you are mothers, you are brothers and you are sisters.  You are home owners or renters.  You are not just a member of a union, even though that is a high enough honor in itself.  You belong to the church of your choice or a fraternal order or a club but above all, we are members of a family and whatever we do in this country from there on out must be judged on how it is going to benefit or help or stress then this basic institution of our society called the family.

	In the redesigning of our cities, in the programs that we have for recreation and education, in the programs of health for our children, in the protection that we have of our consumer products, every one of these must be thought of in terms of what is it going to mean to my children, my wife, my family.

	I am a family man.  I happen to think there is a great family called the American family.  That is what I said:  the greatest union of all is the American union, and the greatest family of all is the American family, and I guarantee you, my family, friends, that if we work together, we are going to do more for the families of America that need something done than any group of people that has ever had a chance to serve and I call upon you now to redouble your efforts, to give yourself a shot of political adrenaline, to become enthusiastic in your efforts, break for no interference.

	If somebody says they don't know what I am for, talk to him.  Get them to understand what this campaign is all about.  And take your message, not just to your local.  Take your message into every precinct of this state.  Take it into every club.  Take it into every organization.

	Don't speak only as a union man.  Speak up as your own man.  Speak up as one that wants to see this election won, and you do your part and I will do my part, and I will see you all in Washington Inaugural Day and you will have front row seats.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--EXPERIENCE/QUALIFICATIONSFAMILIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSMININGNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPOVERTY     %^ ] ] ] ]
 ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ]	  	 t 	 l 	 B 	 < 	  	  e: