
	On such an occasion as this we can afford to forget about partisan politics at least for a little while. Conservation in the United States should not be a partisan issue. And what has come to be called the conservation movement in the United States has deep bipartisan roots.

	In the early part of this century, men came to think for the first time about preserving our great natural inheritance. They began to think more and more of keeping our land and our streams and our forests for our children and their children's children and the leadership in this movement came from two liberal Republicans, Theodore Roosevelt and Gifford Pinchot.

	All men who are interested in conservation--all who love nature--acknowledge their debt to these two great conservationists. To them, and to these far-sighted men in both parties who followed their lead, we owe our National Forests, our National Parks, and the preservation of our great public domain. Perhaps even more important, we owe to them the national awareness of the sacred heritage which nature gave us to cherish and to use.

	In a moment I want to say a word about that [missing text] on the legacy of Roosevelt and Pinchot. But first of all let me say a word to the many of you here who make your living in the two great groups in the forest industry,--the timber operator and the forest owner.

	Here in West Virginia--as also in the northern lake states, New England, the Deep South and the Pacific Northwest--the independent timber operator, the man who harvests and markets his own lumber, poles and pulpwood, is the backbone of our forest-farming industry. And what is true of the farmer in general is true of the special kind of farmer who harvests the trees. He, too, needs a sympathetic and compassionate approach by government to his problems. There needs to be a will by government to help: where there is a will, there is usually a way

	Yours is a very tough way to earn a living. The chain saw, the self-leader, and the tractor have taken some of the backbreaking toil out of logging but by no means all if it. And mechanization has increased your cash costs just as it has increased the cash costs of the wheat grower or the cotton grower. This has made you more vulnerable to price changes. Mechanization has also made you more dependent on credit. It has also made you vulnerable to a credit squeeze.

	I think the time has come when the problems of the small timber operator should be faced--and faced sympathetically. I think we should have better market news reports on timber, and Senator Humphrey's bill to provide such information seems to be a constructive contribution to this end. Market news has been an invaluable service for other farm products. It would be as useful for the forest products producer. So long as good market information is not available, the operator is at the mercy of the buyer.

	I think that we need a new look at the credit needs of the small forest operator. He needs a stable source of working capital. Such credit is not available to him in a reliable way from any of the existing credit agencies. The small lumberman has been the forgotten man of our credit system.

	Now let me say a word about the owner of forest land. The protection and improvement of small forest holdings is a vital part of our conservation task. In the last twenty years we have made important progress in improving farm-forest management. We now have the local county or project foresters who stand ready, like the county agent, to help the forest owner to develop good management methods. This program should be improved and strengthened. In addition I would also favor a close and sympathetic look at the whole problem of forest insurance for the independent man with small holdings.

	Much remains to be done. At present about 100 million acres of commercial forest land is poorly stocked; another 50 million acres needs forest planting. We need to turn this land--or much of it--into a good tree crop. We are wasting valuable land resources until we do.

	And now I want to speak of the larger conservation cause, and to plead for better protection of our topsoil, better protection of our forests, better protection of our game and wildlife--and more than protection, development.

	Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke here at this festival, almost exactly twenty years ago to the day. Roosevelt said: "This wonderland of natural beauty is at one and the same time a challenge and a justification. It demonstrates what can be done in the way of conservation of our resources. It shows how prodigal nature is in her gifts, while it emphasizes the necessity for men to supplement nature's work in order that the rich gifts which are ours may be brought to the fullest usefulness in the service of all mankind."

	I think Franklin D. Roosevelt was conscious, as few men have been conscious, of the responsibilities, which go with the wonderful natural endowment of the people of the United States. Protection of what we have is not enough. There must also be a sustained, continuing, and unremitting effort to develop and improve our natural resources. We must have a deep pride in our forests and fields, our soil, our streams, and our wildlife, the wilderness itself. All Americans share the pride. Like a good husbandman, we must leave this property in better shape than we find it, rewarding the rich gifts of nature with the best efforts of man.

	I believe that the American people have come to share a great pride in our natural wealth. I believe most of us feel deeply the obligation to develop forest industries of sustained yield; to see that the gullies do not bite into our topsoil and carry it away to the sea; to see that new and better ways are found for developing coal and our mineral resources.

	This is conservation in its truest sense--to develop and improve what we have been given. It is our obligation to the future. It is, at the same time, good business. A sound conservation policy is the framework for effective private initiative. Those of you who make your living from the forests must have a stable supply of timber today, next week, and ten years from now. Without such a supply, your livelihood will come to an end.

	A stable, well-financed, and profitable lumber industry is essential for conservation practices. Too often in the past--as all of you know--our forests have been cut by men who were in a desperate fight to keep one step ahead of the sheriff. This is not good for conservation. Nor is it good for the woodsmen.

	And the same principles apply to our other resources. I mentioned coal a moment ago. Next only to our land, this is our oldest and our greatest resource. Yet all is not well with our coal-mining industry. You know of the displacement of coal by other fuels. You are all too familiar with the unemployment and the partial employment and privation which exist in the towns where the mines have closed down, or are working part-time.

	I wonder if the time hasn't come for us to take a new look at the problems of this great, basic industry. I would like to know if we are devoting all the research effort we should to finding new methods of recovering coal. I wonder if the industry is participating as fully as it should in the technological revolution of our times. I wonder if we are doing as much on finding new markets for coal as we should. We should be searching vigorously for new methods of using our oldest form of thermal energy, coal. The atomic age gives us no warrant to neglect either coal or the coal miner. We need them both.

	Nor can we forget our soil. Here in West Virginia you know how quickly the topsoil is carried away from the steep slopes. You have seen the thick yellow water of the streams that are loaded with silt. This happens only when man is out of step with nature. In the last twenty years we have made great progress in getting man back into a harmonious relation with the land he uses. The Soil Conservation Service has worked with dedication and initiative. I am anxious that its work be given every necessary support and encouragement.

	I have said that conservation is good business. But more than that is involved. Among us today are fishermen, hunters, amateur naturalists, campers and many other who rejoice in the out-of-doors. Our sons and grandsons will go fishing as you do. They will want to hunt as we do. They will want to roam the wilderness--seek the solitude which only nature can provide. Surely we want them to have the excitement which comes from a quick strike when they drop a fly in a shady pool. Surely we want them to see some game in their gun sights. Then let us see that our fish and wildlife and our wilderness are conserved and developed and saved for our children and our grandchildren. Let us be sure that our grandchildren know that we thought of them; and I fear that we are not doing what we should do for our grandchildren. Conservation is both good business and pleasure; it is both our obligation and for our benefit; its roots are deep in both parties. But both our feeling and our policy for conservation need to be much stronger than they are.

	The most obvious weakness, of course, is the ease with which our national forests, our wildlife refuges, our parks and streams, and public lands have been invaded and turned to selfish private purpose. But more important even than that, perhaps, is the shunting aside of men who are experienced and trained in a lifetime of conservation work, in favor of politician appointees.

	The agency that looked at tomorrow's needs for minerals has been disbanded--and nothing put in its place. The Soil Conservation Service has been weakened--and must be revived. We need the leadership that will look at the nation's needs for water, for areas of recreation in the great open country, for land, and forest, and streams. We need, in other words really to look together at the needs and resources of our common future.

	The thing that most distinguishes a responsible, civilized society is its ability to think of the future. And a responsible concern for the future is not confined to resources. It must pervade and guide every aspect of our national life. The citizens of tomorrow are the children we educate today. Poor schools today will have their effect tomorrow. We will be prosperous tomorrow only if we keep the seeds of depression--of speculation, inequality, agricultural distress--from being planted today.

	Above all, peace tomorrow requires responsible action today. It means building up lasting friendships with other nations--and friendship between nations, like friendship between people, matures only slowly over the years. Peace tomorrow means developing our own national strength today. The seeds of war are always plentiful and planted a long time in advance.

	In recent years we have been too little concerned with the future. We have been too little concerned about working for peace not only for ourselves and our children but for our children's children. We have been far too content to say all is well--or to believe this when others say so.

	Nature teaches us to think of the future--to act and to plan now if we are to live in harmony with nature tomorrow. Let us apply that lesson to all our life and, above all, to the task of building a peaceful world.



ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONTIMBER INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     - , , , ,
 , , , , , , , , 1   e: