

	NOTE:  Questions were inaudible.

	Q.   MONDALE RESPONSE.  I hinted very, very generally in my remarks, but two or three basic points.  One, there will be what I call a Fund for Excellence.  As you know, I am committed to a very, very tight budget that brings these deficits down.  But the one area where I've asked for substantial increase and support is for education and learning and science and training, because if we don't do that we'll be slipping backwards.  I think it's the best investment we make.  So, there's a $4.5 billion program over four years that goes to local school districts that is patterned on the Ford Foundation experience of trying to bring the community together to look at their schools with the advice of teachers, administrators, students, business community, legislators, to see what can be done to make those schools as effective as possible and to provide the resources that are needed:  teacher pay, school days, school years, curriculum, whatever the local community decides it needs.

	Secondly, there is a substantial fairness component in there.  It's called Chapter I, but it's designed to provide additional help, remedial, compensatory assistance to children who come from disadvantaged backgrounds and need a chance to catch up and gain speed so they can catch up with the others.

	The third part deals with the problem of teacher education and teacher enrichment.  We have what I call an Education Corps, which is patterned on an old idea that worked years ago, and that is for teachers who go into skills that are in short supply--the sciences, math, languages--or will agree to serve in areas where they're having difficulty getting teachers.  We will forgive the loan that is extended to them for their education.  It's an old idea, and it worked very well.

	The next thing is to try to give teachers more opportunity to be with each other and talk about teacher techniques and the rest through teacher centers, through sabbaticals, through opportunities to go out for advanced education and the rest.  That's the elementary and secondary education part.

	There's also a provision for student assistance.  A special, very small program--but essential one--to make certain our black colleges are able to get back on their feet and provide quality education across the board.  And a special section in there to reinvest in our centers of research and excellence.  It is a sad fact.  The president talks about that space program, and it is, above all, a tribute to the commitment of past generations to science, research, and elementary and secondary education.  It was the result of a total nation's commitment to learning and science that achieved that sort of accomplishment.  The last few years we've been backing off, but I was talking to some of the leaders in the Silicon Valley last year.  I expected to hear the usual complaints about taxes, et cetera, but the one thing that they honed in on was that the one thing the government ought to do is to try to restore the momentum of science and training in America, that the shortage of advanced science and scientists is the thing that's holding them back more than anything else.  This is a function that has traditionally been a federal function.  State and local governments contribute to it, but inevitably, the better the graduate school almost, the more it is dependent on federal help.  And that has slipped substantially.  I would reinvest in it.  It is an investment that is modest but absolutely crucial to restoring America's scientific preeminence.

Q.   MONDALE RESPONSE.  I don't normally agree with Reagan.  But yesterday when he said, "You ain't seen nothing yet," when it comes to arms control, he's absolutely right.  We haven't seen nothing.  That's not very good grammar, but it's the point.  Let me say three or four facts I think are astonishing.  Mr. Reagan is the first president since Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart.  Mr. Reagan has opposed every effort of every president since Kennedy, of both political parties, to control armaments--every one of the efforts.  Opposed every one of them.  He is the first president since the bomb went off not to make any programs on arms control.  We now not only have a dangerous arms race.  He is proposing to extend that arms race into the heavens.  He has a thing about arms control.  He says the supporters of the freeze are dupes of Moscow when, in fact, those of us who want to control armaments, who want a freeze, I believe are speaking not only for a vast majority of the American people, but we are saying what needs to be done to control this madness before it destroys us all.  Finally, he cracks jokes about this problem that aren't very funny.  We need a president who is committed and who understands that gaining control of those god-awful weapons is the issue of our lifetime, because if we don't control them it can destroy the human species.  And I am committed to that objective.

Q.   MONDALE RESPONSE.  Look, we'll accept any help we can get.  It is not a case of asking corporate America to contribute to education, which I think they should.  But as most corporate leaders will tell you, they are profit-making organizations and that their duty under the law is to their stockholders.  And if you expect them to be the major source now for support for education, I don't think it's very likely.  Secondly, you get into some severe problems--and I've talked to many graduate schools where some corporations want to help provided the university does what it is told.  That destroys the function of a university.  Any help they give, I think it's important.  As a matter of fact, many of the enlightened corporations understand that already.

	But the history of America, the history of education, the history of universities, the history of research has been for over two-hundred years the growing leadership of the federal government, particularly at the graduate level, in order to get it done.  We've all had the same experience, I believe, if we come from modest-income homes.  My dad was a Methodist minister.  My mom was a music teacher.  And I don't have to tell you we didn't have any money.  And the only way I got through law school was the GI Bill.  And I have paid the federal government back three or four or five times over from the higher income I earned as a result of the fact I was able to get through law school.  And I don't regret a single penny of it.  And I believe in the integrity of our educational system.  It is so fundamental to our civilization.  It is so fundamental to the objectives of our society that it is a shared public responsibility that we support them through revenues and support through the governing bodies of these different institutions.  To say that is now some kind of new idea that no one has thought of that would take the public out of public education I find to be bizarre.

Q.   MONDALE RESPONSE.  There are two or three things.  First of all, I think the president can begin honoring teaching as a profession again and honoring learning and the product of learning.  I think that contributes to the mobility and the satisfaction that comes from teaching.  I don't see that occurring today the way it should.

	Secondly, to try to help provide the pay that teachers need that makes it possible to be a teacher without deep sacrifice to yourself and your family.  The average teacher in America today starts at about $14,000 or $13,000 a year.  In some states it's far less.  I was in Florida a year ago, and I saw a teacher's schedule that showed a teacher who had twenty years of teaching with a doctorate degree made $17,000 a year.  I may be off a couple thousand, but I remember being shocked by the figure.  I have talked to any number of young people who went into teaching full of hope and found out they just couldn't stick with it, couldn't afford it.  I talked to a young man in New Hampshire.  I don't think he voted for me based on the returns, but we had a nice conversation.  He told me that, more than anything, he wanted to be a science teacher.  But he had a family of two kids, he was now thirty-six years of age.  He said, "I couldn't do it.  I had to get out.  And I made double or triple whatever it was in the private sector."  What is happening today is that a lot of young, skilled people are not going into education.  The tests show that a disproportionate number are testing at the lowest levels of skills and aptitudes.  That doesn't mean a lot of them won't become good teachers.  We ought to have a society in which both in terms of the environment of teaching being honored as a profession and the pay, is such that the very best, the top of each class, goes into education.  I think last year--as I recall, in Los Angeles--I believe I was told that a beginning teacher there made $13,000 and a beginning policeman $28,000.  I don't begrudge the policeman's salary at all.  But we're saying something about teaching when we give it this low status, and, of course, our kids will pay and our nation will pay.  By now we should know that it is the product of the trained mind that is the greatest source of wealth in America.  It's more important than all of our national resources, everything.  That's from an economic standpoint.  But education, of course--that's why I use the word learning--goes to the basis of our democracy, to our personal enrichment and fulfillment, of our understanding of this ever more dangerous world in which we live.  Education does everything that we need.  And it all begins with what goes on in that classroom.  If it's not effective, if we don't have the best teaching, it's not going to work.  As president, I intend to put a tremendous amount of attention on this.  I've spent a lot of my life in it.  And I don't think there's any other way of getting it done except with presidential leadership.

Q.   MONDALE RESPONSE.  There was a host of efforts underway in alternative energy research that have been terminated by this administration--solar, geothermal, research into energy conservation.  As a matter of fact, the research on photovoltaics--which is one of the most exciting long-term possibilities--the costs of photovoltaics have dropped by geometric leaps.  We are still not competitive, and we got to the hard part.  But with some more time we could have made some progress.  I think we should resume those efforts because they make so much sense.

	The Agricultural Research Service and the Co-op Extension Service is one of the great miracles of this age.

	You couldn't have a greater contrast between the two candidates.  For over twenty-five years I've been working hard, intensively, personally, across the board, on almost every education issue of our time.  I never go before the American people and say I'm an expert.  But if I am, this is where I've spent my life, and this is where I believe much of America's future is involved.  And not only do I think I understand it, but I believe it.  And I believe that America needs a president who leads, because that's the only time you really move forward as a country.   [missing text].  Something which he has almost always opposed all of his life.  In the area of education, on policies, he is uneducable.

	Our country needs a president who will make us first again.  That's what I will do.  Thank you.

EDUCATION--MATH AND SCIENCEENERGY--ALTERNATIVE SOURCESNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)TEACHING PROFESSIONTEACHING PROFESSION--SALARIESEDUCATION--GENERAL     - |- v- r- j-
 _- Z- Z- R- H- F- A- 6-	  	  	 v 	 B 	 /   e: