

	Governor Reagan, Lieutenant Governor Finch, Senator Morton, and your colleague-to-be, Senator Rafferty, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, and all of those in this great audience here at Santa Clara University:

	As I stand here on Buck Shaw field, I want you to know that I had heard there would be a good crowd out here this evening, but I can assure you that in my entire political career I have never seen a crowd, considering the possibilities, that could be as great as this one. I thank you for coming out.

	I am sorry that so many of you are far off there on the bleachers. I trust that all of you can hear. I only wish that we could meet all of you because, as Governor Reagan has indicated, we stand here in a historic time in the history of this nation, in the history of this state, and it is my great privilege to address you and to speak about some of those problems. But before I do so, I want to start on a personal note.

	You know, for me to stand in the middle of this football field is a great achievement. I went out for football for four years in Whittier College. I never made the team and it is good to get in the middle of Buck Shaw field where so many great players have finally been.

	I also want you to know that the opportunity to be here and to have heard just before I came in, Les Brown and his band play--I go back a few years then, too. Les Brown, believe it or not, was playing at Duke University, he was in the undergraduate school thirty years ago when I was in law school.

	Let's give Les a hand, Les and the band.

	Thank you, Les (applause).

	I used to play the piano. I gave that up when I went into politics, but nevertheless I do want you to know this evening, too, that as I stand here I recognize that this is the first rally of this campaign since the two conventions have been completed, and I can tell you there may be other great ones, there will never be a greater one than this one here in Santa Clara County, and I appreciate that.

	So it seems to be quite appropriate at this first great rally after the two conventions have been held that I give you a report on the state of the nation, the state of the campaign.

	I bring to you, my friends, good news. I am sure from your response to Governor Reagan and to Max Rafferty and to Bob Finch that you will consider it good news. I bring to you a report from all across this country, because since our convention I have covered the country, all of the major states, and that report is this:

	We are on the road to victory in November, and we are going to win big all across this country. We are going to win for a number of reasons. We are going to win because our party came out of its convention united, and this divided country needs a united party, a party that can unite itself and we can do that, and the other party cannot.

	Therefore, we will unite America. We are going to win because beyond that, not only our Republicans are united, but across this nation, my friends, and in this great state of California, particularly, millions of Democratic voters and Independents are joining the Republicans in giving America the united leadership they want.

	We are going to win also, because this year in 1968 we field across this nation a great team, a great team of candidates--some of them have been introduced here tonight--a great team of speakers. I want you to know that as I think of the Republican Governors across this country, as I think of the Republican Senators like Senator Morton across this country, of the Republican Congressmen, and I think of what they are going to do in this campaign, I realize that they will add to the voices of the presidential and vice presidential nominees, and that brings me to the voice, to the superstar on this team.

	I want to tell you something about the governor of my home state. I want to tell you--and Thruston Morton will bear me out--that of all the speakers in either party in America, Ronald Reagan is more in demand than any other one. He is wanted all over this country. I know that he has many demands in the state of California, and we want him to fulfill those, but we also are happy to say that he is going to help us across this nation. And I can speak, incidentally, very personally on this point on both points.

	I carried California when I ran for president in 1960. I lost California when I ran for governor in 1962. Ronald Reagan carried California when he ran for governor in 1966. And he is going to help me carry it for president in 1968, and that is how it is going to be. It is that kind of teamwork--it is that kind of teamwork that Washington, D.C. needs. It is that kind of teamwork that America wants. It is that kind of teamwork that is above any party. It is what all parties want. And it is what we offer to the American people today. We are going to win for those reasons, my friends, but there is another reason that we are going to win. A reason that I hear tonight in the voices of this great crowd, a reason that I want to discuss tonight because I think that there is no single factor that will more characterize this campaign than a new voice that is being heard across America today.

	They have been silent Americans. It is the voice of the Americans who have not been the protesters, who have not been the shouters, and now today that voice is welling up across this land of ours. You hear it tonight. You help to make it. You represent it. I have heard it across this nation. I heard it in the primary states where that voice spoke out in record numbers voting for the Republican candidates, and on the Democratic side against the stand-ins for the administration in state after state after state.

	I heard it yesterday, my friends, and today, in two of the most moving experiences of my political life. Let me tell you about it, because you saw and heard another voice ten days ago. Ten days ago, you remember when you watched on television that convention in Chicago, and you saw there the angry confrontation, the agony that went on there between the police and the protesters.	As a result of that confrontation a picture of the city of Chicago and the people of Chicago went out across America and across this world. It was an ugly picture, my friends. I can tell you today it was an unfair picture. It wasn't a true picture. I saw the real Chicago yesterday. I saw it, my friends, as we drove down through Chicago. I saw it and I heard the voice of Chicago.

	My friends, a record number of Chicagoans came out. Some said 400,000. Some said 600,000. Let's call it a half a million, and they were there in the streets. They are the forgotten Americans, the non-shouters, the non-protesters, the forgotten Americans. But they were not there. They had taken to the streets because they want a change in America, and they are going to get it by their votes this November.

	Then today in San Francisco, I saw the same thing. We drove into San Francisco, and we motorcaded down through the financial district and then up through Chinatown, and 300,000 people--the estimates were--were there.

	Again, the forgotten Americans, but coming to the streets. Not for the purpose of destroying, but for the purpose of building, for the purpose of peaceful change. These are the forgotten Americans.	Who are they? Let me tell you who they are. They are in the audience by the thousands. They are the workers of America. They are white Americans and black Americans. They are Mexican Americans and Italian Americans. They are all Americans.

	They are not racists. They are not full of hate. They are decent people. They care. They pay their taxes. They work in America's factories. They work in the offices of America. They teach in America's schools. Their sons man the walls of freedom 'round this world.

	These are the forgotten Americans. They pay their taxes. They support their churches and their schools and their unions and the hundreds of volunteer organizations and charities, which are the great characteristics of this great country of ours.

	These are the forgotten Americans and they have been silent--silent, but now they are waking up, and now their voices are beginning to be heard and now that voice is going to sweep across America and it is going to drown out the voices of those that would destroy America and it is going to build a new America, I can assure you.

	It is this voice of America that you are contributing to tonight. Republicans and Democrats, Independent voters, all of you are joining. All of you who want new leadership, all of you who recognize its necessities, you are joining to this great crusade to provide for that leadership.

	Why is it that this change has occurred? Why is it that those people who have been silent, those people who have been quiet, are now not in record numbers at rallies like this, in record numbers at motorcades such as we saw in Chicago and in San Francisco today? Why?

	I will tell you why. Because these Americans, the majority in this country, the great majority, finally have become angry--not angry with hate, but angry, my friends, because they love America and they don't like what has been happening to America for the last four years, because look what has happened to America. They look across this great land over the past four years.

	You know what they see? They see what you see. They see America, the strongest nation in the world, which has been tied down for four years in a war in Vietnam with no end in sight, and they become angry because of the inability to bring that war to an honorable conclusion. They see an America, the richest country in the world, unable to manage its own economy, and as a result of that mismanagement, the average American over the last four years has lost $1,000 in savings and $1,000 in his income. And the workers of America have found that all of their wage increases have been eaten up by price increases and tax increases. They don't like that, and they are going to change it, because they think we need a government that will be faithful to them.

	They look over the last four years and they see crime going up at a record rate, and they want to stop the rise in crime, and they are going to do that by their votes. They look over the past four years, and they look abroad, and they see respect for America going down to an all-time low. And they look at home and they see respect for law down in America all over this land.

	So the forgotten Americans, the silent Americans, cry out as I do to you tonight. They say that when the time comes in the United States of America when the president of this country cannot travel either abroad or to any major city at home or to his own convention without fear of a hostile demonstration, it is time for new leadership for the United States of America.

	So, my friends, the forgotten Americans speak out and they cry out, "New leadership." That is the choice, then, that we decide.

	I will tell you what they see. They saw the two conventions, and they make their choice based on that, and what they hear between now and November 5th.

	But this they know: that a party that cannot unite itself will be unable to unite America. And this they know: they know that at the Democratic convention in Chicago a man was nominated--whatever you may think of him otherwise. A man was nominated who helped to make the policies that got us into trouble, who supported those policies, who does not differ with any one of them publicly or privately.

	They say that if we want to get America out of trouble, we turn to new leadership and not to the man who helped to get us into trouble. That is what the Americans are saying.

	So tonight I have the proud privilege of saying.

	So tonight I have the proud privilege to say to this great audience, as I said to our convention and as I will say to audiences all over America. I accept the challenge to provide that leadership, and I ask you to join me in helping us to give that leadership to the American people.

	To all of the Americans in this country, let me give you a picture of the kind of leadership we will give to America, with your help in November, when we go in in January. First, we will provide a new foreign policy for America. Oh, I do not mean by that that all of our problems will be immediately solved. But I do say this: I do say that when we look at the problem of Vietnam we will say nothing which might injure any possibility of ending that war by negotiation before the election. But if this administration has been unable to bring the war to an end by the time this election is over, then I say that we need a new and fresh eye, and what we are going to provide will bring the war to an honorable conclusion.

	My friends, we go beyond that. Not only do we pledge the new leadership which will bring to a conclusion the war in which we are engaged on an honorable basis; but, my friends, it is time for a new foreign policy in which the United States of America, which for twenty years has furnished not only most of the arms and most of the money, but most of the men to defend freedom around the world. It is time that other nations bore more of their fair share of the defense of freedom, and we will provide for that.

	We pledge to you also that we shall adopt the policy which will restore respect for the United States of America: restore respect for the United States of America, my friends, so that the time may never come in the future when a fourth-rate military power like North Korea will dare to seize an American Naval vessel on the high seas.

	We pledge leadership which will develop NEA institutions for peace, which will defuse those possibilities which could explode into war in the Mid-East, in Latin America, in the balance of Asia and even in Europe. The way to peace is not easy, but I will say this: I have had some experience, and, as Governor Reagan already has so generously implied, I have trained under a great teacher.

	I will say to you proudly tonight that I was very proud to have been in an administration which ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years. I pledge that kind of leadership for the United States of America today.

	My friends, if we are to meet our responsibility of bringing peace abroad, we also have to meet our responsibility to preserve peace at home, because a nation that cannot keep the peace at home will not be trusted to keep the peace abroad. So I say to you tonight that we pledge to all of the Americans, including the forgotten Americans that I mentioned before, we pledge to you new leadership in this field.

	Pledging that devotion, let us recognize that the first civil right of every American is to be free from domestic violence, and we are going to have that in America again. On that score I say to you that it is time that we restore the balance which I think has been unsettled as between the criminal forces and the peace forces in this country. And where, as has been the case, which is my belief, that some of our courts have gone too far in their decisions to weaken the peace forces against the criminal forces, we shall have legislation to change that situation. We shall restore respect for law in this country, but we shall also have laws that deserve respect.

	My friends, we shall move also in the whole area of progress. I mention that particularly because there are so many young people here with their future in front of them. I mention it particularly because when we talk about order in the United States we must remember you cannot have order which is real and which will last and that you have the promise of progress. That we must do, my friends, is to light the lamp of hope in millions of homes across this land in which there is not hope today. That is not those in this crowd, I am sure. Very few of you, possibly. But, my friends, this is not going to be a good country for any of us to live unless it is a good country for all of us to live in.

	I say to you that we pledge a new program for progress for America, but with a difference. I will tell you the exciting difference. For the last four years we have had programs in which billions of dollars have been spent for federal jobs and federal housing and federal welfare. What we have done is reaped an ugly harvest of more slums, of frustration and violence and hatred. I say it is time for a new road and not to put more money back into those old programs that have failed in the past.

	As we move down that new road I will tell you what it is, my friends: that road is a clear one. We must learn from the past. In these days when we talk about all the things of the future, let us remember. I see somebody back here standing on the shoulders of somebody else so that he can see. Do you remember that one of the reasons that we can see farther than our forefathers is that we stand on the shoulders of the giants that have gone before us.

	Let us never forget that we can learn from the America Revolution. One great thing we can remember about the American Revolution is this. America is a great country. Let us never forget how it became great. The war on poverty has been the most successful war ever waged in history, but it did not begin five years ago. It began when this country began. The reason that it has been successful, let us never forget, always remember that the United States is great and great not because of what government did for people, but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years in this country.

	So I say, let us have the new programs that will provide opportunity for people. Oh, yes, programs that will provide for the aged, for the needy, all those who cannot care for themselves. But for those who can care for themselves, let us remember, give them opportunity. Give them a chance. Give them the education that will bring them up to that equal chance of the starting line, and then from there they will go forward to build a greater country. This is the way to the future.

	I say that what America needs today is not more millions on welfare rolls but more millions on payrolls. That is the answer to America's problems, and that is the way in which we will move.

	My friends, we stand here tonight at one of those historic turning points in the history of this nation. The American people choose on November 5th whether they continue to go down a road that has led us to disaster over the last four years at home and abroad, or whether we make the decision to move in a new direction with a new team under new leadership. I have tried to present that choice to you tonight.

	But, my friends, as I present it, as I presented some of the problems, let me not conclude my remarks without leaving with you the great hope also that we have in this country and in America tonight. I again say this because there are so many young people here today. I know that you must think, as you hear what is wrong about America, that everything is wrong about this country. Never believe it. America is a great country. What we need are leaders to match the greatness of the American people. That is what we need.

	My friends, I know that many of you perhaps say, "Oh, what a terrible time in which to live," and I know that the hep phrase is supposed to be that--why did we have to inherit a world that we did not create. We all do that, my friends. But, let me tell you this as a student of history. As I study the whole history of man from the beginning of time, and as I look all over this great world of ours, if I were to select a time in which to live and a place in which to live, I would pick the United States of America in 1968. This is the time. This is the place. Because, you see, the exciting possibility of our times is this: we have the resources to do something about everything that is wrong about America. And the other exciting possibility is this: in the world today whether peace or freedom survives for the last third of this century depends upon what we do in the United States of America. What the United States does will determine not only our future but the future of three billion people on this earth. We did not ask for that and many Americans may not want it. But this is the responsibility of greatness--this is the time of greatness.

	I say to you, my friends, as you sit here tonight and as you stand here tonight, remember, greatness comes to those who get into the arena and not to those who stay on the sidelines and let history be made by others. Let's make history, beginning tonight. Let's make history by our votes on November 5th and let's make history after November 5th in the new administration by providing the new heart that needs the new understanding that America needs, the new spirit that we need of reconciliation of our people. My friends, all of this is in our hands. All of this is in our hearts. All of this is in our minds.

	It is that kind of a challenge that I give to you. It is that kind of a challenge that I ask you to join, and, as I ask you to join it, I say to you, in the darkness of this night, that the long dark night for America is about to end. A new day is about to dawn. Let us join in hastening that dawn--a new dawn and a new day for America.

	I just received from Larry Fargher, our candidate for Congress, a bottle of California champagne which he says he hopes I will open election night. I just want you to know that I am not boycotting California grapes.
CIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALVIETNAM WAR     U T T T T
 T T T T T T T T	 w 	 i 	 [ 	 7 	 " 	  e: