
	I am glad to be back in Atlanta.  I have been here many times and number by the hundreds my friends in the South.

	However, it seems that some of the opposition spokesmen look upon this meeting as a revolution.

	For them, this is a revolution.  Through generations they have been counting the votes of the South ahead of time along with the cemetery tomb stones and the vacant lots that they carry in the election rolls in some of the cities they run up north.

	For me and for you, however, it is the most natural thing in the world that an American, nominated for high political office, should want to talk over the problems of America with his fellow citizens--no matter where they may live.  And I am not writing off a single precinct anywhere in the country as the captive of the administration machine.

	Of course, the bosses are very much afraid of you who have gathered here.  The one thing they fear is the sort of spontaneous turnout of free Americans that they see here in Atlanta today.

	They don't like people with minds of their own.

	In recent years one good reason for my visits to this state was to escape the clatter of the propaganda mills and the clamor of the crisis factories operated in Washington by the present administration.  The people there for years have made life for all of us just one emergency after another.

	They manufacture emergencies as the rugs under which they sweep stupidity, blunders and corruption.  I learned to know something of the South and its greatness at first hand thirty-five years ago when I was a junior officer at Fort Sam Houston and at Fort Benning.  I first met my wife in a southern city; and that's reason enough why the South forever will be high in my affection.  On the other hand, the machine bosses of the present administration apparently did not discover the South until they met in convention during July of this year.  Immediately they did so, they tried to hog-tie the south with
a loyalty oath--an oath not to your state or to the nation, but to a political nominee those bosses had not yet even named.

	All this is in line with their way of doing things and their misconceptions of the South and its people.  Think of all the things the administration has sought to foist upon you.  If you believe their propaganda, you should immediately surrender to the federal bureaucracy.  They want you to feel that only by accepting their doctrine of Washingtonian wisdom can you avoid becoming the victims of economic circumstances, unable to stand on your own feet, doomed to misery and poverty.

	An old Atlantan once said:  "The big trouble with the federals when they came this way was they were a mite careless with matches and fire."  If he were alive today, he'd say the trouble with the new brand of political federals is that some of them are a mite careless with truth and the taxpayers' money!

	Therein lies an overriding moral issue of this campaign.  Of course, the host of governmental propaganda mills in the nation's capital, supported by your taxes and mine, exist for the sole purpose of selling us the virtues of the administration.  But the press agent has his limitations; no longer is he able to generate so dense a fog of printer's ink as to conceal corruption?

	Before giving you a partial bill of particulars as to our just complaints, let me say, emphatically, that there are two points on which I find opposition leaders completely and wholly right.  Their nominee for president has lately been quoted as admitting that there is a mess in Washington!  The head of the administration, himself, has announced that their presidential nominee must run on one issue--the record of the administration.  On both these points I am in hearty agreement with the opposition.  This Washington mess is not a one-agency mess or a one-bureau mess or a one-department mess--it is a top-to-bottom mess.

	Its ingredients are many--all of them indigestible!  Stirred into this sorry brew are all the facts you have learned and many none of us will ever hear about--of Washington waste and extravagance and inefficiency; of incompetence in high places and in low places; of corruption such as makes us hang our heads in shame; of bungling in our affairs at home; of fumbling in the life and death matter of war and peace.

	Who brewed this mess?

	You know the answer to that as well as I do.  It was brewed by scheming politicians whose idea of public service is service to their own purses or their own power.  This Washington mess did not come to pass by any process of spontaneous combustion; neither did it like ...[missing text]...just grow.  This mess is the inevitable and sure-fire result of an administration by too many men who are too small for their jobs, too big for their breeches, and too long in power.

	Now, what does this Washington mess mean to you?  Somebody has to pay the bunglers and provide the cash to finance their bungling. Who is it?  The answer to that is that is you:  every one of you: every worker, every farmer, every housewife, every lawyer and doctor and schoolteacher, every office worker and every clerk, every young American.

	The hide that the cost of this Washington mess is being taken out of is your hide.

	It is being taken out of your hide in higher taxes.

	It is being taken out of your hide in higher prices:  for every single thing you have to pay for--from groceries to new drapes for the parlor:  from vacuum cleaners to tractors:  from a college education to the cost of getting married and having a home of your own.

	This Washington mess is being taken out of your hide by reaching into your savings account and getting at your insurance policy and your pension.  It is cutting down the value of every dollar you have put away for the future.

	It is being taken out of your hide abroad and at home--loss of prestige and respect abroad; waste and confusion at home.

	You pay for the incompetence, stupidity and corruption on the part of those who have been caught and those who have not been caught. The newspapers tell us that we are getting two airfields in North Africa for the price of five.  They report countless other items of waste.

	Even my distinguished opponent admits that his party has produced a mess in Washington.  Here we have amazing proof of how far, from bad to worse, things have gone, and, indeed, they have.  They are too far gone--much too far gone--to be cured by the one-third treatment or the one-half treatment or even the three-quarters treatment.  A "refreshening" is not what we need.  A face-lifting job won't do it either.  What the Washington mess must have is the full treatment.  The only clean-up that will do the job is a wholesale clean-out of the political bosses in Washington.

	I don't know how thick your hide is.  But it's my belief that most Americans are ready to say, "This is too much."  That is exactly what you and every other voting American will have the chance to say on November 4th.

	Now this Washington mess--where it is--what it is costing us, and how to get rid of it--this is something none of us should forget for a single moment between now and election day.

	Today and tomorrow, here in the Southland, I shall intensify my attack against corruption in government; against the heedless policies that nullify our thrift and erase our savings by inflation; against federal deficits and the failure to live within our means; against waste of our resources and our money; against arbitrary usurpation and seizure of power; against disloyalty in the federal service; against the whole tangled aggregation of
incompetence and expediency and bossdom.

	I do not predict the result of the election.  But I promise you this:  by the time it comes, the wasters, the bunglers, and the political connivers will be plenty worried about what you know about them and they will be plenty worried about what you may do to
them.

	You've already given them a hint of the future.  Ever since I landed at the airport, I've been hearing the wild exultance of the rebel yell.  They are hearing it in Washington, too.  And they don't like it.  They like voters who follow orders.

	For my part, I like rebel yells.  I heard them all the way from North Africa to central Germany.  All along that road to victory, they meant an end to Nazi tyranny.  In this campaign, they mean an end to the mess in Washington.

	If you are as sick and tired of all this, as I am; if you are as tired as I am of picking up your newspaper every morning and reading about a fresh government scandal, then let's get together and restore decency and honesty and integrity to the nation's capital.

	I pledge you that--whatever my future personal status--I shall not rest until the peddlers of privilege and the destroyers of decency are banished from the nation's house.

	We have the skill and the talent and the will to make our government once again something thrifty and sound and dynamic--a government to excite the pride of Americans.  We can build a government able to face the scrutiny of the entire world, secure and unafraid in its material and spiritual strength.

	I am an old soldier, but always I have been a plain American citizen.  During these many years, I have worked on Kansas farms, in factories, in universities, in government and in the Army.  I have worked with the young men and young women of America.

	I started my troop duty in the days when we were digging trenches along the Mexican border.  In those days, war traveled no faster than a horse's jog.  I ended my last tour with troops in May of this year.  By then, the pace of war had stepped up to the speed of the jet plane and the impact of the atomic bomb.

	Through the intervening years I have watched young Americans adapt and adjust themselves to every revolutionary change in weapons and warfare.  But all the changes in techniques and tactics have not changed by one iota the greatness of heart of our young men and our young women.  Nothing has changed their readiness to sacrifice for the things that they hold dear, or their willingness to meet any challenge to their ideals and principles.

	But all these service people--young and old--are only a cross section of America.  They are one with men and women in all walks of life in our country--the Americans we meet every day in the cities, villages and on the farms of our land.  They are men and women with whom I have served in many regions and many climates.  I am certain that out of their experience they would enthusiastically endorse these conclusions that I have reached out of my own experience:

	First:  There is no other people so endowed in talents and skills and spirit--above all, in spirit and heart--as the people of America.

	Second:  There is no land so endowed by God with a variety of richness and a natural wealth as our own America.

	Third:  There is no other system of government, devised by man for his welfare and security, so responsive to the people's will--once the people have reached a decision--as the American system.

	Given those three elements--a nation that is great in heart; a land that is rich in its resources; a government that is a ready instrument of popular will--why should we Americans any longer tolerate the doubtful, the fearful, the corrupt in high places.

	Let us retire them, at the first possible moment, to the rearmost rank where they will no longer affront our sense of decency while they betray our trust and besmirch our name among the nations.  Then we can, effective and united, resume our forward march to the horizon--a horizon bright with promise for ourselves and our children.

	You, the people--and only you--can give the command for that forward march.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEREGIONALISM--SOUTH     . . . . {.
 m. h. c. \. U. S. @. 5.	 ` 	 ? 	 " 	  e: