

	I have spoken often in this campaign of the evils of indifference in the management of our public affairs, of absentee administration, of political administration, of administration without heart, and without heart in its work. The farmer, the small businessman, the children and teachers in ramshackle and overcrowded schools, workmen in many places, the sick and the aged, and the government employee have all had a first-hand experience with this kind of government. To them a part-time President and an indifferent administration is more than a phrase. The lives of many have been altered in these past four years; the lives of some blighted. Ask the thousands who have been kicked around as security risks in the Republican effort to prove one of the calumnies of 1952--that our government was riddled with subversives.

	Tonight I want to tell you first what this kind of leadership or lack of leadership means--both abroad and here at home. And I want to talk about the effort made by this administration to cover up its errors--errors that result from abdication of responsibility.

	In the last week the American people have watched anxiously the heroic efforts of the Poles and Hungarians to free themselves from the hard yoke of Moscow.

	And the so-called Republican Truth Squad last Friday in Rock Island, Illinois celebrated the event by announcing that the great revolts were "a clear-cut result of the new American foreign policy." We have said more foolish and insulting things about other peoples during the Eisenhower-Dulles period than we like to recall and at an expense in good will and respect we can ill afford, but this was a new low even for the Republicans.

	If it was true, it would be shameful stupidity to say it; but as it is false, it was a gross effort to exploit the anguish of brave people to make votes in an American election. The credit goes where it belongs--to the heroic Poles and Hungarians who face the tanks and guns of their Russian rulers; it belongs to those who were willing to risk all--their lives, their fortunes, their families--for freedom. No credit goes to men who in recent weeks have exposed themselves to nothing more dangerous than their own campaign oratory. And, as a postscript, let me remind the Republican Truth Squad that truth might be an interesting experiment for them some day; that they could have announced more accurately that we were caught off guard, that when the fighting broke out in Poland the American ambassador wasn't even at his post--he was visiting Berlin to see his dentist. And when the revolt broke our in Hungary our envoy was not even in that country.

	And you may gauge President Eisenhower's interest in this whole problem by another bit of history. In June of last year, by a vote of 367-0 the House of Representatives passed a resolution expressing its sympathy with the satellite nations and condemning colonialism. When asked about this resolution on June 29th, President Eisenhower said: "I did not know about that. Maybe I was fishing that day. I don't know."

	But this was not an isolated example. Let me give you another example where the issue of war and peace was at stake.

	The winter and spring of 1954 were a time of deep trial and anxiety. Indochina was falling to the Communists. I saw that frightening war in the rice paddies and the jungles with my own eyes. The Free World was divided, troubled, and alarmed. Hasty voices--Mr. Nixon's with characteristic volubility was among them--were advocating armed intervention by American troops. On February 12th, the New York Times reported that Senate leaders "alarmed by fears of possible U.S. involvement in the Indochina war" had called high members of the Administration to an urgent secret conference. On the same day the Times also reported that President Eisenhower had gone South for hunting with Secretary Humphrey and had bagged his limit of quail.

	Two days later the alarm had deepened in Washington and the papers reported that President Eisenhower was leaving for a six-day vacation in California. On February 19th, Secretary Dulles returned from the critical Four Power Conference in Berlin. He couldn't report to the president. The New York Times said "It was golf again today for President Eisenhower" at Palm Springs.

	Later on April 13th, Mr. Dulles and British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden met to explore the possibilities of joint action--joint military action--in Indochina. The New York Times reported that President Eisenhower had landed in the South "to begin a golfing vacation." Next day it was announced that we would airlift aid to Indochina; and also that the President was playing golf in Georgia.

	On April 17th, the New York Times said in a headline that the United States "weighs fighting in Indochina if necessary." The President, it said, was still vacationing in Georgia. The next day the country learned from the papers that Nixon had said that the United States might have to intervene with military force. Less spectacular news that day was President Eisenhower had played golf in Augusta with Billy Joe Patton.

	On April 23rd, it was announced that the last outposts around Dien Bien Phu, the French stronghold, had fallen. That day the President arrived in Georgia for a new golfing holiday.

	The Free World suffered a severe defeat in Asia and lost a rich country and more than ten million people in Indochina. And after it was all over, Secretary Dulles boasted in an article in Life magazine that it had been a victory. He also boasted that he had won this victory by our bold behavior and by bringing the country to the brink of war. And when President Eisenhower was asked his opinion, he replied: "I have not read the article."

	I could go on. The President was away golfing when it was announced early last year that our Air Force had gone on a full war footing as a result of the Formosa crisis. He was shooting quail when we evacuated the Taichen Islands. He was golfing in New Hampshire in June 1954, when the Soviets shot down a U.S. plane off Alaska. In the New York Times, it said, "There was no visible evidence that the President had anything on his mind other than having a good time."

	In February of this year, the President was golfing in Georgia during the on-again, off-again, on-again mix-up over the shipment of tanks to Saudi Arabia which so alarmed the Israeli people. Mr. Dulles as usual was out of the country. Mr. Herbert Hoover, Jr., was running the store.

	The President was asked this year whether Russia was leading us in guided missiles. He answered, and I quote him, that he was "astonished at the amount of information that others get that I don't."

	The President was asked on April 4th of this year about an urgent message on the Middle Eastern crisis that Prime Minister Eden had sent him ten days earlier. It developed that he didn't even know the letter existed.

	When asked about neutralism that long ago, the President said he thought it was fine; when Mr. Dulles was asked, he said it was immoral; after they got together, Mr. Dulles said that while he thought neutralism immoral he didn't know any immoral neutrals.

	I suppose we have to assume that the President just doesn't know, either, of his Secretary of State's incredible blunders that have shaken the Middle East and helped the Communists do in a few months what the Czars couldn't do in centuries--penetrate the Arab lands.

	The President is an honorable man. So when he smilingly assures us that all is well and America's prestige has never been higher, he just must not know that in fact the American star is low on the world's horizons.

	And even what happens here at home passes the President by. In 1953 and 1954 we had a serious drop in employment and economic activity. On February 17, 1954, the Department of Commerce announced that unemployment had passed the three million mark. The New York Times said the President would act if there was no upturn soon. It also said he had just departed for five days vacation at Palm Springs, California.

	A year ago last May he was asked why Secretary Hobby had difficulty in foreseeing the great demand for Salk vaccine. He said he didn't know anything about it and to ask Mrs. Hobby.

	Last February, when the head of the General Services Administration was let out for using his job to help friends get government contracts the President thought he had resigned for "personal reasons."

	The President was asked if Republican leaders had told him why they killed an important bill to bring aid to areas suffering from unemployment. He said: "No, you are telling me something now that I didn't know."

	When President Eisenhower's Secretary of Labor urged extending minimum wage legislation to employees of interstate retail chain stores, the President was asked where he stood. He said: "I don't know that much about it."

	This list could go on endlessly.

	I have left out of the list every case where the President's absence from Washington or his ignorance of crucial facts could be traced to his illnesses.

	And I want to make it clear that I realize fully that any president will inevitably be gone on some occasions when a crisis arises. I surely don't begrudge the President either the recreation, the repose, or the exercise necessary for health. I think even a president is entitled to enjoy himself occasionally.

	But a president must assume the full responsibilities of that high post. He is chief executive. And I say bluntly that I do not agree with President Eisenhower that the United States can be run by a board of directors, with the President presiding over occasional meetings.

	Nothing could be more at odds with our constitutional system. The President was elected to the responsibilities of leadership by the American people. Dulles, Wilson, Benson, Weeks, and the others were not elected at all. They are the hired hands but the President runs the store.

	And we know that the Eisenhower system just doesn't work. The price of the President's abdication has been irresponsibility in our foreign policy. This irresponsibility has brought the coalition of the free nations to a point where even its survival has been threatened. And it has brought American prestige to the lowest level in our history.

	Here at home, we are in the midst of a great social transition. We have come to see with new clarity the full implications of our Bill of Rights and of our democratic faith, and we are moving forward again to assure the equal rights of man to all Americans, regardless of race or color. Through the nation many citizens of both races are working quietly, working hard, risking much, daring much to solve the stubborn problems that lie in the path of any great social transformation.

	Who but the President could say for the whole nation that those participating in this great effort--sometimes even though they disagree with the decision itself--deserve the gratitude, the respect, the moral support of their countrymen? But President Eisenhower, far from rising to this challenge of leadership, has not even expressed his views on the decision and the goal itself.

	Nor has he acted with decision to sustain even the most elementary right for all adult Americans--the right to vote. The assurance of this right to all citizens is written in our laws and must surely be the keystone of our Democratic institutions. But here again, Mr. Eisenhower has seen no challenge of leadership. 

	Nothing can be more essential to our system of government than affirmative Presidential leadership. The President was elected to these responsibilities by the American people. He is the only officer of our government who is elected by all the people.

	These four years of a part-time Presidency have been bad enough. But what would another four be like? Well, I'll tell you. But I don't really need to, because yesterday at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco, Republican Senator Malone of Nevada put it squarely and bluntly. The "greatest sin" the Republican party has committed, this Republican Senator said, has been "carrying on what the Democrats started." Then he added, "But we'll change that in 1957 and 1958 if you elect... President Eisenhower.

	Why? Why will reelecting the same man President mean a whole new and different government policy--of wrecking twenty years of Democratic building in America?

	We know exactly why.

	The reason is simply that if the Republicans should be returned to office again, the powers of the directorate which has governed in the last four years will be shared and perhaps preempted by a man you know, and know well, too well. I refer to the heir apparent, hand-picked by President Eisenhower, Richard Nixon.

	President Eisenhower will not be a more vigorous leader in the next four years than in the last four years. He will almost certainly be even less disposed to lead. He will have greater need to conserve his energies. The habit of total delegation once formed is not easily changed.

	More important, he will not be allowed to lead. The Republican politicians, we now know, love their leader, the President, mostly at election time. They will follow him to the polls, but no farther. For years the Democrats in Congress have repeatedly had to rescue the President's program from his own party.

	Beginning in 1957, if President Eisenhower should be reelected, the Republican leaders in Congress will owe him exactly nothing. He cannot help them get elected again because, under the Twenty-second Amendment, he couldn't run again even if his age and health permitted.

	We know from past experience that the President will not lead. We know that if he should try his party will not follow. And into this vacuum would come Richard Nixon--beloved by the most reactionary wing of Old Guard Republicanism.

	That's why Senator Malone is so confident that a new term for Mr. Eisenhower will mean an opportunity to do a wrecking job. It's because a new term for Mr. Eisenhower will mean a new destiny for Richard Nixon.

	In the last few weeks a plaintive note has entered the Republican newspaper discussion of Mr. Nixon. They say in effect: "Can't people see that this man has changed?"

	Well, people prefer men who don't have to be changed. And even some mighty good Republicans don't think the Republican party ought to be in the laundry business.

	A lot of people just don't believe that Richard Nixon is really at home in this role as the Little Lord Fauntleroy of the Republican party. They wonder if he doesn't yearn for his old tar bucket and his brush. And they suspect that if the circumstances let him he will make a fast grab of it again.

	Common decency is at stake here. But more is at stake even than that. President Eisenhower does not lead because he won't. Richard Nixon cannot lead because the American people will not follow.

	This is partly because Nixon has a long record against the people. He has voted against public housing, to weaken Point 4, against extending Social Security, against middle-income housing, against increased appropriations for school lunches, against increased REA Loan Funds and, of course he voted repeatedly for the Taft-Hartley Act.

	People mistrust a man who votes against the people. They have an additional reason to mistrust Mr. Nixon for, on several of these issues, he has taken an equally firm stand on both sides.

	Mr. Nixon's advertisers call him "adaptable." Well, that's just the trouble. For what "adaptable" means here is that this man has no standard of truth but convenience and no standard of morality except what will serve his interest in an election. The plain fact is that the people of this country just can't picture Richard Nixon as the leader of the greatest of the world's nations.

	They can't imagine putting Richard Nixon's hand on the trigger of the H-bomb. They just can't trust him.

	Our nation stands at a fork in the political road.

	In one direction lies a land of slander and scare; the land of sly innuendo, the poison pen, the anonymous phone-sell, hustling, pushing, shoving; the land of smash and grab and anything to win.

	This is Nixonland. But I say to you that it is not America.

	America is something different. It is a land of mutual trust and confidence, not suspicion and division, a land of neighborliness, of unity of purpose, and common faith.

	American is a tranquil land. There people seek fulfillment, not by the frantic service of themselves, but by the quiet and thoughtful service of their communities.

	This we must be--a free land, where people speak their minds without glancing over their shoulders, where the right to think as one chooses, write as one chooses, and worship as one chooses is safe from inquisitorial arrogance and the wolf packs of conformity.

	America is a just land, where people are safe from the hit-and-run politicians who ambush the innocent passersby; a land where fact can overtake falsehood, and where the accused and the abused can count on a fair trial in a fair environment.

	Above all, America is a growing land, humble not boastful, modest not arrogant, believing deeply that life means change, and that change is the product of the free contest of ideas.

	This is our America. It is America for which the Democratic party has fought before--and it is the New America that is our goal today.

	I summon you tonight to join the march to the New America--to the banishment of smear and suspicion and to the enthronement once again of reason and responsibility.

	The tide of Democratic sentiment is rising through the land. As we remain steadfast in our course, I know the rising tide will sweep us to victory.
CABINET OFFICIALSCONDUCT OF LIFE--AGE/HEALTHCONDUCT OF LIFE--LEISURE/SPORTSEASTERN EUROPEMIDDLE EASTRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SOUTHEAST ASIAUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVOTING RIGHTS     fF 2F ,F (F  F
 F F 	F E E E E E	  	  	  	 g 	 Y 	 N 	 0 	 " 	  e: