

	I would like to talk to you tonight about a subject that does not appear to be an issue in this campaign.

	Yet, beneath the surface, it is a subject that cuts across all the issues and gets to the heart of America's troubles today.

	In every field, on every front, America has lost the initiative. Wherever we turn, we find ourselves on the defensive.

	In Asia, we are trying to end a war that has gone on far too long.

	In our economy at home, we are trying to dig in our heels against a rising cost of living that makes it impossible for millions of families to make ends meet.

	In our national security, we are rapidly losing the position of military superiority needed to bring about the day of detente.

	In our cities, we have been driven up against the wall by intolerable conditions and groups intolerant of each other.

	On our streets, we are groping for ways to end the worst crime wave ever to have gripped a free people.

	Time and again, we find ourselves reacting to events, reeling back from one crisis after another, in a constantly active arena when the time between rounds seems to be getting shorter.

	Every adversary senses when a man or a nation loses the initiative. They become bolder, they take more chances, they step up the pressure everywhere. Abroad, they increase the danger of war; at home, they decrease the chances for reconciliation.

	America's leadership today has lost the initiative. One great question before you in this election is this: How can America regain that initiative?

	First, of course, we must change our leadership, but that is only a beginning. We must reassess our goals, redirect our policies and renew our determination.

	We must regain the initiative in foreign affairs. We must turn away from the strategy of the counter-puncher only reacting to the thrusts and challenges of other nations.

	Lately, America has had a regional strategy, strong here, weak there. It has been an intermittent strategy, strong now, weak then. But we are not a regional power nor an intermittent power. We are a global power, and we must adopt a consistent global strategy to encompass the reach of our interests in peace and the growth of freedom in the world.

	With this new initiative, we shall work with our allies on a global basis, spelling out our aims and showing how we will bear our share in freedom's defense--provided they bear their share.

	With this new initiative we will deal with our adversaries on a global basis, negotiating from strength of arms and strength of purpose.

	We shall break away from the localized, piecemeal diplomacy of the past. We will introduce a new combination of moral leadership, diplomatic and economic leverage in every area of the world and every field of mutual concern.

	A previous generation was forced to introduce total war. This generation shall perfect a creative technique of "total diplomacy," making possible the ideal of total peace.

	But we can only help set the world in order when we show we can set our own house in order. At home, too, we must regain the initiative.

	In relations between the races, center stage is occupied all too often by the violent and the vindictive, by the embittered and the bigoted. The forces of progressivism appear off-balance and off-stage.

	Nobody ever regained the initiative by forcing a discontented minority to cool its heels outside the corridors of power.

	The next administration will understand the need for dignity as well as assistance. It will understand that the black are not a bloc--there are varying views and differing needs within the Negro community, just as there are within the Puerto Rican, the Mexican-American, and the Anglo-American communities. For some, compassion is required; others need a passionate concern for the opportunity to own and manage their own businesses and control their own lives.

	The forgotten Americans--the hard-working, taxpaying Americans--are black as well as white. Our administration will draw upon the sense of fairness and justice of these forgotten Americans to establish contact with, and provide opportunity for, the forsaken Americans.

	As we change control of our government, we shall control change in our nation.

	The initiative must be regained on another front as well. Crime is not a political issue, to be viewed with alarm at election-time and promptly forgotten afterward. The fear of crime is real among Americans; it is based upon a sharp increase in the number of violent crimes committed everyday, to the point where one American family in five will be victimized by criminals this year.

	New leadership cannot be expected to end the wave of crime overnight, but it can be expected to go into action against crime immediately.

	Organized crime will know that the heat is on--that there is a new attitude at the highest level--and that the heat will stay on. At the same time, a new dedication will permeate the police forces through all levels of government.

	Of course every candidate is "against" crime. But you cannot fight crime with election-time oratory and you cannot fight crime with bumper stickers. In government, there is such a thing as emphasis and priority; there is such a thing as new men with new spirit getting on top of their jobs. That makes a deep difference in what can be done to switch the burden of fear from the citizen to the criminal.

	We must regain the initiative in holding the rise in the cost of living as well. The average factory worker's paycheck has increased $11 a week in the past three years, but when it comes to buying groceries and paying the rent, that paycheck has lost over $2 in purchasing power. A crushing burden of taxes and the fastest-rising prices in a generation have stolen the apparent increase.

	You don't have to be an economist to know there is now just one major cause of inflation: government spending. Men in government who promise too much become prisoners of their own promises, and in trying to please everyone, only harm everyone.

	And here, my friends, we come to a fundamental point--in every field--foreign policy, relations between the races, rising crime rate, the high cost of living, America must get off the defensive.

	By constantly reacting we have become reactionary; we have to break out of our spellbound state and start taking affirmative action.

	In many of these radio talks I have gone into detail about the differences in philosophy between the major parties on a wide range of specific issues. The differences are great--greater now, I believe, than at any time in this century.

	But the choice before you is not only a difference in the philosophy of government, it is a difference in the psychology of government.

	This is what I mean: No matter how hard he may try, no man who has helped to build the policies of the past eight years, who has defended them at every turn and defends them all today, who is forced to justify past failures and explain away past defeats--no such man come to the presidency with free hands.

	Tied as he is to the past, he would find it psychologically impossible to turn this nation around, to regain the momentum that was lost by the administration whose inept leadership he shared.

	"Time for a change" is only a slogan, but even in slogans there can be a kernel of truth. Before we make a new departure, America must first dispel the lingering aura of failure and helplessness and sheer bone-weariness that surrounds the old administration.

	This is not only a time for a change of faces; it is a time for a change of minds. This is not only a time for a change of philosophy; it is a time for a change of psychology.

	The individual person in America needs to feel he can take charge of his own destiny, and not be tossed about by a distant bureaucracy beyond his control.

	In the same way, we as a nation need to feel we can take charge of our national destiny and not be pulled and hauled in every direction by forces and events beyond our control.

	We do not live alone in this world. We cannot always do as we please. But the forces of progress in the United States and the forces of freedom in the world can seize the initiative here and everywhere if we have the will, the strength and the courage to do it.

	Our immediate need is for a strong, clear decision by the American people six days from tonight.

	Hubert Humphrey hopes for a constitutional crisis to wheel and deal his way to power and keep the nation where it is;

	I look forward to a great mandate to move this nation ahead.

	Hubert Humphrey hopes for a three-way split to divide and conquer.

	I look forward to a great mandate to unite and heal.

	If the will of the people were to be denied, the next administration would be doomed to four years of the dissent of the ungoverned.

	But when the majority speaks out in a great mandate, the next administration will, as it should, derive its power from the consent of governed.

	The man who receives the most votes for president should be the next president; the voice of the people must not be denied. Hubert Humphrey chose to avoid the choice of the people of his party throughout the primary campaigns. Thanks to the party bosses, he was able to deny the voice of the people in seizing the nomination--but no man should deny the voice of the people in any power-grab for the presidency itself.

	It is plain to see that Hubert Humphrey has adopted a strategy of desperation. He knows he cannot hope to command a majority; he cannot win this election on his own.

	If Hubert Humphrey is to enter the White House, it would have to be through the back door, through the help of a third party to divide the majority. The price America would have to pay for minority rule by Hubert Humphrey would be four years of division, dissension and despair.

	As evidence of my confidence in the strong mandate to come, I issue this challenge:

	I stand ready right now to abide by the decision of the American people. I stand ready to pledge to support for president the man who receives the most votes for that office, whoever that man may be.

	I call upon Hubert Humphrey to join with me in making this pledge.

	I call upon Hubert Humphrey to agree with me to accept the decision of the American people, and to support whichever candidate receives the highest popular vote.

	The challenge I issue today cannot be plainer or more direct.

	I do not fear the voice of the people; does Hubert Humphrey?

	I stand ready to accept the decision of the electorate; does Hubert Humphrey?

	I want to spare our nation from the possibility of an administration that owes its existence to a third party--does Hubert Humphrey?

	If Hubert Humphrey turns away from this moment of truth for democracy; if he shrinks from this challenge to let the American people select their own president; if he fails to put the future of his country ahead of his own ambition--then America will need no further proof of the depth of his desperation.

	The American voter will need no further proof of the degree of the Humphrey desire to deal his way into the office that morally should go to the man who wins the most votes.

	I say again: the candidate who gets the most votes should be the next president. Let my opponent decide whether he dares abide by the will of the American people as expressed in the voting booth. And by his decision, let the American people witness the extent of the commitment of the two major candidates to the American system of government, to the principle of majority rule.

	I do not hesitate to put my own faith in the voters across this land. Their own clear mandate, loud and strong, will make it possible to reunite this nation and regain the initiative.

	Their own clear mandate will restore majority rule, and enable new leadership to bring about a national metamorphosis--to lead this nation out of the darkness of division into the light of a new dawn.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALDEMOCRACYDIPLOMACYELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALRACE RELATIONSTHIRD PARTY CANDIDACYVOTING     / / / / /
 |/ w/ r/ h/ T/ R/ I/ ?/	  	  	 w 	 n 	 e 	 A 	 ) 	  	  e: