
	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to see you. I'm glad to be here. Are you ready to work for ten more days to change America?

	I want to say how honored I am to be back in Iowa, to be with my friend, Tom Harkin, who has done as much to help this campaign achieve victory as any elected official in the United States.

	Congressman Neal Smith and our candidates here, Jean Lloyd Jones for the United States Senate, and Lane Baxter for the United States Congress. Boy, I loved hearing Lane talk when he--you know, after Bush jumped on my wife at the convention with Pat Buchanan and all that crowd and then they used the State Department to investigate me and then they got after Mother, they deserve to have Lane quote the Book of Common Prayer to them. I think that was [missing text].

	You know, today may be the best day in the rest of the campaign for George Bush because today's the day we set our clock back an hour, and he's been trying to do that for four years. But no matter how much he tries to set the clock back, as my running mate, Al Gore, said, it's still time for him to go.

	No matter how much they try to change the subject, no matter what they say, this election is still about the economic strength of America, whether we're going to have more jobs or fewer jobs, higher incomes or lower incomes, whether we're going to preserve the middle class that made this country great, or continue to run this government for the benefit of a privileged few.

	This election is about living standards, about family incomes going down $1,600 in the last four years, and about two-thirds of the American people working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. George Bush asks you to watch your wallet. You ought to. He's been picking it for four years.

	This election is about whether we are going to finally face up to our responsibilities in the area of health care, to control costs and provide basic health care to all Americans. And it's not just a health care issue, it's an economic issue.

	You want to preserve good-paying jobs in the manufacturing sector? Bring American health care costs into line with those of other countries. You want a small and vibrant small business sector? Make it possible for small business people to afford their health care.

	One hundred thousand people a month in this country are losing their health care costs, while we persist in paying 30 percent more for health care than anybody else on earth. Why? Because we're giving it to insurance companies, to bureaucracy, to government regulation, to drug companies, to people performing procedures that aren't necessary, to unfair billing, to the kinds of things that are scandalous.

	Mr. Bush says this election is about taxes and then proceeds to make up all kinds of stories. The truth is he's the one who said "Read my lips" and signed the second-biggest tax increase in history. He's the one who is committed--he's going to raise taxes again in a few days when he signs the Energy Bill. He talks one way and does another, can't get out of the fact that in our state, we have the second-lowest tax burden in the country and, according to the most recent study, the tenth fairest in the country.

	I don't think you have to soak the middle class and break them down to raise the money we need to finance a government to promote growth and prosperity in this country. If we ask the wealthiest Americans whose taxes have been lowered to pay their fair share, people with incomes over $200,000, if we just ask foreign companies to pay exactly the same share of their income earned in America in taxes that American companies do, we could raise the money to turn around and give $100 billion in incentives to people to reinvest in this country.

	You know, I think there are some real misperceptions in this country that often come out at election time. I know that you and I haven't agreed on every issue, but, you know, I think that the attempt that the Republicans have made to make labor seem as if it is against the generation of wealth and people making money is as bogus as a $3 bill. I don't think there is a person in this audience that objects to somebody making a million dollars as long as they make it the old-fashioned way, by putting the rest of us to work and giving people a chance to make a living.

	I am proud of the fact that in my state, where I was last night trying to bring home one of our congressional candidates, we led the country in private-sector job growth, created manufacturing jobs at roughly ten times the national average, ranked fourth in the country in manufacturing job growth this year, fourth in the reduction of poverty, fourth in the increase of income. Now, that does not comport with what George Bush says Democrats do. He's the one who's destroyed jobs in this election. I'm a job creator, and I'd like to have a chance to do it for the national government.

	I just got back from a tour of the West, in which I told them there was a new Democratic party that westerners ought to vote for. You know, a lot of those states I've been in, there are people who have never voted for a Democrat, certainly never voted for one for president. And I told them that when I was raised in Arkansas, there were people who had never voted for a Republican. And we used to tell the story about a 90-year-old woman who was on her deathbed, had never missed an election, never failed to vote Democratic. She called the county clerk in, and right about to expire, she changed her registration to Republican. And her son broke down in tears and said, "Mama, you taught me to vote Democratic and you never missed an election, and here you are, at the end of your days, changing your registration. I don't get it." She said, "Well, son, I'm about to go, and I'd rather them lose one than us."

	I took a campaign into places where that's what they thought about the Republican party, and I told the people in Billings, Montana, and in Colorado and in Eugene, Oregon, and Cheyenne, Wyoming, where we had 5,000 people in an airplane hangar, the biggest rally they'd ever had in a state with only 450,000 people, that of all the people in this race, there was only one who had ever balanced a government budget, only one who'd ever pushed for lobby reform, only one who'd ever passed a program through a legislature, only one who had not been a part of the Washington establishment that they so deplore, and that was the Democratic nominee for president, and they ought to be for this. They ought to be part of a new Democratic party that embraces all Americans who want to grow.

	I also think that what I have tried to say in this campaign about personal responsibility has struck a resonant chord among all kinds of people. I think most of you would support America having the toughest child support system we can, not letting people cross the state line and evade their child support obligations--not letting people beat out that.

	I think most of you support the idea that we should invest in the capacity of people who are trapped in welfare, invest in their education and training, and help them support their children, and then say they ought to go to work.

	I think most of you would support the elemental proposition that there is a huge number of people in this country who are working forty hours a week and still living in poverty, and it's wrong. And we ought to have a tax system that instead of giving breaks to the wealthiest Americans lifts them above poverty if they work forty hours a week and they've got children in the home.

	You know, these people in power today, they want you to give them four more years, and they say, "Trust me." Now, look what they can be trusted to do just here in the last few days. They've got the Justice Department and the FBI so busy investigating one another they can't look into criminals. They've got the CIA and the Justice Department calling each other liars and telling the federal court that somebody lied to them in our government about this Iraq scandal, but it was the other one.

	Now, they're using the State Department, instead of to establish better relations with somebody that could buy more products from us, to investigate my passport files and looking into my mother, a well-known subversive. Let me tell you something, this would be funny if it weren't pathetic. Can you imagine? They are so desperate to hold on to power that they have nothing better to do with the State Department than to send three political cronies over there to work till 10:00 at night to write a memo saying how disappointed they were they couldn't dig up any dirt in my mama's file. I'll tell you something, you know how we could cut the budget, don't you? We could get rid of that kind of folks. You don't need them on the taxpayer dole.

	You talk about a welfare program. Look at the number of people the Republicans have padded onto the White House staff, into jobs like that in the State Department. They believe in welfare as long as it's for them. Ask Tom Harkin what they've done to the White House staff since they've been there. Quayle's staff is about five times as big as Mondale's was. They're all for welfare as long as they get it. And those folks have got too much time on their hands. If they spent half as much time investigating your problems as they have my past, this country would be in a lot better shape today.

	You look at this administration. Under George Bush, if you assemble American products, you lose out. But if you take corporations apart, you're in like Flynn. If you're a well-connected operator in Washington, he'll move heaven and earth to help you. But if you're a telephone operator or a lathe operator, he's out to lunch when you call. If you pollute the air or the water, he'll do you a favor. But if you try to clean up the streets, he'll just raise your taxes. We need to change. I think we can do better. We've got our priorities reversed, and I want to put them right.

	You know, all over America, Al Gore and I have tried to drive home the fact that when Mr. Bush promised to create 15 million new jobs in four years and 30 [million] in eight, he just didn't tell us where he was going to create those jobs. We thought he was talking about the United States. But when you saw on 60 Minutes and Nightline that George Bush has literally spent hundreds of millions of dollars on programs designed to shut plants down here and move them overseas, I find that people actually have a hard time believing that. But it happened.

	An agency of your government that you paid for actually took out ads in journals to advertise 57-cents-an-hour labor. Tom Harkin held up that ad in the primary. He didn't know it was paid for by tax dollars, did you?

	SENATOR HARKIN. Not then.

	GOVERNOR CLINTON. We didn't have any idea. "Rosa Martinez produces apparel for U.S. markets on her sewing machine in El Salvador. You can hire her for 57 cents an hour." You paid for that ad.

	And you know what? Their argument is that this imposes market discipline on both countries, and this will raise living standards. But guess what? After they spent your tax dollars to shut plants down in Al Gore's home state of Tennessee and move them to Central America with your tax money, you know what that did to wages in Central America? The next year, they ran an ad saying, oh, Rosa would work for 33 cents an hour. They are spending your tax money to drive wages down in the United States and in Central America. They're not even doing those folks a favor.

	It is a naked example of preferring the short-term interest of big money over the long-term interest of the working people of the United States of America and Central America. I believe we can do better. I believe we can have a freer and fairer and more balanced trade policy that lifts people on both sides of the border instead of tearing them all down like the Republicans have. And we're going to change that.

	And I might add that what they did is actually a violation of our own trade agreement. They gave a company a low-interest loan to move a plant overseas, but a company under American law can't get a low-interest loan or investment tax credit to modernize his plant here. They gave hundreds of millions of dollars to train people in other countries to take jobs we have here, but they won't spend money, even money the Congress wants them to spend, to retrain Americans here. This is crazy. And it is wrong. And we have to change it. No other nation, no other nation, has sought to build a high-wage, high-growth economy without a specific plan to give people incentives to invest in new plants, new small businesses, and new technologies.

	No other nation has sought to build a high-wage, high-growth economy without a real strategy to invest more in roads, in bridges, in high-speed rail, in water systems, in environmental cleanup, in new communications systems.

	No other nation has sought to build a high-wage, high-growth economy without a strategy for lifetime education and training of all the work force, not just little children, but adults in their working years as well. No one else has tried to do it.

	And nobody else for sure has sought to build a high-wage, high-growth economy without trying to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all. We have tried it.

	These people are out of step with the entire advanced industrial world. They have trampled on the rights of American workers. They have crushed the American middle class. They have nearly bankrupted the economy. They have produced no new private-sector jobs in four years. By their own criteria, their pro-business government has nearly destroyed the business sector in America. They have tried it. They've run out of ideas and energy, and we ought to run them out of town on November 3rd.

	You know, Lane quoted the Book of Common Prayer, and if I don't be careful I'll get into quoting the Scripture, and I don't want to say that God is taking a hand in partisan politics. That's the line the other crowd took at the convention, you know. But, the Bible does say that the truth shall make you free. And I ask you--I ask you--what always happens in a race like this as you get toward the end is that people begin to give in to their fears, at least that often happens. It hasn't happened here yet.

	And this is clearly a race of hope against fear. I mean, the whole argument of the Bush crowd is that things could be worse. I guess they could. But my whole argument is that things could be better. My whole argument is that we have tried trickle-down economics for twelve years and only a nut would try the same old thing over and over again and expect a different result. We gave them twelve years. What do they want?

	We know they don't have any real deep, abiding convictions. Look at what's happening now they are a little behind in the polls. The administration is coming apart at the seams, and all that sorry spectacle we see in Washington. And when you strip it all away, the next ten days will be about what kind of people we are, not so much Bill Clinton, Bush, Perot, but what kind of people we are. Do we really have the courage to change? Do we really believe things can be better? Can we imagine a day in which people don't work harder for less, in which our children do have a bright future, in which the end of the Cold War opens opportunities as well as presents challenges, in which we all have a new sense of our own responsibility for this economy?

	And we're all willing to change, but we want it done in a fair way. I think all Americans are willing to change, to sacrifice, to do what it takes to turn this economy around, but we want it done in a fair way. And everybody knows that this administration is the embodiment of unfairness. They do not believe--they do not believe they have any obligations to the people who work hard and play by the rules.

	And I ask you to take this last ten days and go out to your friends and neighbors, those who are in and those who are outside the labor movement, and say, we believe that America needs a new direction. We want to be a part of a new America that's growing. We want to be a part of an America where labor and management and business and government and education work together again to create a high-wage, high-growth society. We don't want our kids growing up to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. We know we're working harder than we were twenty years ago. We're working smarter than we were a few years ago. Now, we want to work together so we can be rewarded for the effort we're making and we can make America what it ought to be.

	Don't give in to fear, folks. Be an instrument of hope, and we'll take our country back on November 3rd. Thank you.
BUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINCOME TAXINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     UC !C C C C
 C B B B B	  	  	  	 R 	 7 	 - 	  e: