
	I heard in the other room that I was being introduced, and I didn't know it. So I'm sorry I was a little late. Dick Sweat promised me he would remind you today that New Hampshire had memorialized for all time my famous phrase--till the last dog dies.

	I want to say to all of you how very, very glad I am to be here. How glad I am to be running on the ticket with Joe Rauh and Arnie Amos, Bob Preston and all the other Democrats who are here, including my young friend, Justin Pascal, who wasn't even old enough to vote for himself when he got nominated.

	And to all of you who have played such a critical role in bringing me this far, I want to tell you how grateful I am, not only to those who worked in the campaign, but to the people I met along the way, many of whom are in this room today, who formed the heart and soul and fabric of my understanding of what is happening to this country today.

	John Kennedy came here on election eve on 1960, but it's been a long time since a Democrat actually campaigned in New Hampshire for president during the election.

	I told you when I left here that unlike George Bush I would never forget New Hampshire. And now with thirty-eight days to go, I tell you again, if I am elected on November 3rd I will not take the Granite State for granted.

	You know, I have made some of your citizens famous by talking about them all across the country. The Nacos here have now a new child that was born almost on my birthday. It was poor timing that she waited another half hour and missed August the 19th--losing my influence as I leave the state, I see.

	My friend, Emily Tiebout--a lot of you here in this room--Anita Freedman. looking almost as good as new. And so many others.

	But a few days, not so long ago, I think actually on August 19th, a couple from this state were thrust into the national limelight on the issue of family leave. Are Jim and Cathy Winslow here? Are they here somewhere? They may be here. I thought they were trying to come.

	But let me just tell you, George Bush vetoed the family leave act again last week.

	And I want to tell you, you know, this is just one couple of a large number who were hurt economically by the fact that the United States doesn't have a family leave law. I met a couple in my home state a couple of years ago who were living in a homeless shelter because both of them had lost their jobs when they took their child who had cancer to the Arkansas Children's Hospital. Al Gore and Tipper had a son in serious trouble who was at the Johns Hopkins Medical Center. They met a couple from the South who had to take their child there and who lost their well being.

	And I start on that to make this point, to show you how out of touch this administration is. It's bad enough that we don't have a health care plan when every other advanced nation in the world does have a system to provide affordable health care to all.

	But on the issue of family leave, overwhelmingly supported by both Republicans and Democrats in the Congress, seventy-two other nations have family leave--seventy-two other nations have figured out how to give families a little time off without pay when there's a baby born or a sick child or a sick parent or a family emergency. But the United States under this administration says that's something we can't do.

	We just can't make it, you know. It's just too tough. I mean, seventy-two other countries did it, but we can't.

	I am tired of seeing this country ground down by the "we can't" crowd. It's time for the "we can" crowd to take over America. I am tired of the politics of division and diversion and denial. Did you see that Republican National Convention?

	They spent the first two days running against Hillary. I wanted to send a wire to Mr. Bush and tell him just go ahead and file for first lady. I can tell you that's an argument he wouldn't win.

	I should tell you too that I talked to my wife last night late. She got home late last night, and she is very jealous that I am here and she is not. She wanted me to say hello to all of you.

	I also want to say that since I left you, I have been all across this country. I have taken those wonderful bus trips. I met a seventy-seven-year-old woman in a tiny town in south Georgia last week who told me that she had never voted before and had registered for the very first time to support our ticket.

	I made one decision since I left you. The only one that George Bush and I have made in common. And my decision was Al Gore. I think I did better than he did.

	Al Gore's developed into quite a stump speaker. He says the Bush administration's run out of energy, they've run out of ideas, they've run out of time and on November 3rd we're going to run them out of Washington.

	The new jobs for the last decade have been created in units of under fifty. I have visited many of them in this state. We do not have a national strategy to provide capital and support systems and marketing assistance to small business, and especially to high-tech industries in this country. And if you vote for me, we will do it.

	Now, how do I know these things will work? Look what kind of support they have garnered. In the last week, twenty-one executives of some of the fastest-growing companies in the world in the Silicon Valley in California endorsed our campaign. Two-thirds of them were Republicans.

	In Chicago this week 400 business executives--over a third of them Republicans--endorsed this plan as the best hope for putting America back to work and getting our incomes going up again.

	Last week in Little Rock, Admiral Crowe, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed me for president because American security begins at home.

	It is time--it is time for more than rhetoric on economic policy. It is time for hard-headed leadership. When the high-tech executives endorsed me, John Young, the chairman of Hewlett Packard, one of America's most esteemed companies, the chairman of President Reagan's Task Force on Competitiveness, stood up and said, "I've never done this before, but I am convinced that there must be a new partnership between government and business if America is going to grow jobs in a global economy. And I am convinced we need somebody as president who understands what's going on in the economy who will get up and go to work every day, and who will try to promote high-wage, high-growth, high-opportunity economy and policies in the United States. So I'm going to be for Bill Clinton."

	That's the kind of attitude we need to get out here. Let me say, another thing I found in New Hampshire that is now sweeping the country is that people have figured out something this administration does not know, which is that we can actually make more jobs out of a good environmental policy and a good energy policy.

	For all the vaunted talk of President Bush's leadership, he was embarrassed at the trade mission in Japan because he didn't understand the economy, and embarrassed at the Earth Summit in Rio because he didn't understand the relationship of a sustainable environment to economic growth.

	And so what happened at the Earth Summit? We had a president who spent all of his time trying to kill the global warming treaty, trying to kill the biodiversity treaty, while our major competitors for the future, Germany and Japan, went down and signed off on both treaties in thirty minutes, and spent the rest of the time selling environmental technology products to all the other nations of the world. Guess what? Two-thirds of the market in America now for environmental technologies are taken up by foreign companies, because this administration has been asleep at the switch. It's time to put the economy and the environment in lock step going into a better future.

	Four more months--that's right. Three and a half now. We must have more than an economic policy. Even one that includes a new energy policy and a new environmental policy. We must recognize that unless we are smart enough to do these jobs, we still won't be able to hold them.

	We need a system of life time learning in America that puts our people at the forefront of education and training.

	No president can promise you an income that your own skills will not merit. Every job in this country directly or indirectly now is subject to pricing in a global market place.

	And we have to face the fact that we have not done as well as our competitors in establishing a system of lifetime learning that meets high standards. People now are going to look to a future in which their potential is a function of what they can learn. The average young person in this room will change work at least eight times in a lifetime. And so I have offered a plan for lifetime learning. Number one, teach everybody with a job to read and give them a chance to get a high school diploma in the next five years.

	Number two, give larger employers incentives to retrain their employees every year, but charge them a fee if they don't so the government--which will have to pick it up when they're unemployed--can retrain those people.

	Number three, do something for all the young people who get out of high school but don't go on to four year colleges. Guarantee them all at least jobs. two years of future education and training to get good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

And fourth, and something that ought to have great appeal to this self-reliant state, open the doors of college education to everyone. America needs that. It will be good for our economy. And then let people pay the money back. Make people pay the money back, either as a percentage of their income, which they pay at tax time, so you can't beat the bill, as so many do today. Or, even better, give people the opportunity to work off the college loan either before or after they go to college, as teachers, as police officers, working in housing programs, working with children in trouble, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities. We can solve a lot of the people problems of the United States with our best and our most energetic people in a domestic peace corps to rebuild America and educate a whole new generation of our people. It will be the best money they ever spent.

	Finally, I will say again we cannot control the government deficit, we cannot get control of our economic problems, we cannot restore health to the manufacturing sector, we cannot create vitality in the small business sector until we finally, finally join the ranks of every other advanced nation in the world and move nationally to control health care costs and provide health care to all Americans. We have to do it.

	Now, let me say to you, you know, every time I say this Mr. Bush says, "Bill Clinton wants to give you a government operated, government run health care system where people don't have any choices, and that's got the compassion of the KGB and the competence of the House Post Office." Now, that's a good line, except it's not so. I would remind you that the person who uttered that line, George Bush, has had the benefit of socialized medicine that we paid for the last twelve years.

	We ought to put him out here--we ought to put him out here with the rest of us and see how he likes it for a while.

	My plan to solve the national health crisis retains private health care providers, private insurance companies, private initiatives, supports managed competition, but it does have a national system to keep health costs in line with inflation. It stops the mindless cost shifting. It has less regulation from the government than the present one, and will save tens of billions of dollars in simplifying administrative costs, insurance costs, and government regulation. It emphasizes more primary and preventive care in rural areas and big urban areas and basically gives the system a chance to work these problems out in an atmosphere in which small business people have access to the same premiums that only larger employers can get today. It is a good plan. That's why we've been endorsed by the American Nurses Association, for the first time in history they've ever issued an endorsement.

	Why the plan is so similar to one proposed by a coalition of America's largest businesses, why it is very similar to the one proposed by the American Academy of Physicians--77,000 doctors--and why the head of the American Medical Association said last week that our plan was much more aggressive and comprehensive in addressing the cost control issues and the real problems than the Bush plan, which is throwing good money after bad. You better vote for us on the health care issue alone.

	Now, let me say one last thing. I talked a lot in New Hampshire, and I want to emphasize again that the government should promote more personal responsibility and empowerment and community strength. Our policy should not be to increase entitlements, but to increase empowerment. We should be for welfare reform, for example, that invests more money in education and support for children, and then requires people to work when they can. We should be for a tax system--and you should be able to identify this now--there are so many people who are working poor today. Anybody who works 40 hours a week with a child in the house should be lifted above poverty by the American tax system. They should not pay income tax. They ought to get a refund if they're working 40 hours a week and they're still in poverty and have a child in the home.

	We ought to have a system of child support enforcement in this country that is second to none. No one should be able to cross the state line and evade a child support obligation. We ought to have a national system that says, put your children first. And that's what we should reward. Those are the values we should embrace.

	But you know, it's not just a bunch of sticks that work in life. Most people love their children. Most people are doing the best they can. That's why we need preschool programs, child care programs, and family leave. If you vote for me you'll have a president who values your family every day.

	Now, you know I have said before here, I will say again, I do not have all the answers. But I know this: this country never got anywhere without its experimental, entrepreneurial can-do spirit. I was reading the other day what Herbert Hoover said about Franklin Roosevelt. It sounded just like what George Bush is saying about me. Herbert Hoover said when Roosevelt said, "We've got to use the power of the government to help people and to make them more sufficient and to save free enterprise," Hoover said "Sounds just like what they're doing in Russia." That's what Hoover said. They haven't learned any different lines in sixty years.

	Let me tell you are not being challenged, you and I, to make that same sort of fundamental decision. The government that we have, and the policies we pursue, defy reality. They pretend that the world is not as it is. And as a consequence, the great spirit of the American people, their willingness to work hard, their sense of possibility, is being crushed every day by a system that is in defiance of the plain realities of this time.

	The end of the Cold War has given us a chance to open up a vista for the children in this room unlike anything Americans have ever known. I got into this race for president. I came up here nearly a year ago today for the first time because I could not stand to sea the people in my state work harder for less, raise their children to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents, when I knew it did not have to be that way.

	This country has always responded to the challenge of time. We have always reached for greatness. We have always done it in a way that was consistent with our values of freedom and democracy and fundamental fairness. And that is what we are called upon to do today.

	I want to ask you to remember just this, because New Hampshire's been in this country a long time, from the beginning. Listen to this, when we started--I was down the other day, I was in Virginia, and I got to thinking about this, the cradle of so many of our presidents. We now take for granted that America just sort of won the Revolutionary War and got together as one country, but if you think about it, it was a miracle that George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and the other founding fathers were able to persuade all the people that came to this country to get away from their government that we ought to be one country, not thirteen, that we couldn't have thirteen separate armies and money systems and economies, we had to be one. And there was this crowd of carpers over there on the side, oh, this will be the end of this way of life. Things could be a lot worse. But Washington and Jefferson and Madison and the things-could-be-better crowd prevailed.

	When Abraham Lincoln became president--we now take it for granted that we won the Civil War to keep our country unified, that the Emancipation Proclamation became real in the lives of our people. It was a miracle that it happened. Lincoln's own wife lost three brothers fighting for the South. The country was split across. He literally gave his life to preserve the union. We take for granted something that could have been very, very different, and none of us would be here today in the way that we are had that not happened.

	When Roosevelt was elected, 25 percent of the people in this country were out of work. Half the people in my home state--half of them--were below the poverty line. We take it for granted that we got out of the Great Depression and we won the World War. But Great Britain did not win a battle for two years. And if we had delayed for just a little while longer, who knows what the result might have been for some of the millions of people in Europe who now enjoy freedom. We take these things for granted, but they were not preordained.

	When you look at that, the challenges we face today, as awful as the last three or four years have been for you in New Hampshire, don't seem so formidable. There is nothing holding us back today but the dimension of our disbelief and the fear-mongering other side. You're going to have thirty eight days in which you can say we are for hope over fear, we are for change over the same old ways, we have the courage to face the future, we are tired of the failed past. America has remained forever young because we have had the courage to change. Help me do that, and we will have made this entire effort worth while.

	Thank you very much and God bless you all.

CHILD SUPPORTEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--PRIVATE ENTERPRISEENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYFAMILY LEAVE POLICYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGPOVERTY     J I I I I
 I I I I I I I	  	  	  	 k 	 S 	 @ 	  	  e: