

	Mrs. Leib, Mayor Hixon, Mr. Alexander and my very dear friends: I am certain I may call you that because otherwise you would never have given up your time on a busy day to come out at this time of the morning to allow me to speak to you for a few minutes. This is the first time in a big gathering such as this that I have had the honor of being introduced by a lady. I want to make special mention of this for a very definite reason that lights up inside any attempt to be chivalrous.

	I have been very anxious to draw the spirit of our womenfolk, their order and their comprehension of certain factors into the campaign I am trying to wage to lay before the American people, the essentials of other present problems. I am firmly convinced at the bottom of all those problems, at least a solution to those problems, we must have a real return to spiritual values.

	We must remember and recall the spiritual and moral standards that our forefathers had in attempting to write our Declaration and explain our Constitution they felt called upon to express the terms of a deeply felt religion. They felt men are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights. They didn't try to explain it in terms of color or skin or religion or anything else. They said men are endowed by their Creator. And their women, the mothers of our children, in their comprehension of these very deep values, are necessary if we are going to correct the things that are today wrong with us.

	As I was coming over, a Mrs. Howard, who is my lady chief of staff, or one of my group, said to me that a certain group of women got up at 4 o'clock this morning to be at that field. If that is so, I want to say that is the greatest compliment I have ever had in my life, and I thank you.

	Now, I think of the first time I ever in my life got to understand that there was another town in the world as important as Abilene, Kansas, Kansas City, Missouri and Topeka. It was when I read in my little local paper about Tampa.

	I remember I used to bring the papers down to my family for their perusal, and I saw sketches of Tampans and soldiers boarding transports, and that sort of thing. I believe right then I wanted to be a soldier. And that was the Spanish-American War. That war didn't last long. It did give us some wonderful names--Teddy Roosevelt, General Shafter, General Arthur MacArthur, the father of the present. And when peace was actively restored there began to be rumors, rumors of a dirty scandal. Soldiers talked about embalmed beef, and sure enough, investigators got along to the business. You recall, those of you, that there was a rapid prosecution of the manufacturers because there was a scandal--the scandal of the embalmed beef but the perpetrators were punished. Imagine the difference between them and the administration of today.

	Now, because I am here in Tampa, a city whose name has been so closely associated with armed services effort, stations, ports, for so long, I want to remind anyone here--whoever may be in the armed services--how fast rumors can fly around the barracks.

	They go with the speech of a jet plane and I have found, to my amazement, that there are some circulating still around those places about me. One was that I would like to reduce soldiers' pay.

	What on earth do they think I am--soldiers that I have commanded on the battlefield and abroad--that I would come back here and say I think their pay ought to be reduced? Someone ought to have his head examined and any soldier that has ever served with me knows better.

	And the next thing I had talked about, ever since I had discussed military policy of the United States, is we should share the burden, and now I hear I would lengthen out the term of service of men that are already in, and that I would like to keep the veterans of the last war in because of their training. I believe in sharing the burden and I don't believe any man should serve any longer than the requirements of our country demand.

	Finally I heard that I was in favor of getting rid of the rotation system, out in Korea, and over in Europe. Well, I was one of the originators in World War II and I don't know why I should now be against the rotation system. Exactly as I said before, we should share the burden and no man should stay there longer than his service.

	So far as I can, I am glad to clear up this particular confusion about my intention because lately down here in the South I have been discussing confusion. I called it the mess in Washington because that's what the opposition calls it. I tried to explain over in Tampa (sic). I recited chapter and verse of several cases just merely as an example. They are only a few.

	But as I came over this morning on the plane, someone handed me one of your Southern papers and in it is a little editorial. And I jammed it in my pocket. I wonder if you would let me read it to you--a little editorial that certainly hits it on the head. This man, this editor, in trying to explain a mess, says this: "Webster's New International Dictionary of Facts, an authoritative tome weighing as much as a bucket of rocks, has a whole list of meanings for the word mess. Most of them have to do with meals, particularly as applied to the ones seamen eat. Now that's one meaning of the word, Mr. President."

	"Meaning number two says mess can mean the milk given by a cow when milked at one milking. Not that one either, Mr. President. Nobody is sore about the milk some cow gave down in Washington."

	"Meaning number three says that a mess can mean the food given a beast at one time. Nobody is begrudging a horse's hay. But with meaning number four we begin to get someplace. In fact we arrive."

	"Meaning number four says mess can mean a confused, inharmonious, disagreeable mixture of things. A medley, a hodgepodge, hence a situation resulting from blundering or from misunderstanding. A state of confusion, embarrassment, a muddle, a botch."

	Ladies and gentlemen, that's the meaning I have of it.

	Yesterday I visited three cities of the South. I talked about these matters because I wanted to establish this: there is a difference between the two contesting parties for the honor of leading this country after November 4. One is saddled with the mess; the other wants to clean it up. I a talking about the national mess in Washington and we want to clean it out wholly. We must clean it out.

	I tried to say last night that one of the reasons for doing this is the debt we owe to the great army of local federal servants that work for us, specifically, the Civil Service. Those people have to work under the political appointees designated by any organization. They must hang their heads in frustration and shame and must go to bed in anger, to think that their servants called down upon them the criticism that justice has been outraged.

	In justice to ourselves and to make the best use of the taxes we pay, we must get rid of duplication, so we can lower those taxes and in justice to those people, the army of people that work for us locally every day of our lives. Every phone call that I have had since yesterday morning, every telegram, every note turned into my quarters, every word spoken to my staff and to me here in this great Southland is, "We are ready to help. We are not captive people."

	And then they said to me: as long as you are going to assure that our taxes, when we pay them, are wisely spent; as long as you are going to struggle to preserve and promote peace, as long as we are not going to be belligerent in the world but stand on those great moral and spiritual and material efforts in the United States, you are not going to fear again, you are not going to lose your friends in the South. That's what they said to me.

	I come here, then, for one specific purpose and one only, to remind you that you are freeborn American citizens, every one of you, with all the rights, all the prized privileges that it provides to a citizen of America. With that, always remember this: individual privilege can be preserved only as long as each individual, no matter where he is, what his call, also discharges his individual responsibilities.

	The greatest of all these responsibilities is the form of government that we enjoy, the form of government we reveal, the form of government that allows you to gather here this morning to hear me criticize a national government. I remember many nations of the world I visited. I would have been shot long before this and you would have been headed for slave camps.

	If you are going to do your part in preserving these priceless rights, ladies and gentlemen, you must participate in every part of the political processes that are set up by our founding fathers of the government of this nation. You must participate in caucuses, in county-state conventions, and you must participate above all in registration and voting. Unless we protect the rights of your neighbor, whatever the color of his skin, we are going to lose our own rights. Unless you exercise these great privileges of naming your own government, finally that will disappear.

	We have said the genius of the American system is that it produces two parties. I am down here to help, if I can, to make certain that there are two parties in the South, so you cannot be taken for granted.

	Ladies and gentlemen, if I may presume to advise, please make every single individual that announces his readiness to serve you in public office come before you and lay out what is in his heart and mind. Don't you be taken for granted, because once you are taken for granted you are beginning to forfeit your responsibilities for decision. It is not my decision or responsibility to make up the mind for nay other individual except Dwight D. Eisenhower.

	I declare to you, if we will place before us the moral and spiritual standards of our founding fathers, if we would show the world in our daily lectures and daily acts, the first great step would be the preservation and building of peace. Peace is going to be based upon a moral foundation. It can never be merely gained.

	But I hold this one thing to be true, that in this business of forging alliances, foreign relationship, every nation, no matter who, must approach cooperative work from this standpoint; what here operates to the enlightened self-interest of our country?

	That's the way we must study that whole thing, whether helping one another, whether producing something in the way of arms or strengthening our economy or uniting us behind the great doctrine-- what is the enlightened self-interest of the United States of America?

	If we will study that, we will find the right answer in the spiritual, economic, intellectual, material factor of this great search for world peace. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one way in the world you can win World War III and that is to prevent it. That is, in my opinion, if we could name one great underlying issue of the whole campaign.

	Matter of fact, the underlying issue of America developing over the next decade, would say, is the question of success or failure in this great program for peace, and America can take the lead. America with her friends in the world can do it.

	Don't ever forget it because our strength, spiritual, moral, human, technical, scientific, our great genius so overwhelms that of the captured countries that when they are placed in comparison it is almost ridiculous to be fighting. If we get the thing in our hearts we can do it. I would like to leave with you that simply thought--America can do anything it wants to.

	Good-bye and thank you again for coming out.

CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEESGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY PERSONNELMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION     x. D. >. :. 0.
 ". . . . . 
. 
. -	 f 	 O 	 ? 	 - 	  e: