
	[Missing text] you cannot grow an economy if all you do is cut taxes across the board for the wealthiest Americans and just get out of the way and see what happens. A lot of things don't work.

	For example, that theory will destroy the family farm because if you do that, you don't do what all these other countries do, which is to say that family farmers can't deal with all the up-and-down cycles of the global market and what happens to the weather and what happens to the cost of money. But they may be just as productive as big corporate farms are. And we need an agriculture policy that rewards people who are productive and who are doing what they're supposed to do and doesn't let them get the shaft from their foreign competitors.

	Those are the kinds of things that I think we ought to do. But trickle-down economics says just keep overall taxes low on the wealthiest Americans, the benefits will trickle down. It hasn't worked. We were first in the world in wages in 1980; we're down to thirteenth now. It's literally true that two-thirds of the American workers are putting in more hours on the job, spending less time with their children, for lower wages than they were making ten years ago.

	Now, what's the alternative, with a $400 billion deficit this year? You could raise taxes a lot and try to balance the budget, but the problem is if you did that now, if you try the tax-and-spend or tax-and-balance-the-budget approach, you'd just make the unemployment problem worse, you'd make the economy worse because it's so weak. What we've got to is what always has worked for America and what is working for other countries now, which is to increase investment in new jobs.

	So, here's what my strategy is: ask the wealthiest Americans, whose taxes have been lowered while yours have gone up, to pay a little more; ask foreign corporations to pay the same on their income earned in America that domestic corporations pay; but then say--but then say, "Look, we want you to pay more, but we want you to make more." So, you don't want to pay those taxes? Instead of an across-the-board tax cut, give people incentives. You want to lower your taxes? Invest in a new plant, invest in new agriculture, invest in new small business, invest in new technologies that are producing new jobs, invest. Put the American people to work. Make money the old-fashioned way. You can lower your taxes and make a million dollars, but you've got to do it by putting our people to work. Now, that will work. Invest and grow economics. I know it will work. I know it will work.

	I also think that every dollar by which we cut the defense budget--and it's going to be cut no matter who gets elected--we need to do it in a smart way that leaves us the strongest defense in the world. And I worked hard on that. Twenty-four retired generals and admirals endorsed our campaign the other day, including the deputy commander in chief of Desert Storm, and a man who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they knew we stood for change. That's important.

	But if we're going to cut defense, instead of doing--you know what we're doing with that money today? It's your money. We're spending it on the S&L bailout. We're spending it on higher health care costs. We ought to spend every dollar of that money investing in new technologies, new roads, new bridges, new transportation systems, new water systems, new sewer systems, new solid waste recycling systems.

	I see that sign out there against the landfill--now that's a great issue for a person in public life, deal with where the landfill goes. It's tough everywhere, but let me tell you something. We've got too many landfills because we don't recycle enough of our solid waste. And, you know, you've got a company here in this town, Green Bay Packaging, that does a lot of recycling with paper, and they have a plant in my state. And they offered to take all the newsprint and the office wastepaper we could get to them for the whole state to recycle. If we did that everywhere in America and if there were tax incentives for that and a system for that, we'd have a lot fewer landfills in this country and wouldn't have to deal with that. And we ought to be doing that kind of thing. Those things will create jobs and opportunities.

	The second thing I want to say is we live in a world where what we earn depends on what we can learn. It's just as simple as that. The average eighteen-year-old will change jobs eight times in a lifetime. And anybody running for office who stands up and gives you a speech promising to make everything hunky-dory just like it used to be and everybody's going to have a job and nobody will ever have to change what they do is not telling you the truth. The average person will have to change work eight times in a lifetime even if he or she keeps working for the same company, which means that we've got to have a system of lifetime learning that is second to none in the world. That's what we've got to have in this country. And if you don't do it, then nobody in public life can promise you security. Security will come from the ability to constantly learn new skills and increase productivity.

	What does that mean? It means we ought to teach everybody in America with a job to read and give them a chance to get a high school diploma in the next five years. It means that every young person who graduates from high school ought to have the chance, if they don't go to a college, to get at least two years of further education in a community college or on the work site to get a good job, not a dead-end job. It means we ought to open the doors of college education to all Americans, make it possible for anybody to borrow the money to go to college and pay it back. I want to come back to that in a minute.

	The third big idea I think we have to face is if we don't do something to control health care costs and provide basic health care to people who can't afford it, this country is going to go broke. That is the biggest problem with the government deficit. You hear all these people talking about the government deficit. Fifty percent of the growth of the government deficit is due to the fact that we do not control health care costs.

	We spend 30 percent more of our income on health care than any other country in the world, and we do less with it. And who's getting the money? We're spending too much on insurance, too much on bureaucracy, too much on paperwork, too much on prescription drugs, too much for unnecessary medical procedures, too much for a billing procedure Einstein couldn't figure out that's got $10 or $20 billion in billing fraud in it every year. I'm telling you, it is a nightmare.

	I've worked real hard to figure out how to take on these interest groups and simplify this thing and make it possible for farmers and small business people and self-employed people to buy into big pools of insurance so they could get insurance on the same economic terms as people who work for big companies can. That's what we've got to do.

	It's going to require some changes on our part. We're going to have to have more preventive and primary care. We've got to have more people going to the doctor the first time they get sick. When they don't get insurance, what happens? People hang around and they don't go and they don't get medical care. Then, when they do get it, they get it at the emergency room where it's sure enough expensive, and all the rest of us pay for it. And we have got to have the courage to change this health care system.

	Those are the three building blocks on which we can make a new economy. But there are some other things I want to say, too. Unless the American people make up their mind that we're all going to have to change, we can't get this done. And I just want to give you some examples that I have been saying for thirteen months now. I mean everybody.

	Business executives should not be in a position, the people running these big companies, to raise their pay by four times what their workers' pay goes up and three times what their profits go up. I don't care--let me tell you something. I don't care what people make if their profits are going up and their workers' pay is going up, but you can't run a company where you take and everybody else gives.

	So, we ought to have a system which rewards people who run companies, rewards them, gives them more incentives when the profits are going up and when employment is going up, but doesn't have the taxpayers underwrite executive compensation that's outrageous even when the profits are going down and the employment is going down.

	Workers are going to have to be willing to constantly retrain themselves. People who borrow money from this national trust fund for a college loan that I want to set up are going to have to pay it back. You know, today, the student loan program costs you $4 billion a year because people don't pay their student loans back? So, under our system, anybody can borrow the money, no questions asked, and the repayment will be less onerous because you can pay it back as a small percentage of your income. So, if you make less money, you pay less. But you're going to have to pay it under our system at tax time so you can't beat the bill because we can't tolerate that.

	Or the alternative would be to pay it back with two years of work for your country, as a police officer, a teacher, a nurse, working with people with disabilities, working with the elderly, working with kids. We could solve a whole lot of the people problems of this country without a big government bureaucracy if people would just do that kind of work and pay their college loans off. It would be the best investment we ever made.

	We're going to have to say to the American people a lot of our problems are family problems that governments can't solve, but government can help. I want to have the toughest system of national child support enforcement this country has ever seen. I'm tired of people crossing the state line and getting out of paying their child support. And the only way to do that is to make sure that people, once they're in the system of the tax system, that we've got their records, we've got their number, and they can't cross the state line and get out of paying their child support. It's a national scandal, and it's causing a lot of trouble. And a lot of money in Wisconsin is coming out of the state treasury that could be going into education and job creation to pay for people on welfare because people could be making child support payments they're not making. And we ought to change that. And we're going to have to crack down on it and be very, very tough.

	These are the kinds of things that I think we need to talk about. How can we create more opportunity? How can we get more responsibility? And how can we do it together? There's this great sense in this country that things are unfair, that somebody's always getting a special deal. And I think one reason is that the political leadership of our country has not been very responsible.

	But, you know, if I tried to run the government in my home state the way they do it in Washington where every time something doesn't work out, the President blames Congress and Congress blames the President, and everybody gets off the hook by pointing the finger of blame at one another, we'd be in a terrible fix. But that's the way they do.

	Now look what's going on. You've got the Justice Department investigating the FBI and the FBI investigating the Justice Department. They don't have any time for crooks. They're too busy looking for each other. You've got the CIA and the Justice Department fighting with each other about who lied to the federal court over this Iraq business. We kept giving Saddam Hussein money right up to the time he went into Kuwait. You've got the State Department looking into my passport files and now they're investigating my mother. Now, you know, it's funny because it's pathetic, but that shows you what kind of shape they're in.

	And what I think we need in this country is a real, real commitment to political reform. I have offered a specific plan to limit the influence of lobbyists in Washington, disclose more of their activities, to limit the cost of congressional campaigns, to limit the influence of political action committees, to open up this process. That is the kind of thing that we need to do.

	People in my business should not be up making speeches to other people until we clean up our own house. I've not been--I'm the only guy running who's ever done anything to restrain the influence of lobbyists and the only guy running for president who's never been part of the Washington establishment, never gotten a deal or sought one, but I'm telling you we've got to clean it up. We can do that if we really have the courage to do it. But we're all going to have to change.

	Now, that's my basic pitch. I think it's pretty straightforward. You get jobs by investing and competing. You keep them by being well-educated. You make the country strong and whole again by facing the health care crisis that's the biggest financial crisis in the country. And we've got to have a change on the part of everybody. I think we can do this.

	And let me just say before I close, I want to bring up, there are two people here whom I know a little bit who are running for Congress on the Democratic ticket, one in this district whom I've known for five years now and someone I really like, Peg Lautenslager. Would you come on up here? When I met this lady, she was a prosecutor, and I thought, well, if you've got to go to jail, it might as well be enjoyable. I really admire the work she's done and I think she's the kind of independent, tough-minded person we need in the United States Congress. And I also want to introduce Kate Helms, who's here running for the congressional district next to us. I know some of you know her.

	I want to ask you to think about one other thing before I close. About this time in the 1960 election, with about ten days to go, when John Kennedy was running around America with his campaign asking people to ask what they could do for their country, trying to become the first Roman Catholic president of the United States--and, I might add proudly, carrying my southern Baptist state to get there--he said that at this time in every election, the election became more about the American people than about the candidates, that the voters themselves had to decide what kind of people they were and what kind of things they wanted.

	I wish every one of you could have been with me on these bus trips, the bus trip I took through Wisconsin, the bus trip I took through Georgia, the bus trip we took across Ohio and southern Illinois, to see the faces of people who have done everything they know to do and are concerned about their country. The American people deserve better, but in the closing days of this election, you're going to see the same old thing we've always had.

	I represent hope. Mr. Bush represents fear. I represent change, fundamental change. I think it is the best program of change the American people have had. One major newspaper said it was the most detailed program for change ever offered by a person challenging for the presidency. And I believe that we have to have the courage to do this. But you have to decide that.

	This country has been around for more than 200 years because at every critical juncture in our history, the people who said, "Oh, things could be worse" were always drowned out by the people who said, "We can do better." I am convinced we can do better. I think you believe we can do better. And, on November 3rd, with your help, we will make America what it ought to be.

	Thank you, and God bless you all.
CHILD SUPPORTEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDEXECUTIVE COMPENSATIONHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESMILITARY CUTBACKSRECYCLINGSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     A? ? ? ? >
 > > > > > > >	  	  	  	 y 	 ^ 	 D 	 3 	 * 	  e: