
	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. I was worried about being late but it didn't lower the temperature in here. I'm glad to see you.

	I want to thank Bob Janiszewski for his leadership and support, and I want to thank Governor Florio and Senator Lautenberg and Congressman Payne for their presence here tonight, and I want to thank all of you for coming here. I have done something today which is somewhat unconventional for a person running for office in the last week of a campaign. I began this morning at the University of Toledo giving a serious talk to a group of students there about the economic policies that I seek to pursue and why I so strongly believe we need a different economic direction for this country.

	Tonight I want to talk to you for a few moments before I go out to the rally about one of the most fundamental challenges facing our people in the health care area. First of all let me say that the American people plainly will have a decision Tuesday about whether or not to fundamentally overhaul the system by which we finance health care, control health care costs, and provide basic health care to all of our people.

	Today in America health care costs too much--30 percent more of our income than any country on Earth. Much of it is going to things that have nothing to do with how healthy we are--to insurance, to administrative costs, to federal regulations, to unnecessary procedures, to the practice of defensive medicine, to the absence of basic primary and preventive health care.

	This is weakening our economy. It is exploding the budget deficit. Our system, in spite of all of its costs, covers too few people and interestingly enough, since Mr. Bush has been president, about 100,000 Americans a month have lost their health insurance. The system is fundamentally broken and we need to fix it.

	I have outlined a program to control costs and to provide affordable health care to all Americans, which a recent bipartisan commission says will save the average family $1,200 a year more than the Bush plan by the year 2000, will cover all Americans, while his will leave 27 million behind and will, in the next dozen years, free up over $2 trillion to reinvest in our economy.

	But there are things that even this health care program alone cannot address. And I want to talk about one of them especially tonight--the issue of AIDS. But before I do, let me say that there are other things that we ought to face, too. We have, for example, for too long ignored women's health issues. We know they haven't gotten the attention or the funding they need. And it's time we had a president who would work with Congress with a real commitment to fight breast cancer and ovarian cancer with the same vigor with which we have fought other diseases.

	I was deeply dismayed when Mr. Bush vetoed the Women's Health Care Bill earlier this year, under pressure from the extreme elements of the Republican party who are anti-choice because of the fetal tissue research issue. That research opportunity offers us the best chance that we have to deal with issues like diabetes. But the core of this administration's commitment to women's health was sadly lacking, and if elected on Tuesday, I will give that core back to American health policy.

	I want to begin the discussion of the AIDS issue in a cold-hearted way and deal then with the more emotional aspects.

	Everything I hope to save with an American health care system that preserves the best of what we do well--the best research, the best private medical care, a private system of insurance reorganized to cut costs and provide health care--all of these savings could be eaten up by the exploding costs of dealing with this epidemic unless we finally, as a people, face our common responsibilities.

	Imagine how we would feel if a strange new epidemic wiped out the entire population of Kansas City. Well, AIDS has already killed more Americans than that--150,000. Imagine how we would feel if we were told that everyone in America who works as an accountant or every little girl in a Brownie troop was suddenly menaced by death at an early age. But yet there are just about as many people today infected with the HIV virus as there are accountants or Brownie Scouts in America--over a million in each category.

	Imagine if we were told that unless we act now, the entire nation of Spain would crack off the continent of Europe in the year 2000 and sink into the sea. We would be profoundly alarmed. But according to the estimates of the World Health Organization, as many as 40 million people around the world will be infected with the HIV virus by the end of this century--more than the present population of Spain. And yet we have not mobilized our nation to deal with this crisis as we should.

	AIDS can be a terrible, frightening disease. For ten years now, we have been in the grip of an epidemic killing our sons and daughters, our mothers and fathers, our husbands and wives, our friends and our colleagues. AIDS can strike anyone--and it does.

	When I think of all the experiences I have had in this long and difficult and challenging race for president, perhaps the most moving have been the personal encounters with people who have been affected by AIDS. I remember meeting a doctor in Texas, an attractive young woman in her late thirties, who devoted herself to dealing with AIDS patients and got the HIV virus because the needle with which she had just given an inoculation had its cap pop off just at the moment she was putting it into the wastepaper can, and it pricked her. The prick of the needle on her fingertip made her HIV-positive. And yet she was still working with AIDS patients, determined to live on and work on.

	I remember a town meeting I had in Michigan, like the one we're going to in New Jersey tonight, where a young couple stood up and the woman was in tears and I thought they were going to talk about losing their jobs or their health insurance--and the young wife said that she was HIV-positive. And thank God, they had a normal child. But she was scared to death about her future and she wanted a president who would deal with this issue all the time, not just at election time.

	I remember being in a rodeo arena in Ocala, Texas, where I had been told that people were going to be very conservative and kind of down-home rural, like my folks at home, and having one of the first people I met be a woman and then meeting her husband who handed me the picture of their son from Ocala, Florida who had died of AIDS. I remember being in colonial Williamsburg, the seat of much of our country's history, preparing for the debate in Richmond, when a grandmother came up to me with tears in her eyes to tell me that both her daughter and her granddaughter had died of AIDS.

	I remember most vividly being in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in front of the Quaker Oats building in an unusual situation where I was being demonstrated against in the back of the crowd by pro-life forces. And I came up to a woman with a pro-choice sticker on, and she had a child of another race in her arms. And I said, "Tell me about this baby. Where did you get this baby?" And she beamed, she smiled, she said, "This is my baby. This baby was adopted from another state, and she has AIDS. But it's my job to keep her alive as long as I can, and I want you to help me, Governor."

	I say these things because I know that here in New Jersey I need hardly remind you that AIDS has many faces. This city has the sixth-highest rate of AIDS in the country. But we must all remember, for all of its terror and far reach, it is still a disease. It is not vengeance or punishment or just deserts; it is an illness. We have fought illnesses before, and we must fight this one now.

	Not so long ago, polio was an awful scourge. When I was a child, parents still lived in terror of their children contracting it. But when President Roosevelt, himself a polio survivor, lent his way to the cause of research and eradication, in a matter of a couple of decades polio was an endangered species. Not so long ago, no one spoke the word "cancer" without fear and a good deal of ignorance. I can remember that well. I lost a stepfather to cancer and my mother is a breast cancer survivor. But now it is commonplace for people to welcome home cancer survivors, instead of saying good-bye to cancer casualties. I know personally how that feels.

	Already AIDS has given us one comfort. It has introduced us to many American heroes and introduced many to the heroes inside themselves--heroes like the people who've worked so hard to extend a helping hand to help people with AIDS even in the early days when it was dark and lonely; who created service organizations and education programs to help people with care and compassion; heroes like my friends Elizabeth Glaser and Bob Hattoy who's here tonight--who spoke with courage before the whole nation at the Democratic convention about being HIV-positive.

	And there is no partisan face to AIDS--heroes like Mary Fisher who was invited to speak at the Republican convention and did the same thing. People like Magic Johnson who captured the nation's attention when he had the courage to step forward and then to step down from the AIDS Commission because he was tired of inaction and then throw his weight behind our campaign to change America.

	Heroes like the people I have read about in New Jersey, the people at St. Clair's Home here in Hudson County who have just welcomed their hundredth child with AIDS. People like the York Street Sisters who have worked so hard on AIDS education programs. People like those who run Rainbow House for pregnant teens with AIDS. People like those who run the Corpus Christi Acute Care Center in New Jersey. All these people deserve our thanks and our honor and our support.

	But for all of this quiet courage, we have still not done enough as a nation to stop the spread of AIDS or to help those who are living with it. Most of us have preferred to believe AIDS is not our problem, that it's a problem for a few particular or isolated groups in our society--that it only affects gay men and IV drug users.

	But the truth is, it is everybody's problem--not only because it is spreading throughout society but because, as I said, the sheer cost and burden of dealing with the AIDS crisis may absolutely consume all the gains we hope to make in straightening out the other problems in our health care system.

	But most important, there is the human element. We don't have a person to waste in our country and viruses do not discriminate. New Jersey has the highest proportion of women with AIDS in America, double the national average, and the third-highest portion of children with AIDS. Here and everywhere, more and more people are vulnerable to the virus, more of us are struggling with the pain of knowing dear friends who have tested positive. I myself have been through that. It only has to happen to you once or twice before your whole attitude about the disease changes dramatically.

	The face of AIDS for me is no longer a stranger. It is the face of a mother who must leave children before they grow up, the husband who must say good-bye to a wife before they grow old together, the artist who will leave the world a little less beautiful, the athlete who will leave the world a little less graceful, the child who will leave the world a little less hopeful. It costs every one of us in ways that are financial and human and moral. We can't afford the cost in dollars or in debt.

	Today I want to say at the end of this campaign that this nation must rally its will and strength to fight this killer. We can do it. We can win the battle. But we have to get to it. And we must deal with it all day, every day, with political leadership and community leadership, and not just at election time and not just at heartbreak time.

	There is in the beginning the matter of personal responsibility. Those who think they may be HIV-positive should be tested as soon as possible so they can be treated. Those whose behavior puts them at high risk should reassess that before they put themselves and those whom they care for in mortal danger.

	Children in our schools at the earliest practical time should be told in blunt, clear, but sensitive terms how people get AIDS and how to avoid it.

	I do believe the instruction of our children should be based on values that we all share. I think children should be discouraged from having premature sexual conduct and from ever having any conduct with needles carrying drugs. But they must be told that this killer can kill them and their odds of getting it are far greater than most of them think. The evidence is that people still ignore that.

	Nothing we can do as a nation can fix this problem unless we as a people change from the inside out, individually and collectively in our communities. I can promise you that if I'm elected president on Tuesday, no one will have to wage this fight alone. I have a plan and I mean to implement it.

	First, I want to provide the leadership this country needs for a loud, clear, and consistent war on AIDS. I want to appoint one person, one man or woman, to oversee and coordinate all federal efforts related to this issue, a person with my ear, my attention, and my support, with the power to cut through red tape and the mandate to get results as quickly as possible. I want to dust off the reports of the two national AIDS commissions and implement those recommendations as soon as possible. They're good reports, and they ought to be followed.

	I want to increase federal funding for research, prevention, and treatment, to fully fund the Ryan White Health Care Act so that we can help our hardest-hit cities get the care and services they need to their large and growing populations. Hudson County has done a particularly impressive job of implementing the Ryan White Act so far. But it's clear that you need more help to reach all the people whom you are now prepared to reach. And you'd get it if the act got the funding it requires. I'll do my best to give it to you.

	There are many things about AIDS that we do not know, but there are some things that we do know, and we certainly know how to prevent it. But large-scale prevention efforts have been invisible, at least at the national level. We have no model curricula for our schools, no household mailings to follow up on that one courageous effort by Dr. Koop, who was President Reagan's Surgeon General, no nationwide outreach programs like the efforts of the Jersey City Mayor's Task Force here, which has been taking the message to places where real people will hear it. Americans are dying of the world's most curable affliction--ignorance--and we need to cure that first.

	I want to develop a vigorous national campaign to provide people with the facts they need to understand the causes, the treatment and the prevention of AIDS--a direct and honest campaign that will reach into every community that needs it and especially into our schools where our children are. They need to know that what they don't know can hurt them and can kill them, and we have to find them in the schools. That's where the kids are.

	I also think it is clear that we're going to have to tackle the drug problem head on in a more direct and comprehensive way than we have. We have people all over America by the tens of thousands lined up for treatment. If we had treatment on demand without delay, we could solve a lot of these problems and keep more people alive.

	But, frankly, even if we could prevent all future AIDS cases, we would still have a responsibility to treat and care for the million or more Americans already infected.

	And so the third element of a Clinton-Gore AIDS policy is to guarantee that all people with HIV have access to affordable quality care and treatment.

	Of course, many of the problems that people who are HIV-positive have are shared by other Americans. Seventy million of us have no adequate health insurance and about 37 million have no health insurance at all. Countless Americans fear that a sudden illness or accident will force the choice literally between their money or their lives. Under our heath care system, all Americans will have access to quality and affordable heath care through coverage from their employer, or if they're unemployed, through their government. Our plan will include voluntary, confidential, and anonymous testing and counseling for HIV, as well as the monitoring, therapy and drugs that people who test positive need. And experimental therapies will be more accessible to people with HIV.

	The most important thing we can do to help people is to figure out how to stop it, cure it, and immunize people against it. And so the fourth element must be to increase and accelerate research. I will increase funding into both AIDS and general biomedical research. Top priorities will be developing a vaccine and finding therapies that will destroy HIV, repair the immune system, and treat AIDS-related infections.

	I will rely on a top-notch team to establish clear research priorities and to respond rapidly to new research options. And we've got to--again I'll say--got to streamline and speed up the drug testing and approval process for people who are HIV-positive.

	Some of you may ask--and certainly some who read about this speech will ask--why we should devote so much research and attention to AIDS when we have other also important health problems, some of which today affect more people. The answer is partly because AIDS is so dangerous--a fast-moving epidemic that is infectious, mysterious, and deadly. It's also partly because AIDS is associated with a variety of other illnesses so that many patients with other problems will benefit from AIDS research.

	But more to the point, I don't think we should fund AIDS at the expense of research for other diseases. After all, one of the things we ought to be doing more of in the wake of the end of the Cold War and the decline of the defense budget is directing our scientific energies into health care research of all kinds.

	The last element of our policy is to fight discrimination against AIDS itself.

	I oppose the decision of the Bush Justice Department to support allowing employers to cut off insurance to employees with AIDS by rewriting the policies after AIDS is discovered.

	I acknowledge, however, the problem of smaller employers who are self-insured. Many times the employees don't even know their employers are self-insured. And I recognize how much easier it would be to be humane with employees if we had a national insurance reform which mandated large pools for small businesses, self-employed people, and farmers so they could have access to rates at the same low level that people in big companies have.

	I will fight discrimination in federal programs. Our legislation should be based on sound scientific and public health principles--not on fear or prejudice. Let's do what the scientists and the public health people tell us to do. Let's not take out after people with AIDS as if they represent a threat to us, even when they're doing their best for themselves and for their fellow countrymen and women.

	In the end, dealing with AIDS requires us to do what so many other problems require us to do as Americans. They require us to be more personally responsible, to prevent the spread of the disease. They require us to create more opportunity so that we can lengthen life and make it as full as possible. And they require us to develop a greater sense of community, of sensitivity and compassion and concern for one another.

	It is time to reach out our hands, all of us, to someone who is afflicted, to tell our neighbors that we care, to ask our children to come home, to show that we can be big-hearted and hard-headed, to work to build trust and bridges and hope and a future together.

	The writer Toni Morrison said that love makes life not just livable but a gallant event. My fellow Americans, we can be a gallant nation again. But it takes courage and the will to find a new grounding for our politics--not of exclusion and fear but of inclusion and hope; to take responsibility for our own behavior and for each other; to seize the opportunities we have to live our lives to the fullest; and to make all of us who are willing to do our part, part of America's family.

	I ask for your help and your support to this end, not only to fight and conquer AIDS but to build the America you all deserve.

	Thank you very much.

AIDS DISCRIMINATIONHEALTH CAREHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHEALTH CARE--WOMENMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCESAIDS     Q hQ bQ ^Q VQ
 KQ FQ AQ 6Q ,Q *Q Q Q	 h 	 U 	 J 	 / 	    e: