

	Let's hear it for Eddie Vdrolyak. Let's hear it for Harold Washington. Let's hear it for the next United States senator from Illinois, Paul Simon. Let's hear it for the first United States senator in the United States to come out for Walter Mondale, Alan Dixon. Let's hear it for Danny Rostenkowski and the congressional delegation. And let's hear it for the Democrats of Illinois!

	Chicago is my kind of town. Tonight's Torchlight Parade is my type of parade. Tonight I'm told we had the largest turnout of the Torchlight Parade in the history of that parade--a long and brilliant history.

	That brings me to my new question tonight. Number one, are we going to carry Illinois? Are we going to win this election and take the people's president into the White House?

	This year, the Torchlight Parade is back, and so are the Democrats. We're all together here tonight, all of us.

	Harry Truman marched here before winning his big upset victory in 1948, just like the upset we're going to produce right here in 1984.

	John Kennedy marched here before winning his battle to build America's future, just like the battle we're going to win and build America's future again.

	Democrats start their victory march in the Torchlight Parade in Chicago. That's what we did tonight, and I'll tell you, I've been all over this country, and I want to announce something: There's something stirring.

	The people are listening. They see the issues. They're moving. They're concerned. They're involved. They're ready to vote, and we're going to win this election because the people want a people's election, because the people want a people's president in the White House!

	I ask for your help. Tonight I'm here to ask for your help, not for myself but for America and for our children and for our future. The pollsters and the slick magazines are trying to tell us that the election is over and we don't need to count the ballots.

	Well, I've got a little message for them: The only polls that count are the Poles with names like Rostenkowski and Pucinski, and public opinion polls don't count at all. Public opinion polls don't vote. People vote.

	We're going to win because there are high stakes and deep differences in this election. This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals. It's about the direction that this country should go in.

	I think the best example, the best symbol of what's at issue in this campaign, has been their attempt to steal our heroes. First they tried to steal Roosevelt. Then they had a luncheon honoring Eleanor. Then they stole Harry Truman's train, the "Great Train Robbery."

	Then the president went all over the country saying how much he liked John Kennedy. The fact was that I was chairman of Minnesotans for Kennedy, and Minnesota helped put Kennedy over the top. Reagan was chairman of an organization called Democrats for Nixon and in 1960 wrote a letter saying that Kennedy's ideas came from Karl Marx and Adolf Hitler.

	What's going on? I'll tell you what's going on. It is the Democratic Party that stands for people, and it's our heroes who are remembered and revered, because in their time they stood for people, helped people, brought us together, served justice. They try to steal our heroes because they have none of their own.

	We know the difference. We didn't lose our way. Remember in the first debate, Mr. Reagan said, "I didn't leave the Democratic Party. It left me." The year in which we left him was the year in which he went for Richard Nixon, and we stayed with John Kennedy.

	Mr. Reagan, we supported Kennedy, and we're proud of it. You supported Nixon, and you ought to be ashamed of it.

	Today I ask you to join with me as we build America's future. I just came from Duluth, Minnesota, and just north of Duluth is the great Iron Range. The industrial base begins there, works through Minnesota and Iowa and Wisconsin and Missouri and Illinois and Indiana and Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and into New York.

	And from the beginning of it in the Iron Range, where in some communities 80 percent of those people are out of work. Good homes are selling for $9,000 each because no one will buy them. There is a mammoth Rust Bowl spreading all across the great industrial Midwest and the rural Midwest, of which we are all a part.

	This administration has totally turned its back, given us a tin ear. There is suffering all across our great region. Our best jobs are going overseas. Three million Americans have lost good jobs. Where we were the dominant force in steel and machine tools and the rest, we're now losing out to other countries.

	The people who still have jobs have found that good-paying jobs have been replaced by jobs that pay barely enough to keep a family together. Our best ideas are developed here and are produced in products overseas. This nation now is awash in an ocean of cheap foreign imports that's assaulting the standard of living of the American people and, more than anything else, robbing our children of their future.

	I grew up in an America in which my generation knew that each generation of Americans would do better than the previous; that if there were a good idea, it would be produced in a product in America, produced by American workers; if there were an improved standard of living, it would occur first in the United States; if there were a future for any children on earth, the brightest future of all would be found in America.

	I grew up in a generation that assumed that American farmers and rural America would dominate the world, because they're the best farmers on the earth because they're the most productive and they come from the best soil and the best region on earth.

	But in three and a half years, look what's happened. That's all gone upside down. With these massive debts, which will load a trillion dollars of our bills on the backs of our children--what a way to deal with our children. We are robbing the future of the industrial and rural strength of our country.

	There are many reasons why I want to be president. Right here in Illinois, your unemployment exceeds the national level. Unemployment levels across this state are still severe. The rural part of this state suffers terribly. One of the reasons I want to be president is that, as a fellow Midwesterner, I'm going to use the strength of the White House to fight for American workers and American farmers and American businesses again!

	I want an America where our kids come first. They've tried to slash all the support to educate this next generation. From the first grade to the twelfth grade, they've tried to rob the children of families of modest income of the opportunity to go on to college and vocational school. They've chiseled our great universities and centers of research and diminished American science.

	And, I'll tell you this: I want to be president to put our kids up front, to invest those children, and make them the best-educated generation in the history of our country.

	I want an America where each generation fulfills its responsibility to the other. What kind a nation is it that doesn't honor and remember its fathers and its mothers?

	I know what my parents meant to me. All across the country, we have the elderly, senior citizens in their retirement years, who paid into that Social Security fund, assuming that it would be there in their retirement years, that Medicare would be there in case of sickness.

	We've had a president who, despite his promises, tried time and time again to undermine Social Security and today refuses to concede any kind of commitment to protect Medicare.

	I'll tell you this: There are a lot of things we can't afford in this country. There are limits to our resources. But if you'll elect me president, I'm not going to let them touch Social Security or Medicare. I'm going to protect it for our parents and their retirement.

	I want an America where the president defends our air, our water, our land and our public health. This crowd would rather take a polluter to lunch than to court, and I promise you when I'm in Washington, there's never going to be another James Watt, another Ann Gorsuch, another poisoner, another polluter anywhere in that city.

	I want an America of justice. I don't want Jerry Falwell picking the justices of the Supreme Court.

	I intend to put justice back into the Justice Department, and I intend to use the law for its purpose to eliminate discrimination and to open doors for all Americans.

	Eddie Vdrolyak put his finger on one of the key issues of this campaign. These national debts must come down. The question is: "Who will pay?"

	The big fight between myself and Mr. Reagan is that I will protect people of middle and moderate income, and I will guarantee you, he will sock it to you just as he does and has done throughout his public career.

	We have corporations, major profitable corporations, that don't pay a dime in taxes. General Electric, Mr. Reagan's former employer, in the last four years has earned $6.5 billion, not owed a penny of federal income taxes, and got $280 million of your money paid in a rebate.

	We need a president who knows what it's like to raise a family on an average income, how you must save to get through the week, to give your children a chance, to build just a little future. For most Americans there's no cushion. There's nothing fancy. The least we can expect of a president is, when revenues are raised, to take the heat off of those who are trying to raise their families.

	I'm going to protect middle- and moderate-income Americans from tax increases. And I'm going to have the wealthy, the large corporations and the loophole users, join the rest of us in paying taxes.

	We need a nation again that stands for human rights. In the Philippines, in El Salvador, in South Africa, in Poland--wherever human rights are transgressed--in the Soviet Union. Let's hear it from the president. Let's stand up to tyrants, whoever they are, and have America be what it should be, a leader for liberty, for human rights, for justice all over this earth.

	I want an America that remains strong, unquestioned in her strength, standing up to her adversaries, but with a president who understands that that strength is being built for a purpose. The first purpose is to pursue peace and to prevent war.

	The second purpose is to undergird that strength with the values of the American people.

	Above all, the preeminent issue of our times is: We must have a president who realizes that this runaway arms race is making us less safe and less secure.

	This president stands condemned for ushering in the most dangerous and costly arms race since the atomic age began. Now he wants to enter into an arms race in the heavens, delegate the question of starting a war to a computer, destabilize our relationships, and bring us closer to war.

	I don't doubt his good intentions, but I have grave doubts that he knows what he's doing, and we'd better get a president who does.

	We have only a week to go. This election is close. I've come to Illinois to ask for your help. Illinois is my lucky state. When I came here in the primary, I was about done, and you just picked me up, put me on my feet, helped nominate me, and here I am--the nominee of the Democratic Party.

	Today this tide is turning. Yesterday we had the largest rally in the history of Seattle. Tonight we had the largest Torchlight Parade in the history of this parade. All over this country, people are moving. People are thinking. They're cutting through the fog. They're cutting through that Teflon coat. The celluloid image is disappearing, and they see what's really there.

	Even the newspapers are responding. On Sunday, I was endorsed by the New York Times. On Monday, I was endorsed by the Washington Post. Even the newspapers that endorsed Reagan have a strange way of expressing it.

	When the Chicago Tribune recommended to the voters of Illinois, they said this on behalf of their candidate: "Mr. Reagan's policies threaten to bankrupt America and severely damage the free world economy."

	Then it said, "Mr. Reagan's ignorance about the Soviet Union and his air-headed rhetoric on the issues of foreign policy and arms control have reached the limit of tolerance and have become an embarrassment to the United States and a danger to world peace."

	They said, "Therefore, we endorse Mr. Reagan for president of the United States."

	Now, don't be tough on them because every once in a while they're wrong. I remember a time when they were wrong a little while ago here.

	They were wrong in 1948 when they endorsed Tom Dewey and announced Dewey's victory. They're wrong again when they endorse Reagan and believe he's going to win. We're going to make it!

	At the conclusion of the 1949 parade, that underdog Harry Truman told his fellow Democrats--in this hall, I believe--these words:

	All over this nation, I have seen unmistakable evidence that the 		American people are waking up to the tremendous issues in this election. 	With your unflagging courage, with your enthusiasm in a great cause, we 	are going to win this election.

	I believe the American people now realize that it's time for new leadership. It's time for America to move on, and we're going to win this election!

BUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONEDUCATION--GENERALENDORSEMENTS--PRINT MEDIAFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHUMAN RIGHTSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMANUFACTURINGMEDICARENUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)REGIONALISM--MIDWESTSOCIAL SECURITYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL