

	I am glad to be here in Nebraska tonight, among good neighbors.  Nebraska is a strong, self-reliant state--a state that raises big crops, sound government, and outstanding statesmen.  It is my privilege in this crusade to be associated with men like your United States senators, Hugh Butler and Fred Scaton, and your former governor, Dwight Griswold, who will soon be United States senator.  The federal government could well take from Nebraska--and from my good friend, governor Val Peterson--some lessons in how to operate within a budget and how to avoid debt.  On November 4th, we're going to give the Democrats a long vacation in which to study these lessons.

	It is always an inspiration to visit this productive heartland, to ride through an unending scene of tall corn, fine livestock and well-kept homes that bespeak families who love their soil and their way of life.

	But it saddens me, as it does you, to know that in many of our homes, where all should be serene, there lies a heavy burden of worry.  You wonder why, seven short years after hard-won victory that promised to bring peace to the world, there is no peace.  You ask:  Must each new generation be uprooted from the land and pay with their youth the price of blundering leadership?

	I say to you that this cannot go on.  We have had enough.  We cannot continue under this fumbling administration which by its mess in Washington, this mess in world affairs, has proved that it cannot be trusted in these perilous times.  The Democrat administration has not ended war or the fear of war.  We want peace.  And we are determined to get it.

	You and I have a right to hope--not fear--for the future of this beloved country of ours.  We have a right to steady leadership that inspires the confidence of people at home and abroad.

	I pledge you that the forthcoming Republican administration will bring to Washington outstanding citizens representing every sector of our national life.  Thus it will give you diligent, dedicated leadership, and the calm, informed judgment the nation so desperately needs to win its way to peace.  This coming November 4th, the American people are going to plant a crop of hope across the land.  And the foremost job of the new Republican administration will be to tend that crop well, to make it grow until we harvest a true, lasting peace.

	And as we work to build the structure of peace, we must also put our minds to improving domestic programs--including programs essential to the future of our agriculture.

	Two weeks ago I outlined the economic farm policy of the Republican Party.  I made four major points:

	First, for the security of our farms and the nation we must get our entire economy on a sound basis--and a sound economy is something the Democrat administration doesn't understand.

	Second, agriculture is entitled to a fair, full share of the national income.

	Third, agriculture must have reliable means of achieving economic stability.  The Republican Party does and always will support sound farm programs for this purpose.  Government must help agriculture achieve stability in ways which minimize federal control and protect the farmer's freedom to run his own business.  But programs for farmers must be taken out of the grasping hands of an administration issuing them as a political machine to influence the farmers' vote.

	Fourth, the family farm is the mainstay of our agriculture.  Public policy must help keep it that way.

	Now, recently, I have been talking with many farmers, ranchers, farm ledgers, and specialists.  I find we all agree that in the years ahead farmers face responsibilities and opportunities as broad as the horizons of this vast land.

	We all agree, for example, that our nation is moving swiftly into an entirely new balance between our population and our food supply.  Farmers now have the task of feeding 155 million Americans.  And each passing year adds another two million hungry customers.  Yet our farm lands, as rich and endless as they seem, are limited.  The time is coming when all the scientific knowledge we can muster will be needed to keep production equal to its task.

	Other nations have faced this same problem, often without success.  In their desperation they have developed controls and pressures that have threatened the freedom and the independence of people on the land.

	Some say:  "It can't happen here."  But it certainly can happen here if we get off our traditional freedom road--if we fail to make our farm programs models of farmer-cooperation.  The truth is that the present administration is trying to shunt us off on detours that lead not to freedom and opportunity, but to the strictest kind of regimentation.  The Washington agricrats would give us Brannan Plans--and, believe me, such plans inevitably lead to iron-fisted control.

	This is proved by what is happening in freedom-loving England--a nation which is one of our firmest allies.  England's growing population has put tremendous pressures on her land.  Now England has adopted a program similar to the Brannan Plan--a scheme to give farmers high prices and consumers low prices, with the subsidies to make up the difference coming from taxes which are paid by the same farmers and consumer.  Since the government pays the bill, it naturally runs the show.

	If you were a farmer in England today, the government would tell you exactly how to operate your farm.  If you weren't as efficient as the government thought you should be, you could be thrown off your land.  That is happening today in freedom-loving England.  A Republican administration intends to see to it that it doesn't happen here!

	We are getting close to this sort of thing in America.  Every day I read about the administration taking some new and arrogant action.  An administration which believes it had "implied powers" to seize the steel industry from its owners must also believe it has the "implied power" to take over your farm.  We can be sincerely thankful that we have a Supreme Court which thinks otherwise.

	I hold to the ideal, as did our founding fathers, that government should not be the master, but the servant of the people.

	I know our farmers are determined to help maintain that ideal.  So is the Republican Party.  It was the Republican Party that developed a great share of the legislation which made county, state, and federal governments helpful but not officious partners in many farm programs.

	Our cooperative system of agricultural research and education had its start under a Republican administration.  So did the Homestead Act.  So did the United States Department of Agriculture, the land-grant colleges, and our wonderful system of experiment stations.  A Republican administration developed the basis legislation that made farmer cooperatives possible.  It was largely responsible for our farmer-run credit system.

	These programs always carried the pattern of true cooperation, were always designed to strengthen the family farm, never with the idea of federal control, never with the ulterior motive of using farm programs as a political tool.  It remained for the Democrats to do that.

	This same principle of farmer-participation and cooperation must be injected into all farm programs.  Certainly we must emphasize it in our conservation programs.

	I'm a zealous believer in conservation, both as a national policy and as a personal creed.  I have seen firsthand in many parts of the world what soil and fertility losses can do to civilizations.  I have crossed great deserts that once were fertile granaries--now laid waste because man wasn't intelligent enough, or didn't care enough, to preserve his soil.

	To build a strong, secure United States we must save our soil--and improve our soil.  We aren't now doing the job fast enough or well enough.

	In the face of the vastness of soil-building problems, we cannot tolerate the shortcomings of present programs.  After all these years of talking about conservation, we don't yet have a unified soil program, and we aren't getting as much soil improvement for our dollars as we should.  This situation has been so confusing and so bad at times, that after a farmer has installed a terrace on the advice of one agency, another agency has come along and said, in effect, "That's all wrong.  We can't pay for that.  Rip it out!"

	We must get these programs together, and stop this costly bureaucratic sniping.  The Soil Conservation Service is a competent technical agency that makes its know-how available to farmers in locally-organized, farmer-run soil conservation districts.  It comes into the districts to help farmers only at their invitation.  The only trouble with this kind of conservation work is that it is moving too slowly, and its relationship with the state experiment stations and extension services often isn't what it should be.  I strongly favor farmer-managed soil conservation districts, with the Soil Conservation Service and other public agencies giving such help as farmers request.

	The agricultural conservation program--the ACP--is quite a different matter!  It reached down from Washington through state, county and community PMA committees, to individual farmers who receive payments for adopting various conservation practices.  I firmly believe that farmers should receive aid from the nation in maintaining our basic resources.  But as soon as it can be done, such aid should be used to promote permanent and effective practices.  It should not be camouflage for giving the farmer a hidden subsidy.  Further, the administration of this program should be greatly decentralized and cleansed of politics.  And we must avoid duplication and waste by coordinating these programs at the local level.

	To assure a productive future, we must strengthen our unique system of agricultural education, research, and extension.  The unparalleled achievements of American agriculture would have been impossible without the programs of research and education of which the Land Grant Colleges have been the center.  Agricultural research and education have been neglected by this administration.  The total amount granted for research, for example, has been less than the cost of salaries and expenses of the PMA alone.

	We are going to change that.  We shall develop an agricultural research and extension program to meet present and future needs.  We shall focus on both production and marketing, to benefit producers and consumers alike.  It can be done.  It should have been done long ago.  The present tired administration may be good at destroying your products or dyeing them blue--but it apparently isn't interested in research and extension.  It will take a new administration to get this job done.

	Another farm program in which we must increase farmer-participation and control is that of the Farm Credit Administration.

	Republican leadership has always sponsored credit facilities especially designed to meet the needs of family-farm agriculture.  That leadership will continue to improve the system.  Among other things we will take steps to meet the need of today's mechanized farmer for larger operating capital.  We will remove the federal domination now imposed on the farm credit system.  Employees of these farmer-owned self-supporting institutions should not be federal appointees.  A federal farm credit board, elected by farmer members, should be established to form credit policies, select executive officers, and to see that sound credit operations will not be endangered by partisan political influence.

	The Republican Party believes in farmer cooperatives.  Cooperation is the means by which free men solve problems or tackle jobs too big for the individual.  Farmer cooperatives are an essential device for maintaining the independent family farm.  We will not let them be endangered.  We shall aid farmers to strengthen their own institutions.

	The Republican Party favors a sound program of rural electrification and rural telephone service.  The Republican 80th Congress made available for REA loans $800,000,000--the largest amount ever made available by any Congress.  We regard REA as an investment in agriculture's future.  But the cooperatives in this field should not be satellites of the federal government, and we should make certain that as loans are repaid by each local cooperative, the sticky hands of federal bureaucrats are removed.

	Now, in two major addresses on agriculture, I have pledged that the Republican Party will provide farmers with economic protection, without putting them in federal chains; and I have said that we will support other farm programs in ways that guarantee a maximum of farmer-participation and control.

	To work for a better future for agriculture--and for America--there must be a change in Washington.  We are tired of arrogant people who have been too long in power.  We are tired of roller-coaster thinking and splashy spending of other people's money as the only solution to every problem.  We are tired of outrageous taxation.

	We can meet the future and build a security, a prosperity, that will make our past seem puny by comparison.  But we can't do it with a leadership that lives on past fears, and that sees everything in terms of political expediency.  Rural people, noted for straight thinking and hard work, can help us do better than that.

	Farmers, like all other citizens, have had enough of what is humorously called the fair deal.  What we all want now, and what we are going to get, is an honest deal.
AGRICULTURE--PRODUCTIVITYBANKING/LOANS/CREDITRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTRURAL DEVELOPMENTAGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     5 5 5 5 5
 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 }5	  	 j 	 V 	 >  -   e: