
	President Wall, delegates to this 18th NMU Convention, ladies and gentlemen:

	I am pleased, and honored, to have this opportunity to address this convention this morning. For I know that you and I share many deep concerns about this country and what may happen to it in the future.

	We stand on the eve of a national election that may well decide the direction this country will take for years into the future. I know someone else has already given a view on what might happen if I should be elected, but I won't comment on that. It is, however, in the eyes of many, a fateful moment, and it is well that we should pause and take stock of where we are.

	Here at home, eight million Americans are out of work. Instead of making steel, putting America on wheels, and working day and night to move our country's vital cargoes, men and women are standing in line for unemployment checks.

	Meanwhile, the value of the dollar is shrinking almost day by day. The dollar you earned in 1976, when President Ford was in the White House, is worth only 68 cents today. Steady, persistent inflation has robbed pensioners of their savings. It has driven up interest rates so many of our young families have little hope of buying a home of their own. The Home Builders Association estimates that this year 840,000 homes that Americans badly need will go unbuilt, at a great economic and social cost to our people.

	America runs on energy. And yet in the past four years, we have seen gas lines, closed schools and factories, and continuing uncertainty about future supplies. We discovered that the administration in Washington had piped millions of barrels of petroleum into an underground reservoir--and had no pumps to get it out again. Later, that same administration proposed all kinds of mandatory rules on the economy, including government-policed temperatures in restaurants and hotels.

	All of these things are serious--national security, the economy, jobs, inflation, energy. But today, I would like to address a particular problem that does much to reveal how the failure of the Carter administration's leadership has endangered both our naval forces and our maritime industry.

	Because of Jimmy Carter's failure of leadership, this country has suffered a shocking decline in those two interrelated areas. That decline comes at a time when the United States is more dependent upon the use of the seas for our national well-being than ever before in our history.

	The magnitude of this decline is difficult for most Americans even to comprehend. At the close of World War II, the United States was the most powerful maritime nation in the history of the world. Our navy was 1,000 ships strong. Our merchant fleet carried 42 percent of our foreign trade.

	Today, our navy has less than 500 ships, many of them overage and of doubtful value. There are some 500 U.S.-flag ocean going vessels--but they carry less than 5 percent of our own commerce. Ninety-five percent of U.S. trade is carried in foreign bottoms. In time of crisis, will those ships be available? We simply don't know. When we find out, it may be too late. 

	I am determined that the United States survive as a strong and prosperous nation. Given the present state of affairs, we must have new leadership, strong leadership, leadership that will come to grips--quickly--with the problems we as a nation face on the high seas of the world.

	This nation badly needs a revitalized maritime policy. That policy must reverse the drift and decline of the Carter administration. It must reaffirm the importance of the sea to America's future. It must reestablish the U.S.-flag commercial fleet as an effective economic instrument for the support of U.S. interests abroad. And above all, that policy must insist upon America's effective control of the seas where our national interests are threatened.

	Maritime policy is not a thing unto itself. It is--or should be--an integral part of our overall foreign policy. If it is not, our national interest cannot be served and protected. Since there are many who must be involved in developing a coordinated maritime policy, constant communication and a feeling of mutual trust must be developed by a president and his top executives and the many unions, shipping firms and others within the private sector.

	Last month, I met in Washington with more than sixty of this country's maritime leaders and union officials. At that meeting, I presented a specific seven-point plan for a strong American Maritime industry for the remainder of this century. Tal Simpkins was there for National Maritime Union. There were shipbuilders and allied industry people, and inland waterway people, and other union leaders.

	Let me summarize for you the most important elements in that plan.

	We must, first of all, provide a unified direction for all government programs affecting the maritime interests of the United States. The Navy and the commercial maritime industry are governed by different federal departments. Those departments must learn to cooperate. We cannot afford to have bureaucratic jealousy or turf-protection get in the way of long-range shipbuilding programs vital to the national interest.

	The cargo policies of other nations pose a challenge to the United States. We have traditionally believed in free trade and freedom of the seas. Today, however, we are faced with a network of foreign governmental preferences and priorities designed to advance the interest of foreign shipping at the expense of our own. It is much the same as a country which subsidizes its steel industry to enable it to dump steel in the U.S. market at prices below actual production cost. That's not free trade. Those countries will have to be told they can't have it both ways--protection for their ships, and competition for everybody else. As president, I intend to make that fact very clear to a number of people who have apparently not heard much from the administration of Mr. Carter on this point.

	In addition, we must encourage and support our maritime industry by negotiating bilateral agreements to assure equal access to cargoes. We have such agreements with some countries now--such as Brazil and Argentina.

	A major goal of my administration will be to assure that American flag ships carry an equitable portion of our trade, consistent with the legitimate aspirations and policies of our trading partners.

	The principle that a nation's own ships should carry its coastal trade, presently embodied in the Jones Act, has been part of this country's maritime policy since the early days of the nation. I can assure you that a Reagan administration will not support legislation that would jeopardize this long-standing policy or the jobs dependent upon it.

	Our merchant marine is a vital auxiliary to the U.S. Navy. At a time when the Navy's support capability is open to serious question, we should be increasing the merchant marine's role--and we are not.

	We know that integrated commercial support of the Navy is possible. The SS Erna Elizabeth proved that eight years ago in a demonstration planned by a previous Republican administration. Today, however, the Carter administration acts like that demonstration never took place.

	Jimmy Carter's Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Maritime Affairs was recently asked if there were plans to augment the Navy's uniformed manpower by merchant marine personnel. This came after the skipper of the Navy oiler Canisteo refused a sailing order because his ship was too short-handed to carry out its mission.

	And the Assistant Secretary replied that "the administration is considering an experimental effort to test the capability of merchant seamen and contract with them to man naval auxiliary vessels and naval support vessels." In California, this sort of response is called a "laid back attitude." Is it possible that the top maritime executive in the Carter administration is totally unaware of the Erna Elizabeth's performance? Eight years ago, as many of you know, this 35,000 ton U.S.-flag tanker steamed 13,000 miles and refueled some 40 Navy ships, including the carrier John F. Kennedy.

	The experiment worked well. The refuelings were on time. There was no ship damage. There was no personnel injury. The Chief of Naval Operations said that the test "proved the feasibility of using commercial tankers to consolidate Navy replenishment ships and to provide limited replenishment of combatant ships." And after all this, eight years ago, the Carter administration is now "considering" an experimental effort.

	I know, and you know, that the maritime industry can assume many Navy support functions. It will save the Navy money, and it will release trained sailors to man the new ships my administration will build for the fleet. This kind of integration and cooperation will strengthen our defense, strengthen our maritime industry, and provide the American taxpayer with the most for his money. Let me conclude these remarks by saying a few words about the future of America.

	Seafaring men discovered this land. They assured its prosperity by carrying the products of its farms and factories to foreign markets. They defended it by carrying the battle to the enemy's shores, and by denying the use of the sea to those who would threaten our freedom and our well-being.

	Now we are faced with perhaps the greatest challenge in our nation's lifetime. Will our naval strength and our maritime strength grow once again to the level required by a great and strong nation? Will we be able to bring back to our shores the vital imports which fuel our transportation system and provide the raw materials for our industries? Will we be able to deliver our export products to foreign buyers? Will the world's greatest land power--the Soviet Union--preempt our traditional maritime supremacy?

	As Holmes once wrote of Old Ironsides, will "the harpies of the shore pluck the eagle of the sea?"

	I say to you today, at this convention, that four years from now, at the end of the first Reagan administration, America will have risen to these challenges. It will have worked hard--and succeeded--in integrating Navy needs and merchant marine resources. There will be more Americans at work throughout our economy--more security for this great nation.

	I ask you now--all of you: Let's work together. Let's make a new beginning. Let's make America great again. 
FOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALNAVYSHIPPING/SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY     ) ) {) w) m)
 c) ^) Y) P) H) F) /) %)	 e 	 8  "   e: