
	Here in New England candidates for the presidency usually talk about the glories of the autumn scenery and about such things as Yankee ingenuity and the greatness of our forefathers.

	`If my Republican opponent keeps on getting more worried about the outcome of this election, I imagine you will have him up here before long praising the scenery and condemning politicians.

	I like the New England countryside. I am for Yankee ingenuity. And I respect our forefathers with all my heart. But today I want to talk of the present and future. I want to talk about something that matters to every section of the country--the deeply ominous growth of bigness in American society. Today I want to talk about what this means to a man we find in every part of this great land--Joe Smith.

	I have been speaking about the New America, and the man I care about in the New America is Joe Smith--the independent, free, responsible citizen. Nothing is more important than the opportunity for every man, of whatever race, religion, or background, of whatever walk of life, to develop to the full his own personality. Nothing is more central than that Joe Smith have the chance to give to life and have from life the work, the fun, the joy, the independence that is his right.

	And that was never harder than in this age of bigness--the age of vast assembly lines, giant corporations, huge office buildings, vast and sprawling suburbs of vast and sprawling cities. Joe Smith is in competition with General Motors. I am not against General Motors, but I do not want to see it submerge the little guy.

	For in America today, the free individual must live a life among the giants. Unless we are careful, there is a danger that the individual will be lost. The big man today has power, which sometimes he does not even know he exercises. 

	In the recognition of the dangers, which the ordinary citizen faces in this new and mammoth world, we find one of the great differences between the parties. Put simply, it is this: the Republican party is the party of bigness. The Democratic party is the party of every one of us.

	The Eisenhower Administration illustrates the point. Early in the life of the administration, Mr. Eisenhower's Secretary of the Interior proudly proclaimed that he and his colleagues were "here in the saddle as an administration representing business and industry." He spoke the truth.

	Representatives of big business have staffed the Cabinet and filled the major posts. How can we expect these Republican leaders to see that big business presents any problem? To do so, they must admit that they are themselves a part of the problem--and that's hard for any man to do. The man who crowds the other fellow off the road doesn't blame himself. He just thinks his own business is more important.

	The Eisenhower Administration has fostered bigness and economic concentration. It has been crowding the others off the road. For example:

	--tax advantages have gone to the big corporations and the big taxpayers.

	--the enforcement of the antitrust laws has also been relaxed. Quite a number of the cases against the big companies have been settled by consent decrees without serious results.

	--the Eisenhower administration has acquiesced in the new merger movement, which has led to bigger and bigger banks and corporations.

	--it has favored the biggest of the big businesses in its award of government contracts, and the Department of Defense even changed the way of presenting the report on contracts to conceal the fact that the biggest contractors were General Motors and the other big corporations.

	Incidentally, I was struck this morning by a speech which the President's chief economic advisor, Dr. Arthur Burns, made yesterday out in Ohio. Dr. Burns said we must solve "the income problem" of farmers. And he said we must correct chronic unemployment in some cities. And he expressed concern about persistent poverty in the South. And he said that there should be a better distribution of government contracts--more should go to small business. And he said, and here I quote, "Some tax relief for small business is long overdue."

	I wonder if Dr. Burns checked with his boss on these things. We have been told by the President that these things were just "fancied ills" which we Democrats have dreamed up to win votes. 
 
	I would like to ask the administration a question: if these reforms are "long overdue," why did it allow them to become overdue? We've been talking about them for years.

	But if we should have four more years of Republican administration I think we can be certain that these reforms will still be "overdue." The Eisenhower Administration, in short, has followed a policy of making the big bigger, or at least it has drifted with the tide--and the end result of that policy would be to alter the face of America as we have known it.

	The Republican managers see America as a big, well-oiled company controlled by the men who, because they run the big corporations, ought to run the country, too. Their attitude toward America is that of the big boss toward the boys. I can think of some further resemblance. Just as the big boss is nice at Christmas, so the Republicans put on a big smile around election time. Left alone, they will lead us into a new age of industrial feudalism, where small enterprise disappears and everyone works for the giant corporations.

	We must not deceive ourselves. The companies in modern America are here to stay. No one who talks sense can say they will be disbanded. And we want the benefits of bigness--its efficiency, its productivity, the comforts and advantages it has brought. But I do say this: big business must be a servant and a partner and not a master.

	And I will add this: Government should not always be on the side of bigness. Certainly it must not be controlled by big business. And areas like New England, with older and smaller industries, should not be left to die on the vine. We want independence and diversity. We do not want everything heading up in a head office in New York.

	The Republican administration, because it is dominated by the big corporations, will never check the march toward bigness and industrial feudalism. General Eisenhower had the opportunity in 1952. Many people thought that he was a different kind of Republican; they thought he would change the Republican party. But an old elephant is like an old dog--you can't teach it new tricks.

	The Republican party of 1956 is the same old Republican party we have always known. It is still the party where the big fellows get together in private and arrange things. And it will become not less so but more so with every passing year. There are many good reasons for mistrusting the heir apparent of the Republican administration, but does anyone suppose Mr. Nixon would stand against the march of big business?

	This is one reason why thousands of Democrats and independent voters, here in Massachusetts and throughout the country, are coming back to the Democratic party. In our party they feel at home. For our party is the party of the people--of all the people.

	The Democratic party has always held the door open to men and women of every race and creed. Those who had just come from the old country, whether it was Ireland, or Italy, or Poland, or Greece, found a place in our party. And today, in state after state, sons and grandsons of immigrants are the leaders of the Democratic party. We do not run a closed corporation; we think everyone is a good as everyone else no matter how he spells his name, no matter whether he came over on the Mayflower or the last boat that docked. That is why we remain a tough and lively breed.

	There are many issues in this campaign, but one stands out above all others. The issue is--shall we have an administration dedicated to the welfare of all the people, the workingman, the small businessman, the farmer, the housewife, or shall we continue an administration that's first sympathies are for the big and the strong.

	Take a look at your own part of the country. I'm not sure that this age of business has been good for New England. Whole towns have been blighted by mergers, combinations, and shutdowns--mergers which often came about only because someone wanted to make a tax saving, at the expense of people's jobs and homes.

	For a Republican administration there is no particular problem here. To the Republican leaders these are problems of the ledger and cashbook. But we Democrats see the closed plant and the depressed town as a problem of men and women and children. A Democratic administration will not look the other way, or make excuses, when an industry or a region falls on troubled days.

	I am not a stranger to the problems of New England. I have had the opportunity of discerning them at length over the years. I think I know what is needed. We first need an assessment of the effects of federal taxation and spending on New England economic life. Legislation cannot be appraised from a purely regional viewpoint. But areas under special economic strain can and should receive effective consideration. We also need legislation to help communities in economic distress. I have in mind the area redevelopment program supported in this last Congress by Senator Kennedy, my friend Paul Douglas of Illinois, and other leading Democrats. This area redevelopment bill passed the Senate, despite vehement Republican opposition; and Republican leaders succeeded in killing it in the House. The President later said that he hadn't known what happened.

	There are other things we need. Among them, I think we need a liberalization of unemployment insurance. We need a good hard look at the power and multipurpose possibilities in the Connecticut River and elsewhere in New England. Above all, we need a new attitude toward people and a new attitude toward America. We need an end to indifference in Washington--the indifference that is inevitable under big business government and too little presidential leadership.

	I have often spoken in this campaign about the New America--a land where we conquer our massive and giant society before it conquers us. It will be a land where we take up the instrumentalities of bigness and turn them to the service of the free individual.

	We can do this by making sure that the huge enterprises of American life remain open and responsible. We can do it, too, by making sure that there is preserved, in the midst of the giants, plenty of reason for diversity and freedom. And we can see to it that we preserve the sources of American initiative--the small town, the family farm, the family firm, the independent craftsman, and all the other emblems of the wonderful variety of American life.

	I have warned many times in this campaign against exaggerating our differences. Many more things unite us as Americans than divide us as Republicans and Democrats. But, there is a difference between Republicans and Democrats. Were it otherwise, we would not be having elections. The difference is between the party of the many and the party of the few. The Democratic party is the party of the many and, because we are responsible to all the people, ours is the party of responsible action.

	And because we serve the people we are serious about their future. We seek a world in which all people will live peacefully and well, each by his own faith and all in the harmony which is founded upon freedom and mutual respect.

	This is the America to whose service I would call you, one and all. It deserves the best from every one of us.





BUSINESS, CORPORATEDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTMANUFACTURING--PLANT CLOSINGSREGIONALISM--NEW ENGLAND     U. !. . . .
 . - - - - - - -	 v 	 c 	 I 	 5 	  e: