

	The foremost responsibility of any president is the national security of the United States. And I know--from conviction and personal experience--that a strong domestic oil industry is vital to our national security.

	Oil imports climbing to 10 million barrels a day by 1995--60 percent of our consumption--because we aren't finding and producing enough at home: That's not an acceptable energy policy for this country.

	Lines at gas stations or thousands of energy-state families out of work and out of hope; that's not acceptable, either.

	An energy policy for America must rely on many sources.

	In the years ahead we will use more coal. We must move ahead with the safe use of nuclear power and be willing to look at the more exotic energy sources. But a strong America will, for a long time, depend on oil and gas.

	An oil and gas policy for America must do three things:

	1. find more and conserve more;

	2. apply our best technology and ingenuity to our energy problems; and

	3. protect the environment in the process.

	Here's what I support to get the oil and gas business back on track:

	First, greater use of natural gas. It's clean, and it's abundant. We should fully decontrol natural gas and find ways to move it to the customer more competitively.

	I am proud that our administration decontrolled oil prices. We have urged the Democrat Congress to decontrol natural gas. But we have so far been unable to overcome the liberals in Congress on natural gas.

	You won't hear my opponent call for decontrol of gas prices.

	Maybe that's because he's from Massachusetts. In the book he wrote in 1976, "Massachusetts Miracle," he said it must be a "priority" to "press for the re-regulation of natural gas."

	These days he talks mushily of "the question of deregulating natural gas," of a "delicate balancing of interests," of protecting "both consumers and producers."

	I believe it's as simple as this: Price controls should go. That's what would be best for both the industry and the American people.

	We must also expand the market for natural gas. Last year we finally repealed the Carter-era Fuel Use Act, opening up additional markets to gas. That's good for consumers and good for the environment. I've also been a leader of the effort to encourage the development of alternative fuels for cars--compressed natural gas, methanol, and ethanol.

	I'm pleased to say that Congress recently passed legislation to encourage the production of alternative-fuel cars. There has been a chicken-and-egg problem here--there's no market for such cars if the fuel's not widely available, and the fuel won't be widely available until the cars are on the road.

	But new dual-fuel cars--cars that can run on any combination of methanol, for example, and gasoline--have been developed and could break that impasse. Where air pollution is heavy--Southern California, Denver, and Phoenix, for example--greater use of these alternative fuels is just about the only answer that doesn't put extraordinary limits on how much people can drive their cars.

	Natural gas is a key part of my energy policy for America. Another key involves oil.

	The past few years have been tough ones in the oil fields. Now prices are falling again, and that is cause for serious concern.

	The American oil industry is too important to our national security to have its economic underpinnings totally dependent on the political climate of the Middle East.

	We must take decisive action to halt the deterioration of the oil reserve base in this country.

	Almost 100,000 oil wells have been abandoned because they are not economic at low prices and high taxes. The rig count languishes at pre-World War II levels because Independents can't afford to drill.

	Now we should provide more stability to the industry by reducing the cost of domestic exploration and production for both oil and gas--with the objective of saving marginal wells, stimulating exploration, and encouraging enhanced oil and gas recovery. I favor:

	Tax incentives for stripper wells.

	A 10 percent tax credit for oil and gas exploration--up to $10 million of costs, and 5 percent thereafter--creditable to the alternative minimum tax. The cost of this will be offset by the revenues that flow to the government from increases in drilling, in production and in employment.

	Clarification of the R&D tax credit to include enhanced recovery techniques.

	Elimination of 80 percent of intangible drilling costs as an alternative minimum tax preference item for independent producers.

	Repeal of the Transfer Rule prohibiting Independents from using percentage depletion on acquired properties.

	These incentives can keep our Independents in business when times are tough, after all it's the Independents who are out there taking most of the risks. The nation needs the men and women of its independent oil and gas industry, and it needs them fully employed in the oil fields of America. Again our national security is at stake.

	My list used to include elimination of the windfall profits tax, but I'm proud to say we've moved that one from the "in" box to the "out" box this past month.

	My opponent makes a lot of noise about his support of that step, but it wasn't always that way. Here's what he said during the energy crisis, back in 1975: "One of the first actions by Congress must be the passage of a no-nonsense windfall profits tax on oil companies."

	Then he experienced a battlefield conversion in his pursuit of Texas votes. It's not a first. Here's a guy who has made a career out of opposing offshore drilling--going to court to fight it in Massachusetts--who suddenly sees the light when he discovers Texas.

	Of course, this is the same man who now says, "America needs new oil and gas drilling." He opposes drilling in the ANWR and here's what he said in 1975 in the midst of a fight over oil price controls: "The president believes that in order to limit our dependence on high-priced imported oil, he must allow oil prices to rise to those of foreign oil. I find such reasoning difficult to understand."

	There's no security for the United States in foreign oil. We must encourage domestic production, we must turn to alternatives like natural gas, methanol, nuclear power, and coal--and we must continue our efforts to be more efficient in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, with a goal of 740 million barrels by 1993. I will also encourage our allies to create similar reserves.

	And on a broader scale, some want to raise taxes on individuals and corporations. My opponent's position on taxes is as clear as Boston Harbor. Mine is this clear: The liberals in Congress will push and will push and will push again. But I'm going to tell them, "Read my lips: no new taxes!"

	There are two men asking for your vote in this election, but only one who shares the hopes and values of the men and women of Midland. My values are your values--values like family, faith, and freedom, like love of country and hope for the future.

	Texas values. Some would call it common sense.

	I don't believe in putting revolving doors on our nation's prison cells. I don't believe we need to license BB guns. I do believe we need judges who show more compassion for the victims than they do for the criminals.

	I don't believe in the agenda of the ACLU.

	I believe we can take a moment in our schools for prayer.

	I believe we can take a moment for the Pledge of Allegiance, too.

	I believe in an optimistic, growing America. A moral, good nation that is a light to the world--that is, in Lincoln's words, "the last, best hope of earth."

	In just 33 days, the voters will set a direction for America. I believe they will choose a leader with the values that they share and the experience to keep our nation strong.

	Ladies and gentlemen--I am that man.

	And with your help, and God's, I will be the next president of the United States.

	Thank you all, and thanks for such a warm welcome home.

ENERGY--ALTERNATIVE SOURCESNATURAL GAS INDUSTRY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES--TAX ISSUESENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     3     
        	  	 m 	 O  -   e: