

	These gracious introductions always remind me of a Hoosier who had a more direct way of introducing himself. He used to say:

	"I'm an Indiana farmer and I want it understood that I make an honest living and my reputation's good."

	I am hopeful that my own reputation is reasonably good in Indiana, because I've been a close neighbor for a long time. I feel perfectly at home here. As you may have guessed, I'm here on a political errand, and I know that politics comes as naturally to Hoosiers as plain speaking.

	We could use a lot more plain speaking in this campaign. And on some rare occasions when my distinguished opponent, the general, has ventured to talk plainly, he has advanced some startling ideas; the idea, for example, that people should vote this fall for all Republican candidates, whatever their character and ability. He wants us to elect them all: good, bad and outrageous.

	Until a few days ago, I had believed this was a new theory of politics. I am told, however, that it actually is an old and familiar tactic in certain Republican circles. In 1925, for example, no less than the Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme Court advised the young people of the state to "Vote the straight Republican ticket, regardless of the qualifications of the candidate even though you know a man to be incompetent... even though you know him to be immoral, vote for him because he represents the Republican ticket."

	But this kind of barefaced political cynicism has never won much favor in Indiana or anywhere else. And I don't think it will be successful this year.

	My opponent said the other night--and I must say I was surprised that he of all people should say it--that men are known by the company they keep.

	Well, the company I like to keep in Indiana or anywhere else, is the company of men like my old friend, Henry F. Schricker--and I shall never know a gentler, kinder, wiser man than the great and beloved Hoosier who governs this state, Governor Schricker.

	I have a special feeling of kinship for him. He's the man who put my name in nomination. But we are still friends! You know in America any boy may become president and I suppose it's just one of the risks he takes! As governors of neighboring states, we have been wrestling with the same problems. These are problems which face every governor in our times--problems of economy, of efficient administration, of states' rights, and of integrity in government. I want to talk to you about some of these things tonight. It's not the most exciting thing I could talk about, but it's one of the most important.

	In particular I want to talk to you about economy in government. This is a subject on which I have passionate convictions and so does Governor Schricker. Bankers usually do. I am certain that economy in government--the most rigorous and searching economy--is vital to the health of this Republic just as it is to our states.

	I think Indiana is a good place to discuss this subject. The Hoosier has always been a hard man with a dollar--his own dollar or anybody else's. I think of a Hoosier as a down-to-earth, prosperous, rather generous, neighborly fellow--but one who knows where every stray piece of string is in the pantry. He is a hard-to-beat man. And he's hard to fool. I remember saying down in Vincennes at the 150th anniversary of the Indiana Territory, which included Illinois, that probably shrewd Hoosier business deals were too much for the Illinois suckers so they broke away and set up their own territory.

	And so tonight I want to talk a little sense about government economy.

	Like Governor Schricker, I have had practical experience with this problem. In Illinois we have lived within our means these past four years without increasing taxes except to restore our worn-out roads. Taking into account our needs and the increased cost of everything, it has not been easy. And I had to live with a Republican legislature, but, strange to say, we got along pretty well, and more than once I was reminded of the words of your Hoosier philosopher, Abe Martin, who said: "Now an' then an innocent man is sent to the legislature." I could add--even a Republican, now and then.

	But during the last session of the Illinois legislature, what do you think they did to the thrifty, closely balanced budget I presented to them? They cut out $300,000 and added $50,000,000! But I vetoed most of it; I vetoed more appropriations than any governor in Illinois history. So you will understand when I say that I think the carefully cultivated legend that all Democrats are wasters and all Republicans are economical is the bunk. I think this is a time for bare-bone economy and the Republican legislators in Illinois can tell you I mean what I say.

	We tightened up our spending in Illinois in other ways, too. We rid ourselves of political parasites. We stopped graft. We overhauled the highway and building-construction and the purchasing systems. We enlisted the services of excellent men and honest men who knew their jobs. And if I have earned any respect for the administration of Illinois in the past four years, it is due to them.

	As a result, we saved money where it could be saved, and we were able to spend money where it needed to be spent. We were able greatly to increase state aid to common schools, enlarge and improve our facilities for the care of the mentally ill, increase public-assistance grants, etc., etc.--and all without any increase whatever in general-purpose taxes. The current biennial budget I submitted was actually lower than the preceding one. The cost of state government in Illinois in relation to the income of its citizens is one of the lowest in the country.

	I think the methods we used in Illinois will work in Washington. I want to give you five concrete rules--rules I know from my experience will work. I emphasize that they require action, not just words. It is cheap talk to say we must spend less and tax less. We have heard such talk in abundance. You always hear it loudest and oftenest at election time.

	To manage the public purse efficiently and economically is a brutal job and let us make no mistake about it. I have served my apprenticeship and I tell you the man who says he can move in and work miracles with a meat ax--or with mirrors--is either kidding the people or revealing his own inexperience. Nomination to public office and a round of speechmaking do not automatically qualify anyone as an economical administrator.

	First, saving money in government requires, above everything else, hard-headed, tight-fisted, vigorous leadership by men who are passionately concerned with getting the job done at the lowest possible cost--men who will instill a deep feeling for thrift in all branches and at all levels of the public service. I have found such men in Illinois and managed to persuade many of them to take on the exacting tasks of government.

	In Washington, civilian leadership is most important in relation to the military because that is where the great bulk of our tax dollars are spent. We must make sure that wastage of our silver is not a privilege of our brass.

	In this connection I am obliged to say that I think the Republican suggestion that a general can best cut down on military waste at least deserves examination. I call as witness the bipartisan Senate committee now investigating our preparedness program under the chairmanship of Senator Lyndon Johnson, of Texas. These senators, both Democrats and Republicans, have concluded: "It is not an easy task to change the deeply ingrained attitudes of military men who, for centuries, have operated on the theory that cost is not a compelling consideration."

	The present civilians in charge of the Department of Defense, and the president, have saved literally billions of dollars in our present defense program. Secretary Lovett testified that he and the President saved $19 billion in this year's budget by cutting down the requests of the military services. And please don't mistake my admiration for the generals and the admirals, with whom I worked in great intimacy for three years during the war. Some of them, even the Republican ones, are among my best friends. But from what I have seen I am not persuaded that either their education or experience or inclination is the best insurance of thrift with public funds.

	Rule one, then, is to get strong-minded, economy-minded civilians in top jobs. Rule two is to give them the authority to manage their departments efficiently.

	This means carrying through the work of government reorganization so ably started by the Hoover Commission. Incidentally, while I do not regard economy in government as a partisan issue, I was interested to learn that a majority of Republican senators voted against fifteen of the nineteen reorganization plans submitted by the president that have come to a vote in the last four years--often overriding the direct recommendations of their former president, Herbert Hoover.

	The present reorganization law expires next spring. I shall certainly ask the Congress to extend it. Improvement in organization is a job that has to be worked at day in and day out.

	Efficiency in government also requires that we reward people who find ways to save money, and that we promote supervisors on the basis of their ability to get the job done at minimum cost and with the fewest subordinates. I think also we need some improvement in our civil service system, to make sure the strong safeguards we need against arbitrary or unfair discharge do not strangle our ability to hold employees to strict standards of efficient performance.

	The third method for saving money in Washington is to improve the machinery for scrutinizing appropriations, so that the budget presented by the president and the money bills voted by the Congress will be based on cold fact and not hot air. As a candidate for the presidency, I am disturbed by the knowledge that there are now several hundred people in the Pentagon preparing the military budget for next year, and only thirty-eight people in the president's Bureau of the Budget to review those estimates. The Republican candidate, incidentally, had some harsh words to say the other night in St. Louis about replacing the present staff of the Bureau of the Budget. I think he would have been better advised to recommend enlarging that staff--a step that has frequently been proposed by the president but blocked in the Congress.

	Last week, in Virginia, I suggested that the president be given the item veto--the power to disapprove individual items in an appropriation bill, without having to veto the entire bill. The president could then wield a sharp scalpel against special interests without bringing the machinery of government to a stop. Three-fourths of our states, including my own, have long since adopted this useful tool and I think it is time the federal government adopted it too.

	The Congress, too, needs more help on appropriations. Until recently, the House Appropriations Committee has had only twelve busy congressmen, assisted by a four-man staff, to comb through the staggering figures of a fifty billion dollar military budget. The Congress just this year voted itself some more help, which should enable more congressmen to be sure they know what they are talking about when they propose cuts in appropriations.

	A fourth step for saving money is to establish more effective means for controlling expenditures after the Congress votes the money. This is the problem of getting a dollar's worth of value for every dollar spent.

	Here, too, the problem is hardest in the Defense Department, where the need for speed in obtaining results must be constantly balanced against the costs of hurrying. The North African air bases are fresh in our minds. We needed those bases and we needed them fast. But surely in this case we paid a high premium for speed.

	Let no one think, however that improvement can be accomplished just by good intentions. It takes hard, patient, steady work. It was only three years ago that the Defense Department was established on its present unified basis. Much has been accomplished in these three years. Where the Army, Navy and Air Force used to compete with each other in buying medical supplies, food, lumber and many other items, there is now centralized buying for all three; where each military service used to run a separate air-transport system, there is now one for all; where the three services used to buy hundreds of different sizes of nuts and bolts, they are now standardizing on a few.

	These are only a few examples of the improvements taking place month by month. Some save a few dollars; others save millions. It is no criticism of the present management of the Defense Department to say we need to go much farther, as fast as we can.

	I know something about what can be done, as well as what has been done. I spent a good deal of my time in the Navy Department during the last war on the problems of organization and the economy of manpower and money in naval commands and installations. But it can only be done by relentless action. Republican oratory never saved a nickel--or Democratic oratory, for that matter!

	My fifth and last method for reducing federal spending requires action not by the federal government but by states and localities and plain, ordinary citizens.

	We can do much more to make our smaller units of government strong and vigorous and efficient. I have put considerable sweat, and some tears into this endeavor in Illinois, and so has Governor Schricker here in Indiana.
 	
	I have never believed in states' rights when they are used as a cover for states' wrongs. But I firmly believe in states' rights when the states assume the responsibilities they ought to. As I said over at the Illinois State Fair in August, I hope you will sweep me into Washington in November, but I hope you will not sweep any more responsibilities to Washington that the states can handle.

	In addition, I think it is time for a kind of national stocktaking and a good deal more self-discipline in what we ask our national government to do for us. Perhaps you have heard about the chamber of commerce that sent off two letters to a senator in the same mail. One demanded an immediate and drastic reduction in the federal budget. The other demanded a ten million dollar appropriation for a harbor improvement for the home town. I'm sure nothing like that ever happened in Indiana!

	You know how it is; anything that helps the other fellow is "extravagance"; anything that helps you is a "necessity." An Iowa farmer may be tempted to think it wasteful for the government to construct a petroleum experiment station in Pennsylvania. And a New Jersey businessman may think building a dam in Oregon is fantastic. What each of us must do is to stretch our minds and look at these things the way the president and the Congress have to look at them--from the standpoint of the whole nation.

	These five points are the framework I propose for a real economy drive--one that seeks results, not headlines: first, get tight-fisted executives; second, give them the authority to run their organizations efficiently; third, scrutinize appropriation requisitions with a cold and penetrating eye; fourth, spend appropriations frugally; fifth, don't do in Washington what can be done in Indianapolis, and don't ask Uncle Sam to bridge Catbird Creek if you can help it. Simple rules. Nothing spectacular. But I know they work on a smaller scale in Springfield, and I believe they will work on a larger scale in Washington. At least I would like to try them--which will take a little help from you!

	Let no one deceive himself. Pinch every penny as best we can, our federal budget is still going to be large--much larger than we would like.

	And why is this? It is because about 85 percent of our present budget--$69 billion of our $79 billion--is going for national security, including the cost of past wars.

	You know and I know that we are confronted with a hostile, inscrutable and ruthless enemy. To deter that enemy and to defend ourselves, we must have what it takes, and quickly. We are building an air force of 143 wings, and it is going to cost us billions. No honest man can say how long we shall have to maintain it, but you can be sure it is likely to be for a long time to come. If I told you anything else I would be deceiving you or myself. Deceit may win elections now and then but it will never win wars or save civilizations.

	I will leave deception to the Republican orators. They have been practicing it day and night. They promise one day they will cut your federal budget by ten billion, or twenty billion, or forty billion, depending upon which one is talking and to whom. And the next day they say they are going to increase America's armed might.

	This is nonsense. It is worse than that--it is the oldest and cheapest of political tricks. Cut taxes but spend more money--in the name of common sense, have we not outgrown such childishness?

	The only way you could cut tens of billions from our budget now would be to disband our armies, renounce our friends abroad, quit buying airplanes and guns, cancel our present defense orders, and, presumably, crawl into a cave to await destruction.

	Well, I don't think the people are prepared to surrender to Communism. And I don't think we will be fooled by irresponsible demagogy about the federal budget. We know that what is involved is nothing less than war or peace. And we know the billions we spend to prevent a third world war are but a drop in the bucket to what we would have to pour out in dollars and in lives to win it if it came.

	There is but one way you can cut those tens of billions--and that is to get the foreign assistance and the defense job done and tip the scales against the Communist tormentors of the world and toward peace. That is the direction the Democratic party has charted, that is the way I want to go, and that is the way I think you want to go.

CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEESCONGRESSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALGOVERNMENT REORGANIZATIONILLINOISMILITARY CUTBACKSGOVERNMENT WASTE     G G G {G sG
 fG aG \G PG IG GG -G "G	 | 	 e 	 ] 	 B 	 ) 	 !   e: