
	I am happy to be here in Albany with the Democrats of the state of New York. There have been times of late when I was afraid you wouldn't let me in! But the warmth of your greeting--for which I am grateful from the bottom of my heart--says, to me, three mighty important things: Our differences in August did not scar our basic agreement about the things that count. We are all the stronger in September, as we will win in November!

	The Democratic party has always believed in open decisions openly arrived at. We have nothing to hide. We can afford to work out our differences in the open. The unity of our party is so solidly founded in the bedrock of principle that contests for leadership do not shake it. They only testify to our vitality and independence. That, I am sure, is what Averell Harriman believes. It is what Estes Kefauver believes. It is what I believe.

	We count it far better to wage our contests by democratic methods in the open than to stifle every dissent, to make the Herters nominate the Nixons, to make the Stassens second the nomination--and then to throw the Joe Smiths out of the convention.

	And the moment the contest is over, we all close ranks behind the principles to which we are all dedicated--the principles of fighting for liberal democracy, the ardor for mankind, the passion for freedom, the faith of the party with a heart.

	I am particularly glad to have a chance to reaffirm that faith here in New York. For nowhere has the concept of the party with a heart been given plainer and more forthright meaning than by the Democrats of New York State. For forty years, New York Democrats have blazed new trails in the application of liberal ideas to the emerging problems of an industrial society.

	In these years a succession of dedicated Democratic governors and senators have emphasized the guiding principle of a social-minded democracy: that the state has responsibilities to each individual citizen--especially to the poor, the jobless, the old, the disabled, the minorities, the young people, to those least likely to get a fair break in our increasingly massive world; and that these responsibilities can be fulfilled without impairing the liberties of the people.

	In the decade after Woodrow Wilson, the man who showed with such brilliance of address and warmth of heart how state government could serve this cause of social justice was Al Smith. (And I want to declare here, with you, the importance I attach to the clear signs that the religious prejudices, which may have robbed America of Al Smith's fullest service, are vanishing.)

	The man who brought the social vision of Albany to Washington and showed how New York liberalism could reshape the nation and provide a new basis for freedom in the world was Franklin Roosevelt.

	And the wisest person I know in politics today is the great and greatly beloved lady who has been the most effective spokesman of sober, sensible liberalism, and whose continuing youth and vitality has become a legend of our time--Eleanor Roosevelt.

	I want to pay particular tribute here tonight--to the man who succeeded Franklin Roosevelt at Albany, one of the most humane, warm-hearted, and noble servants any government and people ever had--my dear friend, Herbert Lehman.

	We heard with heavy heart Herbert Lehman's decision to retire from public life. No man will be more seriously missed in the Senate of the United States. But it can be said that he has earned his right to retirement after a life of disinterested devotion which has few counterparts in our age. Still such men as Herbert Lehman never really retire. As I wrote him this summer, he is one who has troubled the sleep of the world, and for them there is no rest.

	Our deep personal regret at Senator Lehman's decision is tempered only by the knowledge that his devoted counsel, his passion for justice and for freedom will continue to strengthen his fellow countrymen for years to come.

	The only other compensation I can see is the choice you have made of his successor--a fine mayor, a fine American, and a fine son of a fine father, Bob Wagner. Bob Wagner has already done great honor to the name he bears by opening the way to a new and better era in New York City. He has brought not only administrative skill but warmth and humanity to New York's City Hall. And if Herbert Lehman must retire, it is particularly appropriate that Bob Wagner should take his place because it was his great victory in New York in 1953 which started the Democratic party on the road back that has already captured Congress, and will capture the executive branch in November.

	And, finally, I salute tonight the New Yorker who has enriched greatly the inheritance left here in Albany by Al Smith, Franklin Roosevelt, Herbert Lehman, one of the most eminent national and world statesmen of our age--Averell Harriman. I don't need to tell you that Governor Harriman has taken up the job of governing for the people and with the people where Herbert Lehman left off.

	I want to emphasize particularly the idea of governing with the people. This is an idea which Republican leadership has never understood. From any Republican administration, whether in Albany or in Washington, or, if I may say so, in Springfield, Illinois, there radiates the same conviction--and a deep and sincere conviction it is--that government is too important, too difficult to entrust to the people.

	What this means, not just in words, but in doing things, was suggested to the rest of us across the country when Governor Harriman brought into his staff--establishing, I think, a new precedent in the country, an assistant whose sole job is to look after the interests of the consumer. I am particularly glad that he appointed a woman to that post, your distinguished expert in consumer economics, Persia Campbell. Here is an example of the people's party at work for all the people.

	Another problem which deeply concerns all those who care about human beings is the plight of those who are considered, often quite wrongly I think, too old to work in our factories and farms. Averell Harriman designated another assistant to see how the state can help older people continue their usefulness and their self-respect. The result has been your Charter for the Aging--a document which will have national influence in bringing about a happier future for all older people.

	I don't need to tell you--although I have particular reason to know!--that Averell Harriman is a fighting Democrat. But he has shown us that it isn't enough just to be a fighter. It is what you are fighting for that matters. He is fighting for social justice for individual human beings--for the consumer, the farmer, the small businessman, the worker, the teacher.

	He would be the first to say that he has only just begun what needs to be done. Under the leadership of Carmine De Sapio and Mike Prendergast, you have developed a strong party organization. If Governor Harriman is to finish the job he has so ably started, let it be the objective of a united Democratic party in November to give him a legislature to back him up, a Democratic legislature.

	Senator Kefauver and I have been traveling since the convention all over the country--not to tell the people but to listen to them. The people have been written out of government in these last four years. Our first purpose as Democrats is to write the people back in. And, with the people back in the government, we can all move ahead to realize what your governor has called the "new vision"--to build a New America based on freedom and opportunity and justice.

	Of course, every party claims to be the party of the people, the party of the future. Even the Republicans have made that claim. Indeed the central issue in this campaign may well be which party means what it says, which party is going to do what both parties say needs doing. And this makes it a choice between a party that does social justice and one that talks about it--in election year--and with an acquired accent.

	The sum and substance of what President Eisenhower said at San Francisco was that he no longer objects to the New Deal. Well, we're glad to hear it. It makes an ironic footnote to history. But what do his words amount to? It's easy to fly fine phrases on the winds of campaign oratory. But a kite needs a tail. And these noble phrases need some facts to keep them in the air.

	Of course, the Republicans couldn't repeal the New Deal and the Fair Deal laws. There were too many Democrats in Congress to let them get away with it--and too many Republicans who enjoy public office to risk repealing what the people demand. But they could--and did--use the power of the White House to undermine the progress made in the administrations of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman.

	Their technique has been ingenious and ruthless. They have done on the infighting what they couldn't do in the open.

	They say they believe in public housing! But they put a declared enemy of public housing in charge of the public housing program.

	They put an opponent of the federal income tax program in charge of the Bureau of Internal Revenue.

	They promised to amend the Taft-Hartley Act to make it fairer to labor. But then they packed the National Labor Relations Board with men who have weakened collective bargaining.

	And they packed the Federal Power Commission with people intent only on whittling down the federal regulation of power designed to protect the consumer.

	They took a man who had spent his years in Congress fighting conservation and made him Assistant Secretary of the Interior; and they took another man who regards all foreigners as suspicious characters and put him in charge of the Refugee Relief program.

	They put a projectionist on the Tariff Commission, and an isolationist in charge of the foreign aid program.

	They have talked about civil liberties. But when they found they had put on the Subversive Activities Control Board a man who believes in civil liberties--and who practices what they preach--they got rid of him.

	And I could go on longer than you would care to listen. This is government that denies to our hearts what it promises to our ears. It is government with a false front. And we have had enough of it.

	Nor will it do to say that the president doesn't know about this, or was not told about that. A President knows what he wants to know about his administration. If he disagrees with the policies his officers are administering--and that is what his campaign words amount to--then he should revoke both their policies and their commissions.

	Our purpose this fall is to restore open government to our democratic society--open government, which includes the American people, open government, which shows the peoples of the world by our deed that democracy is the best hope of man.

	The challenge of our age lies in the long struggle for freedom, justice, and abundance for all people. We in the United States have made great strides toward meeting that challenge. Yet even in our own overflowing land, there are areas of insecurity, areas of want, areas of fear. Our very wealth deprives us of alibis. When we tolerate insecurity, want, and fear, it is not because of a failure of resources. It is because of a failure of will.

	In the United States, political and economic questions thus become moral questions--questions of direction and questions of leadership. It will require a Democratic administration to get us back on the track--to start our nation moving again toward the New America, where all can find dignity, freedom, fulfillment.

	But we cannot satisfy our ambitions within our national frontiers. The ultimate American mission is to strive to help, not just ourselves, but all people everywhere. If this sounds like idealism, I plead guilty. We have had all too little idealism in these Republican years. We need to recover once again our sense of purpose and our sense of hope. Armed with the power of our ideals, we cannot only save ourselves, but we can help others save themselves. In our mutual salvation, through steadfastness and cooperation and sacrifices, lies the hope for mankind.

	These are exalted objectives. They may seem far removed from politics in an election year. But politics, rightly construed, is itself an exalted occupation. It is the means by which a free society realizes its purposes.

	So I do not apologize for ending on a political note. I believe that there is a great deal at stake in this election. And Senator Kefauver and I propose to conduct the toughest, hardest campaign this country has ever known. And we propose to win.

	But in the end it will be the precincts and wards, in people's sitting rooms and kitchens, that the people's battle will be won or lost.

	Here in New York your efforts can double Democratic strength in the House, send Bob Wagner to the Senate and give Averell Harriman a Democratic legislature.

	And, with your help, we will carry America for the belief that is written in New York's Democratic tradition--the tradition I have come here tonight to salute--the tradition that people are what count.
NEW YORK     4 3 3 3 3
 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3	  e: