

	Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, my dear and good friend, Walter Reuther.  Let's give him a hand--let's give him a wonderful hand.  For just a moment, not as a candidate, but as your vice president, can I say that America is a much, much better country because of Walter Reuther and the United Automobile Workers.  I have never known a finer patriot.  I have never known a better friend.  

	My dear friends, I am somewhat like my friend, Walter Reuther.  I can't see for nothing, you know, and I generally like to see folks.  The lights are bright--and you will forgive us.  I know you are there; I hear you respond.

	I have been up here with Emil Macy, riding around today with Pat Graynouse, with Sam Fishman.  I just visited a while ago with Marcellus Ivory, and he said he forgave me--I didn't get out to the River Rouge Plant this morning, but I made it this afternoon.  And, boy, did I have a good reception out there.  And I was met at the door when I came to this great auditorium by one of the finest young men that I know--Dave Miller. 

	You know, there was a poet once said that you are as young as your hopes and as old as your fears; you are as young as your ideals and as old as your despair; you are as young as your faith and as old as your hate.  I am talking to some of the youngest people that I have talked to all during this campaign. 

	I want to thank Congressman Conyers and Congressman Ford, my friend Congressman John Dingell--and there may be others here that I didn't note for just a moment--Frank Kelly, and of course Mayor Cavanagh--I want to thank these public officials, your whole congressional delegation.

	I particularly want to, at this moment, to say thank you to a great United States senator, Phil Hart--the wonderful man that works so hard for you.  And every officer of the retired citizens group--every officer of this great union.

	You know, we sort of grew up together.  And I have been sort of one of your members--I haven't been paying dues--Walter is a little unhappy about that.  But I have shared in all of the benefits of your negotiations, and so has America shared in the benefits of these negotiations.  We are better because of who you are and what you are.  And I want to talk to you today as a friend and as a neighbor.  I want to talk to you today as I would talk to you three or four months from now.  I want to talk to you as one that is not new to what I have to say, as Mr. Reuther has indicated, but as one that has lived a life of public service.

	Adlai Stevenson once said that patriotism is not the sudden emotional outburst of the moment, but the work of a lifetime of dedication.  And really and truly, that is what it is.  And I think that those of us that are gathered here today on this platform, and you out there in this audience, have served our country well, in the fullest meaning of patriotism--a lifetime of service, a lifetime of dedication, a lifetime of work.

	When I was at that great plant today and saw the men that were there on that assembly line, I say America--I saw them, black and white; I saw them young, very young, and some middle aged, and some a little older.  I saw workers.  And I saw them producing a great product.  And I knew that this American economy needed to keep growing and growing if that product was to be sold.

	I walked down that assembly line with the management on one side and with the president of the Local 600 on the other.  And I walked down there knowing that all of the years of effort that have gone into building this great union have been worthwhile.  And everyone that I saw and every man that I shook hands with, I said to myself, "This man is a good citizen, he is a productive citizen, he is able to take care of his family, he is able to have some benefits for himself and his loved ones".  And you know why?  Because we have had a union that has fought and worked."

	And, ladies and gentlemen, I am as proud as I can be of the fact that all of my public life I have been an avowed, open friend of, and supporter of organized labor in the efforts that it has made.   A friend of organized labor in their efforts to improve the well-being of this country.

	The first time I ever ran for of, I had the support of the Ford local in my area.  When I ran for the United States Senate, I had the support of the UAW.  All of my life, I have had the help of labor.

	And now, my dear friends, we have a chance--together, not in anger, not in protest, not in class warfare--but we have a chance together--those of us that have worked together--we have a chance to do something for this country that we have wanted to do for a long time.  We have a chance to have your man, your friend, in the White House as your president, working with you and your leadership, not in selfish purpose, but in making this country of ours a better place in which to live, keeping this economy of ours growing and expanding, so that your children and your grandchildren can live a better life even better than you ever dreamed of.  We have a chance now, my friends.  We must not lose it.

	You know, I want to reminisce with you for a little while.  You've got a little time, and I have some, too.  I'm late, I know.  You know, it just never works out right.  But we are friends--we forgive each other.

	I want every--when I came down the aisle here, a very lovely lady gave me a bouquet of roses and gave me a kiss.  I like both--I want you to know that. 

	And I have a feeling that if she felt that way, she maybe was sort of speaking for you, and that maybe we could just talk a little bit here, and just visit as neighbors and as friends.

	Twenty years ago, we had presidential election that was one, I think, that few of us will ever forget.

	I was in Kansas City just two-and-a-half days ago.  I called on the telephone.  I had been there a little earlier, and I had seen my friend over in Independence, Missouri.  But I called on the telephone and talked to President Truman.  And I tell you, I think that everyone here remembers what we did in 1948.

	I think you remember what the odds were.  I think you remember what people said.  I think you recall that people didn't think that it could happen.  They counted Mr. Truman out.  But I bet you that most everyone in this room voted for Harry Truman, and I'll bet you have never regretted it once. 

	Now, once in a while somebody comes up to me and says "Well, you ought not to bring up those things, that is way in the past."

	It is not in the past.  Listen, Harry Truman was a young man then, and he is a young man now.  He had more good ideas for the next half century for this country than most people will ever have.

	Our Republican friends are just about ten years beyond the Civil War now--that's about where their thinking is.

	And I know why Harry Truman won in 1948.  By the way, you know, I am the only man that has ever run for the office of the president that has had as chairman of his committee, of his Campaign Committee the former president of the United States.  I think that is a wonderful, great--a great honor, because I just love him.   You see, I am a Truman Democrat.  I really am.  That means you are scrappy; that means you want to mix it up.  I know why Harry Truman and the Democratic party won in 1948--because he put the people first, all of the people--just like this union has.

	I want people to know that this great union that--of which you are the retirees--that the officers--many of them are here--this union has never just put its union first--it has put it's country first, it has put the people first.

	You fought for things for the people.  There are better schools in America today because you cared.  There are better hospitals in America today, because you cared.  There are better everything in America today, because you cared.  And there are better things because we work together.  

	Sure we have differences once in a while.  What family doesn't?  And we are members of the family.

	But I'll tell you something.  No matter what our troubles are within this liberal family of ours, there isn't any time that any of us would want to leave it and go on over to that stale, old, stodgy, old-fashioned, grumpy old house of Republicanism--is there? 

	You know the record of the Republican party.  I don't have to detail it here.  I will only say this--that it is disgraceful when it comes to the people--disgraceful. 

	They started showing the kind of people they were back in the times of Franklin Roosevelt.

	We are here with a group of people that are interested in social security, pensions, and interested in all that comes in those days of your life that ought to be beautiful days--the twilight of your life.  And do you know there were only four Republicans in the whole House of Representatives that voted for social security--only four.

	I want to tell you something, my dear friends.  If you had waited for the Republican party to vote for social security, you would be older than Methuselah before you would get it. 

	They fought Franklin Roosevelt.  They called it socialism.  They said it would destroy the insurance industry.  The insurance industry is richer than it has ever been.   And then in 1949--that is the year I came to Congress--and many of you helped me get there--by the way, they didn't think I was going to make it either, Walter--do you remember?

	Why, I didn't have a chance.  All the smart boys said, "He's a nice fellow, makes a good mayor of Minneapolis, but he hasn't got a chance to go to the Senate."

	There had never been a Democrat elected in Minnesota in 100 years to the United States Senate--not one.  And I was not only the underdog--I was under the underdog.  But I'll tell you something.  When the votes were counted on that election day, I was on top of the heap--I had a big majority.  And I went to the Senate. 

	Well, they turned their backs--these Republicans did--in 1949 when Harry Truman called for Medicare.  Just think of that--almost twenty years ago,-that man called for Medicare.  And do you know that the very first bill that Hubert Humphrey ever introduced in the Senate, that ever had my name attached to it, was a bill to provide hospital and nursing home care for persons aged sixty-five and over under the terms of social security--Medicare. 

	You know the first bill I ever voted on was federal aid to education, for our young people.  And the first bill I ever introduced was for our older people.  

	I happen to think that a government that is worthy of respect ought to give a young man and a young woman a start in life--in the dawn of life--and I thing they ought to have that--that same government ought to have enough decency and compassion to help those who are in the twilight of life to live out their golden years in happiness and dignity. 

	But all along the way, you can be sure that these dinosaurs would be coming out from under the rocks.  Yes, sir, these Republicans would come on out, and they are laying booby traps--they would be there trying to trip you up, they would be there using every conceivable kind of propaganda--and they fought us every step of the way.

	I remember when I introduced the first Medicare bill.  You know what they called me--everything that they called Walter Reuther and in spades.  They said, "He is a socialist."  They said that he wants to spend the country into bankruptcy.  They said it was a terrible thing what this young fellow was doing from Minnesota.

	Well, those Republicans have one wonderful record.  They are like the old French kings--they never learn anything and they never forget anything. 

	Well, all during the 1950s, the Republican Nixon years, the Democrats fought for social security, fought for Medicare.  And the Nixon Republicans fought against it.

	I want you to remember this--because a man is what he is.  I don't care how many times he has his face lifted, it doesn't change his heart.   I keep reading about the new Nixon, and all that kind of stuff.

	I want to tell you, dear friends, you can tell--you know what the old Catholic priest used to say, "Give me a boy until he is age twelve and I will know what kind of a man he will be."  And ladies and gentlemen--Catholic, Protestant or Jew--it makes no difference--a man is what he is.  He isn't what he is painted up to be, he isn't what Madison Avenue and public relations makes him to be--he is what he is.  He is his record, he is what he has done and what he has said and what he has stood for. 

	All I say is, I put my record on this table, and I dare Mr. Nixon to come on up and debate me on the basis of that record when it comes to the American people. 

	Well, we kept on fighting.  Why, Walter, I remember when you had John Kennedy and myself at a meeting so we could talk about these things.  You know, here we were, a couple of Democrats.  We debated each other.  I can't say I came out first, but we debated each other.  And we learned from each other.  We respected each other.  

	And when--when that campaign of 1960 was over--and by the way, it is pretty much the same way this year--it is a hard-fought campaign--I'm fighting the same man--I'll tell you--and he has had eight years to get ready.  That's right. 

	I've been busy--I've been busy in those eight years.  I have been working hard.  And he has planned every move, every radio program, every spot announcement, every statement--it is tailor-made, it is custom-made, it is so planned.

	Well, I am not that planned, I want you to know.  I will make a few mistakes, and when I do, they will be lulus.  I now that.  They will be dandies.  But I'll tell you one thing.  They won't be a mistake of the heart.  They may be a mistake of the tongue, but not of the heart. 

	Remember what old Fiorello LaGuardia used to say?  He said, "Boy, when I make a mistake, it's a"--what did he call that--"it's a beaut".

	Well, listen, we are electing somebody for the presidency of the United States that is supposed to be human.  We are not putting a machine there.

	Well, John Kennedy said when he became president that he was going to get this country moving again.  And he did.  Thank God he did.  And John Kennedy made Medicare a major campaign issue in 1960.  He made social security a campaign issue.

	But Richard Nixon turned his back again.  He had another chance.  And here is what he said: "It makes no sense at all."  And then he went on to say a little bit later, "It won't work".  Well, now, any man that doesn't know any more than that is not qualified to be president of the United States. 

	I am not mentioning George Wallace, because he has never heard of Medicare--I'm sure of that.  And by the way, how any working man can vote for George Wallace and go home and face his family is beyond me. 

	I call them George the Loud and Richard the Silent.  That is the two that you have. 

	Mind if I just take a moment on that?  Because you folks--you've got something to say about this election.  A lot of your neighbors and your sons and daughters and your people are going to make these decisions.  And you are going to make these decisions.

	Here is a man--I spoke out here in John Kennedy Square today--here is the man, the third party candidate that goes around saying he is for law and order.  Do you know something?  A lot of people in this country are afraid--let's face it.  Blacks fear whites, whites fear blacks.  It is a terrible thing.  But it has happened.  And this man goes around and says--make me president, I'll give you law and order.  Well, now, then he was governor--after all, when you are president you are not sheriff--that is one thing you are not.  But when you are governor you have the police power.  What did he do in his state?  He had the highest murder rate in the nation.  And I tell you that that is one of the worst crime rates in the nation.  And he wants to be president.  Listen--we don't need that kind of a record in Washington. 

	The other day he was asked what he would do for the police.  Well, he has got bumper stickers out that say "Support your Police"--bumper stickers.  Somebody said, what would you do for them?  He says--give them moral support.

	Let me tell you what Hubert Humphrey will do for them.  I outlined it in a message.  I know that if you are going to have equal protection of the law--and make no mistake about it, every family wants it--black or white--it doesn't make any difference who you are--and you also want justice under the law, not just the police.  And if you want these things, you have got to pay for them.  And you have got to have more than moral support.  And then this fellow comes along, this third party candidate, and he says to your sons and your daughters that are working in these plants, he says "Elect me, I'm a friend of the working man".

	Listen, I want to tell you, he makes Scrooge look like Santa Claus when it comes to being a friend of the working man.  He never has been. 

	Richard Nixon and Mr. Wallace have never had any sympathy for a union, they have never helped one, they are right-to-work fellows, they are engaged in union busting whenever they have a chance--and any union man that will vote for one is not a good union man.  That is all I can say. 

	What's more--mother, and you take this home to your daughter now, your daughter-in-law--you go home and tell them that Republican economics gave us three recessions in eight years.

	I was in Detroit in 1956.  I was here in 1960.  I know the jobs that were not here.  I know what was going on, and so do you.  And what did Mr. Nixon's economic advisor say that day?  He said that in order to get a little better price stability we maybe ought to have a little higher rate of unemployment.  Where?  Who is going to be unemployed?  I've got a suggestion.  Nixon. 

	But what kind of economics is this?  What kind of talk is it that a man can say that--first of all he said--he didn't consider it to be serious until you got over 4.5 million unemployed.  Well, let me tell you every member of that 4.5 million to be unemployed is serious.  And now they come along and they say it is not high enough--we have to raise the figure a little bit more.  I don't know what the figure is--but maybe it is 5.5 million.  Who is to be in that group?  I want you to think about it.  It may be your family.

	Listen, I'm not trying to win this election for me.  Surely I want to be president.  But this is your fight, it is my fight, it is our fight. 

	And we kept on fighting about that Medicare.  And I remember 1965, when I journeyed with Lyndon Johnson, president of the United States, to Independence, Missouri, and in the presence of Harry Truman, in his home town, President Johnson, Vice President Humphrey--and former President Harry Truman--we signed the Medicare bill and made it law.   

	And these members of Congress that are up here, every one of them voted for it, worked their heart out for it.

	John Dingell's dad--remember the Wagner-Dignell Bill--the Dingell-Wagner Bill?  I remember it.  Early pioneers.

	Listen, we have been at this a long time.

	And what about those Republicans?  Even in 1965--you think they would learn something, but 93 percent of the Republican in the House of Representatives voted against Medicare.  And that is the record.

	Now, listen, if you want to go back to that, you lose this election.

	Mr. Nixon has yet to make you a promise, a commitment, that you can believe, that he is going to keep these programs going.  You know what he says?  He says, "Watch out for that fellow Humphrey--you know what he wants to do--he wants to spend more on health, he wants to spend more on education, he wants to spend more on our cities, he wants to spend more on the war on poverty."

	Mr. Nixon--that is one of the few times that you have been accurate.  You bet I do.   And then somebody says--how are you going to pay for it.  And I'll tell you what the answer is.  A growing economy.  That's the answer.  A growing economy.  

	You know, you young folks have pretty big families now.  And they are great.  But I got something you want to tell them.  When you have three kids, four children, mom and dad, you bake a pie, you cut it into six pieces, you have a certain sized pie tin.  Now, if you get two more and if you have the same pie tin, you get smaller pieces, or somebody goes without the pie.  Hubert Humphrey says, "Get a bigger pie tin, bake a bigger pie."  That's what I am trying to tell you. 

	I am saying build a bigger economy.  We are going to have one.

	What's more, there has never been a nation that ever became insolvent because it took care of its elderly, educated its young, took care of its sick, took care of its handicapped. 

	Listen, if this country isn't good enough and rich enough now to take care of the needy, to take care of the mentally retarded, to take care of the mentally disturbed, to take care of the physically handicapped, to help take care of our senior citizens, and to educate our young, then what's it all about?

	Of course, we can do these things, if we have the right kind or leadership. 

	With one single exception, in 1954--with one single exception every expansion of the coverage of the Social Security Act, every increase in its benefits has been proposed by the Democrats and fought against by the Republicans.  That is their miserable record.  And that is why I am out here fighting.

	Walter said to me, "Don't talk too loud, you are losing your voice".  Listen, I will lose my voice, but I am not going to lose my convictions--I'll tell you that.  So today, I come here as part of this great tradition of humane democratic government, a government that cares for the people.

	Thomas Jefferson said the only legitimate objective of government is the well-being, the health and the education of the people.  And he was right.  I don't think that makes me a radical.  I think it just makes me a good American.  That is the way this country is supposed to be. 

	I have a feeling that when Mr. Nixon--I am going to smoke him out pretty quick, you know.  He is sort of like one of those South Dakota pheasants.  He is hiding out under the bushes.  I said the other day,  "I am going to kick his bush."  And I am.  And I am going to get him out.   Or if he wants to come in from out of the shadows, wherever he is hiding out, that is fine with me.

	And I heard that he was going to make some statements now on issues.  Well, it's about time.  The election will be over pretty quick.  He is going to make those statements so late that we don't have time to refute them.  That's what he thinks.  You know why?  Because he thinks we haven't got the money.  You know--that's right.  We don't have all the money that we need.  We don't.  But I am going to depend on you. 

	Let me tell you something.  I would have--I would rather have one good person working for me day in and day out that cares, that thinks this is their fight, or his or her fight, than money.  You give me yourselves, you give me your time, and we don't need all that money.

	I'm going to make a prediction.  I'll bet you that Mr. Nixon is going to say that he is for the program of social security and for Medicare.  He is going to say that.  Well, that's all right for yesterday.  That is what we have been for now thirty-three years.  And I am glad that he has finally caught up.  It is quite an achievement.  Some of these fellows are slow learners, you know.  But we have got a different country today, a changing country, and a bigger country.

	And a Humphrey-Muskie administration--and we are going to be a partnership, we are going to be a team, you are going to hear about both of us--we are going to propose an expanded program--and right away I can hear some editorials.  There he goes, he is going to propose an expanded program.  

	Well, of course.  I was out to the Ford Motor Company.  They are proposing an expanded program.  Nobody says that they are going broke doing that.  Isn't that interesting?

	The American Telephone and Telegraph Company, AT&T, they have a program that they projected for the next twenty years.  If they didn't, they would fire the management.

	Everybody that amounts to anything proposes something new and bigger and better.  Except--except we are not supposed to do it in politics, according to some people.

	Well, I think America can be better.  I think it is great now, but it can be greater.  I think it is good now, but it can be better.  And we are going to propose some things that are long overdue.  And what are they--quickly?

	We have proposed and I shall propose, as your president--not if I am president, but when I am president--I want you to get the difference--I am going to propose an increase in social security benefits by 50 percent across the board.  I shall ask for graduated increase from the present monthly minimum of $55 to $100 for an individual, from $82.50 to $150 for a couple, during the next four years.

	That's the beginning.  That is the beginning; that is the base line.

	Imagine somebody trying to live on $55 a year--a month--$55 a month.  And imagine a Republican candidate saying he thinks that is enough.  I would like to have him try it for size.

	Now, one of the other things we are going to do.

	We took a chapter out of the book of the UAW.  They got what they call an escalator clause.  In other words, as the cost of living goes up, who gets hurt the most--the person with the fixed income, the person with the pension.  And what is the Humphrey-Muskie Administration going to do?  We are going to build into the social security system the automatic increases that come in your benefits as the cost of living goes up.  It ought to have been done, and some of my friends here tried to do it in the House of Representatives.

	What else are we going to do?

	We are going to liberalize those provisions that--today that if you are working, you know, and you are earning a little extra money, they reduce your benefits.  Listen, we need everybody today.  If we have a Democratic administration, we are going to have a full-employment economy.  And we are going to liberalize those provisions so that you can earn more if you want to earn it and still get your benefits under social security.  And we are going to take account of the need of over 800,000 retired federal workers who need and deserve comparability in payments.

	And we are going to put medical payments--medical payments portion of Medicare--on the same insurance prepayment financing basis as the hospital part.  And we are going to provide protection under Medicare from the heavy costs of prescription drugs, and this is needed.   

	And we are going to establish a National Senior Citizens Community Service Corps.  We have got a Peace Corps of young people.  We have a VISTA Corps, a Teachers Corps--we want a National Senior Citizens Community Service Corps in which people at or near retirement age can earn money or serve as volunteers in jobs vital to the betterment and the growth of America.

	You see, my vision of America is one of a more wonderful country.  America is the story of unfinished business.  You and I will never live long enough to see all the glories of this land.  But each of us can make some little contribution.  And the work of each generation is to help make America a better place in which to live.

	Now, you know, and I heard somebody say out here about the terrible, tragic struggle that besets us today.  It is my hope and my prayer that, from all that I have read and all that I have heard--that we may be--that we may find peace.  But let me make it quite clear to you.  I have been a peace man all of my life.  I have worked in the vineyards of peace, as you have.  And I have done it in the field of disarmament, the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, and the Peace Corps, and the Food for Peace program, and all these many things.  And the highest priority of the Humphrey-Muskie administration will be if peace is not attained by the time we become president and vice president--the highest priority will be to bring peace to this land and peace to this world, and peace in Vietnam.   

	I want to warn you--I want to warn you that just because we get peace doesn't mean that you are going to get the things that we are talking about, unless you elect the right people.

	We got peace after Korea.  Yes, we had peace in the Korean War.  And did you get any help?  Did America's cities, Mr. Mayer, get any assistance?  Did the poor get any training, any jobs?  Was there housing built?  Were the slums cleaned up?  Were the children helped in school?  And the answer is no. And I'll tell you why: because the people did not send to the Congress of the United States and did not elect to the executive office of this land people that wanted to put those dividends of peace to work.  And I want you to help me to do it.   

	Now, friends, just to kind of tie our little meeting together here--we must understand one thing above all others.  We must understand that we have to work together.  The danger in this election is the danger of division and bitterness and hatred and separatism.  

	There are voices of demagogues in this country today that are trying to put people against people, black against white, rich against poor, and poor against poor.  And we cannot listen to them.  We have to turn them back.  We have to reject those voices.  And we have to reject the stand-patters, too.   

	This election can be won.

	I read all the bad news.  I predict to you there is good news coming.  I know that we are gaining strength.  I know we are gaining momentum.  I know that as the people listen to our message, they are turning to us.

	But we need your help.  The election can be won for the people.  But it is going to have to be won by the people.  And that means by you.   

	I have chosen all my life to stand for what I believe.  And it hasn't always been popular, and it surely hasn't been easy.  A lot of people have disagreed with me.  But no one ever said that I was afraid to take a stand.  And through the years I have found that more and more people have come to stand for the things that I have always believed in and fought for.

	We--we here together in this hall, we have stood together, and we have made progress.  And as I look at this wonderful crowd today, I can see that I am not standing alone.  I know that.  And I ask you to stand with me, and I ask you, as Walter Reuther did, to seek out others.  I ask you to talk and to work as never before, because this is an all or nothing crusade.  And we are going to have to keep our country moving.

	It is Madison Avenue and big money versus the people and your vote.  That is what it amounts to.  It is what Mr. Nixon and the Republicans can buy as compared to what we can do.

	Madison Avenue and these public relations groups, they can sell dog food and beer and deodorant and they can make you even think that dog food is caviar.

	But I want to tell you something--Americans will not buy a president and a vice president that way--if we will stand up and be counted.   

	I still believe the presidency is not for sale.  I still believe that the office of the president should not go to the man with the largest advertising budget.  I still believe that Americans cannot be bought, if we can just get them to listen.

	And I want you to be talking machines, I want you to be listeners, I want you to be workers.  You can do it.

	Listen, my dear friends, there are enough people here in this hall today to carry Michigan, if you will go on out and do it.  It can be done.   

	Just remember there are only nineteen talking and working or shopping days until election--that is all--just nineteen.  Nineteen days from today you are going to have a new president elect.  In nineteen days you are going to know whether this country is going to go back, stand still, or go ahead--nineteen days from now.

	And it is in your hands, as well as in mine.   

	And I know you have been discouraged at times.  Who hasn't.  I have been discouraged.  But I have never lost faith.  I have believed that if I could get my message to the people, they would listen.  And if they will listen, we can win.

	Nineteen days.  That is time enough to ring an awful lot of doorbells.  And I want to tell you, dear friends, I don't care how much TV time you have--there has never been any substitute for just talking to your neighbor.

	You make that telephone ring.  There is time enough to paint a few posters and put up a few lawn signs.  There is time enough to put a few bumper stickers on your car.  There is time enough to do a lot of things.  There is time enough to talk to every member of your family.  And if you have got one that is misguided, take him off in the room and talk to him.

	It is time enough, my friends, to really go to every club that you belong to and talk to the members of those clubs, to every PTA, to every church.

	This is your life.  And I am here to tell you that there is time enough for something else.  There is time enough to win.  I will do my part, and I ask you to help me help yourselves and help your country. 

	Thank you very much.   
HISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONPENSIONSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVOLUNTEERISM--SENIOR CITIZENSMEDICAREORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITY     } I C ? 7
 + & ! 