

	Commander Galbraith, Delegates to the American Legion Convention, Madam President, Delegates to and guests of the American Legion Auxiliary, and all of our guests at this great convention:

	I first want to say to the Commander how deeply grateful and honored I am for his very generous introduction. And as I stand before you, my thoughts go back many years, many years, because, as he mentioned the fact that I was a life member of Post 51 in Whittier, California, I recalled the fact that having been a member of the Legion for twenty-two years, that it has been my privilege and honor to attend twelve Legion conventions and to address eleven of them. I want you to know that the one that I remember the best is the first one, which I did not speak to. I did not have to address it.

	You wonder why I remember it so well? Well, I attended it with Lynn Peterson from California, and all that I can say is that those of you who do not have to speak, and who can spend this time not only attending the sessions but also the after-hour session, I can say to you it is a lot more fun to get stoned at a Legion convention than in Caracas.

	Also, as I stand here today, I don't think that in my whole career I ever had so many Legionnaires behind me. I guess they have the better view from what I hear. You know, my television up there.

	Also, I have learned some other things during the years that I have attended these conventions, and one of those that I have learned, a message that has been indelibly left on my mind and on my conscience and in my heart, is this: there is a lot of politics in the Legion. Show me a good Legion politician and I show you a potential governor, congressman, senator--who knows, even a potential president.

	But I also know that in this Legion and in the Auxiliary there are Republicans and Democrats, but that when we are here, we are Americans, and I speak to you as an American and not as a Republican or as a Democrat today.

	Others have every right to address you in a different vein, but my years go back so far and my memories are so pleasant that I feel that it is very important that we at this particular time in our history speak above the partisan din from time to time and speak to what is best for America. I trust that I can do that.

	Consequently, in opening my remarks I want to say something about the office which I held and the man who currently holds it; and the office which I seek and the man who currently holds it. I disagree with both of those men, as I will indicate on other occasions than here, and they, of course, disagree with me. But I respect both of those men, having known them for many years, almost as long as I have known the Legion, as being loyal Americans, hard-working Americans, who have given most of their lives to public service. Whatever my disagreements with them are, my disagreements with those who demonstrate and make vile personal attacks on them is greater.

	I say to you that the president of the United States, whoever he is, and the vice president of the United States, whoever he is, deserve respect wherever he travels throughout this land of ours.

	That brings me to a comment on a subject of great interest in this great convention, the war in which we are presently engaged in Vietnam. You have noted my comments; you have noted the comments of others. I naturally want to win this election. I want to say those things if they are appropriate and responsible to say that will win votes. But I can assure you I will not say anything to win votes that will cost us lives in Vietnam, and that is the stand that I propose to take.

	While I have, and I have expressed in the past, many disagreements with the conduct of that war, at the present time negotiations are going on. I hope that they are successful. I know that any chance for their success, however, would be destroyed in the event that the enemy in Hanoi got the impression that a candidate for president, who might be president, might come into power and thereby give them an opportunity which they could not get for the present negotiations.

	As far as I am concerned, I do not intend to say anything, I do not intend through a mouthful of words to destroy any chance for peace for our negotiators in Paris. Let the President of the United States have a chance to negotiate. We have one president, one commander-in-chief at a time, and that is my attitude on that particular subject. Now, let me move from that subject to what is related to it, and what, of course, can only be considered if we are to remember why we are in Vietnam and how we avoid more Vietnams.

	Commander and delegates to this convention, it seems to me that at times at a great convention like this, it would be well for us to stand aside from the current subjects that plague us, those that are in the news everyday, to stand aside and look at the great world in which we live and the nation in which we live--look at our problems in an objective way so that we can, in making the decisions in the future--in adopting, for example, the resolutions that will come out of this convention--so that we can act responsibly with the perspective of history and the perspective of the world, rather than simply reacting to the emotions of the moment.

	That is why I have selected as my subject today not simply a current problem, but what I have selected is a problem I have discussed on virtually every occasion when I have addressed the American Legion: the world in which we live--what kind of policies the United States can adopt which will preserve peace not only now, but in the future, and for the balance of this century.

	It is that subject that I want to discuss, and I suggest that for the next few moments we look at that world, and I would suggest that we begin by comparing the world as it is today with the world as it was when I joined the American Legion along with most of those in this group immediately after World War II, twenty-two years ago.

	A generation ago, the world we all know was a very different world from what it is today. Twenty-two years have passed, and what has happened? In the past twenty-two years, half the nations of the world have been born. It is a world of new nations. In the past twenty-two years, half the people presently living in the world have been born. They weren't here twenty-two years ago.

In the past twenty-two years, the great power balances in the world have changed.

Let's take a five-minute run around the world by super-jet, Mach 3, call it whatever you like, and what do we find around the world? We begin, for example, with Western Europe. Twenty-two years ago, Western Europe was drawn together in a great alliance, an alliance that had bipartisan support. That alliance was kept together by the fear of the threat from the East, and by the economic dependence that those in the alliance had upon the United States of America. But it was strong and vigorous twenty-two years ago. Today, as we look at that great alliance, we find that because the fear until very recently had been so substantially discounted, and because the countries of Western Europe--as a result of our assistance and also their own efforts--are so much stronger economically, that the alliance has been coming apart at the seams.

	We turn to our friends in Latin America. Twenty-two years ago, all of the nations in Latin America were considered to be solidly on our side with no serious problems. Castro was a nobody. Today, what we find is that Castro has the strongest military force in the Western Hemisphere next to the United States--stronger, for example, than Canada's, stronger than Brazil's--and he is exporting revolution all over the hemisphere.

	As we look at deeper problems, problems that are even more significant than what Castro is doing, what do we find? Here our friends and neighbors to the south, those in which we have the greatest interest because of the proximity and because of our common backgrounds, we find that in Latin America, despite the fact that we poured $9 billion into Latin America through the Alliance for Progress over the past six years, here is where they stand today. The rate of growth is the lowest of any major portion of the world, lower even than Communist Eastern Europe, lower than non-Communist Asia.

	We find that unless there is a change, a real revolution in terms of institutions in Latin America, our friends and neighbors in the south by the end of this century will be destined to be a permanent depressed area of the world with their per capita income one-fifteenth--that is what it will be--of that of the people of the United States of America. So you see the seeds of revolution that are there potentially in the future, unless new policies are developed.

	We turn to the Mid-East. The Mid-East was a troubled place then. It is a troubled place now, but the difference is a new dimension that has been added to that struggle. Then the Soviet Union was not stirring up the trouble and today it is. But for what the Soviet Union did before the June war, there would not have been a June war. But for what the Soviet Union has done since the June war in rebuilding the forces of the U.A.R. and Syria, there would be no serious threat of another war in the next two or three years.

	What do we find as far as the Soviet Union is concerned? I do not state this belligerently, I only state it as a matter of observation and fact. We find that not Soviet or Communist but Russian imperialism is finally realizing one of its long-term objectives. What is it doing? It has now diplomatic and economic power all the way from Iran to Morocco, and it has a naval presence in the Mediterranean, not as great as ours, but significant and growing.

	We turn to Africa, the continent of the future. In the last ten years, thirty-six new nations have come into being in Africa. Twenty years ago Africa was primarily colonial. Yet despite the fact that all of these nations have independence, not one of the new nations in that part of Africa, in thirty-six of them, not one of them has what we would call a representative democracy that even approaches the standards that we very appropriately have insisted upon for South Vietnam, and there isn't much, certainly, hope, that any of them will acquire that status in the foreseeable future.

	We turn now to the situation in Asia. Here, ironically, while we have the immediate problem of a terribly difficult war, when we look around the perimeter of Communist China, it is one of the more hopeful areas of the world, because all the way from Japan clear around to Thailand we find a higher rate of growth, we find stronger countries politically and economically than there were twenty years ago. Non-Communist Asia at the present time probably offers, in terms of the comparison of twenty years ago, the greatest area of progress and the greatest area of hope for the future. That is the world, the world other than the world that we occupy and that the Soviet Union and Communist China occupy.

	So that brings us now to the big question. Let us look at the Communist world and let us look at our world, because only in this way can we determine whether our policies are correct or whether they need to be changed. The Communist world has changed, too. It is hard for us to remember now that twenty years ago, the Communist world was monolithic with one central power.

	Today the Communist world is split in half--Communist China and the Soviet Union vying for the position of top leadership. As far as the western half of the Communist world is concerned, there are rumblings--more than that--of discontent, not only in Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968, but you see it if you visit Poland and all the other Eastern European countries, and within the Soviet Union itself in areas like the Ukraine. So the Soviet Union has its policies, too, within the Communist world.

	Then we look at the "balance of power" in the world, and here we must face a fact that I know has always been faced by this convention in its resolutions and I trust will be again in this convention. We find that twenty years ago the superiority of the United States was unquestioned. We had a monopoly on nuclear weapons. That, of course, has changed. We find that even eight years ago when General Eisenhower left office, the superiority of the United States was unquestioned. Seven to one in our favor would be a conservative estimate insofar as missile delivery capability is concerned.

	We find today that the balance of power in the world has shifted. We are probably equal in terms of deliverable capability as far as quantity is concerned, and we find that when we consider first strike capability that the danger to the United States is becoming very significant. Some experts believe that within a matter of two years the Soviet Union will catch us and pass us if we do not change our policies. Within a matter of five to six years Communist China will have a significant nuclear capability outside the nuclear club.

	There is the world, the world in which we live today, and that brings us now to the United States of America, and what we can do in this kind of a world to live up to the responsibilities of leadership which are ours, because I want to make one thing very clear. The world has changed in another way. Those of you who are veterans of World War I will remember that what determined whether peace or freedom survived in the first third of this century depended on decisions made in capitals like London and Paris and Berlin. Those of you who are veterans of World War II in the second third of this century remember that whether peace or freedom survived depended on decisions made again in Berlin and in London and in Paris and in Tokyo. But today, my friends, all the action is right here. As far as the free world is concerned, not because we ask for it but because of the weakness of others and our own strength, whether peace or freedom survive in the last third of this century depends upon the United States of America--our strength.

	I say we will meet that responsibility and meet it as Americans. So I address myself now to that great responsibility. It is not one that we shirk; and, particularly as Legionnaires and those who are wives and friends of Legionnaires, we will not shirk it. We welcome it because greatness comes from stepping up to great events and not sitting on the sidelines while history is made by others. We are going to step up to these events.

	As Americans, we will find the policies that can preserve peace and also preserve freedom, not only for ourselves, but even the hope for freedom of others around the world. But, we have to start with some priorities. We must first examine those who threaten the peace of the world. Not belligerently but quite objectively and quite coolly, because this is the time when belligerent talk could blow up the world. This is the time when we need the coolness and the judgment, the firmness, the spine to do what is right and say what is right in the proper tone.

	So we look at the Soviet Union first and we ask ourselves this question: have they changed? Have their leaders changed? The answer is yes. Kosygin and Brezhnev are different men from Mr. Khrushchev. They don't take their shoes off and bang them on the table when they come to the United Nations. But when we look at that change, and this is the significant point I wish all of you would remember if you forget everything else that I say, changes have occurred in the leadership of the Soviet Union, but the change has been one of the head and not one of the heart. The men in the Soviet Union, you see, still are Communists. They have every right to be, if that is their conclusion as to what their country should have and what the world should have, and we have a right to be what we want to and to stand for what we believe in.

	But my friends, as we look at the Soviet Union, why is it that their policies toward the United States--their willingness to negotiate in certain areas, their cooling down until the Czechoslovakian incident, what would appear to be the Cold War semantics--why have they changed? The answer is the head rather than the heart.

These are the factors that have caused the change: first, the threat of Communist China on the East. They don't want a two-front threat. They need friends in the West.

Second, problems within the Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe. Communism has not been working as well as it should. There is discontent. They need trade with the West.

Third, the power of Western Europe up until recently, so strong, so great, economically, politically and militarily, that there was no hope of expanding through traditional conventional armed aggression.

	But, fourth and perhaps most important, the Soviet leaders looked down the nuclear gun barrel at the time of the Cuban confrontation in 1962, and there is one great view that they share along with us, and it is this. They know what a nuclear war would do to them as we know what it would do to us. They may want to expand and they do want to expand Communism, but they do not want a confrontation with the United States. They do not want a nuclear war.

So we begin with that proposition. Since they do not want a nuclear war and since we do not want a nuclear war, what, then, are those things that we can negotiate in order to reduce the tensions around the world?

	Now I come to some fundamental propositions that have to do with changes in American policy that I feel need to be made. Up until quite recently, we have had the assumption in Washington, D.C. that as between the United States and the Soviet Union, where military power was concerned, parity or equality was enough. I think that now we must reexamine that assumption, and I will tell you why. Their goal in the world is not simply to keep what they have, but to expand throughout the world. Our goal in the world is peace. We do not want to expand our power over anybody else, and we are not being aggressive toward anybody else.

	Consequently, I say that when a negotiation takes place and the negotiator on one side of the table wants peace and the negotiator on the other side of the table wants expansion, let's always make sure that the one that wants peace has superiority over the one that wants expansion. That is what we need.

	President Kennedy, in one of the most eloquent of many eloquent statements he made during his presidency, in his first Inaugural said, "Let us never fear to negotiate and let us never negotiate from fear." That is a principle that all of us could remember at this time. We must restore the strength of the United States so that the next president of the United States, whoever he is, goes to a bargaining table always from a position of strength and never from a position of weakness. That is what we must have and that is what you are going to support.

	That brings me, when I talk about strength and weakness, to a current problem that I have already alluded to, the problem of the Western European alliance. All of us in this room I know share the heartbreak that came from the invasion of Czechoslovakia in snuffing out that little bit of freedom that was beginning to show itself among those proud people in the heart of Eastern Europe. But I can say to you today that it has been my conclusion that while it seemed to be an unqualified reversal for us, there could be a dividend from what happened in Czechoslovakia. Let me tell you what it is.

	Those same Soviet tanks that rumbled over the frontier less than a month ago woke up, it woke up the slumbering Western alliance out of its complacency, and the repression of the expanding freedoms in Czechoslovakia, while it was a genuinely tragic blow to that unfortunate people, but perhaps the witnesses to the tragedy in Western Europe will draw lessons that will enable them to preserve their own freedoms in future years.

	Despite what has happened in Central Europe, peace in the world must ultimately depend upon an understanding between the United States and the countries of Western Europe with the Soviet Union. This is our goal, and we trust it is theirs. This understanding will require negotiation, and as I have already indicated, successful negotiations depend not only on patience and skill, but upon Western unity and Western strength. If Czechoslovakia has taught the world nothing else, it has taught us that weakness is an invitation to aggression, that military inferiority in the face of an ambitious power is a threat to world peace.

	America's response to the Soviet Union against Czechoslovakia is not rash and should not be rash, but it must be realistic and a realistic appraisal of the assumptions and the promises that underlie American policy toward the Soviet Union. A policy of realism toward the Soviet today will be a policy that is directed toward their prudence and not just toward their good will. That kind of policy holds the prospect of peace.

	I say to you today that America should seize upon this moment of European awareness and European concern to reforge the ties that bind the Western World. In candor, let's face it: one of the reasons that the alliance is in trouble is that the United States has gone around it in talking to those who might be our potential opponents. And before we talk to our opponents, let's talk to our friends in the future. Let's begin that right away.

	This moment of crisis in Central Europe can be made the moment of opportunity for the Western World, and the rebuilding of NATO, rebuilding it in a new way, in a different way, in a way that will live for the future, that speaks to its time, should be placed on the top of the agenda of American national business. The interests of peace require it because just as NATO was in the past the instrument of deterrence, today it can be the bridge, it can be the West's best potential instrument for detente.

	So we begin with the proposition that if we are to have peace, we must negotiate. If we are to negotiate, we must negotiate from strength. If we are to have strength we must restore the strength of the United States and also we must restore the strength of the Western alliance. But more than that is required.

	We must reexamine our policies of trade. Trade is the great weapon for the United States, a weapon that we want used for peace. We welcome trade, peaceful trade with any nation. But, my friends, I think we have been somewhat naive in some of our trade policies toward Eastern Europe, Communist Eastern Europe, and toward the Soviet Union. I shall put it directly this way. Czechoslovakia, what happened there should have awakened us with regard to those trade policies. Before Czechoslovakia there was a lot of talk about the fact that we should extend export-import ban credits not only to countries of Eastern Europe, the Communist countries there, but to the Soviet Union; that we should help them, for example, in the construction of a Fiat automobile plant, and so on down the line.

	This is my view. My view is peaceful trade, yes. Trade provided there is quid pro quo, but, my friends, I say there should be no increase in trade as far as strategic items are concerned that might increase the war-making capability of the Soviet Union or other Communist countries, and there should be no aid or no credits of any kind with any country, including the Soviet Union, that aids the enemy in North Vietnam.

	This does not mean that we will not eventually trade, because trade is a great weapon to be used for peace. But let us not let our trade and our credits and our wealth be used for war. That is exactly what we are talking about, and it is that kind of realistic policy that we need.

	Then we turn, if we are going to have peace in this world, not only to our policies of military strength and our policies of trade, we turn also to the problems at home. I will address myself only briefly to these problems. Other speakers, I understand, have also addressed themselves to it.

	Everybody in this room is for reestablishing respect for law and respect for order. Everybody in this room is for justice. Everybody in this room is for progress. We as Americans want a country in which we can have progress with order, in which we can have order with justice. I stand for that. You stand for that. The question is how do we best do it.

	I think on this particular point I have a project. A project of education that I would urge upon those members of the American Legion and the Auxiliary as you go back to your communities over across this land. I think, my friends, that a lot of our young people--not the majority, but some of them--have overlooked and in some way have forgotten, or in some way have not received the education that they might have received in our schools as to what the true principle of the American system is all about. You often hear it said, "Why, this country was born in revolution. Why, then, is it not correct if you believe in a cause to take to the streets?" You know the answer? The answer is in the history of America. Sure, America was born in revolution. But the genius of our founding fathers was that they set up a system of government that provided a method for peacefully changing those things you did not like. That is what we must remember.

I know that it is fashionable these days for some opinion makers and some politicians and some church leaders and others to say that if the cause is great enough it justifies breaking the law and resorting to violence. I say this. I say that any country that provides a way for peaceful change, there is no cause that justifies violence in the United States of America, and let's get that straight among all Americans.

	Then the other side of the coin comes. If you say to those great numbers of people who want change, "there is no hope," then no matter how many police we have, no matter how well trained they are, no matter how strong our laws are--and I would make many changes in all these respects to strengthen the peace forces in this country, as you know, if you have been reading my remarks. But, my friends, let us remember that you cannot have order in a society unless you light the lamp of hope in millions of homes in this country where there is no hope today. That is why the Legion, along with other Americans across this land, stands for progress as well as order. That is why as we look over America today we recognize that there are things that need to be changed. But we also recognize that if America is going to be great, truly great, greatness is not going to come from what government does for people, but because of what people do for themselves. That is what we need to recognize.

	So I say America can be saved today. It can be saved not only by its president and by its leaders, but it can be saved by its people, people who are committed to the great cause of reestablishing respect for law in this land as it needs to be reestablished, people that are committed to the cause of dealing with the problems in our own communities of what is wrong, but changing those things that are wrong without destroying those things that are right.

	My friends, I conclude on one final note. You are going to hear from me and you are going to hear from the other potential candidates a lot of what is wrong about America in these next two months. But I want you to know that as I have traveled around this world--and I probably have done more traveling than any public figure in the past twenty years--I have been to most of the major nations of the world and most of the Communist nations, and I have seen great people and great leaders and great sights. But, my friends, when they talk about what is wrong with the United States, just remember the traffic is all one way. Anybody that has a choice is coming this way. They are not going the other way.

	This is a great country. My friends, believe it. This is a great country. America is a great country because of its people. It is a great country because of its ideals. And it is a great country because at this particular time in our history, when we are called upon to take the leadership for peace and freedom, listen to what we stand for as distinguished from other nations and other peoples who have had this great destiny in the past.

	In the past, others who have had the responsibility that we have had wanted to expand. They wanted colonies, they wanted economic exploitation. That was another time. But the United States of America today has what I call a very admirable, and in the best sense of the word, a hopeless idealism. Woodrow--do you remember what he said, you World War I veterans? "The war to end wars. The war to make the world safe for democracy." Franklin D. Roosevelt, do you remember what he said, World War II veterans? "The American frontier is on the Rhine." Harry Truman, do you remember what he said about Korea? "The war in Korea was not just about Korea. It was about Japan and the Pacific."

	And Lyndon Johnson, and what he says, and what I have said--the war in Vietnam is not just about Vietnam. We don't want Vietnam. We want no concessions there. It is about peace in the Pacific. It is to make sure that the boys who are in Vietnam, those nineteen and twenty and twenty-one-year olds, if they can be brought home as quickly as possible, but in an honorable way that their fourteen and fifteen-year old brothers won't be out fighting some other war at some time in the future. That is the kind of a peace we want. That is the kind of a peace we stand for.

	My friends, I say to you, to the American Legion, we are fortunate to be meeting at the greatest time in the history of this country. Here is where the action is. Here is where the responsibility is and here is our opportunity to be great or to be small, to recede from the responsibilities that are ours or to accept them.

	I say we shall accept them, and we shall accept them in this spirit, knowing that America through this century has been engaged in war, never for itself alone, but because we wanted for others what we have, the right to choose. We like our system, but we aren't trying to impose it on anybody else. We think other countries may not want our system, it may not fit them, and many countries certainly would not and would not be able to operate effectively under our system, and we recognize it.

	So how is it all summed up? I can put it perhaps best in a shorter speech, one that was made 150 years ago at a happier time in Britain's history. Immediately after Nelson's great victory at Trafalgar, William Pitt, the Prime Minister of England, was toasted at a great dinner in London's Guild Hall as the savior of Europe. He responded to that toast with a few words that have been described as one of the great masterpieces of English eloquence. Listen to him:

	"I return you many thanks for the honor you have done me. But Europe will not be saved by any single man. England has saved herself by her exertions and will, I trust, save Europe by her example."

	I say to the American Legion today, the world today will not be saved by any single nation, but America can and will save herself by her exertions and will, we trust, save the cause of peace and freedom in the world by our example.
AFRICACIVIL DISORDERCOMMUNISMCZECHOSLOVAKIA--SOVIET INVASIONFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALLATIN AMERICAMIDDLE EASTVIETNAM WARWESTERN EUROPESOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     | { { { {
 { { { { { { m{ c{ 
	  	  	  	  	 b 	 L 	 ? 	 4 	 )   e: