

	I find myself tonight tempted to stray from a path I have followed now for a month.

	Day after day, night after night, I have tried to talk about public questions: international policy, farm policy, labor policy, civil rights, atomic energy, and many others.

	This road has led me through some twenty states from coast to coast. It has been lined with great numbers of people, friendly people, people who nod encouragingly when you try to talk to them intelligently and straight from the shoulder.

	But, strangely enough, the road itself is lonely--for I never meet anybody coming the other way.

	The temptation tonight is to talk not about more issues, but about this road itself, about our campaign--how it is going, how high our spirits are. For I know now, with the heat of my heart no less than with the certainty of my mind, that this is going to be another victorious year for those of us who believe in the positive principles of the Democratic party.

	We know now that we face, in the party of the opposition, a sadly divided command. The GOP elephant has two heads nowadays and I can't tell from day to day who is driving the poor beast--Taft or the General. The sad thing is that the elephant doesn't know either! As Americans first and political partisans second we find no satisfaction in this state of affairs in a year when our country faces choices of leaders, choices of attitudes and choices of policies of such enormous consequence.

	Instead of confident, positive purpose, there is indecision, uncertainty and compromise in an effort to reconcile the irreconcilable, the internationalists and the isolationists, the liberals and the reactionaries. The end product is loud denunciation, epithet and abuse of the Democrats, which seems to be the only thing they can agree upon. But that will lift no hearts, and feed no hungry minds, and win no elections.

	And so each day their statement of position moves in like a new fog bank.

	America will not entrust its future, its hopes, to the masters of a house divided against itself, to men so divided in their own thoughts that they cannot, or will not, tell us where their party stands on America's pressing problems.

	And about the only place they appear to stand is squarely on the Democratic policies. There is hardly room for us Democrats on our own platform! But at the same time they say the authors and executors of Democratic policies are rogues and rascals, or timid and stupid men who should be thrown out and promptly replaced by the Republicans who fought all these very same programs.

	But I shall yield no further to temptation. There are still issues to be faced. I have tried as best I can, from city to city, to discuss them one by one and to express my views forthrightly, not confident I am always right or even wise, but certain that you are entitled to know my views, right or wrong.

	Tonight, here in Baltimore, I want to discuss another and a very important issue--inflation. In plainer terms it is the issue of whether we are going to be able to pay our grocery bill and keep up with the mortgage or the rent on the house.

	Whether you have a boy of draft age or one in Korea, the problem of peace is first in your mind and in your heart. But this problem of prices is another ominous cloud which hangs heavy over our thoughts. As far as the government is concerned, it must give both problems top priority.

	I want to talk particularly to whoever in your family does the shopping and keeps the budget. I am thinking especially, too, of those family budgets where only one of the two ends ever moves--because all the income is from savings or pensions. White-collar workers and schoolteachers also face a special problem here.

	If our question, then, is what we are going to do about inflation, we must first be sure we understand what causes it.

	Those who let their politics impeach their honesty tell you that inflation is the product of governmental waste and mismanagement. Whether this is legitimate politics I shall not presume to say. But as an explanation of the causes of inflation, it is pure poppycock. It's like a husband coming into the kitchen, seeing one potato peeling that is too thick, and exploding that now he knows why you can't make ends meet. I'm for the government's peeling its potatoes with a sharp knife and a miserly eye. And I've done some sharp and miserly peeling in Illinois myself. But I'm not going to fool myself or you that meeting a nation's inflation problem is that simple.

	Prescribing a patent medicine with a good taste for a growth which may become malignant is dangerous practice. This is a kind of politics which places party victory above national welfare and assumes that the people are fools. I shall do neither.

	The causes of inflation can, I think, be made plain. Let's stay in the kitchen a minute longer. It is as though we were making bread, and while we answered the phone, an evil neighbor dumped a whole cup of yeast into the bowl. That's the inflation story. In fact that is inflation.

	We have inflation today--not disastrous, but serious--because the gods of war, working through their agents in the Kremlin, have dumped a barrel of yeast in the bread of our economy.

	American industry has been suddenly called upon to make tens of billions of dollars' worth of guns and planes and tanks and bombs. This is the yeast which causes inflation.

	These unexpected demands mean that the prices of steel, aluminum, machine tools and the like--as well as labor--go up, unless something is done about it, because the supply of these things is limited. Those who have them to sell can demand more for them because the government must have the end products. The supply of consumer goods is diminished, because factories which made roller skates are now making gun assemblies.

	The other side of this picture is that those who buy have more to buy with and will therefore pay higher prices. The manufacturers have orders for guns, so they can pay higher prices for steel and for labor. Consumers, you and I, have had increases in our incomes, so we will pay more for the roller skates we can find.

	If this then is our problem, what can we do about it? Do we have to just sit back and let prices and wages keep chasing each other on up?

	If I sense rightly the mood of people today they are ready to say "we want these increases to stop--and we mean business."

	And if we do mean business, I say that we can get results.

	Telling you what I have in mind is going to be a little dull--for I haven't any trick ideas up my sleeve. This job takes courage and it takes common sense. It has to be a partnership job--with the people and the government working together.

	Let's not talk generalities. There are four things I think the government has to do.

	First there is the necessity to cut the government's non-essential expenditures to the bare bones of safety. It is the biggest spending agency in the country and every dollar it spends adds to the inflationary pressure. It must spend every penny as though it were a five-dollar bill; and it must not spend a single penny for anything that is not needed right now.

	This is going to mean a strict auditing of every payroll in the government and slashing every piece of administrative fat. I've been through this process in Illinois and I know what it means.

	This is going to mean no pork barreling while our economy is in its present condition. If your principal interest in life is getting a new federally financed boondoggle for your state you had better vote for somebody else. I've vetoed more appropriations in Illinois than any governor in our history.

	We will have to make most of our savings in the military departments. About 85 cents out of every dollar the government spends goes now for paying the costs of past wars and preventing another one. I know one can't buy national security at a bargain counter. And I emphatically reject the idea that national security must be adjusted to a tax ceiling rather than taxes to national security. For that is to say that we propose to continue free and independent--if it does not cost too much. But I don't believe either in the theory that military budgets are sacred and untouchable.

	I warn you, however, that the tightest-fisted government economy conceivable won't meet this problem. Despite the Republican propaganda, our budget is determined more by the Russians than by the "bureaucrats." We are going to survive even with sacrifice rather than perish cheap.

	The next thing the government has to do is keep itself just as close as possible to a pay-as-we-go tax standard. When we pay for these guns by borrowing money we contribute to inflation. When we collect taxes to pay for them we help stop inflation.

	I don't like taxes. I shall do everything I can to reduce them. But I will make no promises I know I cannot keep. We must spend to be safe and taxes are better than inflation. I would not favor reducing taxes until we are getting in a dollar to cover every dollar we spend. And I'll bank on the American people, even in an election year, to understand straight talk and the need for a balanced budget.

	In the last six years, since the end of World War II financing, the government's net receipts have been $4 billion more than its expenditures. We have reduced the government debt by $11 billion. No man in the United States has worked harder for a pay-as-we-go policy than President Truman, or received, I think, less credit for his achievements on this front.

	The Republicans in Congress have, on the other hand, fought this pay-as-we-go program every inch of the way. In 1951, for example, the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted three to one against raising more money to pay our current war-production bills. Those were votes for inflation, for they meant borrowing to pay those bills. It is hypocrisy for these men to present themselves now as the defenders, or even the friends, of your dollar.

	The third thing the government must do is to prevent excessive private borrowing, for that can be just as inflationary as excessive government borrowing.

	Some buying on credit is all right--like buying a house and paying on the mortgage instead of for rent. Some of it is necessary to keep business active. But some of it can go too far. I shall hope to be able to work out with the Congress a set of restraints upon excessive private credit which will keep the money market on an even, noninflationary, keel.

	Finally, there is the matter of direct controls--on prices and wages and rent. I don't like them; not many people do. But if the alternative is a steady rise in our food, clothing, rent and other living costs, then we must have them.

	The present price, wage and rent control laws are, I think, in pretty bad shape. They are pock-marked with loopholes, loopholes bored by special interest groups so that they could feed and fatten on inflation. Yet I am convinced from what I know of the situation, and I make no pretense of being an economist, that these laws are operating as essential brakes upon an economy which could otherwise get out of hand.

	I shall favor retaining the controls we now have until prices stop going up, and if they don't stop before January first, I think the situation should be reexamined and Congress should take further steps to stop them.

	This will mean, if it has to come, tighter wage controls as well as tighter price controls. I don't know whether the wage and price increases which came out of the steel case this year were required by what had happened elsewhere in the economy or not.

	But I do know that many people see in that case a further impetus to inflation. It brings into sharp focus the question of whether the price and wage loopholes aren't becoming bigger than we can afford. We just can't be either pulled or pushed any further into the twisting cyclone of inflation.

	I have a deep belief in a free economy. I look forward anxiously to the time when these casts on our economy--these price, rent and wage controls--can come off. I cannot tell you when that will be, for I can only guess as to the Kremlin's future course of conduct or misconduct. I can only say to you that I believe, with the modern doctors, that a healthy, but temporarily fractured economy, like a healthy patient, should get out of bed and get active again as quickly as possible.

	I wish I could tell you how my position on this matter differs from that of my distinguished opponent. But I cannot; I do not know. He has, however, permitted the astonishing statement to be made for him that he agrees with Senator Taft on all matters of domestic policy. And Senator Taft's record as the leader of the inflationary shock troops in Congress is clearly written.

	The great majority of Republicans in Congress voted to end rent control. They voted, too, to end controls on steel, copper, aluminum and other vital defense production materials. Four times, a majority of the Republicans in both the Senate and the House voted to end controls on all things consumers buy.

	This is the Republican position on inflation.

	This is the record the Republican candidate has bought. It is a record the nation refused to buy when it was being made. This is a record the Republican party refused to buy in Chicago last July.

	We offer you, in place of this record, a four-point program of strict government economy, of a tax program kept as nearly as possible on a pay-as-we-go basis, of restraints on excessive private credit, and of direct price, wage and rent controls as temporary pontoon bridges between abnormal and normal times.

	I think such a program, supported in good faith by both the Congress and the Executive, can stop inflation without stopping the healthy, normal growth of our economy.

	The people must, however, do their part of this job. If this system of ours works as well as you and I think it does, the battle against inflation will be finally won, not in the bureaus of government, but in the fields, in the factories, in the union halls, in the stores and in the homes of America.

	The ultimate defense against high prices is more production, more production of food and houses and steel, and of everything we buy.

	Our production capacity today has been so increased that when our defense production levels out, we can turn to a full production of consumer goods which will provide the fullest defense against inflation. And we'll use that production, too, all of it.

	In the meantime, we all face questions which we can, as individuals, answer either for or against inflation.

	This is true of the directors of a manufacturing company when they vote on a proposal to expand their plant's capacity.

	It is true of the members of a labor union when they vote on whether to demand a wage increase or on what it is to be.

	It is true of the storekeeper when he is deciding whether to go through his shelves and mark up his prices.

	It is true of the housewife as she debates in her mind whether to save or spend what is left from last week's pay envelope.

	It is a dangerously wrong feeling that what individual people do on points such as these won't matter. America's decisions are made this way--in millions of little pieces.

	There is one other thing for us to do as individuals. Inflation feeds on fear of inflation. We know what scare-buying does.

	We must remain on our guard. What this job takes is just common sense, calmness and courage.

	I have approached this subject with you tonight as straightforwardly and as seriously as I know how. Inflation will not be driven out by campaign orators flapping their arms at it like scarecrows.

	I am convinced and I think you are, that when the Republican leaders, after sabotaging every anti-inflationary measure in Congress during the past two years, reach out to put a consoling arm around the American housewife and whisper in her ear that this is all the Democrats' fault, they won't deceive her.

	Most of us are people of small or at least modest incomes. We could be hurt badly, a lot of us, by just a very little more inflation. Our interest in stopping rising prices is as real as tomorrow night's supper and new overcoats for the children this winter. We are not fooling and we are not going to be fooled.

	The time has come for us to draw a line and say to the forces of inflation, "You cannot cross that line." With your help I'd like to do just that.

BANKING/LOANS/CREDITECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANMILITARY CUTBACKSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYWAGE AND PRICE POLICYINFLATION     A MA GA CA ;A
 .A )A $A A A A @ @	 s 	 _ 	 B 	 1 	   	 e: