

	My friends, you overwhelm me.  I first want to thank every single person here for the great honor you do me in taking this period from a busy day to allow me to bring to you a word of greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts on my mind as we progress through this critical period, this election campaign.  I hope that none of you will object to my making a special bow to your university.  I played football against them long before the present students were born.

	I always like to run into these young people, not only those from our universities but the young people that we call the "oncoming generation".  It has been my great fortune, ladies and gentlemen, to spend my life with America's young.  I know one thing about them.  There is nothing that goes beyond their capacity for developing an idealistic energy, if you will merely give them a cause that they believe worthy of their best efforts.  In war they perform the impossible time and again because they have become convinced they were fighting for freedom, for the right to go home and to live lives of their own choosing, to worship as they please, to speak, to think, to act, to earn as they please for themselves and their families.  And because they believe in that cause, they won that war many, many months before the prophets of gloom and disaster ever believed they could.  My hat has been off to those men and women ever since, and their younger brothers and younger sisters are now coming along.  Some of them are in uniform, and to them we owe this same tremendous debt of gratitude.  We owe more than that.  We owe the effort of bringing about a situation in the world where they do not have to spend their lives and their early years in uniform.  We owe to them the lessons of our own unsuccessful past of my generation, a record of two great wars, and now another one that can be classed almost the same.

	From those errors, if we can glean out the places we have gone astray and can give to these younger people just simple guides, then I think we will have done our duty and they will do a lot better than we did.  This brings me, ladies and gentlemen, to a significant fact about your country that someone gave me only this morning.  There are three-thousand more women registered in this country than there are men.

	As I have gone up and down the length and breadth of this land, I have tried to express what I believe to be a special function of women, a special qualification which they have for that function, and it relates to our young ones.  If we are going to give these guideposts that I spoke of to our younger generation, there is one thing that must loom up above all others in them.  Our form of civilization, our form of government, is bedded deeply in a religious faith.  You remember that when our forefathers tried to explain our kind of government to the world, they said they had a decent respect for the opinion of mankind; and so they attempted to explain it.  In order to show what they were doing, they said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their creator with certain rights."  They had to call on the Supreme Being, on the Almighty, to make sense for our form of government.

	So I say to the women, the keepers of our homes, the ones who give to our youngsters at their mother's knee their first comprehension of life, the spiritual and moral character--if they get over that one idea that our form of government is related to a belief in some kind of religion, those youngsters then have something in their hearts that will never let them go too far astray.  So when they come up to a proposition like we are up against now, they will try to choose between right and wrong.

	What kind of people do you want?  Those that will obey these moral principles; those who will follow a system of moral values--a moral standard that will give us honesty in government, that will exclude dishonesty, atheistic Communism, not merely because it endangers our freedoms and our rights but because it is just wrong.

	I call your attention to this fact:  The opposition party, the administration group, are fastened with a record of seven years that is one of dismal disappointment for us.  We have not progressed satisfactorily toward peace and I am not going to recite the long list of failures here and the blunders and the bungling.  You know them.  We have not lived within our means.  We have indulged in wild expenditure programs that bring on deficits, budgetary deficits that cheapen our money and raise the prices you pay for a basket of groceries.  Again I am addressing myself possibly more to the women than to the men.  Today you can put your basket on your arm and go over to the store, maybe over to the supermarket or anywhere else, and get a basket of groceries, the same basket that prior to the war you paid ten dollars for.  Now you pay twenty-four dollars and fifty cents.

	Now, that is one of the parts of the record on which the administration cries, "Don't let them take it away."  They don't want to take away this business of further cheapening and cheapening that money.  What are you going to pay next year for that bag of groceries?  Are we just forever going to chase ourselves around this business of costs and wages?  Let us find a stable, prosperous, expanding economy that bring a better life to all of us.  That is what we should be trying to do.

	Then if all these things are necessary, should we cry, "Red Herring" when evidence is brought out of real disloyalty in government, of people who think more of a foreign ideology than they do of the United States of America--a civilization that is based, as I say, in this deep value, this deep standard of moral values?  Should we say, "Oh, just rot.  It is not serious when we uncover instance after instance of just sheer crookedness in government?"

	Now, all of this is more important, ladies and gentlemen, than just whatever few dollars it may take out of your tax pockets.  Did you ever stop to think of this:  The greatest prospect for peace--the absolute essential to peace--is a United States that is strong in every way.  As long as this threat centered in Moscow exists in the world today, we must have the necessary planes and guns and regiments and ships and all the rest of it.  But that is only part of our strength.  Even in war, you know, the armed forces are only the cutting edge of a great machine that generates such power as this earth has never seen.  Our strength is in our hearts, first--in our comprehension of the spiritual and moral values of which I have spoken.  It is in our intellectual capacity, the skill of our scientists in the universities and in the laboratories, in the great productivity of our factories, in our farms, the stability of our farm economy.

	All of that makes up the strength of America.  That strength will attract strength from without.  But how are we going to be strong unless we can bring together all these diversified industries, these diversified sections?  After all, sitting here in our state we are a long way from California and citrus growing.  We are a long way from the Texas cotton fields and the Kansas wheat fields.  This is a diverse economy.

	How do we come together?  We come together in our support of basic aspirations, basic purposes:  Peace and prosperity and raising the standard of living for every man out of 155 million.

	Where must we find that leadership that will unify us?  In Washington.  Are you going to give your trust and faith to a government that has been guilty of such a record as has been piled up in the last seven years?  I don't have to answer that question, you have just answered it for me.  That is the issue, whether we can, in order to achieve our maximum of strength in favor of peace, find the leadership behind which we can unify.  How do you do that?

	Ladies and gentlemen, after all, government is nothing but human beings.  Those human beings must be drawn from every section, every walk of life--every person, every group in the United States.  All must be represented.  Whether he represents the agriculture of this region where we have perishables or out in the Midwest where they have the great stable crops of wheat and grain and so on, everybody must be represented and they must be the men and women--and I might add, regardless of race or creed or color--who are chosen according to their standing in the community so that each of you standing in this crowd can say, "Those people they took from Syracuse, we know them.  They are people of prestige, of standing.  Their very records here are guarantee that that is a good government, government devoted to people and not to self-interest.  They are not trying to line their pockets.  They are trying to represent us honestly.  They came right out of the middle of this crowd."

	That is what we are trying to do.  That is what this crusade is all about, to give you a government that is fair and just, friendly, but above all, one that earns and keeps your respect and pride, because then you will unify behind the leadership of that government, and then you will be a real power for peace in the world.

	We must look ahead to a prosperity based upon peace.  That is another reason that if we are going to unify behind a government, we are determined it will be a wise government, one that knows how to progress toward peace and, at the same time, to create and keep that full employment at decent wages so that we are not dependent upon war and preparation for war for our prosperity but on the peaceful development of our scientific, agricultural, industrial ability to carry this nation forward to the bright future of which it is capable and which all of our people deserve.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is a rough going-over of what we are trying to do and I can pledge you only this:  people who really want to do it are engaged in it.  Everybody here who believes in those purposes and those simple standards of frugality, economy, decency and above all, just common woodshed honesty in government belongs in this crusade. 
DIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMINFLATIONMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENVOTING--WOMEN     M( ( ( ( (
 ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '	 M 	 3 	 * 	  e: