

	I thought for a moment I was down South again when I heard that rebel yell. Mr. Hersey and distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen.: I am delighted at last to have penetrated the innermost recesses of the famous Kline Auditorium in Bridgeport, about which I have heard so much and so often.

	I wish I wasn't reminded of what I once heard a distinguished scholar say when he was speaking in an auditorium out in my part of the country. And in the introductory remarks the presiding officer made some reference to the fact that it was an auditorium, and the Gentlemen rose and said to the audience, "Well, auditorium is derived from two Latin roots--audio, meaning to hear, and Taurus, the Bull."

	I had a most distinguished honor paid me this afternoon on my way to Bridgeport. It was in New London, and a lady came aboard the train and presented me this picture. It is my picture, but it has a wig on it. It also has a somewhat different neck dress and it comes out as George Washington. I would have felt much better about it if I didn't recall that George Washington was awfully shy of teeth, and I am doing awfully well. Also, I think if this business goes on much longer I will get so egotistical, conceited and inflated that I will be intolerable, if I am not already.

	I remember an old candidate for office my grandfather used to tell me about in Illinois in the early days after the Civil War, who used to address his audiences with a long dissertation about all of his services to the Union forces in the war and all of his other services to his fellow man. And this thing wore on and on and on. And one night, as he was telling about how he had left his blood in his footprints across the trackless forests and burning prairies and burning deserts, and so on, an old fellow came down the middle corridor and he said, "And you slept many a night with nothing but the sky for your cover?" "Yes, I did that for my people." "And you left your blood in your footprints?" "Yes, that and plenty more." And he said "By golly, you have done enough for your country. You go home and rest and I am going to vote for the other guy."

	Well, when I begin to impersonate George Washington, folks, you had better send me back to Illinois.

	There are two men here on the platform with me tonight, or at least one--one dropped by the wayside--whom I want very much in the next United States Senate. And I refer to Abe Ribicoff and Bill Benton. I hope very much that you will see fit to send to Washington Stanley Pribyson and Joseph Lyford. You know, I count myself very fortunate to have...

	Anyone hurt? I'm always fearful it might be a Democrat before election.

	I count myself very fortunate--do you think I can get started with this speech pretty soon? I count myself very fortunate indeed to have running mates like these, and I rather think that my distinguished opponent must wish from time to time that he had some running mates that he would like to see get on his train and hated to see get off. In fact, we have, as I have discovered in my long journeys around the country--we have so many good Democratic candidates about the country that it would probably be a very healthy thing for the Republican party if we loaned them a few of our Democratic candidates. But the trouble is that the Democratic candidates refuse to be loaned to the Republican party--for some reason or other--I can only think of about 100 reasons myself.

	I should like to tell you why we need Abe Ribicoff and Bill Benton. Bill Benton has done a lot of things in his life. He has been a success at everything he has tried. In the Senate he has distinguished himself with my running mate, the great senator from Alabama, John Sparkman, for his work in the Senate Small Business Committee. He is one of the all too few men in the Senate whose record on the McCarran Immigration Act looks good in the light of day. And I could go on and on. I think what he is probably proudest of is his record in the fight against Communism. This is no recent passion with Bill Benton. He didn't discover the menace along in 1950, like a certain junior Senator from Wisconsin.

	My, they identify everyone easily here, don't they? He has been after it and against it for a long time, for he has known for a long time that the menace of world Communism is the greatest threat to world peace. Way back in 1945 he established the Voice of America to bring the truth about America to the outside world, and to the unhappy millions behind the Iron Curtain.

	The achievement of peace is the matter lying closest to our hearts. America's sons and husbands, and fathers, are fighting tonight in Korea. The relatives of other Americans are trapped in Eastern Europe behind the Iron Curtain. These are heavy clouds over all of our thoughts. It is our principal challenge to our country in this election year, and in the years that will succeed them, to stop the ruthless Soviet drive to take control of the world--to stop this drive without ruining our own economy in the process--and to stop it without another war in which civilization itself would be the ultimate victim.

	You know the choice here between the programs of the two parties. It is a choice, so far as this campaign has disclosed it, between a Republican program of soft promises and a Democratic program of hard facts. I don't propose tonight to review again the whole of the Democratic program for meeting this challenge. The fact of the matter is it is working. The enemy has been thrown back in Korea. For more than two years no more peoples and no new territory has fallen to the enemy, but the threat has not subsided. It is going to be an expensive job; it is bound to be expensive because the rulers of the Soviet Union respect nothing, save strength, and strength cannot be cheaply bought.

	The task ahead of us is to work with our allies to make the free world so strong that the Soviet leaders will know that any further imperialistic designs are both futile and dangerous. The men in the Kremlin do not, it seems to me, behave like confident leaders, sure of their people and of their power. They behave more and more like uneasy tyrants, afraid to permit their subjects to make any contact with the people or the ideas of the outside world.

	To have faith in democracy is to know that a dictatorship which defies the laws of God and of the human spirit cannot last forever.

	Our goal is for more than the halting of Communist aggression. Our goal is to build up a community of prosperous, powerful and freedom-loving nations. By proving the worth and strength of freedom, by the contagion of ideas, such a community of free men can hasten the day when the grip--yes, and the appeal--of Communism will be diluted by reason of the innermost urge of human beings for peace and trade and fraternity instead of fear and hate and isolationism.

	There has been loose talk of a war of liberation to free the enslaved peoples of Eastern Europe. Such a war is unthinkable and would destroy the very people and the civilization that we seek to save.

	Yet the day of liberation will come, and there is much we can do in the meantime to help the unhappy people of Eastern Europe. Through the United Nations much is being done to rally the conscience of mankind. We can offer help and encouragement to those thousands of families and those individuals who are escaping, month by month, through the chinks in the Iron Curtain.

	Some of these people can be resettled, retrained and can be given a new start in life in the countries of Western Europe. Others, who are desperately eager to join friends and relatives in this country, could be admitted to the United States by special legislation similar to the Displaced Persons Act which expired last year.

	What we need, it seems to me, is a change in our basic immigration law. That law has many defects; but one of the most serious is that it discriminates unfairly against Italians and Poles and other nationalities of Eastern and of Southern Europe. This discrimination, dating back to 1924, was continued in the law passed by the last Congress, over the veto of President Truman--passed with many Republican votes.

	It is essential, too, that we continue to recognize that our most valuable investments in peace, for ourselves as well as for the free world, are investments in the strength of our allies. By their continued opposition to these programs, the Old Guard leadership of the Republican party does America a great disservice.

	These are the men who condemned lend-lease as a reckless form of charity. They insisted that our post-war loans to England and France were a device to throw good money after bad. They called our military aid, which saved Greece and Turkey from Communism, a spendthrift gesture. They even fought the Marshall Plan, which rescues all Western Europe from the clutches of the Kremlin. I know from firsthand experience that these far-sighted measures have meant to Europe and to our own defense--what they have meant.

	I was in Italy myself in 1943, leading a mission to draft the plans for American aid to that war torn country. Had we failed to get help to Italy in good time, a Soviet commissar might very well be sitting in Rome today. Yet the Old Guard Republicans have voted time and time again against such aid to our friends in peril overseas. They shout of the dangers of Communists, but when the time comes for action they always turn their backs.

	These are some of the problems which relate most directly to the European aspects of our international program--our opposition to Communism--our progress towards peace--and our building of a true brotherhood of the world. It is natural and proper that we direct our most immediate attention today to the problem of Korea. Yet we must press forward with our programs in areas where the threat is less direct or there will be areas of more direct threat.

	I could not have been persuaded three months ago that these points that I have covered tonight, having to do with our foreign policy, would ever arise as issues in this campaign. Least of all, would I ever have imagined that the Republican candidate would play politics with the Korean War. Yet I find it hard to interpret his recent declaration on Korea in any other way. The general knows--or does he know?--that the root of the trouble is not in Korea, it is in Moscow. He knows--or does he know?--that we cannot retreat from Korea nor can we involve ourselves in a large scale war in Asia without jeopardizing our own safety. He knows--or should know--that the bet way to shorten the Korean War is to maintain our national unity, and the best way to prolong it is to show the enemy evidences of American doubt, division and disunity.

	We all know what a small group sitting over in the corner of the Republican party--how a small group sitting over in the corner of the Republican party refused to accept what other Republicans and Democrats alike had agreed was the sound course for America, but that group was rejected by the Republican party at its convention in Chicago. The party shows as its nominee a man closely identified with carrying out our bipartisan foreign policy. Yet we know today that this same man, for what could only have been short-term political advantage, has chosen deliberately in this campaign to reinstate that group of isolationist reactionaries whom their party, their own party had cast out.

	The Republican candidate's decision to embrace this group of men will stand in history as the decisive factor in the 1952 election campaign. For America will speak plainly at the polls, both against the policies of these men and against the practices of political expediency and opportunism and compromise of principle under which their support in this campaign was purchased. We will not entrust our future--particularly the future of America in the world of nations--to men who use this path to seek our trust.

	Senator Benton has been in the forefront of the fight for our Democratic foreign policy in the Senate. Abe Ribicoff--Congressman Ribicoff has been in the forefront of this fight in the House.

	If I had on my brief acquaintance to name the three qualities which most distinguish Abe Ribicoff, I think I would say, from my observation, that they are his experience and foresight in foreign affairs, his strong advocacy of government economy and his complete candor with his constituents. I think the phrase, "Let's talk sense," was Abe Ribicoff's motto long before most of you ever heard of the governor of Illinois.

	It has been his abiding purpose, as it has been mine, as the candidates of a responsible party, to face squarely all of the issues which face this nation and to lay before the people a full program for their consideration.

	This had been done without any compromise whatsoever of principles to the support of any special interest or political factions. The Democratic program which has been presented to you is the same on Friday as it is on Monday, and it is the same in Florida as it is in Washington. Well, I could go on and on; and I might say it is the same in Texas as it is in Maine. It is an every-day-in-the-week and every-State-in-the-Union program.

	I have tried my level best to make good on my commitment to talk sensibly to the American people. There seem to be those in the party of the opposition who claim that talking sense means talking over peoples' heads. They sell the American people mighty short. I will go along with the fellow who waved a homemade poster at me as we pulled out of the station at Framingham, Massachusetts the other day--the other afternoon. It was one of those handmade signs like so many we see at these Democratic meetings of ours. It said, "You are talking sense, Adlai, and we have some."

	We have not, for example, promised you an easy way out of all difficulties if only you will close your eyes and follow me. We have not promised you large reductions in defense and in foreign aid and large reductions in taxes. It might be politically smart--that is, it might be if you don't give the American people any credit for good sense--but it would be a commitment that would not honor at any early date except at the expense of national security.

	If these Republican promises are meant seriously, they reflect a frightening lack of understanding of the threat this nation faces. Reductions of ten or twenty or forty billion dollars could only come out of the bone and muscle of our defenses. They would weaken not only America, but the entire free world, and that weakness would invite attack.

	I believe profoundly in economy in government. More appropriation bills have been vetoed in Illinois during the past four years than in any other administration in the history of my state. And I think we can make substantial savings in Washington--in the military departments and elsewhere--by trimming away every penny of unnecessary expenditure. The problem is finding what is unnecessary. But to commit this country to tax reductions first and then to worry about our safety later is to put politics above peace.

	Mr. Ribicoff knows that because we must spend heavily for defense, we must save every cent we can on other programs. He has had the unusual courage to practice what he preaches. He voted against a development project in his own district because he thought that--though his constituents needed it--the project ought to wait until the demands of defense did not weigh so heavily on our national economy. With men like Ribicoff in the Senate to back me up, I feel sure that we can find practical ways to wield the scalpel on our federal budget, instead of the Republican meat ax.

	You know, I am glad that so many Democrats are good Democrats. It spares the Democratic presidential candidate many embarrassments.

	I understand that here in Bridgeport a short while ago on this very platform the Republican party of Connecticut threw its collective arms around the junior Senator from Wisconsin.

	Well, I suppose that the Connecticut Republicans may have felt that they had no choice in the matter, since the Republican candidate for president had already set the style. In fact, the general has not only demanded that the people of Wisconsin return this man to the Senate--he has even countenanced the use of this man as the Republican secret weapon in these last crucial days in the campaign.

	I know that the Republican high command thinks that this weapon is a blockbuster, but I will tell you, it is a boomerang, and the time will come when they will feel about that man like the Australian bushman did--you know, who got a new boomerang and then spent the rest of his life trying to throw away the old one.

	I would think that, of all the Republicans, the Republicans of Connecticut would be about the last to embrace the junior senator from Wisconsin. I don't believe that their memories are so short that they have forgotten who the first victim of that gentleman was. I think they know that the first man in the Senate to become a target for Senator McCarthy was that fine Connecticut Republican, Governor Raymond Baldwin. It seems to me astonishing to observe the former colleagues of Governor Baldwin crowding to congratulate the man who did his best to assassinate Governor Baldwin's character.

	As for me, I prefer not the men who shake that senator's hand, but the men who oppose what he stands for in our national life, and no man has conducted that fight better than Bill Benton.

	In the final analysis, politics reduces itself to choices between men. None of us can foresee the future with perfect clarity. We cannot, therefore, instruct the men for whom we vote as to precisely the course they should follow. W choose them for their wisdom, their courage, their judgment, and their integrity. We judge them by what they have said and done, by the compromises they have made, by the alliances into which they have entered. It is by these things that I hope you will judge me and the men about me.

	And it is by the same standards that I ask you to consider well whether the party that puts forward tonight the junior senator from Wisconsin as its ace in the hole for election week is a party which stands for what you regard as the best of our American tradition.

	Thank you.
COMMUNISMEASTERN EUROPEFOREIGN AID--GENERALIMMIGRATIONKOREAN WARMILITARY PREPAREDNESSSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     H H H H yH
 lH gH bH XH MH KH ;H 1H	 p 	 g 	 Y 	 E 	 : 	 0 	  e: