

	When I think of the theme for this dinner: "The Future--Education, Culture, and Progress," I can't help but think of Al Bustamante.

	Al, we should be telling your story to young people all across America--how you came up the hard way, as a migrant worker; how you were able to finish college because a janitor at the university believed in you and lent you money; and how you went on to become a leading voice in Congress for extending educational opportunity to all of our young people.  Albert, you don't just speak for and work for and fight for the American Dream; you exemplify the American Dream.

	I'm the son of immigrants--and proud of it.  And so are many of you.  And we have American dreams and aspirations.  To enjoy the birthright of every American: to be a first-class citizen in a first-class country.  That's what we want for all our citizens; and that's the kind of future we're going to build in America, beginning January 20, 1989.

	We're going to pass the National Economic Development Act and invest in community development and new jobs in states and communities that need help.

	We're going to work together to see that the children who enter school this fall in New York and Dallas and Miami and Chicago and all across America will be the best prepared, best skilled, and best educated in the world.

	We're going to open the door of college opportunity to every youngster in this country who's capable of doing college work.

	We're going to pass a welfare reform law that will give hundreds of thousands of families the training they need to lift themselves out of poverty and become independent and self-sufficient.

	We're going to have an Attorney General who believes in justice for all, a Civil Rights Commission that fights for civil rights, and a new president who's dedicated to ending racism and sexism and anti-Semitism and all forms of discrimination in America--and I mean ending it once and for all.

	We're going to make good on a commitment Harry Truman made almost forty years ago--basic health insurance for every American family.

	And we're going to have a real war--not a phony war - against drugs.  George Bush says he wants to put his vice president in charge of the war against drugs.  President Reagan tried that and he failed.

	We're going to create a partnership that will help build decent and affordable housing for every family in this country; and end the shame of homelessness in America.

	We're going to pass a minimum wage bill.

	And we're going to pass the ABC Bill so that parents won't have to choose between the job they need and the children they love.

	Now, some people think it's enough to wake up after eight years and then promise opportunity for one Hispanic; I want to stand with you and create opportunity for 20 million Hispanic citizens across this country.  The kind of opportunity we've worked hard to create in my state for the past ten years for our Hispanic community.  And I want to have Hispanics serving at every level of my Administration just as they have in my state Administration.

	I want to move beyond election year rhetoric to a real record of creating new jobs, teaching new skills, opening new doors and improving the quality of life for Hispanic families--and for all our families--because that's what real leadership is all about.

	Above all, I want to work with you.  Because that's how we're going to build a future of opportunity and hope for all Americans.

	I'll never forget the exhilaration of that night when 1200 people waited for me in 99 degree heat near McAllen, Texas.  I'll never forget that morning in San Antonio two days before Super Tuesday--when Kitty and I joined many of you at a beautiful Mass and I read the scriptures and then spoke to more than 5000 people.  I'll never forget the warmth and enthusiasm of our rallies in Los Angeles and New York, Chicago and Miami and Denver.

	Now, we're entering the final leg of this marathon.  And, in just eight weeks, the American people will be asked to choose the man who will lead America to the threshold of the 21st Century.

	The issue in this campaign is not who believes in America.  The issue is:  What kind of America do we believe in?

	I believe in the America that welcomed my immigrant parents.

	An America where you don't have to leave your heritage, your language, and your culture at the door; but where all of us are encouraged to walk through that door of opportunity, proud of the special contributions we make to American life.

	I believe in an America where hard work is rewarded; where American goods and American workmanship are the best in the world; where there are good jobs and good wages for all our people, no matter who they are or where they come from or what the color of their skin.

	And I believe in an America that's as strong militarily as it is economically; an America that knows its values; that defends its beliefs; and that commands respect throughout the world.

	The summer I spent in Peru was one of the best experiences of my life.  And it gave me a once-in-a-lifetime chance to speak Spanish.  Hasta hay quiennes dicen que yo soy mas carismatico en espanol que cuando hablo en ingles.  Yo creo que tiene mucho que ver con el idioma.  Cierto?

	But my relationship with the Hispanic community is based not just on a common language but on common values.  Values that run deep in you heritage and in mine.  Values we share with all Americans.

	When I speak the language of economic opportunity, I'm speaking your language--and the language of all Americans.

	When I stand up for America's hardworking families, I'm speaking your language--and the language of all Americans.

	When I fight for good housing and health care and educational opportunity for all our people, I'm speaking your language--and the language of all Americans.

	When I say we don't need a shooting war in Central America - we need a war against poverty and exploitation and injustice throughout Latin America; I'm speaking your language--and the language of all Americans.

	When I say we don't need to lecture the people of Mexico; we need to work with the leaders and the people of that great country to create good jobs and real opportunity on both sides of the border; I'm speaking your language--and the language of all Americans.

	And, when I say that those in the highest offices in the land must meet the highest ethical standards; that the back door of the White House must not be the front door for paid agents of foreign dictators and drug runners; that in the Dukakis White House, the staff will pledge allegiance to only one flag - Old Glory--I'm speaking your language--and the language of all Americans.

	Because I know that the language of your communities is the language of patriotism--real patriotism.  The spirit that inspires people to work hard and pay our country's bills and fight our country's wars.  The spirit that inspires Hispanic Americans to answer the call to community service and public service and military service.  The spirit that inspires steelworkers and school teachers and small business people.  And the spirit that has inspired so many Hispanic winners of the Medal of Honor.

	My friends, real patriotism doesn't try to divide Americans; it works to unite us.

	Real patriotism doesn't indulge in self-service; it answers the call to public service.

	Real patriotism doesn't waste; real patriotism doesn't speculate; real patriotism invests.

	Real patriotism is a teacher like Jaime Escalante inspiring his students to "stand and deliver."  And, by the way, I like that motto--"Stand and deliver."  That's not only a good definition of what a teacher should do and a student should do; that's a good definition of what a president must do.

	Real patriotism is heroes like Ray Benevidez and Joseph Rodriguez defending freedom on the battlefield.

	Real patriotism is entrepreneurs like David Lizarraga and Manny Medina creating new jobs and new opportunities.

	Real patriotism is Cesar Chavez and Jack Otero defending the dignity of working men and women.

	Real patriotism is public servants like Henry Cisneros, Rafael Hernandez-Colon, Francisco Pena, Raul Martinez, Herman Badillo, and my friend and colleague Manny Carballo, who was taken from us, tragically, before his time.

	Real patriotism is Willie Velasquez, a great man, a good friend, who brought new people and new ideas into courthouses and city halls and state capitals throughout the Southwest--and who brought new energy into our entire political system.

	My friends, Willie's faith in the American dream, his dedication to democracy, and his vision of empowering and ennobling all our people--Willie Velasquez' life work is the highest form of patriotism.

	You and I share his vision.  We share his dream.  We share a commitment to a future of "education, culture, and progress."  And together we're going to make every American a first-class citizen in a first-class country.

	Y poco a poco.

	Paso a paso.

	Mano a mano.

	Juntos.

	Vamos a ganar.

HEROES/HEROISMLATIN AMERICAPATRIOTISMHISPANIC AMERICANS     N$ 