
	I want to say a special word about your senatorial race here. I've never liked the idea of an outsider's coming in and talking very much about something that is the business primarily of a state's own citizens. But we all know that what happened here in Maryland six years ago has become a symbol for something that is important not just in one state, but in the nation. And what is at stake here affects us all.

	In 1950, this great state was abused by one of the most shameless campaigns of distortion ever to disgrace an American election. The man who profited by that campaign, Senator Butler, now asks you to reelect him to the Senate. When it comes to faking photographs to create fear, arouse passions, and get votes, our politics is poisoned. And the price Maryland and the nation paid for that was an honest, able, courageous Senator--Millard Tydings.

	A man who would win by such tactics deserves to be beaten. When he recalls the campaign of 1950, Senator Butler now tries to make us believe that he was just a fool, in order that we do not think him a knave. But neither a knave nor a fool is a fit representative for Maryland in the United States Senate.

	President Eisenhower began this campaign by issuing an appeal for truth and responsibility in politics. Does Senator Butler measure up to those qualities in our political life even to the most implacable and partisan Republican?

	And President Eisenhower has spoken often of what he calls the new Republicanism. Does Senator Butler--who voted against public housing, against Social Security for the totally disabled, against the regulation of natural gas, against the censure of Senator McCarthy, against full development at Hell's Canyon--does such a man as this express what the President regards as the essence of new Republicanism? It makes even the old Republicanism look a little fresher.

	You know I've heard a lot about how President Eisenhower was remaking the Republican party in his own image. But I see no evidence of the Old Guard's respect for his leadership beyond his value at the polls. He even threatened to form a third party in disgust, but instead of fighting the Old Guard, it looks to me as though he had joined them.

	Whether your verdict is that Mr. Butler was a fool or a knave in 1950, Maryland deserves better representation in the United States Senate. And I hope that the responsible citizens of Maryland, of both parties, will help restore the honor of the state and join the support of fighting Democratic candidate, George Mahoney.

	Well, we are now approaching the end of the campaign. I had hoped that by this time issues would have begun to emerge in a responsible national debate. But it hasn't worked out that way. My opponent has now made more than a dozen speeches. He has a birthday party--on television, of course. He has received tributes from assorted groups of citizens at so-called television press conferences. He has ridden around in the bubbletop car. But we're all still in the dark about what he means to do if reelected.

	He says he's running on his record--what record? The legislative record? Well, that was just about zero, during two years of a Republican Congress--and he's asking for another--the record is what a Democratic Congress accomplished in two years over the opposition of most of his own party leaders and often of the candidate himself.

	Or is it the record in foreign affairs? When we're in trouble and losing ground from Iceland to Japan; when our blunders in the Middle East have cost the West--the Suez Canal--and given the Communists a toehold the Czars could never get; when our alliances are shaken; when neutralism is spreading and Communism probing every recess of the globe.

	We view with admiration, with sympathy, with hope, the struggle for freedom that has now broken out in Poland and Hungary. A few days ago the Republican "Truth Squad" said it was due to Republican foreign policy--an appalling bit of bad taste, of disloyalty and stupidity.

	Asked yesterday about the claims that we instigated those great national uprisings, Secretary Dulles said "tommyrot," and Secretary Wilson said "we had nothing to do with it."

	For my part, our part, I would like to apologize to the brave men and women who have risked and given all for freedom in Poland and Hungary for partisan efforts to exploit their heroism for votes in our election.

	And we view with grave anxiety the rising fires in Israel and Egypt, fires that have threatened for so long to engulf the Middle East. Yet barely a fortnight ago President Eisenhower blandly assured us in one of those television spectaculars that he had good news from Suez.

	But the story of threats, bluffs, foolish words, and alternate smiles and saber-rattling, of provocations and appeasements from the day the president startled his administration with talk about unleashing Chiang Kai-shek is long and dreary. Is it any wonder that our influence has ebbed, that our star is low on the horizon? Yet the President assures us that our prestige has never been higher.

	Just what has our President said in his campaign?

	He is in favor of national unity. Anybody here against national unity?

	The President says he's in favor of good government. Anybody here against good government?

	My opponent has come out four-square for prosperity, national strength, and national security. And you've got to respect his clear and forthright opposition to inflation, deflation, fission, fusion and confusion, doubt, doom and gloom (and fog and smog).

	Also he is fearlessly for health, right-thinking, happiness--and golf!

	Now these are worthy statements. We all applaud them. But do they add up to political leadership in a time of gigantic crisis? In fact, do they even fulfill the normal obligation of any candidate to tell the people what he'll do if he's elected.

	In all the words he has uttered, he has told you almost nothing about the great issues of the campaign.

	If he has anything on his mind to propose to Congress in January, he is certainly keeping it a secret.

	If he wants to do anything--except to win reelection--he has managed to conceal his objectives from most of the voters.

	Do you know what he wants to do about the Taft-Hartley Act?

	Do you know what he has in mind to improve the system of medical care for our people?

	Do you know how he means to help our old citizens, so many of whom are living today in want and neglect?

	Of course, you don't know.

	What about his housing program? His conservation program? His education program? His defense program? His immigration program? His program to develop atomic energy for peaceful purposes? His program to keep the cost of living down--which is now at the highest in our history? Not a word--not a word.

	What about civil rights?

	This morning's paper carried the latest report on the cynicism and the hypocrisy which has marked this Republican campaign. Here is the story on the front page of this morning's New York Herald Tribune, a story written by a reporter who is the official biographer, in his spare moments, of the Eisenhower administration. The headline, "President Stumps South In Desegregation Plaza," was obviously written to suggest that the Republican candidate is crusading for civil rights. But if you read down in the story you come to the facts: "The President nowhere mentioned the Supreme Court decision... indeed he dismissed the civil rights question only in passing and in the broadcast terms."

	And in Richmond, the Republican candidate made a gracious and deserved reference to a beloved Virginian, General George Marshall. How cynical can a presidential candidate be? What Mr. Eisenhower said yesterday in Virginia, in an obvious bid for Virginia's votes, is what he took out of his speech four years ago in Wisconsin at the instance of Senator McCarthy. But that was when he needed McCarthy's help. Today the President is warmer about his old benefactor, General Marshall.

	The Republican claim credit for instituting desegregation in the Armed Forces. The fact of the matter is that desegregation was instituted in the Armed Forces under the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt--and I know something about this, because I had a proud part in initiating this process in the United States Navy. But the real charter of desegregation in the Armed Forces is a document known as Executive Order 9981. This was the order which established desegregation as a uniform service policy. When was this order issued? Under the Eisenhower administration? Certainly not. It was issued on July 26, 1948--and it was signed by President Harry S. Truman.

	But this isn't all the story. In that same year, the Chief of Staff of the United States Army was testifying before a congressional committee on the subject of desegregation. The Chief of Staff was unhappy about desegregation. He didn't want it carried too far. In fact, he said, that if carried too far it would get us "into trouble." And who was this Chief of Staff? His name was Dwight D. Eisenhower.

	And this isn't all the story either. For this same Dwight D. Eisenhower was running for president in 1952. The question of desegregation in the Armed Forces came up in that campaign. And Candidate Eisenhower admitted, on October 31, 1952--and I quote--"Now, so far as I know, there is nothing in the way of segregation in the Army, Navy, Air Force or Marines left--at least as a matter of official record." He admitted then, in other words, that we Democrats had pretty well completed that work.

	But it is this same Dwight D. Eisenhower who today tries to claim all credit for desegregation in the Armed Forces for the Republican party. How far can Republican effrontery go?
AFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL RIGHTSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNMILITARY PERSONNEL--DISCRIMINATION     ' & & & &
 & & & & & & |& r&	 ] 	 L 	 @ 	 " e: