

	It may surprise all to know, in view of all the Republican propaganda to the contrary, that if I am elected this fall I intend to run a clean, honest government. What is more, I know what I am talking about; I have cleaned up a lot of evil Republican practices in Illinois and cracked down quickly and ruthlessly on misconduct wherever I have found it. I even have a trained investigator in my office whose job it is to look for it all the time. And I have, frankly, been amazed by the self-righteous way the Republicans in the national campaign arrogate all the simple virtues of honesty, decency, indeed loyalty, to themselves while resorting to every low device to corrupt the minds of the voters.

	If I am elected, I am also going to run an economical government. And I know something about that, too. I have run a tight-fisted, balanced-budget government in Illinois--and I had to do it, incidentally, without much help from a Republican legislature.

	As I said a few days ago in Baltimore, I have vetoed more appropriation bills than any governor in the history of Illinois, and I rather liked the exercise. Incidentally, when it comes to economy in government, I will gladly weigh the experience and training of a governor any day alongside that of any military man. Until this campaign began I had not heard that generals were exactly celebrated for their devotion to economy.

	But honesty and economy are only a part of good government. Government exists for a purpose, and in our country the purpose of government is to preserve the rights and advance the well-being of all our people.

	That is the kind of government the Democrats have been providing, and that is why we keep getting elected.

	Around Pendleton here you have some of the finest wheat-producing land in the whole world. My party has worked year in and year out for sound agricultural policies-- policies that will give farmers and their families fair incomes and a fair parity of living standards with everybody else in the country. This is the immediate purpose behind our price support system, and soil conservation program, and rural electrification, and crop insurance, and the rest of our farm program. The larger purpose, of course, is to preserve our basic resource--the land.

	In 1948 the farmers of this area thought well before they voted and they voted wisely. I hope you will do the same this year. The Republican leaders in Congress have stood steadily and concisely against our farm legislation. They have been against it for a long while. In 1933, the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted 2 to 1 against the old original triple-A. They haven't changed. In June of this year, 1952, a majority of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against extending price supports at 90 percent of parity for wheat and other basic commodities.

	What's more, the Republican leadership has warned the farmer what to expect in the future. Senator Taft has already said he is against 90 percent price supports. And the General has agreed to follow Senator Taft's lead on domestic matters.

	To our people of the western country, the question of natural resource development is of vital and pressing concern.

	The General had some nice things to say the other day about upstream storage on our rivers, to hold back flood waters and release them later for power development. So have I. But the General carefully avoided discussing the biggest storage dam proposed in the Pacific Northwest--Hell's Canyon Dam, over on the Oregon-Idaho line. Of course the General couldn't be for Hell's Canyon Dam--everyone out here knows that dam has been bitterly opposed by his supporters.

	I don't know when we can afford to build that dam, but I do know that the controversy is really over the full development of great resources by government and their partial development by private utilities. And that in turn reflects the difference between the approach of the two parties.

	I think you know the Democratic party stands for full development of our resources for the good of all the people. Where private enterprise can do the job, I am for it. Where the job cannot be done by private enterprise, the job should be done by government as fast as possible consistent with what we can wisely afford.

	Where the government builds a dam and develops power, the resulting benefits should be made available to all the people on a basis of fair competition and equal opportunity. The same policy of fair competition and equal opportunity applies to the public lands and the national forests.

	The general talked about the national forests in Portland the other night, but he did not talk sense. The real issue concerning the forests is that of free competition against monopoly. This has been the issue for fifty years and more.

	It was the issue when Theodore Roosevelt and Gifford Pinchot in the early 1900s set out to save the forests and watersheds from being ruined for the benefit of a few big operators. The general paid tribute to Gifford Pinchot; but he apparently did not know that Pinchot, like Theodore Roosevelt, fought the Old Guard Republicans all his life and that he wound up by supporting Franklin D. Roosevelt.

	We must continue to operate the forests for the benefit of the many, not the few. We must continue to operate on a sustained yield basis. We must build access roads to open up more timber, and we must be sure those roads can be used by small operators as well as large. The little man must have a fair chance to bid for government timber.

	In the case of the grazing lands, we must continue re-seeding and improvement of the grass on the ranges, and we must make sure that while the ranges are fully used, they are not over-grazed. Our ranges will do us no good if they are allowed to wash away in silt.

	These are the principles of wise stewardship of public property, and they can and should be carried out with the help and advice of local people. A good start has been made by district boards in this state which advise on the administration of the public forests and grazing lands.

	These principles of wise stewardship are not Republican principles. Their platform this year talks about restoring the "traditional Republican public land policy." This has a suspicious ring.

	It is the kind of Republican policy referred to in the Democratic platform of 1892, on which my grandfather was elected vice president with Grover Cleveland. That platform observed that it had been Republican policy to give away "the people's heritage, till now a few railroads and non-resident aliens... possess a larger area than that of all our farms between the two seas."

	That was written in 1892. From that day to this the diehard Old Guardsmen have been eager to relax our hold on the people's property. Sometime I would like to see the General, who is indignant--as he should be--when someone is found digging into the public purse, show a little indignation about these assaults upon the people's property.

	We want policies that protect public property from wasteful exploitation and ensure its use for the common good.

	Those are the kind of policies I believe in and I think you do too. Our natural resources are not chips to be tossed about in a game of high stake poker. They're the foundation of the future well-being of ourselves and our children. We must use them but we must use them wisely if we are to feed and clothe and house ourselves, and keep our country safe.

	I would add a further word about timber resources. We must make sure that we develop to the fullest the timber resources of those first Americans, the American Indians. Like the rest of us Americans, the Indians today enjoy better times than ever before--the gross income from their agriculture alone is almost four times as great as it was ten years ago.

	But prosperity and material well-being are not enough. We must reconsider laws denying to Indians rights that are enjoyed by other citizens. We must pursue a policy of integrating the Indians fully into our national society--but only when they so desire and never at the expense of their ancient culture.

	And to the Indians we have a duty to recognize at long last, and to recognize fully, that they are valued citizens of America. Let us never forget the debt our nation owes to them. No other cultural group sent proportionately so many volunteers to fight for freedom in World War II.

	More than resources are involved in the life of the Northwest. What was once a raw material economy is becoming a highly developed agricultural and industrial region. Many problems follow from that and from your location. One of them is transportation and freight rates which place our region at a disadvantage. Freight rates should not discourage the new industries, the small and specialized industries, of the Northwest's future. The West should not be priced out of Eastern markets. And from what I have heard there is merit in the program of navigation improvements in the Columbia basin.

	Like most believers in our free enterprise system, I think an ounce of competition is worth a ton of regulation. And you are fortunate to have the Columbia River flowing through your land to provide competition in transportation as well as power for homes and farms and industry.

	This is a bustling, growing city in a bustling, growing land. We Democrats look forward, hopefully and eagerly, to the future. Like the pioneers who came to Pendleton on the Oregon Trail, we are not afraid to try the new, to dare the unknown.

	We know the tasks that lie ahead of this country--the tasks of building homes and raising food, of educating our children and assuring their good health--the tasks of building a better, more humane, more equal society in which discrimination and poverty will be banished--above all, the tasks of building peace in a world torn by conflict and menaced by ruthless tyranny.

	We are blocking this evil menace with arms in Korea. We are also steadfastly resisting any temptation or provocation to turn a small war into a big one. We are building the barricades in Europe with our allies.

	These tasks abroad require steadfastness, vision, courage and energy. Those are the qualities of Democratic leadership--they are not the qualities of the isolationists, the doubters, the scoffers, and the men of little faith in the Republican Old Guard.

	That is why I say to you, with all the earnestness I possess, think hard about this election. I had a letter the other day from a woman in Pennsylvania commending me in flattering terms. She concluded by saying "I do not think you talk above our heads. I am easily swayed by emotion, until I think, which I sometimes do."

AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION--PUBLIC LANDSHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESNATIVE AMERICANSNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTREGIONALISM--NORTHWESTTIMBER INDUSTRY/RESOURCESTRANSPORTATIONVETOGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     + R+ L+ H+ @+
 3+ .+ )+  + 