

	I am really obliged.  I hope that broom is strong and will last a long time, and I hope they have got a lot more of them.  I am probably going to need some more.

	First, I hope you will permit me to discharge a very pleasant duty.  I must thank each of you who has taken this time of a busy day to come out here, to let me greet him, face to face, and to explain to him a few of the thoughts that are on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	There are a number of things applying directly to Oklahoma City that I would like to mention.  The first one is this:  Someone has been telling me that you have a fair-to-middling football team down here. I think it is just a little bit too good in some ways. You know, I was born in Texas.  However, I would certainly like to see them play.

	Now, another thing:  As I came in along the line through this country, I met a lot of young Republicans, and I want to make my special bow to America's youth.  I have lived with them all my life.  Not only because the university is here, but because I want to point out to all of these young Americans--first voters or second voters, or maybe you haven't voted before for a number of reasons--that what we are trying to do now is not merely to win an election.  There is a cause involved here--a cause that means, and possibly is best expressed in these terms:  to provide the kind of government in our capital in which America can take real pride, a government that it can trust, and above all things, a government in which it can have faith, a government that will be composed of the kind of men and women who are of prestige in their own communities, so that you will say to yourselves--and this would be a good example--"If we have Congressman Burch up there, I know he is not going to let anything crooked happen."

	I want in the executive departments, in Congress and in the Senate--everybody in that government to be composed of the kind of people you know.  The people who are from Oklahoma--you know they are top-flighters; you say they are incorruptible men.  They will get corruption out of government by keeping it out; they won't let it get there in the first place. I know that Mr. Ed Burch is that kind of a fellow and I would be delighted if you could put him on the team with us.

	I want to say a word about Tinker Field.  First, I should like to say, give my greetings to every member of that command who met me here and along with them, everybody else who has worn the uniform of our country.  I feel for them a close bond of kinship and friendship, and I want to assure them that all of the things they have heard about me wanting to cut their pay--and all that sort of rotten lie--are just lies. That kind of statement on the part of the opposition does sort of symbolize and typify the depths to which they have fallen.  Having no program, having worn out all the political promises there are in the last twenty years, they now have to turn to a fear program.  So they would have you people fear that I want to take away Tinker Field.  Why would I, with its important position in our security arrangement?  That is another of their falsehoods.

	Now, I want to say a word to the earliest inhabitants of this country;  the Indians.  In Arizona and New Mexico, I assured many old friends among them that if the American people see fit to charge me with the responsibility devolving upon the presidency of the United States, whenever there is an official sent up that has any responsibility with respect to our Indians, they will be consulted as to his identity, his probity, his decency and his fairness.  The purpose of that government will be, as it will be in the case of all other groups, to see that there is no discrimination practiced.

	Now, before I leave these little special messages and greetings that I had on my mind, I am quite sure that you wouldn't want me to miss my old friends of the forty-fifth.  They went through a rather long, hard affair with me, and they have my admiration and my affection.  From the very earliest days of World War II they were a top-flight outfit.

	In this crusade in which we are engaged, I want to make one point clear.  This crusade is based clearly on moral and spiritual values; just as truly as our form of government is based on a deeply felt, religious faith, so is this crusade based on that same kind of values.  Let us remember what our founding fathers said.  In order to explain the American type of government to the world, they said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights."

	You see, they didn't make the mistake of trying to say that these rights came from any natural or physical or material law.  They said, "These men are endowed by their Creator," making it clear at the outset that there is no explanation for free government unless we understand that it is definitely based on some kind of deeply felt religious faith.

	This crusade is to restore to all echelons of the federal government the kind of government that they envisioned and that they foresaw.  We want to put into it the kind of men and women who will be incorruptible, who will perform the functions of government as the founding fathers foresaw these functions should be performed.  So, in that light, I want to make special mention of the function that women have in this crusade, because the women, after all, are the keepers of our homes; they are the ones who, from earliest babyhood, teach our youngsters the values by which the rest of their lives are guided.  They teach them that honesty is more than just protecting your pocketbook; it is a virtue.  It is a virtue among American men and women, among all civilized men and women, in itself, and its practice gives a great satisfaction to the individual.

	In the same way, all of the other virtues that we find--honesty, integrity, decency, fairness, readiness and desire to help our fellow men, all that sort of thing--are embedded deeply in the concept of our government.  And it is women, in the first instance, who have the chore--the job--of embedding those things deeply in the consciousness of our youth.  It is through them, therefore, not only that the race is preserved, but that the immortal values of this nation are preserved.

	In like fashion, you people know how badly we need the young in this crusade.  The young, after all, have a tremendous stake in where this country is going.  If they are lucky, they have got sixty years; if I am lucky, I have got twenty.  The way I look at it, any one of them owns three times as much of the United States as I do.  Consequently, they want to know exactly what is going to happen, and what is it that we of the older generation can turn over to them.  We can turn over to them the lessons and the experience of our own generation.  By no means are all of them pleasant experiences:  two World Wars, then after the last one an uneasy peace that has results, finally--or permitted--the outbreak of the Korean War.  That kind of experience is the kind of thing we want to help them to avoid.

	We must be very honest--we must be very soul-searching--as we go back over those experiences and try to figure out where we were at fault--Why did it happen?  How did it happen--and pass it on to them.  So that they, with their idealism, their great stake in this country, can apply those lessons and do far better than we did.

	So, if you will pardon a direct word to them, I want to say this:  If you will never forget that truth that our founding fathers so clearly expounded--that our nation, our system, is deeply embedded in a religious faith--you will have your first guidepost along your route through life and through history.  And you won't go far wrong as long as you observe that.

	Again I call on my old friends, the veterans, for a word here, and for a little bit of corroboration.  It has been my fortune to spend my life with the young of America, and I found, in war, that there were two questions a soldier always had on the very tip of his tongue.  The first, When do we go home?  The second, What are we going to find when we get there?  He might be thinking in terms of his sweetheart and whether she was still waiting, or anything else.  Or what he was going to do, whether he was going back to school or going back to his job.  But he always thought:  What kind of a country is it now going to be?

	He realized he was passing through a great cataclysm.  He was over in foreign lands and he remembered what he saw there and how they did things.  He grew uneasy:  maybe those things were going to apply at home.  I used to tell him, "We are going home to a land of freedom; that is why we are fighting this war.  You are here to make certain that yours is going to continue to be the land of opportunity, that you will be your own boss, and that your boss won't be a Hitler or anything like that.  You will do as you please, think as you please, act as you please, earn as you please, and save as you please, subject only to legitimate and decent taxes."

	And between us, those soldiers and I used to envision an America of constantly expanding opportunity in growth and prosperity and riches.  After all, we had heard of this atomic bomb, we finally knew that it had been used.  We had seen the wonders of radar, all of the other marvelous inventions that came into that war to help us be more efficient and destructive, and in our minds we translated those things and those discoveries into the peaceful economy of our country.

	We envisioned those things.  And now, what are we told?  Merely, "Don't let them take it away."

	What kind of song is that for America?

	I would call that, if I may be permitted one Latin word--of course I am not supposed to be the educated candidate--the hymn on the status quo.  Just stay where you are; get no more.  Now of course if you earn no more, if you do no better, how are you going to take care of the education of your children when they grow older or when some more come along?  We have got to grow, we have got to expand, and any song and philosophy that says merely "Don't let them take it away" is completely defeatist and is un-American.

	If we are going to have those things, let's look forward to good government, not corruption.  Why do we have to line the pockets of some tax collector?  It is hard enough to pay legitimate taxes.  I don't see why we have to pay the chiselers and the crooks.  If you get a government of the kind I described, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that in the space of a year or two you won't have to have nine of the principal tax collectors in the United States relieved for malfeasance in office.  That just won't happen.

	If you get the kind of men I describe, they will be efficient; they will be businessmen.  They will not tolerate the waste that we have seen, the kind of waste that gets two airfields in Northwest Africa for the price of five.  We are not going to have that.  You will have loyal servants in government.  You will not have to hunt out subversion.  But if there does come evidence that some of these Communists have crawled into some remote spot of government, you can make sure that once that evidence is turned up by any investigative body of government, there won't be years of foot dragging and screaming "red herring" before something is done about it.  And we won't be reading in our papers that our atom secrets have been stolen or filched from us and carried to Moscow.

	Now, of course the opposition in spreading its catalog of fear and trying to get you to buy fear tells you, "Oh, if you put those people into office who call themselves crusaders, those Republicans and their friends, the Independents and the enlightened Democrats, there won't be any social security.  They will take away the old-age pension.  There won't be any job insurance.  They will take everybody and just throw them in the creek."  Now, that kind of hate and fear and lie is not campaigning.  That is just trying to spread poison and nothing less. 

	What the Republican platform pledges them to do is to extend and improve the social security program.  See how your pension rates were set up.  Of course, in a crowd like this they are all young but older people are on pensions.  Let's say a particular pension was forty-eight dollars when it was given.  Today what is it worth?  Maybe thirty dollars.  What the Republicans are pledged to do is to stop that money from going down so that you can buy the amount of groceries or pay the amount of rent or get the clothes that it was thought you could when it was first established.

	Everybody in this crusade is committed to stabilizing money and to quit living off the piggy banks of our children and the I.O.U.'s of our grandchildren.  We have already put them in debt to this extent, my friends:  This evening when the sun goes down there will be six thousand more Americans living than there were last evening when the sun went down.  Now, most of those new Americans, of course, are our new babies.  Do you know the first present we give to each of these newborn babies?  We make them presents of a 1,750 dollar debt.  When in the life or the history of America have we done a thing like that to a newborn baby?  Before he can work for himself, he has got to dig up 1,750 dollars and turn it over to the government, before he can even start.  It used to be the expense of having a baby; now it is the expense of being a baby.

	Now finally, this crusade aims to lead us in a more intelligent path toward peace.  It is quite clear today that as long as this Communist menace exists with anything like its current strength in the Eurasian land mass, there can be no peace of the kind we envision, a peace where people can live like decent, civilized, religious folks together.  But we can have that peace that comes about from the confidence that the other fellow can't hurt us.  That can come about when we have forged, with the other free nations of the world, a bond of friendship, not just merely the relationship of debtor to creditor.  You can't buy loyalty.  Every soldier and fighting man here knows you can't buy loyalty on the battlefield.  You have got to have friends.

	How are you going to promote friends?  By being worthy of friendship.  And how is our government going to be worthy of friendship abroad if it is not worthy of your pride at home?  Spreading lies to be re-elected and to perpetuate yourselves, telling the farmer and the laborer, "If you let these new people in they will certainly cut the legs right out from under you and throw a body block that you will hear clear across the grandstand"?  Now, that kind of thing, as I say, is not campaigning.

	The Republicans have not only participated in every one of our enlightened farm programs, protection of farmers against disasters where they can't protect themselves, but they have pledged this:  When it comes time in the future to begin to study these programs and how we adjust them to changing and future conditions, farmers will be brought in and farm leaders will be brought in.  They will be consulted, and not the way they are consulted now:  "You do this or you will get no more."  They will be consulted on what is the problem of their locality.  We have no intention in this crusade of getting a bunch of long-haired Brannan experts to come out and run your farms.  We figure you can do it a little better.

	And the same goes for labor.  A pledge I made to labor on Labor Day really applies to the whole country.  I am going to sum up my whole little talk, I think, in the pledge I made to them, which was this:  If you people want to charge this group, this crusade, with responsibility for directing the destinies of America in the next four years, we would hope that at the end of those four years you could turn over the events of the whole period in your time and you could say, "That government of ours, they were fair.  They were fair to all of us.  In everything they did they thought of the good of the 155 million people and they didn't try to buy votes from one group at the expense of another.  Second, they were just.  In everything they did they tried to apply standards of justice as God gave them the power to see justice.  And finally, they were friendly.  They knew they were part of us.  They were just ordinary folks that came right out of this crowd and we sent them down to Washington and there they did their job as well as they knew how, because they didn't try to rule over us.  They just tried to work with us."  And finally you would say, "And by golly, they were honest."

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, when I entered this campaign I did it out of a sense of dedication, that I owed something to the millions of men and women who had served with me and that I owed it to their friends and their families to represent a certain viewpoint in government.  Whatever decision you people make, I am going to accept it not only fully but very happily.  I want merely to make certain that America, as long as she exists, can be certain she can look toward Washington and say, "There are people who are just like us.  We trust them."

	Now, this is not very political, I suppose.  In fact, when I started this campaign I knew I had a great handicap.  I am not a politician.  I never was, and I am not now.  I am here before you as an American ready to undertake with the great army of associates that I know can be marshaled in Washington to do a job if you want me to do it.  If you do, I will be seeing you.

	I hope that my voice will carry to those veterans in the Will Rogers Hospital.  I would like to assure you that it has always been my practice in going through any city to get a chance to go to the Veterans Hospital.  I am in a new type of campaign where I am not quite my own master.  In fact, I am allowed only two stops in Oklahoma at all.  I am delighted with this cake.  I treasure their thought and I thank them sincerely.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCOMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDEBT, NATIONALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY CUTBACKSMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENNATIVE AMERICANSRELIGION AND PHILOSOPHYSOCIAL SECURITYVETERANSYOUTH     H G G G G
 G G G G G G G G	 		  	  	  	  	  	  	 q 	 ` 	 C 	 3 	  	  	  e: