

	I didn't know that Warren Beatty was such a good speaker.  Thank you for your leadership in tonight's dinner and for hosting the event.  To my dear friend Senator Alan Cranston.  To Gary Hart, who on the day I was nominated came over to my hotel in San Francisco and said, "I'm signed on for this whole campaign, full time, to elect you president."  I thank Gary Hart.

	To Lieutenant Governor Leo McCarthy:  Thank you for your leadership.  To Senator Art Torres, who has headed up much of my statewide campaign.  To my dear friend and one of the finest public servants in the United States, Tom Bradley, the mayor of this good city.  And, if I could recognize a special guest, my daughter, Eleanor Jane Mondale.

	And I want to thank Lily Tomlin and Randy Newman for entertaining for us this evening.  To all of the artists who have lent their names and their support to our campaign, both Gerry and I thank you.

	I want to say one thing that I've locked in my heart as a secret for years.  The reason that I wanted to run for president rather than to come to Hollywood and be an actor is that I'll be damned if I'll stand behind one of these plastic see-through podiums for the rest of my life.  We've got them all covered up in Washington.  You can do anything you want behind them.

	Today I was in Stanford, and we had a marvelous rally.  The president, Mr. Kennedy, told me they are looking forward to the construction of the Reagan Presidential Library in Stanford.  I said, "What's that to be proud of?  Every university has a presidential library."

	He said, "This one is going to be different."  The scholars were already calling from all over the world because they know when this reference library is set up, they will find facts in that library they can find nowhere else on earth.

	This campaign is now wide open.  The American people, starting in Louisville and then in Philadelphia, were finally able to see what is at stake.  They were able to see the difference in issues, in approach, and in candidates.

	It is just as though you threw a big switch--like night and day.  We went to New York to the Italian American parade.  They had three times as many people at that parade than they have ever had before, half a million people.  It was like a pile-up on a goal line, and people were saying, "Let's go.  Let's win this thing."

	I went to Pittsburgh, and they had the largest audience rally in the history of downtown Pittsburgh.  Gerry and I went to Madison, Wisconsin.  I have never seen a larger crowd in my life.

	People are engaged.  They are thinking, and they want to get involved.  Finally, we have a campaign in which each voter has a choice and a chance to influence this election.

	This is what we fought to do.  The Republicans are trying to trivialize this election, but this election is not about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's about toxic dumps that give cancer to our children.

	It's not about whistle-stop trains.  It's about old folks who can't pay for medicine.

	It's not about getting your picture taken at McDonald's.  It's about children in America who go to bed hungry.

	It's not about who's proud of our Olympics.  We're all proud of our Olympic athletes who won the gold for us here in LA.  It's about those civil rights acts and those laws that prohibit discrimination against black and brown Americans and against women that permitted all of our young Americans to participate to win that Olympics and the gold for all of us.

	This election is not about sending a teacher into space.  It's about educating our children here on earth.

	It's not about Minnie Pearl and cutting birthday cakes in Nashville.  It's about finally ratifying the Equal Rights Amendment, and equal pay for comparable effort.

	It's also about getting behind us that attitude in which a few Americans find it difficult to accept on her own terms the qualifications and the legitimacy and the fact that Geraldine Ferraro has earned this position, argued and campaigned effectively, would make a great vice president of the United States, and ought to be accepted in her own right, without these criticisms that we have been hearing.

	This election is not about Republicans putting commercials on television.  It's about Jerry Falwell putting justices on the Supreme Court.

	This election is not about arm wrestling.  It's about arms control and getting a president who will lead us in the direction of a safer world.

	Yesterday, the president added a new issue to the campaign.  He said he wants to debate the question of who is confused about national strength.  I'm pleased to join in that debate, and it began today.

	When it comes to peace, I don't question the president's good intentions, but there's a difference between dreaming of peace and working effectively to achieve it.  A president must be in touch and in charge.  He must master the facts.  He must listen, learn, command, and lead.

	But we don't have that today.  Mr. Reagan's own secretary of state has called the White House a "ghost ship."  A leading columnist the other day said this:  "Mr. Reagan is the most passive, remotest president since Coolidge.  He is uninformed, unwilling to grapple with the tough issues."

	For anyone who cared to see, that is what the debate showed.  It stripped away the illusion that Ronald Reagan is governing.  In that debate, I quoted Will Rogers about Hoover.  He said, "It isn't what he doesn't know that bothers me.  It's all those things he knows for sure that just ain't so."

	If you just listen and read what he's said on this issue over the last few years, it's clear.  Mr. Reagan may know for sure that submarine missiles can be recalled after they've been fired.

	Just think about that a minute.  You're a submarine commander.  You fire the missile.  It comes out of the water, goes up through the air for several thousand miles and then it stops.  Then, just like an old movie, it rolls backwards and down there and in through the water and back in the hole, and nobody's hurt.  He may think that's true, but it just ain't so.

	He may think that bombers and submarines don't carry nuclear warheads, but it just ain't so.

	He may think, as he said the other night, that two-thirds of the defense budget goes to pay and pensions, but it just ain't so.

	He may think that turning the heavens into a battleground makes it safer, but it just ain't so.

	He may think that $7,600 for a coffeepot is a bargain, but it just ain't so.

	He may think that an illegal war in Nicaragua and a military buildup in Honduras are the answers for Central America, but it just ain't so.

	He may think that you advance human rights by cozying up to the racists in South Africa, the oppressors in the Philippines and elsewhere, but it just ain't so.

	He may think he can pass the buck in Lebanon, but it just ain't so.

	Mr. President, you may think you are going to win this election, but it just ain't so.

	Next Sunday night, the nation will see a thorough debate over national defense, security, and foreign affairs.  For thirty years, Mr. Reagan has had a naive and primitive notion of strength.  He has acted as though no one had strength except him.

	He criticized Kennedy for not taking what he called the final step in the Cuban crisis.  He criticized Johnson for not threatening to use atomic bombs in Vietnam.  He criticized Ford and Kissinger for, as he put it, "bowing and scraping" to the Soviets.  He said that Ford was making America so weak, that we were so far behind that, if he kept [it up], we would never catch up.

	When Kennedy called for the atmospheric test ban, he opposed it because he said it was weak.  When Johnson proposed the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, he opposed it because he said it made us look weak.  When Nixon proposed SALT I and the ABM treaties, he opposed those because [he said] they made us look weak.

	When Ford proposed the Vladivostok Accords, the same answer.  And when Carter proposed SALT II, the same answer.

	His record since being president has been to drop SALT II, argue for an arms race, to say nuclear war is winnable, to say we might fire warning shots, to refuse to negotiate for the first one and a half years, to reject a medium-range missile agreement that might have worked, to propose an unworkable strategic arms proposal.

	He is the first president since Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart.  He is the first president since the bomb went off not to make any progress at all in arms control.  We have an arms race instead, and he wants to extend the arms race into the heavens.  That record is unacceptable to the American people, and we're going to turn it around.

	Never in modern history has there been a choice or a difference like this facing the American people.  When you reach for that voting lever, you actually hold your future and our future in your hands.

	If you pull their lever, you will pave the way for government intrusion into the most intimate decisions of your life.  But if you don't want politicians writing your prayers, running your private lives, then pull the lever that says Mondale-Ferraro.

	If you pull their lever, you'll put their values in charge of the vulnerable in our society.  They are the people who can't afford to be here this evening.  They are the seniors trying to make it go on a limited income.  They are the unemployed.  They are the handicapped.  They are the discriminated against.  They are poor, the helpless in American life.

	I don't believe America is some kind of jungle where they are on their own.  I believe America is a family, where we believe in independence and self-reliance but we also care for one another.  If you believe that, then pull the lever that says Mondale-Ferraro.

	If you pull their lever, they will think they have a mandate to send combat troops to Central America, but if you want a president who will keep us strong and use that strength to keep the peace and to reflect American values, then pull the lever that says Mondale-Ferraro.

	If you pull their lever, you'll be launching the arms race into the heavens.  But if you want to freeze the arms race on earth and stop it from extending into space, then pull the lever that says Mondale and Ferraro.

	The future of this country is made in heaven for our nation.  All we need is leadership to move us forward.  The contrasts are clear.  The difference in vision, the difference in perception, are as clear as they can be.

	I'm looking forward to this debate on Sunday night because I think it is time, and I think the American people, for four long years, have wanted to have it out with Mr. Reagan about his national and arms control policies, and we're going to do it.

	Thank you very much.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)     + * * * *
 * * * * * * * {*	 l 	 T 	   e: