

	It's wonderful to be in California to help you celebrate Hispanic Heritage Week.

	All over this country, people are joining in celebration of the values which have made this country great: the importance of family, faith in God, and an enduring belief in freedom. These are the values which Hispanic Americans have helped build in this country. These are the values which have contributed to your proud heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the values which will guide me as president.

	America draws its strength from its people. We are a nation in which government is the servant of the people, and not the other way around. That's what makes America so special.

	Our people are drawn from every corner of the earth--from every country--and yet, all of us can call America home, and all of us are proud to be Americans.

	That diversity is what makes America unique as a nation. Because even though we come from every corner of the earth, we are bound by the power of an idea. What unites us--our common belief in freedom--is stronger than any different background or culture.

	Today, I am happy to announce the formation of a group of Americans who are united by their belief in the principles which are driving my campaign. I am honored to have their support. But more importantly, I am honored to carry their cause to the American people. I am honored to lead a campaign built around shared values.

	My mission is to build a better America--an America where opportunity is available to all; an America which is strong, free, and proud; always proud.

	The group is Hispanics for Bush. It will be chaired by Katherine D. Ortega, who has served our nation with distinction and great ability as Treasurer of the United States.

	Joining Katherine will be many of you here today--including Cathi Villalpando, Rita di Martino of New York, Governor Bob Martinez of Florida, Councilman Roberto Sanchez of New Jersey, Congressman Manuel Lujan of New Mexico, and my own beloved daughter-in-law, Columba Garnica Bush.

	These leaders of the Hispanic community--these distinguished Americans--have come together because they share with me a fundamental sense of where we as a nation should go in the 1990s; a clear view of the direction America should take in the years ahead.

	At home, that direction is toward greater economic opportunity for all. The revolution which the President and I started eight years ago is working.

	Here in Los Angeles, it's only appropriate to quote Sergeant Joe Friday in reviewing the record: "Just the facts, ma'am." 17.8 million new jobs. Unemployment at 5.6 percent--hovering at a level it hasn't averaged for a whole year since 1974. Real GNP--the country's economy--has grown by over 20 percent since we took office. The longest economic expansion in peacetime history--now in its seventieth month.

	Let's remember one thing: economic expansions don't die from old age. They die from bad policies. Americans have good jobs, at good wages, and I am not going to let anyone take them away from you.

	Hispanic Americans have shared in America's new period of economic growth. Hispanic employment has increased at three times the rate of that for the country as a whole. 2.3 million more Hispanic Americans are at work today than when this recovery began--and unemployment among Hispanics is falling almost twice as fast now as it was under the other party.

	Per capita income for Hispanic Americans, adjusted for inflation, rose 13 percent between 1980 and 1987. It has risen every year since the recovery began, after falling under Jimmy Carter. What does that mean? It means more money in your pocket. And I am not going to let them take it away from you.

	But we're not finished. As President Reagan likes to say, "You ain't seen nothin' yet."

	Yesterday, I outlined some ways in which we can extend the economic expansion to include all Americans. I talked about enterprise zones, to help our inner cities, and cutting the capital gains tax to create new jobs.

	I talked especially about economic empowerment--giving people the skills, the education, and the training they need to succeed. I have proposed a sharp increase in Head Start, and a program for better schools. I have proposed that we establish college savings bonds to help families save for college.

	Education is the first step on the ladder to economic empowerment. That's why I'll be the education president.

	It's been said that the two most important bequests we can leave to our children are wings and roots. Education is the wings.

	I've also laid out a plan to help America's families balance the need to care for our children--to instill in them the roots that will carry them through life--with the need to work. My comprehensive childcare plan puts power where it belongs--not in the hands of bureaucrats, but in the hands of parents.

	I don't think there is anything wrong with families who choose relatives, neighbors, or churches to help care for the kids. My plan would help them; my opponent's would not. These families deserve our support.

	I also support the kind of job training program--spearheaded by the businesses who know best what skills are needed--that was pioneered by my running mate.

	Education. Skills. Opportunity. These are the building blocks of a brighter future for Hispanic Americans--and for all Americans. These are the blocks I would put in place as your president.

	I've discussed economic opportunity--but there is a second fundamental issue which unites us, and that is our view of America's role in the world.

	I believe that America has a special responsibility in this world, and that, in order to fulfill it, we must always be strong. And I will never let America be made weak again.

	America's security is no laughing matter. As John F. Kennedy said, "Bad domestic policy could get us defeated, bad foreign policy could get us killed."

	I believe in modernizing our nuclear forces; I believe in negotiating from a position of strength, and I believe in defending the cause of freedom around the world.

	Contrast this with my opponent.

	My opponent said that this is the week that he was going to spell out, at long last, some clear positions on national security issues.

	But on Monday of this week, I asked seven simple and straightforward questions. He still has not answered them. So let me repeat them this morning:

	1.	In light of your past statements, are you now willing to say that you support the American action that liberated Grenada?

	2.	Do you now support the air strike on Tripoli, Libya; a way of teaching Qaddafi a lesson and demonstrating to him the costs of continued terrorism?

	3.	Are you willing to acknowledge that SDI is neither a "fraud" nor a "fantasy," and are you prepared to go forward with the testing that is a necessary part of research?

	4.	Will you admit that deploying the Trident D-5 missile and the Stealth bomber and continuing flight testing of missiles are crucial to preserving our strategic Triad?

	5.	Given Soviet naval power in the Pacific and their increasing strength in the Mediterranean, where they are building a base in Syria that threatens Israel and NATO, will you admit that fifteen naval carrier task forces are essential for our national security?

	6.	Are you now willing to admit that your support for a nuclear freeze was a mistake?

	7.	Will you now join with the other governors and agree that we should finish development of GWEN (the Ground Wave Emergency Network) as part of an adequate and effective command, control, and communications system that is necessary for over deterrence?

	As I said on Monday, if my opponent cannot answer "yes" to all of these questions, then he has veered far away from the bipartisan consensus on America's national security which we had for many years.

	If he does say "yes," then the people are entitled to know why he flip-flopped; and they should ask how we will know that he won't change his positions again.

	This election represents the most important choice in a generation--a choice not just between two candidates, but between two outlooks, two philosophies, two sets of values.

	I see an America which is growing; an America whose best days are still ahead.

	My opponent sees a different America. An America in decline. A troubled America. Frankly, his is not a happy vision; not a positive vision; not a hopeful vision.

	Let me close with a little story about the new pride in America. It's about a little company in New Jersey--they make American flags. Back under Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale, times were tough. Flags weren't selling that well.

	Well, since we began restoring pride in the United States of America, business has been booming. Flag sales have taken off--and it seems this little company just can't make 'em fast enough. They even had to add a new plant.

	My friends, that's the kind of America I want to build. A better America. A proud America. An America with opportunity for all. An America that remains the flagship for freedom in this world.

	That is my mission. This morning, I ask for your help in completing it.

	Thank you and God bless you.

CHILD CAREEDUCATION--GENERALEMPLOYMENT--HISPANIC AMERICANSEQUAL OPPORTUNITYMILITARY PREPAREDNESSHISPANIC AMERICANS     $ $ $ $ $
 $ $ $ y$ o$ m$ M$ C$	 r 	 h 	 V 	 8 	 '   e: