

	Thank you very much to my colleague in the United States Senate Lee Metcalf, Congressman Meicher, Governor Guy, Congressman Link--who will be the successor to Governor Guy as the next governor of North Dakota. I want to make clear that he is not running against Governor Guy--Governor Guy has had the longest tenure of any governor in the United States and he is now moving on to other things by his own volition. Lieutenant Governor Tom Judge, who is going to be the next governor of the state of Montana, and then the chairman of this great conference that brings me to Montana today, Chairman Ed Smith, and all of the members and guests of the Western States Water and Power Conference.

	I am very pleased to be in Montana today and I even like the snowstorm that we are experiencing this morning. I have been watching what is going on in Washington over the last few days and all of the explanations we are getting about the grain scandal and the Watergate case and the dairy operations and the ITT case, and I think that any time we have a choice between a Montana snowstorm and a Nixon snow job, there is no problem as to which we prefer. So it is great to be out here under what we call the Big Sky of Montana, and to stand where others have stood aspiring to the presidency of the United States, including the late President Kennedy, to whom Lee Metcalf referred a moment ago. I am honored and pleased to be here, and I think we are in a part of the country where we can see things more clearly. This is the open range country of the kind I am so familiar with in my own state of South Dakota and I--

	We have at least one South Dakotan in the balcony, and I know I have Ken Holum and others on the stage in back of me, but if you look very carefully, even while it is snowing out here in Montana, I believe you can see looming up in the background the White House of the United States--which we are going to take over. One of the reasons that I am encouraged to believe that we are going to make it there on January 20th is because of the effective work that some of the people in the Congress of the United States have done over the years in helping to maintain a sense of balance and good judgment and a capacity to see what it is that is a major problem before this country.

	I remember when I came to the House of Representatives in January of 1957 one of the problems I was interested in was the problem of what we then called conservation. That has now become environmental concern. But I asked around the Congress as to who I might discuss some of these problems with that would be especially knowledgeable and, almost without exception, everyone said that the number one conservationist in the House of Representatives is a conservationist and congressman from Montana by the name of Lee Metcalf. And that was sixteen years ago, and from that day to this he has maintained that record and that title as a leading advocate of the preservation of the resources that sustain life itself. He has gone beyond that to challenge some of the most powerful and best entrenched special interests in this country: the great power companies, the great forces of special privilege that have to be challenged. And so I am pleased to stand on this stage and be introduced by one who has fought so nobly and so gallantly over the years to protect the interests of the people, not only of our generation, but to see to it that after all of us have gone and for generations to come they will be enable to enjoy the resources that have been entrusted to us for a while. So my respect and my congratulations and my good wishes to Lee Metcalf, who simply must be reelected to the Senate of the United States.

	There is not a single wheat farmer or rancher or family-type operator in Montana or anywhere else who has his eyes open, who does not know the enormous debt of gratitude that he owes to Congressman John Melcher. This congressman fought so hard and so successfully to carry through the Congress of the United States last year a measure that would have improved by 25% the price support position of our farm producers on basic farm commodities. Had it not been for the arm-twisting and the enormous effort that was brought to bear against Congressman Melcher's bill over in the Senate of the United States, every wheat farmer in Montana and all across this country--every grain farmer--would be 25% better off on the income side today than they are. That is enough to say that this man must not only be reelected to the Congress of the United States, but he must be reelected by the landslide proportions that will indicate to Washington what is on the heart and the mind of the wheat producers and the farmers and the ordinary people of this part of America. These are the same values that Governor Guy and Congressman Link and Lieutenant Governor Judge have fought for. And I say without any apology here today that we don't come here to turn this into a partisan meeting, but we do come here to say that these are the kinds of men who have put the public interest first and they deserve the votes and the support and the contributions of Democrats and Republicans and Independents alike who covet a better future for agricultural America.

	I believe that there are two central issues that the American people are going to have to examine in 1972. The first of those is the question of this tragic, cruel, and unjustified war that still continues in Southeast Asia. Now we have a chance in 1972 to do something about that. Four years ago, Mr. Nixon told us on the 9th of October, when he was a candidate, that those who could not bring peace in four years don't deserve another chance, and I agree with that. I know that there are other very serious and difficult problems before this country, but the truth is that we are not really going to bring the resources of mind and heart and spirit and body to the solution of these other problems until we cut out this great cancer that is eating away at the very soul of this nation. This is problem number one to the next president of the United States: to end that war and to end it without delay. And the other great question we have to answer in 1972 is whether we want a government that directs its interest for the benefit of the people, or whether we want a government that will continue for another four years to do the special interest bidding of some of the forces of greed and privilege in this country that have literally dominated the priorities and the policies of the Nixon administration. That is question and problem number two. 

	But today I want to address myself to a question that is affected by the answers that we give to these other two major problems. I want to speak about the special concern of this conference and the desperate need for a new national policy for water and power here in the West and throughout the United States. When John Kennedy spoke to this conference here in Billings in 1960, he promised to appoint men to the regulatory agencies who would put the public interest first, and he made good on that promise. And do not underestimate for a moment the importance to you of men and women being elected to these regulatory agencies who, instead of being the handmaidens of the interest they are supposed to regulate, will actually represent your interest and my interest and the interests of the people of this country. And that is promise number one that Mr. Kennedy made twelve years ago, and he kept that promise.

	When Richard Nixon was campaigning in 1968, his campaign manager, Mr. Mitchell--who we have now lost in that office through the courtesy of Martha--Mr. Mitchell addressed a group of bankers. And he flatly promised them that if Mr. Nixon were elected there would be more bankers appointed to high office, and he has been just as faithful to that pledge as John Kennedy was to his pledge. Under the administration of President Nixon the banks, the conglomerate giants, the oil and utility corporations and their coal subsidiaries have received the tender loving care of this government. And the ordinary citizen has been treated with benign neglect. Now just recently we learned the full facts, although they have not all come fully to bear, I think, on the awareness of the American people about the sale of American wheat to the Soviet Union. 

	Who benefited from that deal? It is certain that the Russians did. We bailed them out of a huge shortage and I have no objection to that. A few big grain dealers benefited from this arrangement. They were the ones that reaped the real windfall profits that should have gone the wheat producers and the grain farmers of this country. And who paid for it? Now fortunately, here in Montana, much of the wheat was sold late enough in the day so that you did not experience the severe losses that wheat farmers did in Oklahoma and Texas and in other areas where the wheat crop was sold at an even lower price. 

	But let us ask ourselves--who really financed these windfall profits for the three or four great grain trading companies? First of all, the farmer who grew the wheat and sold it at a lower price than would otherwise have been the case had he had the information that was given to these grain traders. Secondly, the taxpayers financed it--not by subsidies to the grain farmers, but to the export subsidies that went to the tune of more than $100 million beyond what could be justified to the great grain exporting companies. And now we read on yesterday that these grain speculators want to crawl through an unjustified loophole in the tax law known as the Disc System that would exempt 50% of these windfall profits from any tax at all. I want to say here that these fellows are not grain sharks--they are hogs. They want it all. This is just one example of the kinds of special interest domination of this administration that has characterized it from the very first. You would have to go back at least as far as the administration of Warren Harding to find an administration so beholden to the special interests and big business. And let me say today that this kind of government not only must end, but I believe it is going to end on November 7th of 1972. 

	In no area has the philosophy of this administration been anymore painfully revealed than in its attitude toward the natural resources of our country. The present Secretary of the Interior is an Easterner who cares little and understands less about the problems of western America, which historically has been the special concern of the Department of the Interior. The Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Water and Power is a former executive of a major gas utility. For several years he was a lobbyist for an association of private power companies, of big grain interests, and of the barge shippers. Under this leadership, the Bureau of Reclamation is no longer a partner of the rural electric cooperatives and of other consumer-owned electric utilities. It has become in fact a full working partner of the private power companies. Under this leadership, the Bureau of Reclamation undertook the North Central power study, working hand-in-glove with the major private power companies of this country. The small consumer-owned utilities were finally included only after vigorous effort on their part--but the big power magnates still controlled and still dominate that study. As a result, this is the study that calls for the development of several giant power plants in the coal fields of Montana and Wyoming without any regard whatsoever to the devastation and destruction of the land and water of farmers and ranchers which would result from the kind of unrestricted and unregulated strip mining that this study has in mind. It is that kind of callous disregard for the people and for the people's land that you and I must protest with all of our strength if we are going to save this country.

	Now it is a fact, which can be verified by any reporter or by any citizen who will take ten minutes' time to look at the list, that Mr. Nixon has literally loaded the Federal Power Commission with spokesmen for the big utilities and for the big oil companies. There can't be any debate about it--that is their background and that is where their heart lies. And like the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Power Commission has now become a kind of revolving door that connects the highest officials of that Department with the special interests that they are supposed to be supervising. The Commissioner resigned recently to become president of the National Coal Association. Another became vice president of the Standard Oil Company of Ohio; the first man was replaced by a consultant to the national natural gas companies and the other one by a lawyer for one of Mr. Connally's big Texas oil clients. Is it any wonder that the Federal Power Commission has repeatedly handed down rulings favorable to powerful special interests and against the interests of the consumers of this country? 

	When I look at what is going on--if I can just say this parenthetically--the Department of Agriculture today, with Palmby moving to Continental Grain and Polvermacher moving to the Bunge Corporation and Pierce moving into the White House from one of the other great grain companies, I am reminded of this double-play combination we used to have in baseball--Tinkers to Evers to Chance. Now we have the same thing going with this game of musical chairs that is going on with high officials in the Department of Agriculture, in the Federal Power Commission, in other regulatory agencies, simply trading jobs with the people they are supposed to be regulating in these great powerful economic interests. I think the time has come to end that.

	Just last month the Federal Power Commission took a major section of the natural gas industry out of effective regulation at all. Instead of traditional rate-making proceedings that have been upheld by the courts over the years, the gas producers can now come in with sales agreements at any price and ask for approval by this Commission that is already weighted in their favor. This means that my colleagues in the United States Senate entered a protest in that case--they estimated that the cost to the consumers of the increase through that technique would be $15 billion. The potential windfall to the industry of taking another $15 billion out of the pockets of the consumers of this country, over the life of the estimated natural gas reserves, would be $1 trillion. Not surprisingly, the Nixon Commission ruled against the senators and handed that enormous windfall to these big corporations. The Commission argued in doing so that gas is in short supply and we have to encourage this tender, struggling industry with a little more support. The fact is that the United States government has not as yet obtained an impartial estimate of the gas reserve of this country and I think it is time that we had a Federal Power Commission that will protect the public interest, the interest of all of the people instead of fattening these gigantic corporate treasuries at the expense of the consumers and the taxpayers of this country. But this problem extends far beyond the Federal Power Commission.

	President Nixon's Department of Justice has been a disaster from ITT to the fight on crime. And nowhere has its failure been any more glaring that in the abandonment of antitrust laws when it comes to guaranteeing the resources of the West. In recent years the big oil companies have been buying up competing fuels and eliminating competition for themselves. They want to achieve monopoly control of all of the fuels produced in this country. Now, they already own most of the coal production. They own a large share of the uranium production. Since natural gas is found with oil, they control that too. More than two years ago, coal and oil prices began to escalate very rapidly, and members of the Congress demanded a grand jury investigation of possible collusion and price fixing in the coal and oil industries--since that affects the consumer position of practically every citizen in this country. But Richard Kleindienst and Richard Nixon said no to that investigation. They passed the buck to the Federal Power Commission and said it was the responsibility of the Commission to look into matters of this kind. Well, you and I know what the chances are of any real reform and critical examination there--those chances are absolutely zero. 

	Now before this election is over, we should be told which Texas oil millionaires kicked in to this $10 million secret fund that we are still trying to find out about in this campaign. There is one prediction I want to make--and it is always hazardous to make predictions in the middle of a campaign, but I would say to each of you here this morning that I am going to be very surprised if, in spite of the pressure that we bring to bear, we will ever find out the names of the people on that $10 million secret campaign list that is financing much of the President's campaign--not much of it, because they have about a $50 million fund that they are operating on. But I would wager that the reason we won't know the names of the people that contributed that first $10 million is because if we did know it would be such a shocking revelation of the working relationship between the big oil companies, ITT, Penn Central, Lockheed and these other firms that have been benefited by this administration that it would make it impossible for President Nixon to carry his campaign to the ordinary people of this country. But we have got to keep demanding that information. We do have a right to know who is bankrolling this campaign of the opposition and beyond that we have a right to know about this secret $10 million. Now I think the Administration has turned its western resources policies into the same drive to create private monopolies over our natural resources. These same big oil and coal corporations want options on federal water and coal gasification, power plant construction and other development of the rich coal resources that they have been given. And under this administration they are getting precisely what they want in all of these areas. They are trampling on the historical land rights of the Indian tribes who, after all, were the first Americans on this land.

	The President has taken the old Republican policy of no new starts and made it the basis of a total distortion of the time-honored standards by which resource projects have been measured. The Administration's Water Resources Council has proposed a discount rate for calculating the source of water resource development which would be tied to what they call the opportunity cost of money--rather than the real cost of money to the federal government. That approach--and I know that this is a complicated concept--in short ignores the fact that public and private projects involve a different degree of risk. It ignores the fact that capital is not easily raised. The result is that the benefit cost ratios of new water projects have been estimated incorrectly, at far above the real cost to the federal government, and they have done so in such a way as to make these badly needed projects appear to be unfeasible and impractical. High officials of the Administration have talked about phasing out these old 2% REA loan programs entirely. They have frozen loan funds appropriated by the Congress; they have been impounding money for public land management and funds appropriated by the Congress to offset alkali damage here on the western plains. The President has talked a great deal about the environment, but he has done precious little to protect the environmental richness of this country.

	So the uncomfortable fact is that one-third of all of the streams and rivers of this country violate federal pollution standards. Industrial waste is still poisoning the rivers of this country. We were reminded here a few months ago of how bad this situation is when a stretch of the Ohio River actually caught fire because of the pollutants that destroyed that once beautiful stream. Oil spills are fouling up some of the most beautiful beaches in our country. And the Administration is virtually idle, except to encourage offshore oil drilling which always presents a hazard to the beaches and the beauties of this country. The President has tried to sabotage the law requiring federal agencies to weigh environmental impact before undertaking new projects. He did his best to gut the strongest water pollution bill that has ever been enacted into this country, the Water Control Act of 1972. An estimated 40,000 corporations broke the pollution laws between January 1970 and January 1971. This is some more of what has come to be known as white-collar crime--a development that is fast becoming one of the most disturbing characters of American life today. This administration took action against only thirty-seven of those 40,000 corporations that broke the environmental protection laws of the land. The National Permit program that they have adopted as their policy in this vital area is nothing more than a license to pollute at will the air and waters of America. And this administration has impounded $700 million for environmental protection in the fiscal year 1971, and they have impounded $56 million for rural water and waste disposal and $200 million for basic water and sewer facilities. I have never been able to understand how the President can tell us in one breath that a few hundred millions of dollars spent to save the water and the air and the land of this country is inflationary, but somehow it is not inflationary to spend $250 million every week chasing little people in black pajamas around the jungles of Southeast Asia.

	Now I want to move on very quickly to two or three other matters that are important to what I have to say here this morning. This country is headed for a very serious energy crisis that will not only affect the security of each one of us in this auditorium, but that will affect very seriously any chance that we have for security and happiness for generations to come. Highly sophisticated industrialized society of this kind cannot function without a long-range energy policy aimed at protecting the future requirements of our nation for energy. In some areas that energy crisis is already upon us. We can see it in New York when electric power fails and lights go out. We see it in hospitals when lights go out even in operating rooms. We see it when people are stuck in elevators in the great skyscrapers of our cities. We see it in millions of homes and offices and buildings across this country that are experiencing increasing brownouts or blackouts because of the development of power shortages. America's per capita consumption of energy is now more than six times the world average. And yet there is more behind this crisis than simply the increased volume of energy use. Unwise pricing, poor management, short sighted policies by both industry and government have brought us to where we are. I was talking with Governor Guy, Senator Metcalf, and others earlier this morning and we were taking note of the fact that while the great corporations of this country are willing to look ahead to plan their profit structure and their inventories and their expansion for five or ten years, that somehow there is a strange notion in this country that it is wrong for a great country to plan for its future--to look ahead to the needs of its people and generations to come. But I submit to you that the time has come when we can no longer deal with this energy crisis on a year-to-year, makeshift basis. We have got to begin looking ahead and laying some plans for a national fuels and energy policy that will safeguard the energy future of this nation. And that goes for resource policy all across the board. So today I want to state in conclusion the outlines of my program for developing and conserving resources of the west and the nation.

	First of all, I would appoint a secretary of the interior and an assistant secretary who would put the public interest first and foremost--and that would be men and women who know the West and who know where our resources lie.

Second, I will appoint to the Federal Power Commission members who will look after the national interest and not the special privileges of the people they are supposed to regulate. 

	Third, I will appoint an attorney general who will vigorously enforce the antitrust laws and halt the growth of monopoly concentration in our economy. 

	Fourth, I will instruct the Department of the Interior to develop water and coal and other energy resources on public lands under strict environmental regulations. Now this means, among other things, strict regulation of strip mining so the land will be laid not a wasteland, but a productive garden. 

	Fifth, I will instruct federal resource agencies to discontinue mineral leasing, including the leasing of coal lands, until a coordinated public interest policy for their management has been fully developed. 

	Sixth, I will instruct the Bureau of Reclamation to work with the public, not with the big power companies, and to plan water projects for the people and not for the oil monopolies. 

	Seventh, I will restore the REA as the principal credit source for the generation distribution and transmission cooperatives of this country and we have to maintain adequate funding for a 2% loan program. 

	Eight, I will fully fund federal programs and vigorously prosecute federal laws to restore the quality of America's waterways and to protect the total environment all around us. If President Nixon vetoes the water bill, as he very well might, I will have to have it reintroduced. If he signs it, I would have it fully funded and fully enforced as the law of the land. 

	Ninth, I will repeal the no-new-start policy of the present administration and resume multipurpose development of our water resources for the benefit of the American public. 

	Tenth, I will make the energy crisis a matter of urgent study including whatever technological research is necessary for energy conservation for converting western coals to gas, liquid fuels and electric power and for new generators of existing hydro-dams. 

	Eleventh, I will urge the Congress of the United States to pass legislation authorizing a national grid along the lines of the bill Senator Metcalf and I introduced earlier this year--a grid that will bring the benefits of steady, low cost electric power to every part of this country.

	And twelfth and finally, I will enlarge and protect our national parks, our national forests, our wilderness areas, our scenic rivers, our historic places and these precious monuments that mean so much to the enrichment of the American spirit. 

	Now that is my program for water, for power, and for the West. I have tried to tell you just as completely and just as plainly as I can here today what I propose to do if this election comes out the way I think it will on November 7th. I think that here in this program we live in the most dramatic part of America. The late John Steinbeck, in his book "Travels with Charlie," in which he recorded his observations on forty states that he visited--he said that of all of those states, the state of Montana was the most enchanting and the most pleasant surprise that he experienced on that visit. I have to add that he didn't go to South Dakota. But in any event we know in this part of the nation how blessed we are with the richness of nature, how Providence has endowed us with an open sky, with clean streams, with beautiful plains and mountains and certainly we of all people have a special obligation to do what we can to preserve those resources for future generations. This heritage of ours is our most precious heritage and it is ours to use wisely, to love deeply--nothing less will insure a hospitable dwelling place here in the plains and the mountains that we love so much here in the part of the country where we are so close to the sources of life. I believe it is our mandate as stewards of these resources to see that they are preserved--not only for our own blessings, but to bless those generations that will follow. 

	Thank you so much and God bless you in your efforts.
AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSNATURAL GAS INDUSTRY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESREGIONALISM--WESTSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWATER POLLUTIONWATER RESOURCES     p Mp Gp Cp ;p
 /p +p &p p p p p 
p	 	  	  	  	  	 z 	 \ 	 F 	 5 	  	  e: