

	My visit to this convention in 1952 was for me, and I say this in all sincerity and candor, an occasion of great pleasure and satisfaction. I had a good time, and I have looked forward to its renewal. I am grateful indeed for your heartwarming welcome today. And I take further pleasure in the wonderful reception you have given two of my best friends--the next senator from the State of New York, Bob Wagner, and the next vice president of the United States, Estes Kefauver.

	My pleasure is partly a personal matter, for I hold in particular and personal affection the leaders of this party--Dave Dubinsky, Alex Rose, Adolf Berle, George Counts, and many others among you.

	Many of you have spent a lifetime in the battle for decency and democracy. Finding your satisfactions not in the accumulation of private goods but in the advancement of the common good, you have brought out the grain of idealism in America. And you have not grown weary of the struggle or become reconciled to injustice or inequality. Indeed, as this political campaign gets underway, I detect lively evidence that another battle in the American tradition is not unwelcome. I am heartened and happy to know that you are all once again at my side--and that I can be at yours.

	I have mentioned the last campaign. But 1956 is not 1952. Let it be noted, for example, that no one has leveled the charge of bashfulness against me this year. I trust that the office is seeking the man, but I am doing my best to facilitate its search. In the past we used to measure men for that office. Now, I note that the Republicans seem to be adjusting the office to suit the man.
	
	There have been other remarkable changes in the political scenery. Four years ago the Republicans rallied the country against the egghead menace. I was pictured then as the leader of the longhairs--despite all surface evidence to the contrary. President Eisenhower defined an intellectual as "a man who takes more words than necessary to tell more than he knows."

	Things are different today. President Eisenhower no longer ridicules intellectuals and I note with some amusement that his supporters have organized a committee devoted to the care and feeding of the egghead vote. It even includes college professors. A ranking departmental official in the Eisenhower Administration has not only read a book but has even written one. And one of the speakers at the Republican Convention was a writer whom Henry Luce periodically loans to the Administration to inject some life--and perhaps a little time, too--into the Grand Old Party. I do not know how this gentleman's remarks were received--but he fared considerably better than did Joe Smith. He got the floor instead of the door.

	We are entitled to expect good things from this blood transfusion. Already it has been announced that the Grand Old Party's vision has been restored. And perhaps through its new bifocals it will be able to fix more clearly on some matters of policy that have so far seemed to dance strangely--and dangerously--before its leaders' eyes.

	It was only a few months ago that the President was saying that neutralism was fine, the Vice President was saying that it was terrible, and the Secretary of State was saying with his characteristic flair that, while neutralism was indefensible, most neutrals were all right.

	When the Russians recently said they were going to reduce their army by 1,200,000 men, the Secretary of Defense said it was "a step in the right direction"; and the Secretary of State said it was a step in the wrong direction; Mr. Stassen said it was just what he wanted--and the President blessed everybody and appointed a committee to decide what we thought.

	And only recently the President and the Secretary of State met head-on trying to negotiate the Suez Canal. On August 3, President Eisenhower said: "All of us, of course, appreciate the tremendous importance of the Suez Canal. Its continuous and effective operation is vital to the economies of our country."

	To which Secretary Dulles added a few days later: "The United States is not dependent to any appreciable degree at all upon the Suez Canal..."

	Sometimes, disagreement settles in a single breast. Thus Senator Knowland recently said, "The people know that Dwight D. Eisenhower visited Korea and a peace ensued under which the Communists gained not one foot of ground." This was the same Senator Knowland who said, in 1954, "Granting the Communists an armistice in Korea was a mistake... I think the armistice is a farce."

	The infiltration of the intellectuals into the Republican party may or may not change these things. But it must certainly be recognized as a minor triumph of mind over matter.

	No, 1956 is not 1952. Perhaps the most striking change of all is the new face being worn by the Republican vice presidential candidate. I know of no instance in which man has energetically tried to convince the electorate that everything he has said and done in past years bears no relation to himself, and that, until further notice, he is to be considered a new man. You may not agree with him, but you have to be awed by the lack of conviction, which makes so swift a transformation possible.

	I don't wish to deprecate the Vice President's new personality. But I do wish we might hear some word from him repudiating the irresponsible, vindictive, and malicious words so often spoken by the impostor who has been using his name all these years. I am compelled to confess that I still prefer Joe Smith.

	But one thing about this campaign is unchanged. Now, as in 1952, the Republican Presidential candidate will speak in the accents of progressivism. There will be grand new talk about his design for "rebuilding" the Grand Old Party. But the Old Guard will take this quadrennial verbal excursion in stride; for it knows from long experience that a few campaign speeches do not change the Republican party--and that any connection between Mr. Eisenhower's oratory and his administration is purely coincidental.

	One of the curious facts in this curious year is that the new liberal Republican party seems to have room for everybody except the liberal Republicans. Reflecting today on Harold Stassen, if his numbness has left him, we can note that in this Republican party liberal Republicans are like opera singers--when they are stabbed they don't die; they sing. 

	Up in Wisconsin today the Republicans are choosing between Senator Wiley, who is an Eisenhower Republican, and Congressman Davis, who is a McCarthy Republican. And, so far as President Eisenhower is concerned, well, he's neutral. This, I suppose, is what the Republican press means when it talks about President Eisenhower reconstructing the Republican party in his own image. But I don't want to be unfair, for certainly neutrality in Wisconsin today is a triumph of political courage compared to 1952 when candidate Eisenhower deleted a defense for his benefactor, General Marshall, to make Senator McCarthy happy.

	Of course, liberal Republicans in New York, like Mr. Javits, are more fortunate than Senator Wiley--or perhaps I should add "as of this moment." For this was the fearless phrase with which the President rallied to Mr. Javit's defense last week.

	Let me say that I admired Alex Rose's generous statement in defense of Mr. Javits last week. And I also share Mr. Rose's regret over Mr. Javit's latter-day admiration of the vice president. The discovery by the Republican candidate for senator that Mr. Nixon is a great liberal seems to me to sum up the fate of the liberal Republicanism.

	On the whole, it seems painfully clear that the new Republicanism is no different from the old as far as its leadership is concerned. The label has changed, but not the stuff in the package. Much as many Americans hope otherwise, official Republicanism remains a policy of indifference to much except the aspirations of property. It remains the spokesman of big business and wealth. Nor should we complain. That is a wholly legitimate function. But it is not the proper function of government, of the executive branch, in this beloved country of ours.
	
	America needs today, and needs badly, the restoration of government, which recognizes the existence of people--which will seek to meet their needs, to guarantee their rights, and to enlarge their opportunities. It is the nature and tradition of the Democratic party and of the Liberal tradition to care about people--and care about them, not as statistics in a market survey, but as individual men and women and children. And that is why we will win in 1956!

	And I might add, that is why the Democratic party, under the splendid leadership of Ed Muskie, won its glorious victory yesterday in Maine! Who would ever have thought that our side would claim the slogan--as Maine goes, so goes the Nation.

	It is this dedication to the ideals of human welfare and individual liberty which makes us all so sensitive to the crucial importance of what is happening today in the desegregation of our public schools.

	I share, I know, with you, grave concern that there are today two thousand school districts in this country where doors are closed against children for a reason--the color of their skins--which the laws that govern us, and the dictates of our hearts, say cannot matter. I share, I know, with you, great satisfaction at this week's report that this condition has changed now in 723 school districts, 186 more than last year.

	The things that bind us all together as Americans make us want tonight to speak our admiration for those citizens of southern communities and those governors, mayors, and local officials who are upholding the rule of law, sometime even against their own personal feelings, sometimes in the face of violence.

	I think of the mayor who, having lost his battle in court against integration, has called on all citizens to "obey the law" saying, "We are American before everything else."

	I think of the southern editor who has written: "Yesterday is gone: tomorrow is before us; the question is what shall we do with it."

	I think of the minister, who has said to his townsmen, "I wonder if this critical period should not be looked upon as a marvelous opportunity to learn to be a Christian toward every other person and every race."

	As a candidate I want to say again what I have said from one end of this country to the other that we must, of course, support the Supreme Court decision. All who voted for my nomination knew where I stood.

	I stand squarely, beyond this, on the statement in the Democratic platform, adopted unanimously, that "we reject all proposals for the use of force to interfere with the orderly determination of these matters by the courts."

	And let me add that I disagree with the position taken last week by the President when he said of the Supreme Court decision: "I think it makes no difference whether or not I endorse it."

	I think, for myself, that the attitude of the President, who is our only official elected by all the people, does make a difference to those struggling with the day-to-day conflicts of new laws and old customs in a changing society. I count it the responsibility of the Chief Executive to do all in his power to create a climate of compliance with the law, and to encourage with the immense prestige and power of this office those who are earnestly trying, often in difficult circumstances, to comply with the Court's decision.

	Freedom is not a treasure to be hoarded; it is a faculty to be used and to be constantly renewed through use. This is as true of our civil liberties as it is of our civil rights.

	A few years ago we ran the risk of letting the fear of Communism stampede us into weakening our hold on our legacy of freedom. But you in the Liberal party were wiser. You challenged the Communist fraud long before most Americans. And you knew both Communism and the Constitution; so you understood that we could fight Communism best by keeping our heads, not by losing them; and you never doubted that we could meet the Communist threat within the framework of our basic freedoms. Many Americans, I think, have come to these same conclusions. But the best way to guard against the recurrence of what we went through is to make these conclusions explicit.

	Freedom's struggle is not won. Nor will it ever be. Civil liberties may seem much less urgent than it did a couple of years ago, but that is no reason for us to be the less vigilant, or working less hard to establish our freedoms on the solidest of foundations.

	As we fight to make freedom secure at home, we reveal once again to the world the true face of America--the nation which has fired the hearts and minds of ordinary people everywhere.

	We need our military strength as we need our economic power; and these are all essential instruments in our foreign policy. But America's sharpest sword is the power of our ideals, and there could hardly be a better time for America to use her idealism. For the new disenchantment within the Communist empire offers exciting possibilities to the legion of freedom. The myths are shattered; yesterday's idols are today's devils; and throughout Europe and Asia there is a great yearning for a humane alternative to the exploded Communist delusion.

	No nation is better equipped than ours to offer hope, inspiration, and leadership in this time of turmoil; we have thus far failed to do so. We have failed because a business-dominated administration simply cannot comprehend the nature and complexity either of the revolutionary thrust of our time or the human longings which animate it. We cannot capture the souls of discontented people by boasting that our stomachs are full or that our arms are strong. We can do so only by reviving the original American mission--the conception of our nation as the bearer of hope and freedom to oppressed people everywhere on earth. This seems to be the particular mission of liberalism in our day.

	All of us here tonight call ourselves Liberals, whether with a large or a small "L." No man can precisely define liberalism without getting into an argument with another liberal; that is the nature of our creed--and our breed. We hold that no doctrine is so sacred that it must reject conflicting evidence; we do not hold with the old judge who was often wrong but never in doubt. We hold that life is unpredictable, varied, and complex, and those who tell us it is all very simple are lacking either in wisdom or in candor. And I hope you will forgive me for reproaching those liberals who regard another's liberalism as genuine only when it coincides with their own opinion on all details of every issue.

	You of the Liberal party have been subjected to the charge that you are idealists. I hope you rejoice in the accusation, and that you will always prove worthy of it.

	We have had too much complacency and self-congratulation in the last four years. Our civilization lives from day to day in the shadow of nuclear extermination; our young men are called to military duty to protect a fragile peace; tyranny rules an ever larger portion of the earth; and indignity still reigns in parts of our own land.

	Surely this is a time for idealists--a time for men and women who refuse to concede that this uneasy peace and this uneven prosperity are the best of all possible worlds. Surely it is a time when the rising generation of Americans has the right to ask us: "Is this really the end of the story? Is this war-haunted world really the best we are to hope for? Is our accumulation of gadgets the ultimate glory left to us?"

	I say there is a yearning for new vision in our country and our world; that we can imagine tomorrows more abundant and more serene than any mankind has known; and that we are reaching out now for better quality in our living, for higher purposes and richer values of mind and spirit.

	It is in this spirit that I accept your nomination tonight.
BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONCIVIL RIGHTSCOMMUNISMEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONEGYPT--SUEZ CANALKOREAN WARLIBERALISM     y? E? ?? ;? 3?
 &? !? ? ? ? 
? > >	 n 	 S 	 G 	 > 	 % 	  	 
 e: