

	Mark Twain once said that there were three kinds of falsehoods:  lies, damn lies, and statistics.

	That's why, in trying to determine the future course of the American economy, in standing up for the American family, I've turned, not to statistics, but to people.  To the people I have grown up with and worked with, to the people I have talked to--and listened to--in every part of America over the past 18 months on the campaign trail.

	Mr. Bush, on the other hand, likes statistics; the statistics that show that more Americans are working, but do not tell you the quality of their jobs.  Statistics that tell us that some people and some states are doing very, very well; but don't tell us about the daily struggle of many Americans to pay their bills.

	Statistics that glide over the anxieties and the uncertainty that many Americans feel when they think about the future, and tell us to relax--because on average, things are just fine.

	But a man six feet tall can drown in a river that, on average, is only 3 feet deep; and today too many of our fellow citizens are working hard to keep their heads above water.  Too many Americans are treading water in the Rust Belt and the Farm Belt and the Oil Patch, in our inner cities and in our small towns and rural counties.

	Too many Americans, even those with good jobs and with paychecks that once would have seemed enough, are fearful that they could be wiped out by one big wave--by the cost of a long-term illness; or the cost of nursing care for an aging parent, or the cost of a college education for their children, or the loss of a job if their employer's company is taken over by some sharp operator on Wall Street or sold out to investors from a foreign country.

	And even those Americans who are doing well are worried about their ability to pass that prosperity on to their children--because the cost of health care and education and housing continues to go up and up while wages and salaries in real terms are staying just about the same.

	Now, "just about the same" sounds pretty good to some.  To those with good, secure, full-time jobs and to those who were born to great wealth.  And if Mr. Bush is satisfied, why isn't everyone else?

	But most Americans aren't satisfied, and neither am I.

	We're not satisfied to stand still; we're not satisfied when our economy grows at the lowest rate since World War II.

	We're not satisfied when rural hospitals are closing down all over America and the only response from Mr. Bush and his Administration is a deafening silence.

	And if he really wants some statistics, here are a few he might think about:

	The cost of college education is going up ten times faster than wages and salaries in real terms; and the cost of health care has gone up six times faster; and the cost of a new house has gone up seven times faster.  Do you know what four years of college will cost you for your child in the year 2000?  At least $38,000 at a public university, and at least $95,000 at a private university.

	We're not satisfied when America is losing business and markets to our foreign competitors at a record rate.  Once we made nearly all the world's consumer electronic products--now we make hardly any.  Once we made most of the world's color TV sets--now we make less than one in ten.  Once we made nearly all the world's telephones--now we make less than a quarter of them.

	That's what all this talk about our enormous foreign debt and deficits boils down to: foreign companies and foreign governments controlling our economic destiny.  All of us want our children to live at least as well as we do.  And unless we can get this country moving again, unless we can become more competitive and more productive in the global marketplace, unless we can start selling more American goods and services and buying back our own bonds and land and factories from the Japanese and the Saudis and the Kuwaitis and the Europeans who have been buying them up, unless we take charge of the future, our children may be unable to enjoy the same standard of living as their parents as they try to deal with burdens of debt and decline for which they're not responsible.

	No--we're not satisfied with that.  Because that's not the America we grew up in.  It's not the America we want for ourselves, our children and grandchildren.

	That's why we need a new president who will stand up and fight for the average American.

	A new president who will stand up and fight for America.

	A new president who will stand up for those who have no special interest lobbyists in Washington and no special influence at the bank.  A president who will stand up for those who want to see this country first again, not just in military might, but in economic strength; first in exporting products, not exporting jobs; first, in new domestic investment, not in new foreign debt; first not in the wealth we provide for some of our citizens, but in the quality of the schools and health care and housing we provide for all Americans.

	Two weeks ago, I proposed a plan for opening the door of college opportunity to every young man or woman in this country who is qualified to do college work.

	Tomorrow, in Bowling Green, I'm going to talk about how we ease the burden that the rising costs of health care have placed on all but the very wealthiest families in our country.

	In future days and weeks, Lloyd Bentsen and I will be discussing our plans for building a healthy and growing economy; for helping those on public assistance to find the hope of opportunity and the dignity of work; for easing the insecurity of the elderly; for making the dream of good housing a reality for all Americans; for winning the war against drugs and violent crime; strengthening our families and communities, and for making America better, and stronger.

	But Senator Bentsen and I can't do it alone.  The entire federal government can't do it alone.  To get America moving again, to restore enduring strength to all parts of our economy and to all sections of our country, we will need the help of all Americans.  We will need the help of local governments, labor unions, nonprofit organizations, and the business community.

	The next president will inherit a sea of Republican red ink that not even Moses could part.  All Americans understand that there is a limit to the new federal resources we can devote to any effort.  But we can't afford to simply shrug our shoulders.  And we can't afford leadership that says over and over again that it's morning in America, and then suggests that all we Americans have to do is roll over, and go back to sleep.

	That's an important difference between George Bush and me.  He's sees a complacent America; an America that wants to look backward even as a new century is about to dawn.

	I see an America whose best days are ahead of us, not behind us; an America with new horizons to reach and new frontiers to conquer.  I see an America that's ready to take charge of its future again.

	And there's a second difference, too, between George Bush and me.

	He sees prosperity for some people in America, and says that's good enough.  The greatest in our history, he says.  But I see a different kind of prosperity.  It's a two job prosperity.

	It's latchkey prosperity for kids who come home to an empty house because their mothers can't afford childcare, and can't afford not to work.

	It's a prosperity that requires young families to postpone having children.  A prosperity that makes it impossible for young couples to buy a home.  A prosperity that has left two and a half million Americans homeless, twenty-five millions adults without the ability to read and write; and forty million Americans--most of them from working families--without a dime's worth of health insurance.

	Mr. Bush doesn't seem to understand that.  I do.

	Because after eight long years in power, the Republican Party seems to have exhausted its reservoir of ideas.  They seem baffled by the deficits they've created and caught up in the political webs they have spun.  In their hearts they know that 4 more years of Reaganomics would be bad for the country and that 4 more years of Reaganomics without Reagan would be a disaster.

	There is no better example of how drained of ideas they are; and of how out of touch with average Americans they are, than Mr. Bush's plan for a $40 billion tax giveaway, almost all of which would go to those making over $200,000 a year.  How many of you make that much?  How many of your neighbors do?  How many of you think the way to secure our economic future is to go from voodoo economics to the son of voodoo economics?

	We can do better than that.  We don't need a warmed over call to selfishness; we need a new call to greatness.  We need leaders who understand that just as there are no limits to what our citizens can do, so there are no limits to what America can do; if we work together; if we respect each other and care about each other; and if each of us is willing to bear our fair share of the burden of leading America into a new decade and a new century as the greatest nation on the face of the earth.

	As president, I'm going to be setting goals for our country; not goals for our government working alone; I mean goals for our people working together.  I will be asking all Americans to raise their sights beyond the limited ambitions and cramped ideals of the last eight years; and to enlist in a battle for the economic future of our country.

	As president, I will fight to open the door of college opportunity to all youngsters who are qualified to do college work; but I will also ask our young people to stay in school, to work hard and study hard and consider careers in teaching and public service.

	As president, I will fight to make health insurance available to every working man and woman in our country, but I will also ask all Americans to keep themselves and their children physically fit and healthy.

	As president, I will fight to restore occupational health and safety to the workplace, but I will also ask management and labor to work together to make the label "Made in America" a symbol of quality and durability and value all over the world.

	As president, I'm going to fight with all the resources at my command the drug lords of Panama, Colombia, the Bahamas, and elsewhere who have flooded our country with illegal narcotics, but I will also ask all Americans to resist the lure of this deadly, dangerous stuff and thus deny to these merchants of death the market that gives them such financial power.

	As president, I will fight crime both in and out of government but I will also ask all American parents to instill in their children the values of honesty and decency and pride in their country.

	As president, I'm going to going to fight to halt the abuses of excessive stock market speculation and acquisition based solely on short-term greed, but I will also ask every American to start putting aside increased savings and to invest those savings in long-term enterprises that will help create good new jobs in America.

	As president, I will fight to create a healthy environment for all our citizens and to punish polluters, but I will also ask every American to refrain from the careless actions that scar our land, contaminate our water, and despoil our scenic beauty.

	As president, I will fight to make American schools the best in the world, but I will also ask all young Americans to take more courses in science, mathematics, and foreign languages to enable us to compete more successfully around the world.

	As president, I will fight to banish the cancers of racism and anti-Semitism and discrimination of all kinds from this country, but I will also be asking all Americans to reject the voices of hate and division that still divide us one from the other and make it difficult for us to pull together as one nation.

	As president, I will fight to assure our older citizens of quality long-term care, but I will also ask all Americans to show toward their aging parents and neighbors the kindness and attention for which no government program can be a substitute.

	As president, I will fight for affordable childcare and parental leave, but I will also ask all American employers to adopt policies that will enable working mothers and fathers to fulfill both their obligations both as parents and as employees.

	As president, I will work to expand the opportunity for volunteer services in this nation as well as abroad, but I will also ask young Americans to give something back to the country that has given so much to them, to care about its people and its government, and to accept the obligations as well as the privileges that accompany citizenship in the greatest nation on earth.

	For, as you here in Arkansas know so well, we need more doctors willing to care for those living in rural communities.  We need more lawyers willing to represent those living in urban neighborhoods.  We need more citizens willing to work in a hundred different ways in a thousand different communities to enrich the nation, and not just themselves.

	Not much along these lines will be done without strong leadership from the next president; but not much will be done by the next president acting alone.  But if we work together; if we harness the energy and the skills and the resources of all Americans; there are no limits to what we can do--as individuals, and as a nation.

	My friends, there are no shortcuts to the American dream.

	The best America doesn't hide; we compete.

	The best America doesn't waste; we invest.

	The best America doesn't leave anybody behind; we bring everybody along.

	The best America isn't behind us; the best America is yet to come.

BUDGET DEFICITCHILD CAREDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION--MATH AND SCIENCEEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESINVESTMENT--STOCK MARKETINVESTMENT, FOREIGNSAVINGS, PERSONALSTANDARD OF LIVINGVOLUNTEERISM