
	Four years ago I made a speech here in Flint. Nobody--and I'm included--remembers a word I said that day. And yet that became a famous speech in a way--because while I was sitting on the platform a photographer took a picture of a hole in my shoe.

	And I understand that somebody else's shoes are an issue in this campaign too. Well, I don't know how much Governor Williams' shoes cost him, but I do know the two things about those shoes that are important. One is that the man in them is big enough to fill them. And the other thing is where those shoes are headed. They're headed right back to Lansing.

	As a former governor, I know what good state government means. You know it, too, because you have had a good state government these past eight years. And let me add that the whole country knows that here in Michigan there is a young, honest, vigorous leader with a warm smile, a warm heart, and a mind that always looks forward to the challenge and opportunity of tomorrow. The Democratic party and the nation are proud of Mennen Williams.

	We need strong, healthy, Democratic government in Washington as well as in Michigan. You have sent us a congressman who helps to give that kind of government--Don Hayworth. I know that you will all work and vote to return him to Washington.

	I am delighted, too, to greet my friend, Senator McNamara. His election two years ago showed how the people of Michigan felt about the unreconstructed Republicanism. (Those are the two longest words in politics.) We are all grateful for the fine job Pat McNamara has done in representing the interests of the people in the Senate.

	The election is now less than three weeks away. The issues have emerged with a sharpness that the Republicans tried hard to avoid with a lullaby--the four Ps--peace, prosperity, progress and the president. But since the people, with a little help from us, have given that refrain a harder look, it has lost some of its glamour. And now the President himself, who wasn't going barnstorming at all, is on the West Coast to refresh the enthusiasm for Republican management of the nation's affairs.

	One of these issues was discussed here in Flint last night by Mr. Dewey, the man who I hear carries more weight than anyone else in the Republican party today, except Mr. Nixon.

	Now I have, like most people, learned long since not to pay very close attention to the hooey we hear from Mr. Dewey. Discourtesy, epithet, and abuse from him are no surprise.

	But Mr. Dewey came to Flint last night as a principal spokesman for the President and his government. And it seems to me very disheartening that he would, in that capacity, choose to dismiss with sarcasm and ridicule a sober, thoughtful proposal to take a step toward disarmament and harnessing the horror of hydrogen warfare and nuclear contamination. To end the testing of the H-bomb has been the desire of Pope Pius, of many clerical, scientific, military, and lay leaders all over this world.

	I had hope for something better, but now Mr. Dewey has joined President Eisenhower and Vice President Nixon in dismissing my proposal with epithet and scorn, to which Dewey has added sarcastic laughter. Such a solid facade--the big three of the ruling party in this country--will not be reassuring to those abroad who still look hopefully to the United States for some leadership out of the present deadly deadlock in the arms race.

	But that wasn't all Mr. Dewey spoke about here. As to his wilder untruths I have nothing to say--except--Dewey. But I can't overlook the theatrical indignation with which he denied that the Eisenhower administration had not come up with a single new idea. He said "We have too:--prosperity without war;" And he said it was a brand new idea and we never had it under the Democrats. Well, I wouldn't expect the gentleman to know about Woodrow Wilson's first administration. But I assumed he knew about the condition of the country from 1946 to 1950. After all, he was running for President all that time. And not only were we peaceful and prosperous then--but how much of our prosperity depended on military spending? The average was $15.5 billion a year. And how much are we spending under Eisenhower for defense? About $40 billion.

	And, you know, he said that Eisenhower had had another new idea--to wage peace not war. When he said that I blinked and thought again of Woodrow Wilson and the last-ditch Republican fight against the League of Nations. I thought of Franklin Roosevelt and the United Nations. I thought of the Truman Doctrine, and aid to Greece and Turkey. I thought of the Marshall Plan, Point 4, and NATO and the great Democratic struggle of a generation for peace, in which I am proud to have played a very small part myself. 

	But when Mr. Dewey described how President Eisenhower's diplomatic skill, patience, and quiet labor had won peace in Korea, I was afraid for a moment the Republicans were going to take credit for Stalin's death, which, of course, was what finally made the armistice in Korea possible.

	And when Mr. Dewey reached his oratorical summit and shouted--"We are winning the peace for the first time"--well, I wondered what peace he meant: the peace in Indochina where half of Vietnam has slipped behind the Iron Curtain and which is still costing us tens of millions of dollars a year; or the peace in the Middle East where there are daily outbreaks along Israel's nervous borders and the Communists have done in a few months what the Czars couldn't do in 200 years--seized a foothold in the Eastern Mediterranean right under our noses and over our fences--while Mr. Dulles and Mr. Eisenhower assure that all is well and our brinkmanship is working perfectly. Or, I wonder if Mr. Dewey had in mind our crumbling bases from Iceland to Japan and the Soviets' expanding economic and political influence throughout the world. Well, the only thing I'm sure he had in mind was votes.

	But there was an issue Mr. Dewey didn't mention and that Republican orators seldom do mention. It is not an easy issue, frankly, for me to discuss; for in one sense it seems to involve individuals more than issues. But this issue is actually one of the most basic in this election. To disregard it would be to go back on a pledge to talk sense in this campaign.

	I mean the issue of the vice presidency. The vice presidency has assumed uncommon importance in this campaign. After I was nominated in Chicago, I told the delegates, "The American people have the solemn obligation to consider with the utmost care who will be their president if the elected president is prevented by the higher will from serving his full term."

	I pointed our that seven of our presidents have come into office as a result of such an indirect selection. "The responsibility of the presidency has grown so great," I added, "that the nation's attention has become focused as never before on the office of the vice presidency. The choice for that office has become almost as important as the choice for the presidency.

	The Democratic party, in a free and open convention, chose as our candidate for vice president, one of the great spokesmen in this country today for the rights of man--Senator Estes Kefauver. The Republican party, in a convention that was not free and not open, threw out Joe Smith and, with President Eisenhower's blessing, nominated Richard Nixon. The contrast between these two men and the contrast in the manner in which they were nominated tells much about the difference between our two parties.

	You know, and the nation knows, Estes Kefauver. You know his solid integrity. You know his tireless investigation of the Dixon-Yates scandal and of the roots of organized crime. You know of his nearly twenty years of experience in Congress in which he has unswervingly championed the cause of the workingman, the small businessman, the farmer, and economic and social justice for all. There is no doubt where Estes Kefauver stands, what he has voted for, or what he believes in.

	Consider his opponent. We keep hearing of a "new Nixon" and an "old Nixon." We hear that one day his campaign is on the high road and the next day that it is on the low road. We hear him described as the very model of an Eisenhower Republican and then we hear him described as the darling of the reactionary Old Guard. The Wall Street Journal calls him "a conservative Republican" while another newspaper calls him "a liberal Republican." There is no man who can safely say he knows where the vice president stands. This a man of many masks. Who can say they have seen his real face?

	In considering a candidate for president or a candidate for vice president who, if elected, may become President at any moment, I think we should have three facts clearly in mind.

	First, the office of the Presidency is the supreme post of leadership in the world's search for peace.

	Secondly, it is the place where all Americans look for leadership in their struggle for a better life here at home, for sympathy and understanding of the problems of everyday people.

	And finally, the Presidency is a place of moral leadership. A President must be President of all the people; he must unite our country and not divide it; he must stand above suspicion and reproach.

	The Nixon record, to be measured against these tests, is brief. But there is much in this record that is profoundly disturbing. 

	A public man has no more sober responsibility than the obligation to talk seriously about the great issues of war and peace. In 1952--an election year--Mr. Nixon went up and down the country denouncing the Korean war. A year later, in 1953--when there was no election--Mr. Nixon told the American Legion, "Let's recognize right now that the decision to go into Korea was right... on this issue, President Truman was right and he deserves credit for making that decision. In 1954--an election year again--Mr. Nixon was back at the old stand, denouncing the war as if it had been caused, not by the Communists, but by the Democrats.

	This year--an election year--he is at it again.

	It is loose talk, expedient partisan talk such as this that caused the Milwaukee Journal to comment the other day: "One of the simplest examples of why millions don't want Nixon in a position to be president is this quality shown by his shifting--and shifty--remarks about the Korean war."

	Or let us consider the matter of the war in Indochina. In the spring of 1954, the French were making their last stand in that bloody jungle war that had gone on for seven years. At that time, the nation was astounded to read one morning in the papers that a high administration official had told a gathering in Washington that if necessary he favored--"putting our boys in" that war in Indochina. The next day the press disclosed that this high official was Richard Nixon. Within a few weeks he was proudly proclaiming that the administration had kept us out of a war.

	And now we come up to September 18, 1956. Mr. Nixon said that day in a campaign speech, "There have been several times in the past four years when men who were rash or men who were less experienced could have gotten the United States into war." Here surely Mr. Nixon knows what he is talking about. And I think he used last month just the right words to describe his own conduct during the Indochina crisis--he was "rash and inexperienced."

	We have heard a great deal about the vice president's travels abroad. Last summer, the leader of Asia was to come to Washington to hold conferences with the President--conferences the nation and indeed the world hoped would repair the very great and dangerous strain which has been placed on this country's relations with India. The President's health made it necessary to cancel this visit. So the Vice President went to Asia instead. The net result of Mr. Nixon's trip was that he got himself embroiled in a public quarrel with Prime Minister Nehru. The New York Times reported, and I quote, "Mr. Nixon is regarded with almost public dislike by Indian officials." The Washington Post said, "Vice President Nixon's barbed comment... yesterday was both undignified and unnecessary, and it is sure to cause a new wave of bad feeling."

	The peace of the world, my friends, is delicate and uneasy. We cannot have in high places men who talk out of both sides of their mouth, who talk loosely and irresponsibly in foreign countries, men who talk too much when they would do better to keep their mouths shut and their eyes and ears open.

	The Russian foothold in the Middle East, the havoc in Suez, and our erratic off-again, on-again behavior about selling arms to Egypt and then about aid for the Aswan Dam are vivid reminders that we can't have it both ways.

	There are great decisions ahead of us--the great issues of winning the peace, of making the atom man's servant and not his executioner, of holding together our sorely strained alliances. In these critical days, America can not afford the risk of having a president or a vice president who treats a tragic war as an occasion for political demagoguery, and who spreads ill will instead of good will abroad.

	We have heard much in this campaign about the new look in the Republican party. The GOP, we are told, is now the party of the future and has accepted all the great social reforms which Republicans in Congress fought against for twenty years. Let's look at the record--the record of the man who will, three weeks from yesterday--win or lose--take over the leadership of the Republican party--the self-styled party of the future.

	Nixon voted to deprive nearly one million workers of the protection of the minimum wage law; he voted against public housing, against farm housing, against middle-income housing, against public power and against the REA program; he voted for the Taft-Hartley Act; he voted against federal grants to medical schools. And so on and on.

	The record is short and dreary. It is not the record, I suggest, of a man who is likely to lead us into a New America. It is not the record of a man whose heart is open to the problems and misfortunes that are the lot of most of us, whose sympathies are quick, whose mind is alert to devising new solutions to old problems.

	And finally, my friends, I repeat that the presidency is preeminently a place of moral leadership. The people must feel that in the President they have a man they can trust, a man who will be fair, a man who will unite us in our common aspirations. It is impossible to think in these terms of a man whose greatest political talent is a mastery of personal innuendo, who cries "treason" and spreads fear and doubt, a man who uses language to conceal issues rather than explore them, a man whose trademark is slander.

	I referred earlier to my reluctance at talking about an issue which some will consider too much a matter of individuals. That decision was made, my friends, not by any of us--but by the Republican leadership. They knew when they went into their convention how most Americans feel about this man. The were fully warned by Mr. Stassen. They deliberately and dramatically threw Joe Smith--American--out; and put Richard Nixon--Republican--in.

	What the Old Guard Republican leaders did to get their man in was to decide, coldly and with due calculation, that the personal popularity of one man was great enough that the general distrust of another wouldn't matter. They concluded, or rather they hoped, that enough voters would cast a ballot for one man's popularity without regard to the possible consequences if another became President.

	I think they were wrong. I think the people of this country do not view the vice presidency-- at least in these times-- as a casual incident. They know what the vice presidency is this nation's life insurance policy. They are going to read the fine print. And I don't think they are going to go for four years uninsured.

	As this campaign draws toward its close, we approach a day of great decision. On November 6th, all of us, here in Michigan and throughout the nation, will make a decision that may shape our lives not only for the next four years but for many years to come. It is for you to choose between men, between parties, between philosophies of government.

	We must navigate in the years ahead a careful line between groundless hope and hopeless fear; we must not vacillate between smugness and panic.

	The times call for resolute leadership, calm, experienced, alert to danger and alive to opportunity.

	The times call for a party, proud of its past, overwhelmingly united in its purposes, and confident of its future.

	The times call for a philosophy clearly and coherently dedicated to using the instrument of government as a servant and a partner in solving the urgent needs of our people for more schools, better housing, better medical care, equal opportunity for our farmers, our workingmen, our small businessmen, and our young people.

	The times call for an administration dedicated to using its brains and energy to lift from mankind the dark shadow of war in the hydrogen age.

	I submit to you that the times call for the election of the Democratic party. We Democrats are not a house divided; we are not busy living down our past or trying to remake our party; we are not trying to conceal our true philosophy of government or dress it up in fancy phases. We Democrats are confident that the way to a better future lies open and that together we can go forward to the New America.
DIPLOMACYELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSINDIASOUTHEAST ASIARUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     QE E E E E
 D D D D D D D D	 ^ 	 U 	 1 	 ,   e: