

	Senator Lehman,...

	Well, you know, I am glad to hear that you want Stevenson--but he isn't a bit hard to get.

	After hearing all those kind things that Senator Lehman said about me, I can hardly wait to hear what I am going to say. I am rewarded especially this morning here in Rochester by this opportunity to talk over the heads of the people. I have heard a good deal about that but I never thought it was possible before. And I am very grateful to you for this lovely day. Of course, I'll credit that to the Democratic Committee of this county.

	I should like, if I could, in the time that is available here to me this morning to talk to you of Rochester seriously--and perhaps, a little too long--if you will indulge me. I am glad to be here in Rochester again. I know this community; I know its progressive industry and labor; I know its great university and I know, above all, the sense of civic responsibility which binds all of your groups together in the service of this community.

	It seems appropriate on this day, which is United Nations Day, to talk about one group in particular and that is the group of your fellow citizens active in the support and in promoting understanding of the United Nations.

	Well, I am glad that there are some of them here.

	Revolution, it is said, steals upon nations unaware. And, perhaps, the greatest revolution of all in this revolutionary time of ours is the gradual, the quiet emergence of collective action among nations in the service of peace. One hundred years from now historians may mark this period as the age of mutual security--mutual security which passed into collective strength and the respect for international order, and finally peace.

	A generation ago Woodrow Wilson first announced the great vision of a world united for peace. And then, in his own nation, isolationists and reactionaries destroyed his vision in the name of what they call realism.

	Today we can see that the so-called visionary was the practical man, as is so often the case in history; and the evidence lies in the ashes and the rubble of the Second World War. And the proof lies, too, in the great new organization which has risen out of the war, the United Nations. It was not until the Communist attack on South Korea that we realized the full dimensions of the hope--which we had fashioned. The swift response of the United Nations, led by our country, gave the free world's militant answer to aggression for the first time. The Communists have not tried this type of aggression since that day more than two years ago. If we had not met aggression in Korea, then we would have invited it elsewhere. Until, in the end, we would perhaps have had to meet it isolated and friendless on our own shores in our homes.

	And today much the same limited vision which spoiled Wilson's dream, endangers the United Nations and, therefore, our own country. I do not know what moves these people--ignorance, perhaps--or malice--or an innocent passion for those dear dead days that are now gone beyond recall--or, perhaps a less innocent hope that through confusion and fear lies the way to political power.

	Whatever the motive, the consequences will be the same as they were a generation ago. If we cripple or destroy our only means of collective action to keep the peace, then we invite the consequences--and let no one deceive himself--there can be no victory in another general war; only ruin, misery and the ashes of a civilization. And that is why the United Nations is so crucial an issue for all Americans. That is why the Democratic party stands foursquare behind it and behind the war in Korea. If a steadfast stand for the cause of the United Nations in Korea would lose us the election, it would be more worthy of our soldiers to take that stand than to win the election.

	I think we can well be reminded of the spirit of Woodrow Wilson, who laid his broken life as the sacrifice on the altar of world peace. And he said this: "I would rather fail in a cause which will ultimately triumph, than triumph in a cause which will ultimately fail." The war in Korea, my friends, is not Mr. Truman's war. It is mankind's war. It is the stand of the free world against wanton aggression and cynical despotism. The soldiers of many, many lands, fighting for the principles of the charter of the United Nations, the principles of collective security, are writing one of the most heroic chapters in the history of man's everlasting struggle for freedom and for peace on earth. The issues in this conflict are too grave and too great for partisan politics. And the proposal of a quick and a slick way out of Korea are false. My opponent has told us that we could leave the South Koreans to do the fighting alone against the Communists. He has said that Asians should be left to fight Asians. If we were to follow the General's policy, we would risk a Munich in the Far East, with the probability of a third world war not far behind. Great as would be the increasing role bravely taken by the Armies of the Republic of Korea, it is clear that the withdrawal of all American force would mean ultimate surrender of South Korea to the larger, stronger forces of the Communists. And South Korea itself as a base for further aggression and Communist pressure against Japan, Formosa, the Philippines. And, it would also release Communist forces for still greater adventures on the mainland of Asia.

	General Van Fleet, the commander in Korea, has said publicly what everyone who has followed the situation knows. And, that is that in spite of rapid growth and gallantry, the South Korean Army will not be strong enough to man the entire Korean battle-line. And here is one field where my opponent's mistake can not be charged to ignorance. It is deceptive and cruel to raise false hopes at this hour. It is damaging to the high morale of our UN forces in Korea. It is a surrender of the high purpose of collective action to suggest to the Communist aggressors that we plan to let the South Koreans do all the fighting for the principles of the United Nations.

	The General, of all people, should understand that our purpose in going to Korea wasn't to fight Asians; our purpose was to fight aggressors. This is not a purpose we shall lightly abandon. I say that all Americans want to bring the soldiers home from Korea as soon as honorably or safely we can. We all want peace in Korea for the sake of the Korean people--for the sake of all people--but to leave them to fight alone or to surrender to the inhuman demands of the Communist aggressors would be to destroy both the heroism of those who have so nobly died and the hopes of the living for a free and peaceful world by making the Communists realize that the path to world dominion is mortally dangerous.

	We do not propose to force any nation to go it alone. We want all the free nations to join in holding the unbroken line of liberty. The Democratic party believes, and has always believed, in international security. It was the passion of Woodrow Wilson; it was the passion of Franklin Roosevelt; it is the passion of Harry Truman. In that belief our nations can move with other free nations toward a strong and a friendly and an ultimately peaceful world.

	And I say to you that I pray that faith, belief in the United Nations is not a partisan issue--even if one party seems to be better at it than the other. It is a matter for all citizens of good will, regardless of political party. And that is why I am so glad to salute the wider understanding that has spread here in Rochester, New York, and why I am so glad that coincidence has brought me to Rochester on United Nations Day.

	I know that there are many other things that interest you here--the development of your industry; the security of your jobs; the growth of the American dream of the future. The real problem is to create those conditions where the free enterprise system can itself do the job of maintaining maximum employment. We are told repeatedly that our economy is in danger, that it is in jeopardy, because it is based on war. I tell you that it is that security of the future that has been the main aim of the Democratic party. We have recognized that the only way that a mass production economy can be kept going full blast is through a wide distribution of purchasing power. This is the theme which runs throughout almost all of our Democratic legislation in the past twenty years. It has been to create that kind of a broad base for our economy and that is why we fought for minimum wage standards, for unemployment insurance, for social security, for price supports for agriculture, for a curb on the high cost of living, for low cost housing, and so on and so on.

	Well, I guess you can have him too if you want him.

	Perhaps, my friends, the times are too grave to experiment with a Republican leadership which has proved its inability to keep us strong economically and in which Old guard isolationists still try to call the tune of Republican foreign policy.

	The Democratic party stands before the American people as the party of prosperity and of peace. And I should like, if I could, to echo what Senator Lehman said here a moment ago, that in this 38th and 39th Congressional District you have two excellent men who will work for peace and prosperity according to the Democratic pattern--and I mean Mr. Richard Judson and Victor Croppinbacher. And I am honored to find also with us here this morning a distinguished citizen of New York, Mr. John Cashmore, a candidate for the United States Senate. I bespeak your sympathetic consideration of his candidacy as a seatmate with your great, distinguished United States senator--Senator Herbert Lehman. And now, if you will forgive me for talking to you so long, let me just say that I deeply appreciate your presence here this morning in such numbers. I appreciate deeply your patience and your attentiveness. And, before I go I should like if I could introduce to you my sister, Mrs. Ives. I will be back again someday and I will promise not to talk so long.
COMMUNISMKOREAN WARUNITED NATIONS     ( ' ' ' '
 ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '	 !     e: