

	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.

	I want to say, first of all, how glad I am to be back in Kentucky and how much I appreciate the people coming over from Indiana who are here. You know, it occurs to me that if the people of Indiana have the supreme good judgment to elect a governor like Evan Bayh, they might be willing to shed Dan Quayle and give Bill Clinton and Al Gore a chance.

	I want to thank Senator Wendell Ford for that wonderful speech. He gave you the right questions. You can trust Bill Clinton and Al Gore to get up every day worrying about you instead of the privileged few. I want to thank Governor Jones, who has been my friend and a good governor and who has stood by me through thick and thin and who said to me tonight, along with Senator Ford, that if we work hard and we stay together, we can bring Kentucky to the Clinton-Gore column on Tuesday.

	I want to thank all the people who entertained you and kept you here, wonderful Nancy Griffith and my buddy Tom Hall and this wonderful band here and all the others that came.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say a special word of thanks to your mayor, and I want to ask you--I just want to ask the people of Kentucky and especially the people of Louisville to remember one thing, that in addition to all the other good things George Bush vetoed this year, he also vetoed coming back to Louisville for the debates, and I tried to get him to do it.

	You know, George Bush has been saying for weeks that this election is about trust, and then he--here's a guy who says this election is about who can you trust. He of the "read my lips," he of the 15 million new jobs when we've lost 35,000 private-sector jobs in America. He of the "you will be better off four years from now if I'm elected president," when average family income has gone down $1,600.

	But just listen to this. Look what came out just today or yesterday. I have to put my spectacles on because I want to be fairer to Mr. Bush than he ever is to me. I'm going to read this. Now listen to this. This man who says "trust" without a hint of guilt in his voice, listen to this.

	Turns out Mr. Bush had a conversation with Mikhail Gorbachev about this election, in which he basically told him he was going to take credit for ending the Cold War, even though he knew he wasn't entitled to it. Now look, this is a quote. I'm going to be fair. I'm going to read it to you.

	Gorbachev says in the New Yorker magazine, and I quote, "Bush warned me privately not to pay any attention to what he would say during the presidential campaign." In other words, he told Gorbachev the truth and didn't intend to tell you the truth. Let me tell you something, folks, if Gorbachev shouldn't pay any attention to what Bush says, you certainly shouldn't pay any attention to what he says in this campaign.

	Let me read you something else, folks. Old Mr. Bush tells people how terrible Arkansas is. He was over in western Kentucky telling everybody how terrible Arkansas is. He says, oh, they've got an awful environment. Guess what? We were one of the first four states to comply with the Clean Air Act, one of the first three states to comply with the Safe Drinking Water Act, and guess what? Before Mr. Bush needed it for his political campaign, Bush's Environmental Protection Agency gave Arkansas fourteen awards this year for environmental excellence.

	He criticizes us for a poor education system. We ranked first in the country in the increase in teacher pay last year. He criticized our economic policies. We ranked first in job growth. We've got the second-lowest taxes and the lowest state and local spending in the country, and unlike him, I've balanced twelve budgets in a row. Where does he get off criticizing our state?

	Now again, I want to be fair. I don't want these to be my words because I--every time Bush talks about trust it makes chills run up and down my spine. So I'm going to read you what the press said about Mr. Bush and trust. Now just listen to this. This is a representative sample.

	The New York Times wrote an editorial the other day, and I quote. It's called, "Worse Than a Lie," in which they said Bush, quote, "seems so eager to smear his opponent as a big taxer that he is willing to trash the truth over trivia."

	Listen to the Sacramento Bee in California. They said Bush, quote, "so consistently and flagrantly distorts the truth that he often seems to have no commitment whatever to veracity. Although those distortions on Clinton's record in Arkansas have been pointed out scores of times, he continues to use them."

	The Portland Oregonian says, "Frankly, we no longer trust him." And finally, listen to this. Up in Minnesota, the Minneapolis Star-Tribune said, "Bush says it better. Bush says a president must tell the truth. Bush has said often in this campaign a president must inspire trust. His argument is sound. It is one more reason to elect Bill Clinton as president."

	Folks, a few months ago George Bush said on the David Frost show he would do whatever it took to get elected president, and he has certainly proved it in this campaign. The other day we were in North Carolina with the agriculture commissioners of seven states rebutting totally false radio ads he had on my farming record. He just made them up.

	Then we went down to Georgia, and Senator Sam Nunn, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, had to blast the attacks of the Bush campaign on my defense position. He just made them up. And then we went to Louisiana, where Senators Breaux and Johnson had to blast what Bush was saying about my position on energy. He just made it up. And his campaign for reelection, all the arguments, he just made them up.

	I mean, this guy wants you to trust him and he's got an administration where the FBI is investigating the Justice Department and the Justice Department is investigating the FBI. They don't have any time for criminals any more.

	This is a guy who you--listen to this. He used three highly paid political cronies--you paid for them with your hard-earned tax dollars--to break all the State Department rules to rifle around in their files looking for some dirt on my passport file, and when they were unsuccessful in finding it, they probably broke the law in doing an unauthorized investigation into my mother's passport file.

	Now, have those people been reprimanded? Have they been fired? Has there been an apology to my mother? No. Why? Because it is part of George Bush's campaign to do or say whatever it takes to scare the American people.

	Let me tell you something, folks. Can you just imagine this? These three high-paid folks at the State Department, at 6:00 after the government offices close, sneak over to this old building where they keep all the old passport files, and they're looking for my mother's passport file. And they had to look two or three places because my poor mother has been widowed three times, and they got all the names. They're going to look at all of them. And they look around and they look around, and they bump against each other in this dusty room and they haul around until 10:00 at night and then they report with great disappointment, the news said, that they couldn't find anything. Let me tell you something. There is one good thing about this. It's probably the only time those three buzzards have worked until 10:00 at night since Bush has been president.

	The very idea that the word trust could ever come out of Bush's mouth after what he has done to this country and the way he has trampled the truth is a travesty for the American political system.

	I tell you what you can trust. I'll tell you what you can trust. You can trust Bill Clinton and Al Gore, your neighbors and friends, to get up and fight for you every day. You can trust me not to veto the Family and Medical Leave Acts that help the working people of this country and their families. You can trust me not to veto the tax bill he vetoed. He talks about taxes all the time in these sort of pious tones. George Bush, who raised taxes on the middle class after he said he wouldn't, who wants to give the wealthy another tax break.

	George Bush--hardly any Americans know this, but George Bush--ask Wendell Ford--vetoed a bill to give the middle class a tax break, vetoed a bill to save manufacturing jobs in Kentucky by giving investment credits, vetoed a bill to get this economy going again because it paid for the tax incentives by asking the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more in taxes. He vetoed relief on you. Don't you let him get away in the last days of this election by talking about taxes.

	Let me tell you something, folks. I come from a state kind of like Kentucky. It's a small state. People expect you to look them in the eye and tell them the truth and they evaluate it. The people in my state elected me governor five times during the tough years of the 1980s. I know something about trust. I got my trust the old-fashioned way. I earned it. I didn't make it up at election time.

	Folks, this crowd in Washington has had twelve long years to play with trickle-down economics. They got exactly what they wanted. Now the top 1 percent of the American people control more wealth than the bottom 90 percent. They said all those benefits were going to trickle down to us but guess what? In the last four years, for the first time in fifty, there's been a decline in jobs in the private sector. Spending has increased more than any president in twenty years. Government regulation, according to the conservative Heritage Foundation, under Bush increased more than under any president in twenty years.

	The White House staff--he talks about cutting spending--has increased by 56 percent and he's made it a virtual empire. And guess what? Ask Wendell. Don't take my word for it. George Bush asked Congress to spend more money than it actually spent. He tried to outspend Congress. You've got to be a real hummer to do that, folks. And he wants you to trust him?

	If you want to be a chief executive, you've got to roll up your sleeves and go to work and take responsibility. This guy's budget was so political and so bad and so inadequate--again, don't take my word. Ask Senator Ford. This year three-quarters of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against the Bush budget, it was so pathetic. He wants you to trust him to lead this country and he can't get his own party to vote for his sorry old budget.

	Let me tell you something, folks. My wife gave me a book before I got into this race in which the author defined insanity as doing the same old thing over and over again and expecting a different result. That's what Bush wants you to do.

	My much-investigated mother told me when I was a boy, that old adage, you know. Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me. We're not going to buy it this time, George. We're not buying it this time.

	My fellow Americans, if you in Kentucky and Indiana will give Bill Clinton and George Bush a chance to be evaluated based on our real records, our real values, our real trustworthiness, our real commitment to you, I have no doubt how this election will come out.

	I have tried to give this country a new Democratic party. Al Gore has helped that. It is the kind of party that has garnered support in the state for people like Brereton Jones and Evan Bayh and for Senators like Wendell Ford, in touch with the mainstream heartbeat of America. It is a program we run on that seeks to rebuild the private economy by giving more incentives to people to make money, by investing in our jobs, our businesses and our technology, but no more tax breaks for nothing or for moving our jobs overseas.

	It is the party that seeks to justify the support of all these young people in this audience by giving this country a real education presidency. Here in Kentucky and Indiana and Arkansas, the governors of your states have worked with the educators, the parents, the kids to try to lift up the educational system of this country. But in the nation there has been too much talk and too little action.

	I say every young person who gets out of high school and doesn't go to college ought to have access to a two-year apprenticeship program so they can have a good job, not a dead-end job. And I believe--I believe we ought to guarantee an opportunity for lifetime learning for all people in the workplace, starting with teaching everybody in America with a job to read in the next five years and give them a chance to get a high school diploma.

	And most important of all to most of our young people, I think we ought to open the doors of college education to all Americans. The national service plan which I proposed, which has become the heart of my campaign for a new course in politics in America, would say to all of our people, you can borrow the money to go to college without regard to your income and no questions asked. But you must pay it back, either as a small percentage of your income after you go to work, at tax time so you can't beat the bill, or even better, by giving two years to rebuild America here at home, by working as nurses, as teachers, as police officers, for the elderly, for people with disabilities, with kids, in housing programs, in rural health programs. We could solve the people problems of America in a generation, a whole new generation of educated young people. It would be the best money we ever spent. We can lift up the country, we can move it forward, we can make America great again. We can do it. Together we can do it.

	Six more days is right.

	But I want to say something, too, to those who are young and those who are not so young. There is a sign or two in the audience that speaks to this. We will not bring down our deficit, we will not restore health to our economy, we will not open up the future for Americans until we deal with the heartbreak of the fact that we are spending 30 percent more than any country on earth on our health care and we have fewer people covered and 100,000 people lose their health insurance every month.

	Older people are forced into nursing homes when they want to stay at home. People with disabilities, the same thing. People can't change their jobs if somebody in their family's been sick. I met a woman in Ohio who had seven children who gave up a $50,000 job because nobody would give her health insurance and she had one terribly sick child, and the only way she could get any help was to lose her job, go on welfare, and get the government to take care of it because we have stubbornly refused to take on the insurance companies, the regulators, the bureaucracies, and give this country a health care system we can be proud of.

	My fellow Americans, the party I seek to lead also challenges Americans. We know that we didn't get into this mess overnight. We're not going to get out of it overnight, and we're all going to have to change our ways to do what we ought to do. I want to start with the government. We want to reduce the influence of political action committees, lower the cost of congressional campaigns, open the airwaves in congressional races to honest debate, reduce the influence of lobbyists in Washington, make them tell how much money they've given congressmen when they testify before committees.

	Don't let people who work for the government quit and go to work for interests, especially foreign interests, lobbying the government just as soon as they walk out one door and into another. These are things I have fought for years. I want people with money in this country to make a lot of money, but I want them to make it the old-fashioned way. No more something for nothing. Make a million dollars by investing and putting the rest of America to work, and you can make all the money you want.

	I want to help poor people in this country but I want to empower them to take control of their own lives. People who work forty hours a week and have a kid in the house ought to have a tax system that lifts them above poverty. Nobody ought to work hard, raise their kid, and still be in poverty.

	People on welfare. People on welfare should see welfare as a second chance, not a way of life. More investment in education and support for the children, but when you can do it, you've got to go to work. We ought to have, finally, the toughest child support enforcement we can possibly have. People ought not be able to leave the state and beat the responsibility of taking care of their kids. This is what we stand for in this country.

	My fellow Americans, if you just look at the facts, if you go out here across Kentucky and Indiana and talk to people about the facts, we're going to win a big victory on Tuesday because the truth, the record, the vision, the concern is on the side of Bill Clinton and Al Gore. You look at this. Of all the people in this race, our economic program has been endorsed by ten Nobel Prize winners, and the man who wrote Ross Perot's economic program endorsed our program. Our health care program has been evaluated by Republicans and Democrats who say it will save your family $1,200 a year more than Bush's plan, insure everybody, and free up $2 trillion to reinvest in the American economy in the next twelve years.

	Twenty-four retired generals and admirals, including the deputy commander-in-chief of Operation Desert Storm and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, Admiral Crowe, have endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want change in this country.

	But most important, the ordinary Americans who make this country go, who have looked into our eyes and given us their stories and placed their trust in us, deserve somebody who's going to wake up every day fighting for them. I will fight for you. I will not forget who you are and what you care about and what your interests are at the White House.

	I just want you to think about this. We have six days. In the nine presidential elections just past, only twice has Kentucky voted for a Democrat in the last nine times. I ask you to get out and go across this state. Talk to your friends and neighbors. I ask the people of Indiana here to ask the people in your state to vote for a Democrat who will do for the presidency what Evan Bayh has done for the governorship.

	I ask all of you, I ask all of you to talk to your friends and neighbors and ask them to think about what they will really feel like if they listen to all of Mr. Bush's mud pies and they wake up on November 4th and it says, four more years. And then I ask you to think what you'll feel like if you wake up on November 4th and it says, a new day, change is on the way. We're lifting up America and we're going forward.

	You can make it happen. Do it. I need your help. Thank you and God bless you all.

ARKANSASCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNENDORSEMENTS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCESPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     K J J J J
 J J J J J J J	  	  	  	  	  	 r 	 E 	 * 	  e: