

	Mr. Stratton, Senator Brooks, ladies and gentlemen: An expert is a man who knows nothing about his subject but who is far away from home. On that basis, I qualify as an expert in politics. I have had three days. But out of the three days I have learned some lessons.

	My three days have carried me into quite a few corners of our country, so you may be interested in a few observations that I think are accurate.

	My first two days were spent in six southern cities. I was interested to see what were the subjects that seemed to interest them most, subjects involving national problems and the national scene, and then to compare those with similar reactions in the north. In my opinion they are identical.

	There is a deep understanding that overshadowing all other problems is that of peace, and included in this field of international relationships is a very deep resentment about the Korean War and what our people very definitely believe--and I think quite accurately--has occurred because of indecisiveness and fumbling in high places.

	But the subject of peace is not one about which the most questions are asked. The first question is--and you can state it how you please--honesty in government. There is a tremendous resentment all over arising, I think, out of the frequency with which we read in our morning papers that someone has made off with this, someone else has done that. As a matter of fact, this morning I believe there was a new one in Michigan. So in various forms comes this question of corruption, and the Washington mess--what we are going to do about it--and the pledge to clean it up seems to evoke more a violent and immediate and enthusiastic response than anything else.

	Next, I should say, is high prices, and mixed with high prices, big taxes. I don't have to give any commercial here before any such group as this as to the working of the National Committee, but one of their men came out to Denver two or three weeks ago and showed me some visual aids. They frankly said they copied them from the Army's system used in the war. Even those who have not seen these particular presentations will know something of what I mean. They are pictures, and then there is a canned statement as to what they mean. 

	One that I happen to remember and used in the South was the fact that there are 100 concealed taxes on every boiled egg you have on your breakfast table. This presentation goes right back to where the feed was raised and processed and shipped and finally the egg comes to your breakfast table.

	Not long ago the head of a retailers' association visited me just before I left Denver. In trying to describe the plight of the retailer he said, "The man who has a retail store as his business has merely become Uncle Sam's collector of all the taxes that people don't think they pay." 

	A few examples such as that of the egg, given to people in the South and in the North, evoke instant response. Then there is the presentation of the fact that part of those prices have gone up to pay the bungling and the thievery of the tax collectors all over the country who have failed to process all of their collections to Washington.

	One woman wrote me a letter saying, "General, I shall certainly vote for you if you will promise me now that more of our tax money gets to Washington." So there is a very deep feeling about all of these things.

	I apologize again for bringing up this kind of a subject to you people. You are experienced in politics and you know much more about what the people in your sections are thinking than I do. The specific point I want to make is that in New York City and Philadelphia there were exactly the same questions and the same reactions that you will get in Birmingham, Miami, Tampa, Little Rock, and so on. I am convinced that if we carry the message of honest government with all the sincerity with which we are capable that we really have the note of the campaign, something that not only will win but, in my naive conviction, something that should win.
	
	I have the very strong conviction that the only reason the Republican Party should want to win is because we believe we can do better and that we are determined to do better; that in the next four years we will establish a record that will make the people of the United States say, "They spoke in good faith--their performance has equaled their promises; and we shall continue that party."

	You can see that this means, from my point of view--and I think certainly from each of yours--that we have got to have a strong idealistic note in our entire campaign. We have got, frankly, to appeal to the spiritual and moral values that make the election worth winning and give us a chance to do something for this great country on a very high plane. That, I believe, we must do. For that reason, I further believe we should pay particular attention to the young Americans whom I know from my experience in war will battle their best only for a cause and an ideal, something in which they believe and to the women. I believe that there we have two great angles of approach that we would neglect at our peril. If we cultivate them and show them that we are sincere, that we are not merely making politicians' promises, that is the thing that will win. Moreover, I repeat, it is the thing that should win.

	I have already spoken more than I should about these subjects. What I really meant to say is that I have lived a life that has forced me to depend upon organization. The kind of preparations that I have been responsible for could not possibly have been successful unless there had been a very able, strong, dedicated and devoted staff to carry out the multitude of details and indeed, to take charge in the operational sense of many of the major portions.

	I feel, therefore, particularly fortunate in being able to have these few minutes this afternoon with such a group as this, the leaders in this great Central West section of the Republican Party. So far as I am able, if there are any questions you people want to direct to me I shall try to answer them. As you know, there is no honest man who can say he knows all the answers to everything. Certainly I do try to be honest, even if sometimes stupid. But so far as I have what I believe to be a worthwhile opinion on anything that any of you ladies and gentlemen may like to ask me, I shall do my best because I can see that I owe it to you. 

	You people and the great mass of Republicans have done me the high honor of saying, "We think you can do the job of carrying the standard for our party this fall." In return I owe you every possibility of exploring what is in my mind and heart, and when you see me going astray you have the right to lay our advice down in blunt terms and say, "You have gone a little cockeyed here and you had better get straightened out." That is, as I see it, not only your privilege but your responsibility. In many ways you are so vastly more experienced than I am in this particular field that I would be foolish not to seek your advice.

	With that rather rambling talk, I should say that if any of you would like to drive a few nails, I will mount the cross. 

	Q. I have been operating with a group of Democrats who are going to vote for you. One of the things that has come up is this: They have been telling people in my area that if the Republicans elect a president and there is a Republican administration, that all of the benefits that poor people have been receiving will be cut off and that we will have soup lines and a depression, and that they have never had it so well and they had better not change. General, what can we say to those people?

	A. First of all, of course, I absolutely repudiate the idea that the United States has to have war in order to be prosperous. I think that none of us can afford ever to let that charge pass, that there is just going to be a great depression. We will use the brains of the United States where they exist, and since most of the people are outside Washington still, thank the Lord most of our brains are still outside Washington. In other words, if we encourage the initiative of the citizen and of the community and of local business we can, in my opinion--and as a matter of fact, in my conviction--have a prosperity without war.

	Here and there will be difficult transitions, of course, where you have whole factories turned over to the making of tanks or jets or something else, when the time comes that we can slow up on that kind of work.

	Now as to this charge that the Republicans are going to cut off of the social benefits that people who have needed them have been getting, that has been a favorite charge of the Democrats for 20 years. Actually, I believe--and this is the statement I made at Boise, Idaho, some weeks ago--that these social gains are no longer a political matter at all. No one is going to try to turn the United States back to the point where there is no old age pension, no unemployment insurance, no help for dependent children and so forth. Of course we are going ahead. 

	This is the difference, though. The Democrat tries to make everybody believe--and particularly the person he thinks is dependent upon these things--that these social laws are an end in themselves. I believe from the bottom of my heart that these social benefits should be considered merely the floor that prevents our people from falling into the pit of disaster.

	On top of that, the initiative of the individual, his private incentive, the profit he makes--those are the things we must depend upon to build a house. Why should we allow anyone to sit around and say, "Well, after you are 65 you will get $42 a month?" What we are trying to say is, "No longer do you have that great escape that we had in 1890, where if you didn't like your job and things were a little tight you could go out and take a quarter section of the best land in the world--in spite of Senator Brooks--in Kansas or Texas." We can no longer do that. We have these great masses of people employed on specialties in Detroit and Gary and all the rest of the places. We cannot act as though we have no responsibility for those people at all. So we set up those things that are merely the reserve behind them. They know they will not starve.

	On top of that, we will encourage them to take risks and go ahead. That is the way I think we should explain it.

	Let me give you this one more point. The Democrats say they are the people who are giving old age pensions. What they are doing is reaching into every old age pension and reducing it. Every day they have reduced the value of that pension with this continued inflation until now some of them say there is a 53-cent dollar, although an economist told me yesterday it is 46. But they continue to reduce the buying power of that $42 pension until it is rapidly going down toward the $30 mark. I think they should be told the truth about it.
 
	Q. General, the story that we get from every mother and father who have a boy 16 or 18 is that the only future he has is to go to Korea. Is there anything we can tell these folks to help allay their feelings on the Korean situation?

	A. Of course, when you get into this question of international relations it is a long and involved subject. We would be less than honest if we could pretend to have clean, neat, perfect answers for every problem in it.

	But this one thing is certain: the United States itself cannot go out around the world, building a Roman wall, and man it. If we tried to do that we would so deplete our own productive power that our strength would be dissipated and dispersed that it would be worth nothing. Our only hope in those areas that are important to us for one reason or another is to help the population defend itself. In other words, our lads should be gotten out of the front lines as rapidly as possible in Korea.

	I believe that there are areas that the United States cannot see go under Communistic domination or leave to go down the drain, because we need their raw materials for our economy too badly. But wherever we try to help these people gain the spirit and the power to defend themselves, it is to help them and not to put our boys there.

	As of this moment we have this picture: on that battle line we have to send a gun and a man to carry it and to shoot it. The other side just sends the gun and they have an exhaustible supply of manpower in the Far East to shoot the guns, so they are working at an advantage. I personally doubt that they are particularly interested in an armistice at this moment, but they will be once we get on even terms with them. It requires an intensive effort to get these South Koreans in there defending their own front lines. And there are some 22 million South Koreans. 

	Q. How about the several hundred thousand Chinese Nationalist troops on Formosa?

	A. Mr. Schaefer, there are not that many troops that are fighting together. I personally do not believe that you have any shortage of manpower in South Korea. I haven't been there, nor have I seen all of the detailed reports, but my own feeling would be if those people can hold Formosa and do what they can from down there that we should be able to give the South Koreans a chance to defend themselves. That is a shotgun opinion.

	Q. General, I have found a great many people who are wondering what plans you have for reducing our enormous national debt, which now is near $260 billion.

	A. I think it is worse than that. The first thing we must do, of course, is to balance this budget. Until we balance the budget we have this terrific pressure for the cheapening of our money. Every dollar becomes cheaper every year which in turn, as long as we are having this kind of expense, tends to make that debt bigger and bigger.

	There are experienced Congressmen and Senators in this room. If any of them think I am exaggerating in what I am about to say, I hope he will get up and express his own opinion.

	This is what I believe: I believe that if we examine every single item in the budget with a cold and calculated eye on the single basis of whether we need it, and if we then will apply to all of our problems efficient management--some of which was outlined in the Hoover Commission report, but it can be vastly expanded by calling businessmen and their experts in to Washington to study this question--and then if we can get common honesty in government, I believe we can come close to balancing the budget without ever once reducing necessary expenses for the armed forces. 

	Once we get to a balanced budget, we have lifted one of the greatest threats of inflation from our backs. We should be able, with reasonable use of the Federal Reserve system, to keep stable money. As we go ahead then, in our peace program, we can--maybe never getting back to pre-Korea because we have had so much inflation, but we ought to try--aim toward the elimination of cost in defense expenditures, which will allow this budget to come down materially. That, in turn, will bring down taxes.

	Also, we should make provision for some retirement of the debt. I don't care how much, but as long as a person is thrifty and showing that his debt is being reduced a little bit each year instead of being increased, then his credit is good. Unless our credit is good, in the long run we are going to have the kind of inflation that we have seen abroad and which is ruinous to any economy. I believe the first step is complete honesty, complete efficiency, and ruthless elimination of such expenses that are not needed.

	Q. Some people have asked me how your foreign policy differs from that of the present administration. I tell them for one thing that in my opinion Dean Acheson will be fired. That is one important thing. I tell them that is recommended by the American Legion. 

	I tell them secondly that I don't believe you will make any commitments or agreements with any foreign countries without confirmation from the Senate under Constitutional government. 

	Thirdly, I tell them that I feel certain that you will not seize, under the War Emergency Powers Act, private property like the steel mills or the railroads or the newspapers or radios or even a man's home.

	Have you any other thing in mind where you differ? I think with most members out here that question comes up, of how you differ from the present administration in regard to the foreign policy. 

	Those are among many suggestions that I have used. Am I right in that contention and do you have any additional things where you differ from the present administration?

	A. One or two, I should like to add, Mr. Congressman. First, I believe that one of the greatest defects in our foreign policy is that there is none. I mean that in a very real sense, and I will show you exactly what I mean. No foreign policy by any nation can be carried forward successfully unless there is stability and unless, in our position of strength and leadership, other countries know it is stable. How can that be stable when the American people don't know what it is? Have any one of you ever been informed--if you have I will bow to your superior knowledge--as to what is the limit of our foreign policy? What are our objectives, our aspirations in this field? I have never heard them. Until we lay down some kind of an objective, a purpose, how do we support it? Do we just support an appropriation bill each time and then they send to Europe and say, "Come on home and defend this bill?"

	As far as I am concerned, I am not interested in that kind of thing. I want to know what the government of the United States is laying before our people, and if they say, "Well, that is dangerous," that is nevertheless democracy, and I don't think it is dangerous. I really believe that you start with this one thing. You have got to take the people into your confidence or you cannot have a stable foreign policy.

	There are a number of other ways in which I differ. For example, the way we got into the Korean mess and a number of things. But that first one, I think, is the critical one. Are we going to take our people into our confidence so that this foreign policy may be stable and we can all put our backs into it?

	Q. I am the first Republican, I hope, to be elected to Congress for about twenty-five years from the First Illinois Congressional District. I am making my campaign on the basis that you and Senator Nixon would ever appoint, if you did appoint, a Southerner to your Cabinet like Senator Sparkman who has voted 16 times against every civil rights piece of legislation that has ever been presented. It might interest you to know that Senator Brooks, a Republican even in a Democratic-controlled Congress, passed the anti-poll tax amendment to the soldiers' vote law. I just wanted to ask you, if you do appoint a Southerner to your Cabinet, I hope you will not--and I wish I could get some assurance that you will not--appointment a man like Senator Sparkman who believes as Mr. Hitler, after you gloriously led the American forces to victory to annihilate this ideal once and for all of a racial superiority. 

	Then if you do appoint a Southerner to the Cabinet when you are President, I wish you would also appoint an upstanding Negro like Dr. Julian who was the first citizen of Chicago in 1950 and was on the program at Marshall Field's in their 100th anniversary, or some other competent citizen, though he is a Negro, regardless of his race or color. In other words, if he is competent to serve with the type of moral and spiritual administration that you have advised us that you were going to espouse. Thank you.

	A. Mr. Brown, I have never yet discussed any possibility of an appointment of any kind, post-election or otherwise. However, in this case I am just going to break my habit, because I have even refused to speak about it negatively. People have said, "You will never appoint so and so to your cabinet?" I have always refused to answer. I have said that I will never make a deal. 

	But I tell you that there will never be any around me closely on whom I depend, whether I am a private citizen or an official, who is going to take--should I have the appointive power--what I consider to be a reactionary view about the basic tenet of our Constitution, that we are created equal regardless of race or religion or anything else.

	With respect to appointing a Negro to any place, I would say this: I will search for merit wherever it is. I will search for the qualifications needed to serve the United States well and if, in a particular field, you can find someone whose appointment would give reassurance to the great body of Negro men, I should very much like to do such a thing. Make no mistake; I said Negro men. I meant it in the generic sense; the Negro race.

	Q. I want to preface my question with a statement that as far as I am concerned I am 100% on the team. But I come from a district that, I must admit, was very strongly pro-Taft before the convention. Going down the street and in my meetings and wherever I go, I constantly run upon the problem of people telling me they are going to stay and they are not going to vote in this election. I have tried to counter that by telling them that as soon as the campaign opens up that feeling will disappear. But all the unsuccessful candidates on the Democratic ticket--Kefauver, Russell, Harriman, Kerr, and all the others--have sat down and had a conference with the Democratic nominee. I am sure that as soon as Senator Taft sits down and has a conference with you that problem in my district as well as other Midwest districts, will disappear. What is the possibility in the near future of Senator Taft and yourself sitting down and going over this problem and the two of you hitting it off as a team in this campaign, which will be of great help to all of us here in the Midwest.

	A. So far as I am concerned it could be any day. Senator Taft, as you know, has been on vacation and his son, I believe, is to be married about September 9th. As far as I know, I am to meet him at any early date, although I don't believe the exact time has been fixed. But in any event, I have no other purpose than to get with Senator Taft, recognizing his great responsibility in a Republican administration of leading the Senate. It would be foolish for me to abstain and I assure you I will not abstain. I am going to try to draw him on the team not only as a consultant but as a man who will lead a very important section of the fight.
BUDGET, BALANCEDBUSINESS--TAXATIONCABINET APPOINTMENTSDEBT, NATIONALECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFORMOSA STRAITSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT APPOINTMENTS--AFRICAN AMERICANSKOREAN WARPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPENSIONSPRESIDENTIAL POWER     Y Y Y Y Y
 zY uY pY pY pY pY (Y Y	  	  	  	  	  	  	 ~ 	 a 	 7 	 - 	 