

	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome to the Bill Clinton retirement party, right here in San Diego.

	You think we ought to be tougher on Clinton in the next debate?

	That's what a lot of people tell me, anyway. I'm glad it's not tomorrow night. I ...[missing text]...but it is Wednesday night. And I know that Clinton will be here and I say to the Clinton/Gore folks here: "You're going to get the tax cut due, don't worry about it." Oh, look at this. Oh. I like that. That's a long time ago.

	Yes, sir. Bill Clinton's on his way to--well, wherever he's going--Little Rock, somewhere--Hope, whatever--and he will get the tax cut. If he leaves his change of address, he'll get the tax cut. We'll mail it to him. Don't worry about it, Mr. Clinton.

	We're very honored to be back in San Francisco. We're here for a great convention. We had a great convention--or San D--excuse me, San Diego. Sure. Yeah. And we're happy to be back. We were back about a month ago. We're back here again today and I think...[missing text]...pretty good at it--maybe give it...[missing text]...back the day before the election, or I don't know what will happen. But San Diego is where it started, and we're on the move and we're going to carry the great state of California--you wait and see--notwithstanding what all the pundits say.

	And I want to say a special hello to all the officers and crew of the USS Ingersoll, right behind us here. That ship is named for Admiral Ingersoll, the Commander-in-Chief of the Atlantic Fleet during World War II. And I was proud to wear the uniform of the United States during those critical years. And I know the importance of a strong national defense. I know the importance of a strong national defense.

	The Dole-Kemp administration will keep America strong, second to none, second to none. And I know you've heard Duncan Hunter--you haven't heard Matt, but you've heard--Duke Cunningham is one of our war heroes over here. We understand what America is all about. We understand, sometimes you make sacrifices for the great country--we live in the greatest country on the face of the Earth and we're going to keep it that way.

	And we will respect and honor the men and women of our armed forces, as they should be respected and as they should be honored. And let me tell you something--right now there are about 20,000 men and women who wear the uniform of the United States, who have to line up for food stamps. That should not happen in the United States of America. We ought to pay our servicemen and women enough to feed their families without relying on food stamps or any other program.

	Now Jack indicated--we just want you to remember a couple of words, in addition to San Diego, of course--the word trust and the word fear. A lot of people are concerned about trust or pride. A lot of people are concerned about fear. And President Clinton and the labor bosses and the Hollywood elite, and the trial lawyers--in fact, when I fell off that platform in Chico, Governor, my telephone rang on the way down--It was a trial lawyer saying, "Bob, I think we've got a case here."

	We've got to stop--put an end to frivolous lawsuits putting small-businessmen and small-businesswomen out of business.

	And we need to put a cap on punitive damages, but President Clinton's not going to do it--they give him millions and millions of dollars. And so does the Hollywood elite. And so does John Sweeney and the AFL-CIO--all those ads scaring people on Medicare are coming from labor bosses, labor bosses--we're going to protect and defend and preserve Medicare. We're going to let it grow at 7 percent, which is more than President Clinton wants it to grow. We're going to save it just as we saved Social Security back in 1983 when Ronald Reagan was president of the United States--and we will do it again.

	Now Ronald Reagan thought every day was the Fourth of July, and Clinton thinks every day is Halloween. And that doesn't happen until October 31st. I would say to the President: "When you come in here on Wednesday for the debate, don't try to frighten everybody in America. And don't take credit for everything."

	He says, "I created 11 million jobs." I met a guy the other day who has three of them. Yeah.

	You've got to have three of them to make it work anymore. Your wife works, you work at two jobs, just to make ends meet. One works for the government and one works for the family. One works to pay the taxes; the taxes are the highest they've ever been in United States history. Forty percent of what you get goes for taxes and most of that is federal taxes.

	And remember one more thing in California--and I'm going to try to remind the President of some of these things Wednesday night, unless I forget. He promised you when he came out here in 1992--he said, "Everybody out in California is a center...[missing text]...of my first time will be a middle- class tax cut." And everybody who got that tax cut ought to vote for him again.

	But nobody got it. Nobody got it. You're paying $800 million a year in the state of California just for increased gas taxes. You pay more than any other state. It doesn't build one road or one bridge. It goes into the general fund where President Clinton can bring it back to you and say, "Look what I've done for California, with your money." He's cost you about $500,000 defense jobs. You go right down the list. Whether it's Silicon Valley or whether it's something else. If the trial lawyers want it, he wants it. If the Hollywood elite wants it, he wants it. If the labor bosses want it, he wants it.

	Let's talk about education. Jack Kemp and I believe we ought to ...[missing text]...into the inner cities. We ought to look at low-income parents, and we ought to look them in the eye, whether they live in San Diego or Los Angeles or anywhere in America. And we ought to say to those parents--you should have the same right, your child should have the same right, for an education, as anybody else in America, the same right and the same opportunity.
And if you want to send your child to a better school or a safer school, you should have that option, just as the President of the United States sends his daughter to a private school, and I don't criticize him for it. I said he did what a parent should do. But if you haven't got any money or if you're low, middle income, you don't have any money. You don't have that option. So we're going to create opportunity scholarships, and we're going to send money to California to the Governor, and the Governor's going to match it. And we're going to give that money to the parents--not to the school, but to the parent. And that parent takes the money wherever they want to go--that's called "School Choice."

	If it's good enough for President Clinton, it ought to be good enough for everybody else in America. That's the way I look at it. And how can he stand there and say no, as he did in Hartford, CT? He said he's for public school choice. He's not for anything. You know what he came out for, without even taking a poll? He said he's opposed to truancy. Now, that is leadership. He did it. Did it right there. Stood up there--right--and faced the American people and said, "I am opposed to truancy." That's school reform. That's all he's got to offer. Oh, that's right. He's also for midnight basketball, but he's also for a curfew. How can you have both?

	I don't know how he does it, but he gets away with it. He gets away with it. So we're going to try to correct some of those things on Wednesday night. So--

	Now let me repeat--and I know that President Clinton is ...[missing text]... when it comes to a tax cut--but he came out here, and he went around America promising all these things, and gave you a big tax increase. So a lot of people said, "Well, I don't know whether Bob Dole will do this or not." You can ask anybody I worked with in the Congress, Democrat or Republican, and they'll tell you one thing: I'm not perfect, but they'll tell you that Bob Dole Keeps his word. And you're going to have a 15 percent across the board tax cut.

	And you're going to have a $500 per child credit. But I see a few little child credits right in front of me here--$500 there, a $500 there. Now you can take that money, put it in the bank, let it roll over and over until your child's ready for college. Depending on...[missing text]...you might have $18,000 or $20,000 ready for college. Or you can buy health insurance. Or you can do whatever you want. But you can spend the money better than any bureaucrat I've ever met in Washington, D.C., Republican or Democrat.

	And the average family in California--a family of four--will get a $1,261 tax cut. That's an 80 percent tax--86 percent cut in your taxes. Now that's not a lot of money to some--this is a Main Street tax cut. This is not a Wall Street tax cut. This is not a tax cut for the rich. This is a tax cut for the American family and working people of America, in San Diego, and everywhere else in America. And it's going to happen in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	And we're going to cut that capital gains rate in half so you can create more jobs and more opportunities.

	And I would say to senior citizens--that are not here, but if any show up I want them to understand one thing--oh, I found one--there's one--all right--two. Three. All right. Now President Clinton scares you on Medicare. And he scares you on Medicaid. And he scares all the veterans. What he doesn't tell you is this: that he raised taxes on your Social Security benefits. He proposed a senior citizen making $25,000 is rich and therefore should pay more taxes. We're going to repeal that Clinton tax hike on senior citizens.

	And regulatory reform is part of our package--legal reform is part of our package. All these job opportunities--job training programs, and Voc Ed programs we're going to send back to the governors. We have $5 billion we've spent in programs. I think your governor and your legislature will do a better job of seeing that the money goes to the right place than anybody in Washington, D.C. Send the power back to the states and back to the people of California.

	And let me conclude--I remember at Hartford, too, when I said that--I said, "Mr. President, you're going to be eligible for this tax cut, too." And he said, "I, I need it." Now he's making $200,000. And if he needs it, what about everybody in this audience who may be making less?

	And he will need it. You know--he'll need it when he's looking for work, but he'll need it. And he's going to get it. Because we keep our word to the American people. And keep one basic thing in mind: it is your money. It's not my money, or Bill Clinton's money. It's your money and you shouldn't have to apologize for wanting to keep what you earn. The government ought to apologize for taking too much of it in the first place. It is your money. It is your money.

	So we're excited. We're excited. Now let me tell you about Dole-Kemp. Now let me, let me thank the Democrats for Dole over there. There are a lot of them, too. Dole-Kemp. Those are two four letter words you can teach your kids. Dole-Kemp.

	Now, California is critical in this election--fifty-four big ones, fifty-four electoral votes. It all started right here in San Diego--and we're going to go right up the coast, right up the coast, all the way north. And we're going to work and work and work and work for the governor, the Attorney Journal, ...[missing text]...all the elected officials, all the members of Congress, the people up and down the streets, Republicans and Independents and Democrats. And when the bell rings in California it's going to say Bob Dole--Bob Dole won.

	And I want you to be proud of the vote you cast. I remember the pride I took in voting for Dwight Eisenhower, Ike Eisenhower. I was proud of that vote. I want you to take a look at Bob Dole. I want you to take a look at Bill Clinton. Take a look at our background. Take a look at our records. Take a look at our promises. And then cast a vote you'll be proud of and I know that vote will be for Bob Dole, right here.

	We thank you very much for coming out on a holiday. We thank all the people on the ...[missing text]...San Diego...[missing text]...remember, remember it's a bi one. Only twenty-two days. It's a big one. And a lot of people are saying, "Well, it's all over. It's all over." I just left Kansas City ...[missing text]...Preserve...[missing text]...which is not far from Independence, the home of Harry Truman. And Truman used to say--you know, they'd say, "Give 'em hell, Harry." And he said, "I'm not going to give 'em hell. I'll just tell 'em the truth and they'll think it's hell." And that's what we're going to do the next twenty-one days.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
EDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDMILITARY PERSONNELSENIOR CITIZENSTAXATION--GENERAL     ?3 3 3 3 2
 2 2 2 2 2 2 2	  	 O 	 2 	   	  e: