
	I'm very glad that I came here to today to this Clinton village mall in Clinton, Maryland, to discuss the small business economy of our country and what we can do about it. But before I do, let me say that I think that our campaign and the American people need to declare victory, because it does seem at long last that Mr. Bush is willing to meet me in debates to discuss these issues.

	I have asked our people to get with his people and the debate commission today. He said yesterday he wanted to get on with it. If we're going to get on with it, let's not delay it for two weeks. Let's start Sunday. We've got a time. Let's get on with it.

	Because there is a great deal that we need to discuss. When I accepted this nomination, I quoted from our party's platform this year, a new Democratic party platform for a new Democratic party.

	The most important family policy, urban policy, labor policy, minority policy, and foreign policy America can have is an expanding entrepreneurial economy of high-wage, high-skill jobs. This year I'm proud to be running on that platform while my opponent is running away from his platform.

	We know that if our goal is to build a small business economy of high-wage jobs, we will have to rely on small business people. Small business people like the ones in this shopping center, and the ones all across America, who for many years have been the engine of economic growth.

	And the last twelve years, the Fortune 500 companies have actually reduced their employment in America, and 85 percent of the new jobs in this country have been created in units of under fifty. It is therefore clear that I cannot be a responsible steward of America's economy, and we cannot get this economy going again, unless we have a plan to revitalize the small business sector.

	We need more small businesses. We need more small businesses, and that means that government policies have to work for, not against, small business.

	Since Mr. Bush became president we have actually had a decline of nearly 40,000 jobs in the private sector. Most of the customers of small businesses in America had their wages decline, personal and business bankruptcies reached record level; in fact, new business incorporations have been declining by 3 percent a year during the years of the Bush administration, the first decline since 1945.

	Now, Mr. Bush's 1993 budget calls for eliminating small business centers, cutting small business subsidies, and raising interest rates on small business disaster loans. He left the office of chief counsel for advocacy for the Small Business Administration vacant for three years. That's the person who's supposed to fight for small business people against the government bureaucracy. It was vacant for three years.

	And get this: the conservative Heritage Foundation--no Democratic arms--says that under this administration the executive branch's regulation of the private economy has increased by more than under any president in the last twenty years.

	Now, after three and a half years of doing nothing, Mr. Bush says he has a plan to help small business. And to be fair, some of the ideas in it are good ones; they're ideas I've been pushing for years; ideas I've tried to implement as governor. Some of them are ideas that came out of a small-business forum that the Securities and Exchange Commission sponsored. And there are some good ideas in it.

	However, you have to ask yourself whether after 3 years of not caring about small business, it would really make a difference. Keep in mind that in last week's Time Magazine, an executive of the Bush administration said--this is out of Time Magazine, and I'm quoting--he said, "It doesn't much matter what's in our plan because we don't plan to follow through on it anyway."

	Well, let me tell you something, folks, I plan to follow through on mine, and here it is.

	I have spent the better part of a year talking to hundreds of small business people and entrepreneurs all across America, and they have helped me fashion this plan.

	The first thing we need to do is to increase access to money and credit for small businesses.

	I have proposed a new enterprise tax credit that would allow a 50 percent cut in the income tax for any gain coming after someone holds a new business for five years. Today, my senior senator, Senator Dale Bumpers, is introducing a bill in the Senate which would provide a 100 percent tax exemption for gains held for ten years or longer by small businesses that have $5 million or less in paid-in capital.

	These are the people that are creating the new jobs in America, and we ought to give them the incentives to do it. No more across-the-board capital gains cuts for churning money, but real incentives to create jobs in an American economy.

	We have to make it clear, and I will as president, to the bank regulatory agencies, that we must undertake a serious review of the regulatory practices of the federal agencies on banks all across this country; their examination procedures; their loan classification standards; to make sure they are not encouraging banks that refuse to make good loans.

	We have small businesses in this country today that have never missed a loan payment who are having their loans non-renewed, in overreaction to the mess the government made of the S&L crisis. Loans to small businesses did not break the savings and loans in this country.

	We have to bring free enterprise to the inner cities of America, and to the places where there is no capital. And I have recommended that we establish a network of a minimum of 100 community-development banks, modeled on the South Shore Development Bank in Chicago, set up for profit, for the explicit purpose of making loans and creating enterprise in poor inner-city areas and in under-served rural areas.

	We can bring small business to the inner city, and there is not enough government money in the world to solve the problem of Baltimore, of Washington, of New York, of Los Angeles, of any big city in this country. We have got to prove that people there can borrow money, can pay it back, can create business, can create opportunities.

	We have got to bring free enterprise to the inner cities. And the way to do it is to create community development banks who are set up to loan money to the people who deposit in the bank.

	The second thing we have to do is to provide more incentives for direct investment in ongoing businesses. I don't know how many small business people have told me that they were in it for life, and they never expected to get anything out of selling their business; they wanted to stay in business.

	Those people need a permanent investment tax credit to encourage them always to modernize; always to modernize plant, always to modernize equipment. We live in a world where we all have to change. We have a system now which makes no distinction in the tax laws between buying a Maserati, and putting a new piece of equipment in that cleaners there, modernizing the restaurant, modernizing the bakery, modernizing any one of these businesses.

	I say, give people an investment tax credit and encourage them always to stay ahead of the competition curve.

	We also need to make permanent the research and development tax credit so that people will always be modernizing research. Now, here that may not be a big issue. But an enormous amount of the really important research and development in this country, into new technologies that produce new jobs, are done by small business. And they need those kinds of tax credits.

	We also need to take another look at the income tax laws so that those who are doing this kind of research can have longer loss carry-forwards on their tax program.

	And finally, I want to create a network of enterprise zones in [missing text] areas of this country that will encourage people to invest again to create [missing text] free enterprise opportunities.

	We have got to have investment. Investment is what creates jobs. What has happened in the United States in the last twelve years? We've had more consumption and less investment. Unbelievably enough, with your tax dollars, we have quadrupled the deficit since 1980, and yet reduced the direct amount of money we are investing to make ourselves a wealthier country [missing text] education and research and development, and the things that make [missing text] grow. I want to invest more, and we will.

	The third thing I want to talk about is decreasing government regulation. As I said, the Heritage Foundation says this crowd has increased regulation even while they rail against government.

	My program would eliminate by attrition 100,000 federal jobs; reduce the White House staff by 25 percent. By the way, under Mr. Bush, the fastest growing part of the executive branch has been the White House staff. He rails against government, and increases his own.

	We would enforce the regulatory flexibility acts requirement, and do our best to develop a short-form for use by small businesses, much like the short forms you can now get on your income tax. A small business ought to be able to get a one-page form to comply with every requirement the federal government puts on them, and it would make a huge difference.

	I will appoint a Small Business Administration director who is not just a political appointee looking or a job, but someone who understands the business economy and how to make entrepreneurs grow and do better. We want that administration to be something that is more than politics. It's to be an engine of opportunity for the American people, and it will be under a Clinton administration.

	Finally, with regard to the tax money that you do pay to the government, we need to invest it in different ways. I have called for a $20 billion a year investment in new transportation, communications, and technology systems, to create an economy for the twenty-first century. I'll make sure that some of that benefit accrues to small business. Those contracts should have some small business provisions.

	We want to increase the amount of small business research money given out by the government for partnership research. An awful lot of what happens in this country, as I said earlier, comes out of small business.

	And finally, I propose that we do something that the Japanese and the Germans are going now in a big way that we're only doing in a little way, and that's to establish 170 extension centers for small manufacturers throughout the country to help them compete in the global economy.

	When I was a boy the agricultural extension service did that for our farmers. They went out to the grassroots level. They helped bring technology to the small farmers who could never get it. That is what the Japanese and the Germans are doing for manufacturers. That is what we should be doing.

	Our most vital manufacturers now, typically they have fifty to a hundred employees, but they do not have access to the resources that the big companies do. The manufacturing centers can bring it to them, and we can make them as competitive as any people in the world.

	We can help them to export, to modernize, and therefore to raise wages and increase opportunities for their employees and their customers. And that's what we'll do if you'll give me a chance on November 3rd.

	Finally, let me say that we have got to find a way, if we want a vital small business economy, to control health care costs; they're going to bankrupt this economy if we don't.

	Indeed, the difference, the single difference between my health care plan and the Bush plan is that he proposes to put more money into the same system with minor modifications. I propose a plan that will bring health care costs in line with inflation, not just the government health care costs, but your health care costs as well.

	I have done this after spending literally more than a year talking to hundreds of people including business people. I don't know how many business people I've met who have had to give up insuring their employees because they couldn't afford the premiums. I don't know how many people I've met who can't change their jobs because they or someone in their family has been sick, and they have a preexisting health condition.

	I don't know how many manufacturers I've talked to who say the biggest problem they've got with keeping their jobs in America are not wages, but their health care costs going up at three times the rate of inflation.

	If we do not bring health costs in line with inflation, we cannot get the deficit down; we cannot restore health to the manufacturing economy; and we will never have the kind of vital small business system we need; and even more important, the American people will never be as secure in their own lives as they ought to be.

	Now, how are we going to do this? In my judgment, you have to start with certain facts. Number one, health care costs are going up to nearly three times the rate of inflation.

	Number two, that's not just the health care costs the taxpayers are paying for. It's the health care costs the rest of you are paying for in your health insurance.

	Most small businesses do cover their employees, but more and more every year have to stop. Almost 100,000 Americans a month have lost their health insurance just during the years of the Bush administration.

	Now why is that? In my judgment it is because we are the only advanced country in the world that does not have a national system to control health care costs and provide basic health care for all our people.

	Now, that means that we're all going to have to change. And let me say what my system would do. Under our system, we would keep what is best about American health care. The right to choose a doctor. The fact that doctors and nurses and clinics and hospitals are by and large in the private sector. The fact that we know that heath care costs can be managed and kept within inflation, because there are people who are doing it today.

	What we need to do is to set up a national group of private citizens, consumers and providers who decide what the comprehensive benefits should be, in everybody's health insurance package; and say how much we're going to spend every year on health care; and then state by state, people should be in groups to manage that in a competitive way, say we're going to spend this much and no more; if you want to cover this group of government employees, this group of poor people, this group of private employees, this is how much you get and no more.

	We have got to keep a lid on costs. Second thing we have to do is to require that everybody gets some coverage. Because whenever people aren't covered, they still get health care, but they get it when it's too late, too expensive, and the rest of you pay the bill.

	Make no mistake: the rest of you pay the bill. If you have health insurance or you're an employer covering it, you're paying for everybody who doesn't.

	So what's the answer, if small business can't afford it? Here's the answer. Reform the national insurance laws. Say that. Tell the truth, say that we spend more on health insurance bureaucracy and paperwork than any other country in the world, at least $60 billion that has nothing to do with anybody's health care.

	So require the following changes: everybody has a right to be insured even if somebody in your family has been sick. That way you can change jobs. But small business people, self-employed people, and farmers will be able to be covered in huge community pools so that they can pay the same unit cost that an employee or an employer in a big company pays.

	Put the small business people, the farmers, and the self-employed in the big pool.

	Have the government cover all the people who aren't working, even the poor and the non-poor. But the non-poor will have to pay more for their coverage. That way, everybody gets covered. The doctors and the hospitals will be reimbursed the same amount by everybody. And we will save tens of billions of dollars. Believe me, folks, the number one thing I could do to free up money for small business and big business is to give you a system that would keep health care costs in line with inflation.

	By the end of the decade, it would be hundreds of billions of dollars freed up for investment and jobs and incomes in this country. It is the number one task facing us.

	I do not propose a payroll tax, but I do propose that over a period of several years, all people who don't cover their employees now would have to do it. But their unit costs would be lower. We would start with the largest employers first, and the smallest employers would have to cover their people last. Down the road, after we brought health care costs in line with inflation, and when the cost of heath insurance will be lower than it is now.

	We can do this. How do I know we can do it? Because other countries have done it. Because the state of Hawaii. Because the city of Rochester, New York, has done it now, where health insurance premiums are only two-thirds the national average.

	We can do it. We should increase the ability of self-employed people to deduct their heath insurance premiums from 25-100 percent. We should phase in the requirements for employers, as I said, so that small employers are given years for this system to work.

	And we should give tax credits to small business to help them offset the costs of health insurance premiums.

	But these things will enable us to revitalize the small business [missing text] of America, and we have got to do it. We must face the health [missing text] We cannot wait four years. We shouldn't have to wait four months [missing text] human and economic tragedy for the United States, and we can do better.

	Now, let me say this. I ask you to look at the record that I have established in our state. We rank first in the country now in job growth for the last year. We have been recognized for innovative programs for small businesses in terms of low-interest loans for start-ups or expansions or helping people to get into scientific and technological areas.

	And if you compare what I have done with the record of this administration, with its preference for big money and special interests; with the stunning revelation last Sunday that our tax dollars have actually been spent to advertise, to encourage companies to shut plants down here and move them overseas; to give low-interest loans to companies to shut down here and move overseas, which they cannot get in America to modernize plant and equipment.

	If you look at the blatant evidence that every one of you who has a business here is paying a higher percentage of your income in taxes than most foreign companies who operate here, what we need in this country--we may need more foreign investment; I encourage that; I want people in America to be free to be investing overseas--but I don't want your tax money to be spent to finance the movement of jobs overseas. It should be spent to put people back to work here at home.

	And my position on taxation is simple. If you're an American citizen, and your income goes up, you pay more taxes. If you're an American corporation and your income goes up, you pay more taxes.

	For twelve years, most foreign companies; income has exploded in this country, and they've paid less taxes, and the people at the IRS who have tried to collect it have been attacked by the Bush administration for the simple principle that everybody ought to pay the same tax on the same income.

	That will be my policy. Put the American people first. Get the American business community going again. Build up small business. Let's bring this economy back. And we can solve a lot of our other problems.

	Thank you very much, and God bless you all. Thank you.
BANKING/LOANS/CREDITINCOME TAXINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESREGULATION/DEREGULATIONTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--FOREIGN COUNTRIESURBAN RENEWALBUSINESS, SMALLHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCE     N N N N N
 N |N wN pN hN fN >N 4N	  	  	  	 ~ 	 g 	 7  *   e: