

	Thank you very much. I'm very proud to be here with all the bands that are participating today. We're going to have a big day on November 5th. There'll be a lot of band music on November 6th. We're going to win the election and carry California.

	Let me thank the man who stands behind me who earned a medal of honor. Think about it. Think about America, think about sacrifice, think about courage, bravery, our future, our leadership--who do you want making decisions for America?

	And I see a couple of Clinton-Gore signs. They'll get the tax cut, too. Don't worry about it; you'll be taken care of.

	So I'm very honored to be here, and I want to say just two or three things because I know that many of you have other things to do. This is a big, big thing. California, fifty-four electoral votes--20 percent of what you need to become the president of the United States. And we're going to win in this state because we believe the issues are on our side, and I believe you want a candidate you can trust, and someone who'll keep his word. And when that happens we're going to win.

	And they're a lot of young people in town today in Selma, and this camp is really about their future. It's always about the future. We look to the past for foundation. We look to the past for a lot of things, but it's always about the future. America is always moving ahead, always moving forward. And you see all the young people here today--you kind of wonder as you come down the street and you see busload after busload after busload--one of those young people may be standing here fifteen years from now running for Congress or some public office, or working in the community doing whatever, but it's important that we give them the same opportunities that our generation has had, and even better opportunities.

	We're not going to do that unless we take steps to make this economy grow. We need a better opportunity, a better future as we go into the next century for young people, every one in America.

	We've got the slowest-growing economy this century. President Clinton said he's never had it so good. Well, he's making $200,000 a year so he's never had it so good. So if he's never had it so good, what about the people making twenty-five or thirty or less thousand dollars a year. So what do we want to do?

	We say the government is too big and takes too much of your money, and people say, "Well, I'd like to have that tax cut, but how you gonna pay for it?" Well, we're going to do what you do at home. We're going to have the government pinch pennies instead of you pinch pennies. Let the government pinch pennies.

	There's enough waste in the government to give you the tax cut, enough waste, enough fraud, enough abuse, enough people flying around the world. Hazel O'Leary only lands for refueling. She's gone all the time. Why can't you take a vacation?

	We'll give you--making $30,000 family of four in this area, Selma, wherever, $1,261 tax cut that's 86 percent tax cut, that's a lot of money, that's four or five months' child care, maybe mortgage payment--two or three--maybe payment on a car, maybe a little time off with your family. What about that?

	Now I know President Clinton was here a couple of years ago and he probably told you about his tax cut you never got, but he said we can't afford this tax cut. The government can't afford it.

	Well, I believe and I know a little bit about the government. I'm no longer with the government or in the government or anything else, but I know a little about it. And I know we can preserve and strengthen Medicare. We are not going to touch it. It's going to grow 39 percent; Social Security, 34 percent.

	I want defense to grow a little bit because I think President Clinton has cut too much out of defense. It cost half a million jobs, according to Governor Wilson in the state of California. It's taken about $10 billion out of the economy in the state of California, and in my view he's gone too far. He said he's going to cut $60-some billion out of defense. He cut $112 out of defense. He's confessed, probably privately, he'd probably cut too much defense, just like he told a crowd in Texas.

	He raised your taxes too much. He did raise your taxes. He promised a tax cut in 1992, looked you in the eye, everybody in the eye, and then gave you the biggest tax increase in the history of America--$265 billion--but he says in our debates only the rich pay the tax. Seventy percent of that tax increase was paid by small-businessmen and small-businesswomen. If you had a Sub-chapter-S corporation, you got a 40 percent tax increase. Senior citizens got their Social Security benefits taxes increased. He's out there talking about Mediscare and all the things he tried to scare you with. He raised taxes on Social Security. I will replace those tax hikes on Social Security and we're going to give the American people across the board 15 percent tax cut.

	And I know there are thousands of young people in town today under 18. That's a $500 credit for each one of those children. Five-hundred-dollar tax credit, and then, to create more jobs and stimulate more activity in the private sector, we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half. Fifty percent reduction.

	And then when you work all your life and your kids work, the husband and wife work, you save a little money, you have a little farm, you have a little bus, and somebody passes on, you shouldn't have to sell off half the businesses to pay the estate tax. We're going to start giving you an estate tax relief.

	And that's just phase one. Phase two is a flatter, fairer, simple tax and ending the IRS as we know it, ending IRS as we know it. So I'd like to have your vote. I want to ask for your vote.

	We don't ask that in Kansas. They don't vote for us, so I'm going to ask for your vote and I want to ask for your support now and if you're leaning the other way, take the day off. Don't worry about the election.

	But if you're with us and you're concerned about the future, you're concerned about trust, about the truth, if you're outraged by what's happening on a daily basis in this White House--the President was asked, "Are you going to pardon this lady who might or might not implicate you in something in Whitewater?" He wouldn't say no. He should say no. What he's saying, in effect, is, don't say anything until after the election and maybe we can work a deal out, maybe I'll give you a pardon. Mr. President, that's an outrage, an outrage. The American people deserve better. You're the President of the United States.

	And in my White House we're not going to invite any drug dealers for dinner, and now this White House is never blaming themselves. They blame the Secret Service for not letting them know the guy was a drug dealer, gave him 20,000 bucks, a nice photo--come to the White House--all this stuff. Well, that's the way it goes. But get the files.

	And this foreign aid coming in to America recently from Indonesia, from India, who knows how many countries are sending in money? Foreign aid, foreign aid, finally made it to America. It's been going the other way as long as I've been around, but it's all going to the Clinton campaign. All this foreign aid.

	This one fella says he's related to Mahatma Gandhi. He owes $10,000 in back taxes, but by scrimping and putting it altogether he was able to give $300,000 to the Clinton campaign. Course you can't find Gandhi. He's gone. He's gone, all right. And he'll be gone till after the campaign. John Huang, who's raised millions and millions and represents a rich Indonesian family that trekked off about--we can't find him. There's a subpoena out and they say, "We'll produce him after the election."

	Well, the American people have a right to know before they vote how much of this has gone on, how long has it gone on, why did they see records show up in the living quarters that nobody could find. Nobody knew how they got there. They've been missing for two years--outrage after outrage after outrage. We've had enough outrage. It's time to give the White House back to someone who'll respect the public trust and I will do that.

	But let me say to Republicans, to Democrats and Independents, and there are always one or two who go to the wrong place, anybody who may be here--I support a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. President Clinton is opposed to it.

	When I look at these fellows with a Medal of Honor, I know I'm right when I support a constitutional amendment to protect the flag of the U.S.A. And I'm for it, and he's against it.

	And I believe young people who get together for band day and anything else--they ought to have a right to get together to have voluntary prayer, not dictated by the teachers, states, but voluntary prayer.

	And in a Dole administration we're going to appoint tough no-nonsense judges to the federal court, people who will interpret it, the Constitution--and watch out for the rights of the victims for a change. They will be good solid men and women who want to serve America.

	And there's another difference between myself and President Clinton. He's about to leave the White House and I'm about to get in. That's another difference.

	But of all these young people in town today, I know they're not all listening, but I want to say if you haven't started drugs, haven't started smoking, don't smoke, don't drink, don't use drugs. It's not going to do you any good. It can't possibly do you any good. You have a future. You are the future. You are American, you are leadership, and don't throw it away. Don't throw your life away and don't ruin the lives of your parents and your grandparents and other people who love you. And in my administration, instead of the drug use doubling in four years, as it has under President Clinton, we are going to cut it in half.

	And I will, if necessary, working with Governor Wilson and other governors, use the national guard to stop it at the borders. And we will also stop illegal immigrants at the borders. The taxpayers of California are picking up a tab of $3 billion a year, and suddenly, out of the election year, President Clinton is moving all these agents from Texas and other states into California--that he's really going to get tough. Why did you wait four years, Mr. President? If we cannot protect the federal borders, we ought to help the states put up the cost. The cost is $3 billion dollars. It's a lot of money and you have to pay it. Everybody here has to pay it, plus a lot of other poor people in California are denied services because they don't have the money.

	Illegal immigration will end. President Clinton wants illegal immigrants to have Social Security benefits, driver's licenses. You come to America with AIDS, you're entitled to medical treatment. This is going to stop. Legal immigrants is one thing, illegal immigrants is entirely something else.

	And don't forget the California Civil Rights Initiative. I don't believe in discrimination. I'm disabled. If there's discrimination, I might be out somewhere where I couldn't contact anybody. I don't believe in discrimination, and if somebody discriminates they ought to be punished. We have to live in America. We're all Americans. We are one America. Black or white or disabled, or whatever, we're all Americans. We're proud Americans. This is the greatest country on the face of the earth and we ought to support the...[missing text].

	So thank you very much for being here today. Thank Governor Deukmejian, former Governor Deukmejian, and Governor Wilson. I also want to thank Clayton Yeutter and his wife Christi. Clayton is not only an outstanding secretary of agriculture. He was our trade representative and Anne Venoma--I'll be looking to Anne and Clayton for leadership and guidance, and council when I become president.

	You'll see a big, big difference in the people that I rely on in my administration, and the people being relied on in this administration. Mine won't have to resign or go to jail or do any of those things, because you are going to be proud of a Dole administration.

	Thirty members of this President's Cabinet left the White House and other places of high responsibility. Thirty, so, I've just got one other little plan. And as I said, I'm moving in; he's moving out.

	I want to say I'm sorry Elizabeth could not be here today; she's off in four other places. She is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt is trying to reach her on the telephone. That's how talented Elizabeth is. And she will be an outstanding first lady, and she will be a role model for young women all across America. Make no mistake about it.

	So I thank you very much for being here. I want to ask you for your support, seriously. This is a very important election. We think about America.

	Think about the next ten days. This is a time that a lot of people are just beginning to focus, probably 20 to 25 percent. Oh, we're behind about eight or nine points in California. We're behind about eight or nine points in other places in America. We're ahead several points in other places in America. This election is not over. Don't miss it in the pundits. You're the ones who are going to decide. They're not going to decide.

	Don't listen about--and, I love the media--well, most of them. You know they're very liberal. They have very different views. They're very good people. They just don't believe in all this stuff. They want the government to solve everything. President Clinton trusts the government. I trust the people. I trust the people.

	So let me show you just one thing here to underscore that. I carry around in my pocket a copy of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution. It's been around over 200 years. It's only twenty-eight words in length. It's Article 10 of the Bill of Rights and our Founding Fathers were so concerned about the government getting too big, it could confiscate your property through taxation or whatever, or invade your privacy, that they put this in your Constitution. Part of the Bill of Rights, it says, in effect, that unless the Constitution gives the power to the federal government or denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people.

	You are the people. We're going to send power back to the states and to the people.

	Thank you very much for being here, and God bless America.
BILL OF RIGHTSBUDGET, BALANCEDCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSCIVIL RIGHTSDRUG ABUSE--MINORSELECTIONS--MEDIA COVERAGEFLAG/FLAG ISSUESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALILLEGAL ALIENSINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDINHERITANCE TAXJUDICIARY APPOINTMENTS--GENERALSCHOOL PRAYERTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERAL     9 9 9 9 9
 9 9 9 9 9 9 t9	 Q	 C	 3	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	 s 	 V 	 G 	 ( 	  	  e: