

	Thank you very much.  I wasn't sure whether we were buying this time or whether it was free.

	If we were buying it, I wanted you to sit down a little sooner.  If it was free, why, stand up again.

	It is a rare privilege to meet with you, and it is a high honor to be introduced by a very distinguished, effective young congressman like Congressman Bill Green.  He has been very, very kind to me in his introduction.

	Adlai Stevenson used to say that flattery was all right if you didn't inhale it.  Did you notice how I was breathing?

	And what a joy it is to have alongside of me a man with whom I have worked in the Senate and when he was mayor of this great city.  Many, many years we worked together--and I believe in common cause and common purpose--,and the man that I hope is re-elected with an overwhelming majority to the United States Senate, Joe Clark.

	And he sure looks like a winner.  He waves like one, too.

	And thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, for once again welcoming me to Philadelphia.  This city has been very kind to me.  Of course, it has been very kind to, I think, all Americans and it certainly has a great reputation in our history, at least of the past, and I think it is going to have a better one in the future.

	I am not going to take any time to talk about the past.  I appreciated very much the comments, indeed the commentary, of Congressman Green about a record, and I suppose that if you are going to hire somebody, sometimes you like to at least get their references.  What you do know about them?  What is the record?  But there are times, and even despite a record, that you say, "Well, I don't buy it, and I want to take a chance and I want to just look ahead without any regard to the yesterdays."

	I am proud of the public record that has been mine, I don't say it is without blemish.  I say in light of the public life, where one has to at least think in terms of total nation and not just a small constituency, I believe that it is a record of forward progress.  But what is most important is the future.

	Somebody once said that America, if you spell it backwards in two or three other languages, would spell future.  I am not sure if that is true or not, but it makes a good line.  I do know that this nation has spent very little time thinking about the yesterdays.  I know that Winston Churchill once said that those who use the present to stand in judgment of the past lose the future.

	What is really important is the future because that is what most of us are going to live through.  Most of us are going to spend our time in the future and I am talking to a group of young Americans now that are all, with few exceptions--and I hope all of you will be alive in the year 2000.  I am working on it myself.  I haven't found quite the right pill yet, but I will keep trying until I do.

	But what a fascinating future it is going to be if we can live. I didn't say just survive because there is a great deal of difference between survival which an animal can do and to live and all the meaning of that precious word "life" which a human being should have.

	I would like to think of my political life as at least based upon what kind of an America will we have in 1976.  We all know what kind of an America we had in 1776 and we note that much has happened since then and most of it to the good.  I would like also to keep in mind, and I want you to keep in mind, that the majority of the people in America today will be alive in the year 2000.  So when we look ahead, we are really looking to the twenty-first century and isn't that an exciting prospect to live in the twenty-first century.

	I think I have got some chance because my grandfather on my father's side lived to be ninety-three and my grandfather on my mother's side lived to be eighty-nine, and if I live to be eighty-nine, I will make it.

	Now, if you have any remedies, you let me know.

	What is the central issue of our times?  I think it is an issue that is both domestic and international.  I just jotted down very quickly here and I said it out in the public square--it is very difficult to speak in public squares--but I said we have to decide whether or not we are really going to have one nation, one American community, in which we share within the limits of our talents and our abilities all of the privileges and all of the responsibilities and all of the rights that belong to a citizen of the United States of America.

	We cannot afford two kinds of citizenship.  We are going to have to decide whether we are going to have one nation or whether we are going to have two.  As the Kerner Commission report put it, two separate and unequal.

	Now, we have been going through a long period of time in which we have literally had for many Americans a substandard citizenship.  I think the greatest achievement of the past decade is the breakthrough in the field of human rights.  Oh, I know the last decade has brought us material prosperity, unprecedented; in the last eight years, tremendous increase in personal income and profits and wages, even despite the rise in the cost of living, a fantastic increase, three times better, three and a half times better than in the proceeding seven years or eight years.  But while that is important, what is most important is that for the first time in the history of this country, the promise of the Emancipation Proclamation takes on some reality and there are literally today hundreds of thousands, millions of people for the first time that really feel that this country is theirs.

	Let a man have nothing to do for his country and he shall have no love for it.  That was the statement of a great English philosopher, John Stuart Mill.  Many of you who are in the field of social sciences have studied his writings.  Let a man have nothing to do for his country and he shall have no love for it.  And there are literally hundreds of thousands of Americans today that have had nothing to do for their country.  They have been cut out, they have been left out; well, they haven't been in on the action or on the benefits.

	But they are coming in now.  Ten million people have come out of poverty in the last eight years--ten million.  Think of that.  That is a remarkable record.

	Time forbids that I should go through what is the statistical evidence of the breakthroughs.  We passed all kinds of civil rights acts.  We have a great bulwark, a framework of law but really civil rights and human rights depend on you, not so much on law--your habits, your practices.  It takes a lot longer to overcome a bad habit than it does to pass a good law, and sometimes it takes a long time in the Senate with the filibuster to pass a good law.  I have been there long enough to know.

	So. we are going to have to have not only laws that dictate open housing, but we have to have hope for hearts and open minds.  So the first issue is whether or not we will have one nation in which all people can really participate in the benefits as well as the decision-making of this country.

	Now, the second one is what kind of a world are we going to live in?  Wendell Wilkie back in 1940, I think a man ahead of his time, used the phrase "one world", and he wrote a book entitled, "One World" and you might want to get it.  He talked about the fact that this world was no longer just principalities and sovereign nations but it had become in the very real sense one world, one kind of brotherhood.  Now, brotherhood does not mean that you give up fratricidal warfare; in fact, many brotherhoods have had too much of it, but we are living in what we call the nuclear age and the space age and you are going to live in it but plenty.

	I think the greatest achievement since World War II is the fact that we have been able to avoid a nuclear confrontation, a nuclear holocaust.  I can tell you as a member of the National Security Council, as one who has worked diligently in the field of nuclear energy, trying to curb its powers of destruction, I can tell you that either the Soviet Union or the United States presently has enough weapons, nuclear weapons, to obliterate all of mankind and all of God's creation.  You talk about over kill, I can assure you that if we should miss the first time or they should miss, there are plenty of times again, and when I hear people say, well, the Russians have fewer missiles than we have or we have more than they have, I say, yes, I guess that is right.  We have a superiority in missilery but we all have enough to kill everybody.

	Does that make you happy?  It doesn't make me happy.

	I think the greatest challenge of the coming decade is to slow down the nuclear arms race and to call a halt to the arms race before it calls a halt to humanity.

	And I am not unaware of the difficulties.  But because it is difficult does not mean that you must not try.  It was difficult to get a nuclear test ban treaty, but we got it.  I fought for it for ten years.  Joe Clark stood alongside of me, was one of our co-sponsors on that Senate resolution.

	I see where Mr. Nixon said here the other day, just yesterday, that he had doubts about the nonproliferation treaty.  Well, let me tell you, young Americans, that the one thing this world does not need is an expansion of nuclear weaponry.  We don't need that.

	Let me make it equally clear that the ratification of that treaty by the United States Senate is in our national interest.  It is in our interest of national security.  It is in the interest of world peace.  That treaty is a landmark since World War II in the building blocks of the cathedral of peace, and anyone that tells you that we ought to hesitate or that he has doubt about it is not a worker for peace.  He is one who has doubt about what kind of world we ought to live in.  And I draw the issue with Mr. Nixon on this matter and I want him to know it and I want his supporters to know it.

	I happen to believe that the nuclear nonproliferation treaty is in the interest of the survival and the life of mankind.  I think it is in the interest of our nation.  I think it is in the interest of world peace.  I think it is in the interest of national security and for anyone to say that we ought not to proceed with it is to show a confusion about the kind of a world we live in and a confusion as to whether or not he is capable of giving this country the sense of security.

	Now, let me hear from you.  Questions, please.  I don't want to be the picker and the chooser or some people will think I have a few people set out here.  This is rawhide confrontation, now--unplanned, unorganized.

	Voice:  Mr. Vice President, there have been some editorial allegations that as to the major issues confronting the candidates today, namely, the Vietnamese development, the urban crisis, the reconciliation between black and white, and rich and poor, labor and business, that the issues are mainly muddled between you and your adversary.

	Would you care to comment on this?

	Vice President Humphrey:  Well, I don't think they are muddled.  I think I can maybe make them quite clear.  Let's first of all, start at the end of the line and come up to what I think is the climatic and the crisis issues.

	First of all, on issues of labor and management I think you just have to study the record and I think the record is rather clear.  Mr. Nixon was in an administration that had three recessions in eight years, in which there was growth in personal income of nine percent.

	I have been in an administration that has had no recessions in eight years, a personal income increase of 32 percent and adjusted for inflation and cost of living increases.  So, these are true and what we call real percentages and real prices.

	Mr. Nixon was in an administration in which the increase in unemployment was two million.  I have been in an administration in which the increase in employment is two million, plus the increase in population which has been absorbed into the economy.

	I happen to believe, for example, in the repeal of Section 14B in the Labor Relations Act.  That happens to be my view.  I think that national standards ought to govern collective bargaining.  I do not believe in what they call the right to work laws.  I do not intend to try to pass this off lightly.  I have worked hard all of my life for the expansion of what we call the Fair Labor Standards Act to include migrant farm workers, which Mr. Nixon doesn't include.  I happen to believe--I want it quite clear I believe in the dynamism and the dynamic viability of our free enterprise system.  I think this is the greatest economic system this world has ever known and the social dividends from that system depend upon its profit and depends upon its constant growth.  The rate of growth in the previous eight years, from 1953 to 1961 was approximately 2.5 percent.  The rate of growth in the last eight years has been 5.2 percent.  You just switch the figures around.  It is a sort of Geritol spelled backwards.

	They have the Geritol.

	We have some other differences, on the arms race, for example, and what we should do about it.  I have explained that.

	On Vietnam--Mr. Nixon in 1954 said that we should at that time send in massive forces of air, naval and ground units.  His own president at that time had to disavow him.  I think Mr. Nixon is more of a cold war lawyer that I am.  I think he relies greater upon military power than he does upon diplomatic and economic and political persuasion.

	I happen to believe that in the world in which we live a greater emphasis needs to be placed upon a balance between what we call the strength that comes from the military and the strength that comes from an economy and the third party--the strength that comes from a moral purpose and the stature of a country, how we treat our own people, what kind of an image we give to the world.

	And I am of the opinion that we will have very little sources in this world convincing people that we believe in justice and that we believe in peace and that we believe in social progress unless we can demonstrate it there at home amongst the least of thee that are in our own society.

	That best foreign policy is a good domestic policy.  That happens to be my position.  I don't think that is anything [missing text].  This gentlemen.

	QUESTION:  Mr. Vice President, you are quoted as saying you happen to believe we should stop the bombing if we have some reason to believe it will expedite the--of power.

	Yes, sir.

	QUESTION: Since Hanoi's position seems clear, that the first and primarily necessary condition for successful negotiating is a complete halt in the bombing, wouldn't it be logically consistent on your part to support, therefore, a halt in the bombing?

	I believe that there has been a great deal of overemphasis upon the differences that exist among some of us, for example, like my friend, Senator Clark here, and myself.  No doubt but what we have had some disagreements on what some people think are rather basic and fundamental matters.  I don't think they are fundamental at all.  In Vietnam none of us recommend unilateral withdrawal.  None of the men in contested candidacies in the Democratic party.  None of us have recommended that we have a military solution.  All of us have said we needed a negotiated political settlement.  None of us have said America should have permanent bases in South Vietnam.  All of us have said they should be withdrawn as soon as the violence has subsided.  All of us have said that we should ask to seek to have more and more of the defense responsibilities in South Vietnam placed upon the army of South Vietnam with a systematic phased withdrawal of American forces.

	May I say at that point that I think this is very possible, and it is possible in the short run that the army of South Vietnam today is a much better army, more capable of its own self-defense, and I think I can safely predict that unless there are unusual developments that no one can see at this time, that we will be able to start to remove some of our troops. I hope we will be able to do it very promptly if we can get these negotiations underway but I would think, negotiations or no negotiations, we can start to be able to remove some of the American forces in early 1969 or late 1968.

	Let me present one more comment.  Some of our very prominent senators and spokesmen in this country have said as follows, that we should cease the bombing as soon as possible.  I agree with that.

	Others have said we should cease the bombing immediately.  Others have said that we should cease the bombing because all of us want to cease all of the bombing of North Vietnam, cease the bombing when we have some indication of restraint or response from Hanoi.

	Now, that has been my position, or as soon as possible.

	I am sure of this: that you have to take calculated risks for peace just as you take calculated risks on the battlefield, and if I am permitted to be president of the United States, my young friend, I will scan that horizon of Vietnam with meticulous care and I will be prepared to take those necessary calculated steps that will lead to the success of substantive negotiations in Paris.  It is my view that those negotiations may very well start before I become a president of the United States, but if they do not start, I want to give you and this audience my assurance that I will leave no matter untouched and no proposition unexplored that may lend itself to a more rapid success at the conference table in Paris.

	No one wants peace in Vietnam more than the man that is looking at you.  Every one of us want it.  The only question is, how do we best get it and I do not want Hanoi to think between now and January that if they just keep up the killing, just keep up the killing between now and January, they are going to get a better deal out of me than they will get out Mr. Harriman and Mr. Vance in Paris right now.

	I want a cease-fire.  I want it now.  I do no believe that it is good to have fight and talk.  I think it is better to stop the fight--and talk.  And we are looking for that.

	I don't mean just to take the front rows here.  We have a lady back here next.

	Question:  Mr. Vice President, there have been many committees and commissions formed to investigate crime in the streets.  If you are elected what do you intend to do about stopping the violence and crime that is waving over the nation?

	Crime in the streets is a very commonplace description of a rising crime rate in our country and a period of ferment and restlessness, some of which has burst out into violence, unorganized and organized.

	Let me speak to you as sincerely and as knowingly as I can.  I have been the mayor of a great city.  I have had the responsibility for law enforcement and it is not easy. I never wanted my city, however, to be known only for its police department.  I wanted it to be known for its schools and its hospitals and its jobs and its parks and its living conditions and the things that we did for people, but I happen to believe that the first duty of an elected public official is to protect life, to provide personal security, to see that neighborhoods are secure and safe.  I think that is where you start.

	I do not think that you can make social progress in lawlessness and violence.  I do not believe so.  I think in this country of ours you can make general social progress in order, that is, if there is reasonable order and that means, of course, civil order and civil justice.  They are one and inseparable.

	Now, the differences in this campaign are again of emphasis.  I do not accuse my opposition of being uninterested in the welfare of people, but I do say that they are arousing the passions of people when they put all of the emphasis upon just law and order as if law and order could be obtained in a community by an increase in the police departments and an increase in repression without any regard to some of the conditions that fester in a community like an abscess or a more [missing text] that breaks out into a serious social condition.

	So, I believe that we have to take two directions.  On the one hand, assure law and order.  On the other, assure with equal emphasis the respect for the laws of the right of a man to life in a decent neighborhood, the laws of building codes, of public health laws, the right of a man for a job, the right of a young person for an education.  These are the new Bill of Rights of our time by the way.  They have never been written.

	Might I just add quickly on the police state:  our police department today need professionalization, they need upgrading, they need an increase in number.  Law enforcement is not cheap, but lawlessness is more expensive and crime is far more expensive.

	For example, how many universities in the U.S. today have police training courses.  The same neighborhoods where you want to have better police protection has a police officer that frequently does not have a high school education, but that same neighborhood has a social worker that has to have a college education.  You insist that your librarian in the slum have a college education.  You insist that the social worker in the slum at least have part of a college education.  But you insist that your police officer be healthy, strong.

	Now, many of them are much better, by far.  Don't misunderstand me.  One city that I know of without maintaining names and it is not this city, one city that has approximately 4,500 police officers has approximately 800 who have less than an eighth grade education.

	Now, I don't say that a man without an eighth grade education doesn't have judgment but I do think an education helps him and I think we need to upgrade the training and the quality of our police departments.  We have to increase the numbers and we have to increase the pay.  We have to professionalize our police services.  We have to train them not only in how they enforce a law but we have to train them in community relations, in human relations, and we have to train them in a host of disciplines that relate to social order.

	Now, when we start doing that we are going to start to get law enforcement--but now, we used to have teachers that that could teach school with an eighth grade diploma and we found out that wasn't good enough.   Then we had teachers who used to teach school if they had a high school diploma.  If you want to get good education, you have got to have a good teacher.  If you want law enforcement you have got to have a highly professionalized trained and well paid police department.  There is no other way to get it--and instead of accusing police departments of misdeeds, I think the American public stands accused.

	Let's give our mayors and our cities, let's give our police chiefs and police commissioners, the kind of manpower that permits them not only to exercise law enforcement but to encourage law observance and there is a whole lot of difference between law enforcement and law observance.

	I am trying to keep this balanced.  A young lady here, please.

	Congressman Green:  Before that question is asked, may I say just one thing.  They tell me you are running very late.

	Vice President Humphrey:  Well, let's get this one.  My long answers.

	Question:  Thank you.  Mr. Vice President, what do you think of the Fortas appointment and what do you think of Nixon's failure to take part in it?

	Vice President Humphrey:  Well, I think that Justice Fortas is one of the most gifted and talented Americans of our time.

	Now, Mr. Nixon has said about the same thing about him, but there is one thing he hasn't said, which I am about to say.  I think his nomination ought to be confirmed.

	And from this platform I call upon Mr. Nixon to tell his coalition of Republicans and Dixiecrats in the Senate to break up that filibuster and to confirm Justice Fortas.

	You know, I have a suspicion that that little man you have that went down--that was underway in Miami between Mr. Thurmond, who is the leader of the opposition against Mr. Fortas, that that little deal between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Thurmond has something to do with Mr. Fortas's problems of confirmation.  And I repeat, I think if Mr. Nixon believes what he said, that Mr. Fortas is a fine, distinguished patriotic American, then I call upon Mr. Nixon to call upon his supporters in the senate to call off the filibuster and confirm the nomination of Mr. Fortas.

	One more question.

	Question:  Mr. Vice President, Mr. Nixon has said that Israel should be sold jets to maintain at least a major balance of power against the Arab nations which are being given arms by Russia. How do you feel?

	Well, Mr. Nixon has come around late.  I am pleased that he has seen my point of view.

	In early July of this year, at the request--I believe Senator Clark and Senator Gruening and several senators in the U.S. Senate, wrote to me and said, "Mr. Vice President, we are people in the Congress that believe that the United States policy towards Israel needs to be strengthened and we would like to have your views."

	Now, many people say, well, when are you going to be your own man?  Well, if I wasn't my own man on that day my name is not Hubert Horatio Humphrey.

	I submitted to several of the U.S. senators in letter--my views outlining what I consider to be the essential principles of foreign policy for the United States in the Middle East:  for example, not only the recognition of the right of Israel to survive but to live, and there is great deal of difference; the end of [missing text] towards her; free navigational rights in the Suez Canal and all international waters, and so forth.

	Now, let's get on to the point of the military equipment.  What we ought to be seeking everywhere is arms control, not arms escalation.  That is where we ought to be.  That is what we ought to have.

	But since the Soviet Union has seen fit to pour, and I repeat, pour hundreds of millions of dollars, running into the billions of dollars of arms into the Middle East, arms which are directed against the safety and territorial integrity and sovereignty of Israel, I have said that it is not only right but it is the duty of this country to honor the requests of Israel,  And they are not requests of gifts.  They are requests of purchases of the necessary military equipment to give her adequate defense and deter any aggression against her and that equipment must include not only conventional military equipment that is necessary for land forces and for naval forces but the supersonic, the most modern type of jet which is what we call the Phantom jet, and I made that clear a long time ago.

	And as I say, I was happy to note last week that Mr. Nixon agreed with me.  Thank you.

	I will take one more question.  The young man in the middle back there.  This young man--that young lady, if you will forgive me.  We have got to balance this off some.  Yes, ma'am.

	Question:  If you become president--

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Would you wait for the mike there?

	QUESTION:  If you become president, will you accept a coalition with the National Liberation Front in Paris in order to obtain peace in Vietnam?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Well, may I make it quite clear that there has never been any problem on our part as to the representation of the different groups that are at war in Vietnam and to the conference in Paris.  Never been any problem at all, and I am happy to tell you that the president of South Vietnam, Mr. Tsieu, himself, has said that he is prepared to negotiate with the representatives of the NLF.  So, there is no problem here.

	The problem that we have today is that North Vietnam is unwilling to sit down with the government of South Vietnam, and when those government are ready to sit down with each other, there will be no problem about the representation of the NLF or the Viet Cong.  That is the answer.

	QUESTION:  Mr. Vice President, would you please give us your views on the gun control bill?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The gun control bill?

	VOICE:  Yes.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I will have to end up on this one.  I have supported strong legislation for gun control.  I believe that it is necessary.  I don't think that it impairs anyone's legitimate rights.  I, for example, like to go duck hunting.  I like trap shooting and skeet shooting.  This is one of my hobbies.

	I don't think it is going to interfere with my right to have all of those hobbies and pleasures if I have to register my gun.  I have to get a fishing license, I have to get a hunting license, I have to get an automobile license and I did get a marriage license.

	And I have no objections to any of them.

	Thank you very much.
CIVIL RIGHTSCRIME--GENERALEQUAL OPPORTUNITYGUN CONTROLLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)ORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALRACE RELATIONSSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSWEAPONS SALES--ISRAELWEAPONS SALES--SOVIET UNION TO ARAB NATIONSVIETNAM WAR      r q q q q
 q q q q q q q q	 
	  	  	  	  	  	  	 s 	 e 	 K 	 6   e: