

	Thank you very much, Jerry Leonard, for your introduction, and I wish to express my appreciation to all of those jammed into this ballroom for your very warm reception. I want you to know that just outside a few moments ago we received a very warm reception. I didn't realize that all the people would be up here, but I understand that here are the party workers and those that are going to win Wisconsin in November, and we thank you for coming out.

	As I was standing there in the wings waiting to be introduced, I heard what Warren Knowles had to say and also Jerry Leonard, and if it will bear repetition, may I tell you again that I am proud to be back in Wisconsin. I have strong and good feelings about this state. I have never lost in Wisconsin, and this year we are going to carry Wisconsin and the nation.

	There are a number of reasons that I feel very confident about this state, not only the fine showing in the primary which you helped us make, but also, as I said, the feeling that I told Warren Knowles on the night of the nomination, it seemed almost fate that the state that put me over the top was a primary state where I had gone to the voters, and I am proud that Wisconsin did it, and that's why I am here as the nominee of the party.

	But another reason that I am very proud to be running in this state and to be appearing here is because of the team that I am running with. I was delighted to hear that Warren Knowles is running so well, and I hope his coattails are long. I want to be right there with him when he gets to win on November 5th. I think one of the reasons he runs so well, he told me a little earlier that he would not be able to stay for the full meeting because he had to cover another part of this state. He is one of the great campaigners of all time. How about the biggest majority ever for Warren Knowles.

	And, too, I am delighted to be running on the same ticket with my colleagues, colleagues I have known in the House of Representatives through the years, some of them older, some of them new, some who came in 1966. And just so you can see them all, will all of the congressmen who are sitting and the congressional candidates please stand up so you can give them a hand?

	Mel Laird, incidentally, is traveling with me on this campaign swing, and so he will keep me posted on all the Wisconsin and the other issues. But you have a splendid delegation in the House already. Just give a couple more down there because we need more in order to have that majority that we need. Remember that in electing a president, you must give him a team in the House and a team in the Senate.

	And when I speak of the Senate, let me say that I can think of no man in this country who is better qualified in terms of his youth, his vigor and all that experience than Jerry Leonard to be in the Senate.

	And now that I have mentioned those who will be running with me and have the opportunity too, to speak to you about how this campaign is going--if you missed anything, I was talking about the other candidates. But I want to run with them, believe me, and I just want to say to any of you in the back of the room, it's a great team in Wisconsin. I am proud to be on it, and I am also proud to have Bart Starr on my team too.

	I know that Bart had a little bit of difficulty yesterday, but I will tell you one thing, that's the last man from Minnesota, there will be no man from Minnesota winning November 5. In fact, I've got news for you: That man from Minnesota isn't going to even win in Minnesota on November 5.

	You know, I was thinking when Bart Starr--I understood he had been here a little earlier, and I have such great admiration for him. People say, "Why do you talk so much about football?" That's because I learned so much sitting on the bench with the coach. Nevertheless, I was thinking--Bart Starr, those magnificent performances of last year, you know, in the title games--and he called all the signals. He was the man who was the quarterback and he ran the team. I read with great amusement the statements by Mr. Humphrey to the effect that he was now captain of the team. Well, he may be the captain of the team, but that old boy over there on the bench is calling all the signals, you can be sure of that.

	My friends, that's the problem. You see, that's the choice in 1968--whether we have the same old signals, the same old plays that we have tried for the last four years, and we haven't won a game. It's time to win a few games. Let's get a new team with new leadership.

	And now, could I give you very briefly, because I know you're jammed in here, it is hotter here than it was in Miami, but, nevertheless, could I give you just a feel of this national campaign? I know you all wonder how it's going. I know how it's going. I've been around this country.

	We got to Chicago just a week after the other fellow got out of town, and what a crowd there was there. Some people said, "Well, that's a risky business going to Chicago." Not for us. They came out, 600,000 strong, the biggest, most enthusiastic welcome a political figure has had in Chicago in twenty-five years. San Francisco, and then a record crowd in San Francisco the next day, 30,000 that night in Santa Clara University Stadium, 45,000 in Houston Stadium the next night. That's the biggest political crowd either a Democrat or Republican has ever had in the whole state of Texas, and in Texas they have big ones, as you know.

	And then in Westchester County, New York, when Governor Rockefeller introduced me to an overflow crowd, there were 5,000 inside and 6,000 outside, he said it was the biggest and most enthusiastic crowd he'd ever seen at a rally in Westchester County in New York, and we're going to carry New York this time, we are going to carry the other states as well.

	Then in Philadelphia, in Philadelphia last Saturday the same pattern. A motorcade with the crowd twice as big as the other side, and then up through both Pennsylvania and then in through New Jersey, all day long standing in a car.

	Let me tell you what's happening. It isn't just the size of the crowds, because, you know, crowds can be built. You all have built crowds. You're all--many of you know how it is to get a crowd out for a candidate, but it's the quality, it's the enthusiasm quotient, what I call the enthusiasm, it's the youth in the crowds. Let me tell you what I've seen across this country. I've never seen so many young people out--how many in this audience are less than thirty years of age?

	And these are supposed to be the old party workers. Can you imagine that?

	Well, my friends, let me tell you why you're out. These are October crowds in September, and the reason they are big and the reason they are enthusiastic is that they are not just the partisan crowds. These aren't just Republicans coming out to cheer for a Republican candidate. They are Republicans, they are Independents, they are Democrats, they are young, they are old, they are people from all walks of life, and as I look at these crowds and as I talk to them, I realize that these are people that have not been out before.

	They have been the people that have not been breaking the law, they haven't been out shouting, they haven't been demonstrating. They are people who have been paying their taxes, they are people that have been supporting their churches and their schools. They are good people. They care. They know that this country isn't going to be a good country for any of us to live in unless it's a good country for all of us to live in.

	But as these people, what I call the forgotten Americans, and that's a majority of Americans, as they look at what has happened to America over the last four years, they say that we can't afford four more years of that kind of leadership, and that's why they're out.

	They're going to get a change. My friends, let me give you the choice. Since you are party workers primarily, since you are going to have to carry the message back to the precincts, back to the wards, let me give you the choice in 1968 on four key issues, and then you can see why these issues are bigger than whether you are Republican or Democrat. They have to do with the survival of the nation. They have to do with what Americans want for their children, for the future generations.

	And, first, the issue of war and peace. Here the choice is very clear. On the one side a candidate who has helped to make the policies of the past four years, who supports those policies, who defends them, who has had no objections to them and has not indicated any difference with them and who, in effect says, "Elect me," and he will continue those policies for the next four years.

	And so we look at those policies as to what has happened to the United States in the past four years, and we, of course, see the situation in Vietnam, no peace for four years. But beyond that, if you look around the world for a moment with me, you can't name one place in the world where the United States isn't worse off today than it was when we left office in 1961.

	My friends, I say we need a new foreign policy, not to continue the policy of the past, a new policy that will bring to an honorable end the war in which we are engaged, if that war is still going on.	But, beyond that, that will lay the foundations for lasting peace in the future, that will look at America's commitments around the world and recognize that the world has changed since the time that Glen Davis and I and Mel Laird served in the Congress together many years ago.

	Then the United States was strong and rich and we had the responsibility which we did undertake to help the rest of the world. We not only furnished our money, we furnished our arms and we furnished our men to help others defend their freedom.

	But look at the world today. We find that other nations that we have helped in Europe and in Asia now have wealth, and as we look at the balance in the world today, we find that there are 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world. And yet both in Korea and in Vietnam, what happened? We furnished not only the money and the arms but most of the men to help others defend their freedom. And I think we need a new foreign policy, a new foreign policy which will enlist other free nations in bearing their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world.

	I pledge to you that we shall have peace, we can have it through strength and through the negotiation which can only come if you can negotiate from an area of strength.

	And I think, too, that as you look at the record and compare them that certainly I can point with some pride to the fact that I had a pretty good teacher. After all, I served in an administration in which we ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and it's that kind of diplomacy that I shall bring to you.

	The second issue, the choice, the choice in terms of peace at home, on that score, did you realize that this is the first election in America's history in which a presidential candidate could talk and has to talk about both the problem of peace abroad and peace at home?

	At other times in our history during elections we have had the problem of war abroad and at other times in our history, once, we had the War Between the States coming up. But now we've got both the problem of no peace abroad, no peace at home.

	And so we look at the situation, and here is your choice. On the one hand a man who defends the record of the past four years, who defends the record of the Justice Department, who defends the record of the Attorney General of the United States.

	Well, here is my answer. I say that when we look over the last four years and see that crime has gone up nine times as fast as population, and it went up 21 percent in the last FBI report for the last quarter. When we look at the record for the last four years and find that in 300 cities we have had riots, where we have had 200 dead and 7,000 injured; and when we look at these last four years and find that the city of Washington, for which the Justice Department and the present administration has sole responsibility, has become the crime capital of the world; then instead of keeping the old policies and the old team, I say give us a chance and we will give you a new attorney general and new leadership.

	So, again, we can restore through proper leadership respect for law, respect for order, and it means, of course, that along with it we shall have the justice and the progress which is essential if you are to have those two.

	And then the third choice is in another area. This is what we call the pocketbook issue, a very interesting one. You have heard it said often, I know, our friend on the other side says often, "You have never had it so good." He says to the American working man, "Look, your wages have been going up," and so we look at the facts.

	You know what we find? I have been looking into that just a little bit. Let's look at the more fortunate people in our society, those who are members of unions and who consequently have had as they should have increases in wages over the past four years. They have negotiated them. Wages are up. You know how much? An average of $23 a week. You know what's happened over the past three years to those wages? The average factory worker in America has been on a treadmill because the raise, the increase in taxes and the increase in prices has eaten it up. And I say, let's get a new administration that will stop the rise in prices and stop the rise in taxes so that we can have a real increase in wages for all Americans.

	Now, here again, could I speak for one moment about another group of forgotten Americans. There are twenty million people in America who are retired. They are living on fixed incomes, Social Security, a little pension, a little life insurance. You see what's happened to them? Forced to the wall because the increase in prices.

	And so it is one of the great issues of this campaign, which candidate is going to be able to deal with this problem of what has happened to the American dollar in terms of its purchasing power, what is happening to taxes, what is happening to prices. And on that score we also have to look at the record.

	I was looking over the record of our friend on the other side. I found a very interesting thing. When he was in the Senate from 1948 to 1961, he was one of America's most expensive senators. As a matter of fact, he introduced bills that did not pass which would have cost $100 billion if they had passed.

And I simply say to you, the United States can't afford Hubert Humphrey as president of the United States.

	My friends, that brings me to the fourth point of difference, and this point of difference has to do with the road to progress. Every person in this room wants programs that will deal with the problems of our cities. That will rebuild them as they need to be rebuilt all over this land, programs that will train the unemployed, programs that will provide an equal chance at the starting line for people that have never had it. We all want that, we're for it, and we're going to certainly put in programs of that type.

	But the question is which road do we take? And here again, we've been on a road it's a dead end. It's a dead end because the knee-jerk reaction again has been over the past four years, every time there is a problem, the federal government steps in. And so we've spent billions of dollars for federal programs for federal housing, for federal jobs, and federal welfare. The result has been the same problems. Hopes raised and then dashed.

	I think we need a new program, and I think I can summarize it best by saying this, rather than a program in which we have millions more on welfare rolls, let's have a program that will have millions more on payrolls in the United States of America.

	I would just hold you for one more moment. I can say as we look at these programs, we recognize the role of the federal government, a very important one in terms of doing those things that cannot be done by private enterprise, providing in all areas for the aged, for those in need.

	But let us recognize as we look to the greatness of America that we are the most powerful country and the richest country and that there is more wealth in this country more evenly spread than in any great nation of the world. And never forget how we became great. America is a great nation not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves.

	Now, may I leave one final thought with you. Naturally the choice, and now you have the job to carry that message to the voters of Wisconsin, I am sure you will do it.

	Let me suggest something. In this room I understand there could be maybe 2,000 people jammed into it, and you may feel that there may be more or less, I don't know what the case may be. But, in any event, did you know that if between now and Election Day each person in this room would make a personal commitment to talk to at least ten people who are on the fence, that could be multiplying ten times 2,000 is 20,000 votes. That could make the difference between electing a senator and not electing one, or electing a congressman and not electing one.

	And so I say to you, this cause is worth fighting for. This is the big one. Now let's go out and win and win it big. How about it?
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZESPORTS/ATHLETES     SE E E E E
 E D D D D D D D	 T 	 F 	 8 	 $ 	  e: