

	Tonight, I want to speak to you of inflation--the thief that robs you every day.  Thieves should be dealt with by the constituted authorities.  But not this thief; nor by the constituted authorities you have in Washington.  That's what I want to talk about.

	The word "inflation" doesn't mean very much until you feel it in your pocketbook or in your future.  Let's look at inflation from both these points of view.  You have something called prosperity which means more take-home pay.  But I am as concerned, as I'm sure you are, with what that pay will take home from the market.  When you take home less and less for the same money, or need more and more money for what you take home--that's inflation.

	The first fact about inflation is that it pervades every single aspect of our individual and national life.  It aggravates the ceaseless struggle of the individual worker to feed and clothe his family, no less than the global struggle to hold back the pressure of Communism and the danger of war.

	I want to talk about how the present administration has let this peril constantly grow.

	Then I want to say something about how our new administrator will deal with the forces that are destroying the value of your dollar.

	To begin with, it is not easy for any one of us to realize how close to him this peril is.  To the casual eye, our economy looks as healthy and serene--and rewarding--as a stretch of rich Hudson River Valley farmland.  But the eye that looks sharp and deep will find in this agreeable prospect a concealed mine field.

	It is true that there is more money in existence, more being made today, than ever before in our history.  But you know, just as I know, that today's money simply doesn't go as far as the money we were paid in five years ago.  Of course, everybody likes the comforting feeling of more money in his pocket, because it should mean that he is getting ahead.  But today, we know that the comforting feeling is only an illusion.  This illusion, the administration in Washington has systematically nourished and exploited for political gain for many years.  But they haven't told you all the truth.	 Here are some facts that should help dispel the illusion:

	The average American family had an income of thirty-five hundred dollars in 1945.  This average income had come up to forty-eight hundred dollars by 1951.  What did these higher earnings mean in the typical American home?  Rising prices ate up nine-tenths of the gain; rising taxes took the rest and a little more.  The result: the family could actually buy less with its 1951 income than with its 1945 income.  And they say, "You never had it so good!"

	I think the women in this audience know what I mean.

	The peril, however, is not just of the present.  Already it has begun to plunder our future.  Individual plans for security in later years have shriveled with the value of the money set aside.  A five-thousand dollar insurance policy written in 1945 has a purchasing power of only thirty-three hundred dollars today.

	Pension plans have suffered the same fate, and so have savings accounts.  If yours was an average family in 1945, you had savings of cash and securities of four-hundred thirty dollars.  Today that saving is worth only three-hundred dollars.

	The administration has so mismanaged our affairs that, in order to lose one-hundred thirty dollars in five years, a man needed only to deposit four-hundred thirty dollars in a savings account--and leave it there to waste away. That's the way thrift is encouraged by the party too long in power.

	Now, all this strikes me with particular force for a particular reason.  I have spent a number of years in Western Europe, as you know, trying to help our friends there set their houses in order and in strength.  I have seen these war-shaken countries grapple with terrible problems of shortages and prices.  And, along with many other Americans, I have warned:  You must strengthen our currencies, beat back inflation, set your economic affairs straight--or you will lose the battle with Communism without a gun being fired.

	How little have the political leaders in our own United States followed this sound course of action.

	Clemenceau once said that war is too serious a matter to be left to the generals.  Today, someone might well say inflation is too critical a matter to be left to the politicians of expediency in Washington.

	Now, in what specific ways has the present administration acted, or failed to act, so as to whittle away the purchasing power of the dollar?  For here, as in all great issues we face, the failures of the present administration contain lessons for the next.

	The inflation we suffer is not an accident:  It is a policy.  It is not, as the administration would have us believe, some queer and deadly kind of economic bacteria breathed into the atmosphere by Soviet Communists.

	This is the way a recent editorial in a great metropolitan newspaper put it:  "Inflation is the calculated policy of the White House on the labor front, the fiscal front, the agricultural front."  The method is very simple:  To give more people more money that is worth less.

	What they have done is to cheapen our money, and history shows that this is always done by administrations that care more for the next election than for the next generation.

	Back through the centuries to the days of the Romans and beyond, governments have cheated their people by this simple process.  It used to be called "coin-clipping."  When feudal lords and local officials in the Middle Ages tried to make fortunes at clipping coins, they often ended by getting the severest punishment an outraged people could give--cutting off their hands.

	We have a more humane and a more effective remedy for today's coin- clippers--cutting them off from public office.

	That you can do by your votes on November 4.

	The way this cheap-money policy has worked out is easy to describe.  With one hand the administration has been turning up the pressure at the money hydrant, while with the other hand it has been trying to check its flow.  The administration's controls over prices are nothing but weak stopgaps.  The really effective controls--those over money and credit--were ignored by the administration.  A resort to those controls would have paralyzed their scheme to use cheap money for their own ends.

	Now, the administration's playing with inflation confused even many of its own economists.  A number of these men, angry or baffled--among them, Edwin Nourse and Marriner Eccles--resigned.  Another result has been the spectacle of a struggle between the Federal Reserve Board and the Treasury Department over our country's credit and money policies.

	What would happen to an airplane in flight if the pilot and the co-pilot fought over the controls?

	Well, just about the same thing happened to inflation control under this administration.  It crashed.

	The Federal Reserve Board had power to impose the necessary restraints.  But under a Fair Deal administration, the power of this independent agency was hamstrung.  We had too many controllers but no control.

	What I say of this bungle that has cost American families billions of dollars is no partisan view.  A distinguished Democrat from my opponent's home state, Senator Paul H. Douglas, described the administration's floundering attempts to halt inflation in three words:  "Lax, confused, and imprudent."

	There's the judgment of an expert from the administration's own party!

	First of all:  We must discard the dangerous administration maxim that says, "Inflation is the best policy."  Here--as in every field of our government--it is not too late to go back to the simple truth that honesty is the best policy.

	The next step--after we have a sane and honest economic program again--will be to carry it out efficiently.  We shall not allow our government agencies to fight at the expense of the American people.  We shall create an atmosphere in which the Federal Reserve Board and the Treasury Department can act not as political enemies, but as economic allies in the war against inflation.	After that:  The effective beginning of this war on inflation must be an intelligent, planned attack on the spending program of our federal government.	Let us stop for a moment and see just what this means.

	It means at the outset that businesslike methods must be applied to every program of the federal government to bring about efficiency and real savings--the kind you have had here in New York under Tom Dewey.  The biggest business in the world should be administered as something more than a political grab bag.

	Today, most of our dollars--two out of every three--are spent on defense.  Here--in the area of greatest cost to the American taxpayer--I know that savings can be made.  This does not mean slowing the speed or cutting the size of the rearmament program we need.  No responsible citizens could foster such folly in today's world.  It means bringing to the Pentagon's costly operations the help of business and professional examiners who can speak for the chief executive with expert knowledge.

	I tell you this from my own experience:  Scrutiny of military spending can effect substantial savings in our huge defense program.

	We can have more defense for less money.	Now these simple steps--  knocking down the administration idol of cheap money, getting unified action from our economic agencies, and slicing the fat out of our federal budget--these are serious, important beginnings in toughening our economy.  It is clear that the major attack has to be made on a wider front than just money and credit policies.

	All our problems today are tied to one another, and none can be resolved by itself.  With tens of billions spent on armaments, another six or seven billion on foreign aid, we see again that the soundness of our economic health depends upon the soundness of our foreign policy.  The blunt truth is this:  We cannot, as a free people, bear this huge burden indefinitely.  We cannot--year after year, decade after decade--both maintain our standard of living, finance huge armaments, and help to rebuild economies of nations all around the globe.  We cannot, in short, win the peace with a foreign policy of drift, makeshift, and make-believe.	We must honestly face the fact that such a policy not only fails to secure the peace--it also places the hopes of the free world in jeopardy by the strain it puts upon our economy, and by the confusion it creates in other lands.  We can lead best by example.

	We cannot act as freedom's leader by wearing the shoddy clothing of national scandal.	We cannot have the strength of leadership if we must depend for our prosperity upon war or preparations for war.

	I despise war.  I have seen too much of it.  So has every man who has worn his country's uniform.  Our foreign policy is a failure if it cannot obtain and secure peace.  War comes from the failure of diplomacy.  But just as our foreign policy fails when it leads us into war, so our policies at home make for a false prosperity when they are predicated upon arms production--with no end in sight.

	We can have stable world conditions and prosperity, too.

	To rally from among our people the leadership which can achieve these goals is the purpose of our crusade.

	I am not a politician.  I have never been one and I am not one now.

	But I have spent my life, in war and peace, in the service of this beloved country of ours.

	I love this land.  As I look into the future, I can see what the dedicated leadership of America's ablest citizens can accomplish to bring peace and prosperity to ourselves and the free world.

	If you share that vision, you can be one of the molders of America's greater destiny.

	You belong in our crusade. 
COST OF LIVINGMONETARY POLICYSAVINGS, PERSONALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEINFLATION      / . . . .
 . . . . . . . .	 M 	 ? 	 0 	   	 e: