

	I'm glad to be here at Portland State, the home of the Vikings.  I'm a Viking.  Vikings never lose.  I'm the Neil Lomax of American politics.

	Are we going to carry Oregon?  Are we going to win this election?

	I'm here this morning in this great state to ask for your help, not for myself but for this country, our future, and our children's future.

	Now, some of the pundits are saying that election is over.  They have decided for you who's going to be the next president.  Well, I'm here with a little message for them.  If they think this election is over, they ought to come here and just take a look at what I'm seeing.

	They will find out on November 6 that polls don't vote.  People vote.  And you're going to reserve this judgment for yourselves.

	Today I come to Oregon to ask you to join me in building America's future.  I want an America where the economy can grow, where these massive debts that will burden your generation for the rest of your lifetime are removed, and where the jobs are created and the future is created here in the United States--and not overseas.

	I want an America where our kids come first.  I want this next generation to be the best educated in the history of America.  We have an administration that has assaulted all aspects of education in this four years.

	They tried to kill help for the handicapped.  They tried to kill help for elementary and secondary education.  They tried to kill help for bilingual education and for science.  They took a big meat ax out and went after student loans and student assistance and graduate assistance.

	I think that's the dumbest thing you can do.  America's future is tied up in this next generation, and if you will elect me, I'm going to lead this nation on a renaissance--of education, of learning, of science and training.

	I want an America that understands that we're all stronger when we open doors.  That's why I picked the first woman running mate in American history.

	They will never understand what we mean when we fight discrimination.  This isn't something that "we" do for "them."  This is something we do together, to strengthen all of us.

	This summer, the president rejoiced with all of us in the victory of our young Americans at the Olympics.  But did he stop to ask himself how it was that Americans won all the gold?  Did he spend any time looking at those events?  If he did, he would have seen white and black and Asian and Hispanics.  We had all Americans there.

	And we had young men and young women winning the gold for us.

	We did it--no thanks to him--because we stood up for civil rights and women's rights and had the best, the best there working for us in Los Angeles.

	This year, the Sierra Club and the Friends of the Earth, for the first time in their histories, endorsed a candidate for president.  They did it not to be partisan--they didn't want that - but because they love our earth, our land, our water, and our public health so much that they had no choice but to support Walter Mondale against Ronald Reagan.

	I want an America where the president stands up against polluters and protects the beauty of this land, and I never, ever want to see another James Watt or an Ann Gorsuch in Washington again.

	I want an America of justice.  Think about this for a moment--what a miserable, appalling retreat from justice this administration has established as its record.  They trashed the Civil Rights Commission.  They removed justice from the Justice Department.  They tried to destroy legal assistance for the poor, the tenants, and the seniors of this country.

	They now want to pack the Supreme Court.  They want to use the law of this land to write prayers for our children, have the politicians write them, and use the power of government to intrude into the most personal decisions we ever make in our personal and religious lives.

	This shows an appalling ignorance of history and contempt for the good judgment of the American people.  There are many reasons for voting against Mr. Reagan, but one clincher is that if he gets four more years, Jerry Falwell gets five more justices of the Supreme Court.  Don't let them do it.

	I see an America that's strong and stands up against her adversaries but also understands [that] the pursuit of peace, the reflection of American values, and, above all, the control of those god-awful weapons before they destroy us all is the central objective of our time.

	For four years, this president has sounded like Ronald Reagan.  In the last three weeks, he's tried to sound like Walter Mondale.

	Don't let him kid you.  We know the difference.

	This president stands condemned for policies that have fueled the most serious runaway arms race.  You've got to think about this, because this is the most serious issue of our times.  In one sense, the only issue, because if we don't solve it, nothing else will matter.

	This president has permitted the most serious runaway arms race since the bomb went off, and that's not enough.  Now he wants to launch an arms race into the heavens by spending a trillion dollars for Star Wars that will delegate the decision of whether war will be started to computers, will destabilize the world, and move us closer toward the final disaster.

	I won't stand for it for a minute.  Give me your support, and I will end it now.

	This morning, I want to make a special point here at Portland State, and I ask you to just bear with me a minute because it's a case that has to be made and understood by the American people before we vote on November 6.

	I want an America that stands for human rights again, all over this world.  The issue in this election is not who believes in America.  The issue is in what kind of America we believe in.  I believe that America should not only stand tall--it should stand for something.

	Of course, there are times when national security collides with human rights.  And national security in those instances must come first.  But when that happens, we must candidly acknowledge it, and in most cases, standing up for human rights strengthens our national security.

	While we cannot always have our way in the world, we cannot lose our way.  Mr. Reagan does not understand how human rights strengthens us, and he has turned human rights, the most powerful and most attractive instinct of the American people, from a principle to a tactic.

	When this crowd took over, they dumped human rights as a foreign policy priority.  Sometimes we forget this record.  Mr. Reagan nominated as his top human rights official a man whose first suggestion was to remove from U.S. laws all references to human rights as a standard.

	He appointed a UN ambassador because she had written widely that we should draw a distinction between our adversaries who torture their people and our so-called friends who torture their people.

	There are two ways America can be defeated:  One, by succumbing to our enemies; two, by becoming like our enemies.

	Mr. Reagan sent his vice president to the Philippines, and he toasted Mr. Marcos for his love of democracy.

	He sent, for the first time in years, weapons to the corrupt Duvalier dictatorship in Haiti.

	He sent his UN Ambassador to Chile to clink glasses with thugs.  He lifted economic sanctions against that corrupt regime, and he invited them to join us in military exercises.

	Immediately after taking office, they took the heat off the Argentine junta that had tortured, kidnapped, and murdered tens of thousands of their own citizens.  And the UN ambassador permitted herself to be an honored guest of the junta on the evening that they invaded the Falklands.

	He broke a ban on the sale of military equipment to the Guatemalan dictatorship.

	In El Salvador, he was silent for years on the death squads.  His administration as much as accused murdered nuns as guerrilla sympathizers, and he fought every attempt to condition aid on human rights.

	In Nicaragua, he has launched a covert, illegal war, published a manual for assassinations, which is against the law.  And in a bizarre reversal of the idealism of the Peace Corps, he recently commended young Americans for volunteering to fight in that illegal war.

	He cozied up to the racist government in South Africa.  Just two weeks ago, he refused asylum to South African dissidents.  He praised their new constitution that was designed to perpetuate the most vicious racism in the world.

	And just last week, the United States abstained from a UN resolution condemning the South African government for its latest wave of oppression and made our country the only nation on the Security Council that stood silent in the face of this vicious oppression.

	All this is no accident.  As he revealed in our debate, Mr. Reagan believes that our only choice for humanity is between Soviet dictatorships on the left and tyrants on the right.

	He wants Americans to resign ourselves to a grim choice between rival tyrannies.  He ignores a third way:  the way of democracy and liberty and justice.

	We have schools and colleges and universities to learn.  You're expected to learn, and I think we have a right to expect a president to learn, too.

	They haven't learned what's going on in the Philippines.  The day after that debate, what happened?  Cardinal Sin, the head of the Catholic Church and the leader of reform--no Communist, a person who believes in human rights; [missing text] the business community of the Philippines wants a change because they know this can't go on.

	The issue in the Philippines is not a choice between two tyrants.  It's whether this United States, which has a special connection with that land, will stand up for human rights and support the moderates, who believe democracy and liberty and justice.

	In South Africa, the choice isn't between two tyrants.  When Bishop Tutu, who just received the Nobel Peace Prize--this modest man of the cloth--returned to South Africa, he condemned this administration for being identified with the racist regime in South Africa.

	My fellow Americans, this is no way for America to behave.  It does not reflect you.  It does not reflect us.  It does not reflect the values of the American people.

	We all know the Soviets.  They repress their people and sponsor dictatorship around the world.  From Eastern Europe to Afghanistan, from Sakharov to Scharansky and Solidarity, they are the enemies of human rights.

	Mr. Reagan's philosophy is not tough-minded.  It's shortsighted.  By failing to support the democratic center, he has strengthened the various Soviet-backed extremisms he professes to detest.

	President Kennedy spoke the truth when he said those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.

	We are stronger today, and not weaker, because President Carter stood up to the Argentine junta.  We are more secure today, and not less, because he pressed Ecuador and Peru to return to the path of democracy.

	To get results, our leaders must speak with moral authority.  That means that we must have a single standard for human rights.  We must condemn torture, whether in South Africa or the Soviet Union, and stand for freedom, from Czechoslovakia to Chile.

	As president, I will make the cause of human rights the cause of America again.  I will end that illegal, covert war in Nicaragua.

	I'll slap tough sanctions on South Africa.  I will insist that every country receiving American aid make steady progress toward greater freedom.  I will organize a new assembly of the world's democracies to support free institutions everywhere.  I will not rest until the Scharanskys, the Slepaks, the Refuseniks, are free to emigrate, and the Andrei Sakharovs and the dissidents are free from Soviet oppression.

	I will not only strengthen the Marine Corps; I'll strengthen the Peace Corps.  I want to see young Americans again fanning around the world.  I want the world to see the American young people in their nations helping those nations solve their problems.

	I want them to see our young teachers, our young engineers, our young scientists, our young farmers, and I want America to be seen again with the dreamers and the poets helping these nations understand us and build their own future.  That's what I want to see.

	I want us to show America's best face to the world again.  Ours is the greatest engine of world culture.  We must strengthen exchange programs for scholars and artists and young leaders.  We must launch a renaissance in foreign language studies so we can speak their language as well as they speak ours.

	This week, twenty-two of Reagan's ambassadors endorsed Jesse Helms.  We must have diplomats who speak the language and understand the history of the countries that they serve.

	I want America to sell more food and fewer guns.  I want to expand the Food for Peace Program.  Just think what's happening these last few months.  Every day, we pick up a paper or watch our television, and we hear reports of starving people throughout Africa and Ethiopia.

	This administration sends a pittance.  They want to spend a trillion dollars on Star Wars.  Last year, they spent $31 billion paying people not to produce food.  I say, why don't they understand the potential here for America to help and to be seen for what we really are, a decent and caring society?

	I remember with the boat people of Vietnam, when we ordered the Sixth Fleet to go into the South China Sea and pick these poor people up and save their lives--that's America at its best.

	Instead of spending millions on an illegal war in Nicaragua, why don't we spend that money and have an airlift and a sea-lift of American food to Africa and save those people so that they can remember who we are?

	In the war of values, I will never abandon the field to the Soviet Union.  I do not believe in moral disarmament.  I believe we must stand up and reflect our faith and our views and our values, and no nation on earth can match us when we do it.

	Finally, I want a president who brings us back together again as a people.  Today we have a president who calls on us to be a shining city on the hill.  He is drawing from Reverend Winthrop's famous sermon, over three-hundred years ago to the Puritans as they entered Boston Harbor.

	What the president omitted from his speeches and what's totally missing from this administration is what Reverend Winthrop said we need to do to be that shining city on the hill.

	This is what he said:

	     We must strengthen, preserve, and comfort one another.  We
	     must bear one another's burdens.  We must look not only at our
	     own things, but also on the things of our brethren.  We must
	     rejoice together, mourn together, labor and suffer together. 
	     We must be knit together by a bond of love.

	We must be a community and a family again in this country.  Let us end this selfishness.

	Today we have eight days to go.  I need your help, and I think you need my help.

CIVIL RIGHTSENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONFOREIGN AID--GENERALFOREIGN SERVICEHUNGER (WORLD)LATIN AMERICAPHILIPPINESSOUTH AFRICASOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSHUMAN RIGHTS     ; ; ; ; ;
 ; ; ; ; ; ; f; [;	  	  	  	  	 x 	 j 	 ] 	 R 	 F 	 &   e: