

	Thank you.  Thank you very much--Senator Yarborough,  thank you for not only an introduction, but thank you for getting this campaign under foot and under way here in Fort Worth with a typical Texas spirit that just spells out win and victory.  That is the way Texans believe.

	Governor Connally, you honor us by your presence.  You have honored me by your friendship.  You have honored your state by your leadership.  You have honored your nation by your service.

	I am honored and so delighted to be here as the guest of and as the candidate of the governor, the senator, the congressmen, the Democrats, the Independents, the young people, the farmers, the workers--yes, we are the candidate of the people--that's who it is.

	Now, I have heard a great deal about Ford Worth from Congressman Jim Wright.  And I believed most of it.  But today I believe it all.  It is really wonderful.  And I have heard a great deal about Texas--you can guess from who.

	And today--today I believe it all--every last word of it.

	And I want to thank Congressman Jim Wright, George Mahon, a great man of Texas, and Henry Gonzalez, and the others that are here--my friend Will Davis, the members of our committee--for putting together this tremendous gathering.

	I want you to know that it means a great deal to me, because what I have to rely on in this campaign, what I have to rely on are the people.  We don't have the money, but we can have the people.  And here we have the people.

	Let me tell you that we worked together before here in Texas.  We worked together as Democrats across this country.  And this great state stands for the future.  Its best days are yet to be lived.  Its greatest glories yet to be found.  And to come here as the candidate of our party and to talk to you is in the proper setting for a Democrat--because the Democratic party is not the party of yesterday--it isn't the party that spends its time cheering about its achievements of yesterday, but rather it builds on those achievements.  It is going to build on the achievements of these last eight years, of John Kennedy and of Lyndon Johnson, achievements that are memorable in this country.

	Now, we have two weeks left--just two more weeks--two more shopping weeks, as they say--before we decide who is going to be the president of this country.

	Well, frankly--frankly, I do, too.  And I agree with you.

	Now, I think we need to ask ourselves the basic questions--and with a great audience like this, it is a special pleasure to talk sense, to talk constructively about the issues.

	Who can the American people trust--and that is the word--trust--to lead this country.  And secondly--and secondly, my fellow Americans, the basic question--can we trust each other.  And I think we can.

	There is no room in America for demagoguery that pits one group against another, one race against another, rich against poor, north against south.

	What America needs, if America is to achieve any of its goals in the next few years--America needs trust--trust of a president, trust of the people; the people trusting their president and the people trusting each other, and the president of the United States inspiring and leading and constantly trusting the great people of this land to do what needs to be done for our country and for our world.

	Now, I have wanted--I have wanted in this campaign the rare privilege of meeting on the public platform the candidates of the other parties.  I think you know that I have purchased radio and television time, as I did last Sunday, in the hopes that the two other candidates would appear.

	I want to say for Mr. Wallace that he agreed.  But Mr. Nixon--Mr. Nixon--no, no.

	My friends, when Mr. Nixon returns to Texas, you look for him under a bush, because that is where you are going to find him.  Mr. Nixon--Mr. Nixon, the Republican candidate, doesn't want to debate.  And now, I think I know  Why.  Because he knows--he knows I would ask him some questions.

	He knows, for example, that I would say--Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on federal aid to education, to help our young people?

	And then you know what he would say?  If he said anything, he would say "Well--but."  That is the "buttiest" candidate that the Republican party has ever had.

	But, my friends, I would have to push him a little.  And I would have to remind him--Mr. Nixon, when you had a chance to vote, you voted no.

	And, Mr. Nixon--I wish I had that empty chair right here right now--Mr. Nixon, where did you stand on Medicare for our senior citizens.  You know, he would have to answer that he said it wouldn't work, that he was opposed to it.  And he has never said he was for it.

	And I would have to ask him some other questions.

	Thank you--Mr. Nixon--there it is, right there.  There it is, right there.  That is a hard chair.

	May I say that after this election is over, we are not going to be unkind to Mr. Nixon.  We are going to give him all of the benefits of Social Security and Medicare that anybody needs.

	Mr. Nixon--Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on Project Headstart and on bilingual education.  I think he would have to answer, "No".

	And, Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on the Trinity River navigation program, that means so much to Fort Worth and Dallas, which would mean jobs, which would mean jobs by the thousands and new prosperity?

	Mr. Nixon, are you going to take us back to that period of Republicanism, of no new starts, no new beginnings, no new nothing?

	That is why he doesn't want to debate, ladies and gentlemen.  He doesn't want me to put the question to him.  He doesn't want me to ask him these questions.

	But I am going to--from every platform across this country.

	And, Mr. Republican--Mr. Republican, where did you stand and where do you stand on the Peace Corps?  Do you still think it is a haven for draft dodgers?

	And what about the treaty to ban nuclear testing in the atmosphere, which saves the lives of children yet unborn.  What about it, Mr. Nixon--do you still think it is a cruel hoax, do you think it is catastrophic nonsense?

	What about your votes on social security?

	Yes, Mr. Nixon--what about your anti-labor attitude?

	Yes, Mr. Nixon--what about your votes to cut down on soil conservation, on the needs of our farmers?

	Mr. Nixon, I know why you don't want to debate.  You don't want to expose a miserable public record that is against the people--that's why.

	Now, Mr. Nixon--Mr. Republican--where do you stand on economic growth?  Where do you stand on the growth of our economy?

	Your advisors--your advisors said here the other day--I read it in the Wall Street Journal yesterday--that is a very prominent Nixon publication--I read on a front-page story that Mr. Nixon's economic advisor suggested that one of the ways to have price stability in America, and a way that Mr. Nixon would accept, is a higher rate of unemployment.

	I want every worker, every person in this audience to think that over--a higher rate of unemployment.

	How many, Mr. Nixon?  You said 4.5 million wasn't too many.  You mean 5.5 million?  And where are they to be unemployed?  In Fort Worth, in Dallas?  Who is to be without a job--what family?

	You know, I've got an idea.  Nixon's the one.  But in all seriousness, that is dangerous talk.

	Mr. Nixon talks of fiscal responsibility.  Ladies and gentlemen, fiscal responsibility doesn't mean three recessions in eight years, which the Republicans gave you.  It doesn't mean an outflow of your gold at the rate of $4 billion, which the Republicans gave you.  It doesn't mean the highest peacetime deficit which the Republicans gave you.

	Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear a Republican talk about fiscal responsibility, it is like a drunk talking about temperance.

	Fiscal responsibility--nonsense.

	Fiscal responsibility, my friends, depends upon a growing economy.  It depends upon new investment.  It depends upon new jobs.  It depends upon a better-educated people.  It depends upon protecting the value of that dollar.

	And I stand before you today to say we have done it.

	And let's take a look at the record.

	Eight years of Republicanism--'53 to '61--they managed things--they were in charge of the store.  What happened?  They gave you what I call a "hiccup economy".  they gulped a little and then they paused.  Did you ever have the hiccups for eight years?

	Well, that is what happened.

	First you got a little prosperity, then they took it away from you.  Then you got a little prosperity, then they took it away from you.  And in 1960, when John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson were campaigning in this state--when John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson were campaigning in this state, the national average of unemployment was 7 percent of the work force.  This nation had lost $175 billion in lost wages.  The family income in those eight Republican years had done to only 9 percent.  The wholesale price index, inflation, 9.2 percent.

	Now, let's take a look at the Democratic years of 1961 to today.

	Family income for a family of four, not up 9 percent, up 32 percent, up 32.

	The wholesale price index, not up 9.2, but only 7.8.

	Twelve million more men and women employed.  Ten million out of poverty.  Ten million people who were on relief, 10 million people who were needy, 10 million people who were nonproductive.  Ten million more today who have come out of the slums of poverty-- self-sustaining, self-respecting, taxpaying, productive citizens.  That is what the Democratic administration has meant to you.

	Now, I know that Nixon scares you a little bit once in a while.  He says--you know, he goes around the country, and he says we have got to have a government where you can travel abroad.  Do you remember what he said?  He said, "You know that the president of the United States can't even leave this country in safety."  That is the man Mr. Nixon offers.  That is what he said in his acceptance speech.  I wonder if he has forgotten when he had to send the Marines to rescue him from Venezuela, when he went to make a trip.

	Mr. Nixon, you have got a bad memory.  If I were Mr. Nixon, I wouldn't be talking about law and order.  No.  You know what he said about law and order the other day?  He gave a speech on it.  Of course he is for it.  Everybody is you know.  The difference is Mr. Nixon is for it with bumper stickers.  He says, "Support your police."  I say, "Support your police with money, with equipment, with training, with professional competence."

	Law and order comes when you pay for it, it comes when you want it. 

	And what does he know about law and order?  He has never been in charge of anything that had to do with law and order.  I served as the mayor of a city the size of Fort Worth.  I gave my city law and order.  I ran a police department.  As governor, I never knew that the president of the United States was supposed to be the chief of police of the nation.  I always thought he was to be the president.  I am not running for sheriff--I am running for president of the United States.

	Here is Mr. Nixon--here is Mr. Nixon, a great man for states' rights.  And every time he gets in a jam, he wants somebody else to do it.

	Now, listen--the police power of this country belongs right where it is:  with your government--at home, with your governor, with your legislature, with your mayor, your city council, with your local officers.  We do not want a federal police force.  We want law and order on a local basis, and we can have it.

	Now--

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you.  Say--thank you.  And I want to tell you those are some Of the best signs I have seen for a long time.

	Now, just a final remark for your attention.

	You know, many of these people that talk about law and order, but what they are really talking about is something else.  You know, they say that Humphrey, this fellow Humphrey, they said watch out for him, he wants to give a black man a job, he wants to give--he wants to give a Spanish surnamed American a job.  And I want him to know they are right.  I want everybody to have a job.

	And I want--and I want--I want my white--I want my white blue- collared worker friend--that a boy--thank you very much.

	Now--you know, this is the kind of heckling I like.

	Now, let me say a word about that job.

	The only one that is going to cause you to lose your job is not that neighbor that is black, not that Spanish surnamed American.  The guy that will cause you to lose your job is that Nixon Republican administration.  So don't you forget it.

	So, friends, we have got some work to do.  We have got work to do in this country.  We have got work to build this country together.  We have work to help protect the resources of this country.  We have work to do to protect the security of this country.  We have work to get the peace that this country wants--both at home and abroad.  We have work to do to build confidence with each other.  And I come to you today, my friends, as one who says that there is nothing too big for us--whatever we wish to do, we can do.  America has the means, if America has the will.  America has the resources, if America has the management.  America can build a better America for more Americans if you keep people in charge of that country that trusts you, and you trust them.  And I come to this great audience today, and ask you to help me--to help yourself--to help your country.  I come here and ask you to give us a Democratic victory all along the line on November 5th.

	Thank you very much. 
CRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALECONOMY--GENERALGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONRACE RELATIONSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL      6 5 5 5 5
 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5	  	 } 	 h 	 X 	 = 	 # 	  e: