

	I have come to the South to talk candidly about a problem, an issue, and a man. This problem, this issue, and this man are of the deepest concern to me and to every American in this election campaign.

	I have come to this great university to appeal not to passion but to reason. I appeal to America's hopes, not her fears.

	The problem is the frustration and anger and fear that so many of our people feel.

	The issue is the preservation of our democratic system of government.

	The man is George Corley Wallace.

	What I have to say may not be popular and this may not be the place to say it, but there is more at stake here than the presidency. What is at stake is the greatest political system on Earth and the social fabric of the nation we love.

	And I will say the same things in the South that I will say in the North. For the price of silence now may tomorrow be the end of our government and the end of our living together as a people.

	First, the problem. Seven years ago, a respected educator, James Bryant Conant, warned us that the "social dynamite" in our cities was the hundreds of thousands of young negroes in our cities who were both out of school and out of work.

	Today that generation has come of age--and the dynamite has begun to explode. The anger and frustration of millions has erupted in violence in city after city.

	The reaction to the explosion has been fear--fear of white suburbanites who see their home threatened, fear of white working men who see their jobs threatened, fear of millions--black and white--who instinctively fear violence.

	To this has been added another frustration--frustration over a tragic, far-off war.

	Last night I expressed my own views on that war and need not repeat them here except to say that if I am elected president and the war has not ended, the first priority of the Humphrey-Muskie administration will be to bring the war to an honorable conclusion.

	But there can be no doubt that the war has caused anger and frustration among many Americans.

	Finally, many young Americans feel left out, at odds with their elders, and victimized by a world they never made.

	Yours is the generation that was born at the end of the Great Depression and World War II. You were the children of hope--hope that at last Americans could grow up in pursuit of happiness, free of anger, fear, and war.

	Instead, you have found a society that has excluded 29 million of its members from its affluence, that has gone to war, that has murdered your heroes, John F. Kennedy and Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King and some of you have found an educational system that was overburdened, undermanned, and out of date.

	The result--and it not exclusively an American phenomenon--has been student protest--sometimes peaceable and sometimes violent, sometimes reasonable and sometimes senseless--and almost always inexplicable to your elders.

	To sum up the problem, the frustrations of the poor, of the young, and of those who oppose the war have created a year of rage and that year of rage is putting our political system to its most severe test in modern times.

	Second, the issue.

	There are forces in this land striving to divide and embitter our people. They are demagogues who preach hate and fear and division. They are radical extremists of the left and the right.

	And let the issue be absolutely clear: their objective is nothing less than the destruction of our political system--the institutions of democratic government--and the political processes which America has developed to govern this nation.

	On the extreme left are those who chant and disrupt meetings and threaten to disrupt the election. They would deny to others the free speech they demand. They have seized upon the legitimate grievances of students and capitalized the unease over the war to mount an attack upon the entire American system. Theirs is the simple--and totally unacceptable--solution of violent protest.

	Freedom of speech, of assembly, of dissent are among the most sacred liberties we possess--and I will defend them in this year of rage and I have defended them all my life.

	But disorder is not dissent. Indeed, disorder, especially organized, is the enemy of dissent.

	And destruction is not debate. Indeed, the violence of destruction can only silence the vitality of debate.

	I reject the extremism of the left and I call upon the American people to reject them.

	Equally do I reject the extremism of the right.

	On the extreme right are those who preach disrespect for our courts and for some of our laws and who appeal to the darkest fears and suspicions of our people.

	They seek the simple solution of violent repression.

	But bumper stickers will not stop crime, and the way to support your police is to give them higher salaries, better training, and better equipment.

	Neither will crime be stopped by a "four-point program" which includes a thinly veiled invitation to self-appointed vigilante action, disguised as something called a "National Coordinating Center"--whatever that means.

	To be honest, crime will never be ended--it never has been--but it can be controlled by the sure, swift, and fair administration of justice.

	That's the way I fought crime and lawlessness when I was mayor of Minneapolis. And I propose to follow the same course as president of the United States.

	It will not be stopped or curtailed by a political plunger who is gambling everything on a campaign of organized hate.

	And this brings me to the man: George Wallace.

	It is said that George Wallace is "gaining in respectability" in the North. But he is not gaining in respectability among those down here who know him best.

	He stands, and has always stood, as the apostle of hate and racism.

	Today some of his political managers and even some of his presidential electors are drawn from the ranks of the Ku Klux Klan, the White Citizens' Councils, the John Birch Society, the Armed Minutemen, or groups dedicated to the promotion of anti- semitism.

	Electors pledged to Wallace in a number of states, both North and South, are drawn frequently from the leadership of White Citizens' Councils and the Birch Society. His Georgia state chairman and pledged elector was formerly national president of the White Citizens' Councils. And more than half a dozen other Wallace electors have held executive committee or other important positions in The White Citizens' Councils.

	Recently we have heard that the Wallace candidacy may create a political stalemate. If it does, it is to these elections that all the people of the United States must look to express their political choice. And that is no reason why I say the political system is in danger today.

	But Mr. Wallace says he is for law and order.

	Those who yearn for law and order would do well to remember that George Wallace was governor of Alabama--the state with the highest murder rate in the United States.

	They would do well to note that Alabama ranks fourth among all of the states in aggravated assault.

	Wallace could not maintain order in his own state--where he had the power--but now he promises to maintain order in every city and state--where he will not have the power.

	When he was governor of Alabama, he gave the American people other lessons in law and order.

	He decided which courts suited him--and disobeyed the rest.

	He decided which Judges he liked--and he vilified the rest.

	He decided which laws he preferred--and he defied the rest.

	Now he proposes teaching the Wallace method to the whole country.

	Today Wallace says he is the friend of the working man. Let's look at his record as governor of Alabama:

	--Alabama housewives pay the highest sales tax in the country--six cents on the dollar;

	--Wages for the working man in Alabama were the third lowest in the nation;

	--In education, only two states spend less per pupil than Alabama;

	--And it has one of the lowest workman's compensation systems of any state in the union.

	And these are the accomplishments--this is the record--Mr. Wallace wants to bring to Washington.

	But worst of all--worse than the collapse of law and order in Alabama--worse than his anti-liberal economic policies--worst of all is the conduct in this campaign.

	He has deliberately embarked on a campaign to embitter and divide the American people. He has sought to inflame fear, frustration, and prejudice. He has sought to bring this nation to the brink of broad-scale civil disorder.

	America today has many problems--grave problems of domestic policy and foreign policy--but they won't be solved by a candidate who can think of nothing better to do than to threaten to run down people with a car.

	In the America system anybody--even George Corley Wallace--has the right to run for president. But let's be absolutely clear about how he's going about it.

	He says he will announce a platform any day now. He may even get around to picking a fellow extremist for his vice president--a man who would stand in line to succeed him. And the election is only five weeks away.

	Ordinarily his incredible campaign would be a laughing matter--but not in this year of rage.

	He has attacked the courts--in the name of law and order.

	He has applauded those who would undermine the independent judiciary--the ultimate guardian of the liberties of all of us.

	He has joined the ugly campaign against Mr. Justice Fortas--a campaign unmatched since the first Jew, Mr. Justice Brandeis, was appointed to the high court in 1916.

	He has sought to stir the darkest fear and prejudices harbored by the few and the frustration and anger felt by the many.

	He pretends to be the friend of the working man but he is the creature of the most reactionary underground forces in American life.

	He does not speak for millions of decent Southerners and Northerners who reject bigotry and hate, who despise the extremists of both right and left, and who believe in progress and education and justice and a better life for all. I say to you solemnly in the 1930s the reactionary forces of Germany thought they had found a man to speak for them, and a few years later, helped by an economic depression, that man had destroyed not only his creators but German democracy, the European balance of power, the world political system. And the result was the carnage of World War II.

	You say these things could never happen in America. I devoutly pray that you are right. But I know from deep personal experience we are closer to this possibility than I would have ever believed possible.

	I know that my Republican opponent--while opposing the Wallace candidacy--has within his ranks many persons who make precisely the same appeal--who have led the reactionary, extremist forces in America for the past two decades and who continue these attacks at this very moment.

	And I know that in his speeches my Republican opponent appeals to the same fears, the same passions, the same frustrations which can unleash in this country a torrent of unreasoning hate and repression.

	And, finally, I know that if my Republican opponent is elected a Republican economic recession results, the dark anger stirred by the third-party candidate may become an overwhelming force in American life.

	Today--above all else--good men have the moral obligation to speak out--forthrightly and clearly--about these dangers to our democratic institutions.

	If in this campaign I make no other contributions to America's national life than to expose this threat--personified in George Corley Wallace and expressed in his odious appeal to rage--I will rest content on November 6th.

	He will not be elected. But what he stands for must be repudiated overwhelmingly.

	In this campaign Senator Muskie and I offer only a reasoned and forthright accounting of where we--the American people--find ourselves today--and where we must move in the months and years ahead.

	America has been greatly blessed--and of us much will be required. We carry the heavy, yet the sacred, burden of proving to a doubting world, a frightened world, that free men do possess the wit, the wisdom and the courage to govern themselves.

	Think for just one moment: the terrible blow to liberty that would be sustained around this globe if democracy failed in the United States, the source and inspiration for millions of our fellow human beings.

	This is perhaps the hour of our greatest testing as a free people.

	We must be one nation, not two.

	Once we start down the road to apartheid, we shall find there is no turning back.

	The elite Spartans of ancient Greece put down a minority, the Helots--only to discover that they had fastened upon themselves a repressive and vicious police state.

	Throughout history this pattern has been repeated again and again.

	We must not permit this to become our fate.

	We will find the solution, not in repression, but in justice.

	Violence cannot be tolerated. But neither can injustice.

	I offer you no easy solutions. In this year of rage, in this deadly danger abroad and at home, there are none.

	I offer you no hiding place. There is none.

	But I offer you this, my credo, the words of Nathan Hale: "I am only one but I am one. I cannot do everything, but I can do something. And what I can do, what I ought to do, by the grace of God, I shall do." 
ALABAMACIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSVIETNAM WARRACE RELATIONSTHIRD PARTY CANDIDACY     L5 5 5 5 5
 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4	  	  	 z 	 l 	 N 	 .  #   e: