

	Several years have passed since I last saw your city from the air. And as our plane today circled over the airport I was amazed at the tremendous growth of the last three years. Underlying the physical expansion of Miami, I know, is a surging spirit of determination and enterprise.

	Miami has been built to its present stature in one generation because men and women of initiative and foresight and courage and energy risked their savings, used their brains, labored with pick and shovel that a great city might stand beside the sea. The Miami story, in a multitude of ways, has been repeated a thousand times across America.

	Unfortunately, we hear little these days of what men and women can accomplish for themselves, of themselves. Our ears are deafened by the propaganda that man in our complex times must perish unless he is the slave of big tyranny or the ward of big government. We need some old-fashioned bragging in America about American achievements by Americans, working together in free cooperation. After all, isn't America worth a good honest brag?

	For years, too, we have been hearing from the Washington press agents that the present administration is responsible for every good thing we have, in all the spheres of human interest, from agriculture to zoology. If you don't watch out--and tell your story first--the Washington propagandists will soon claim credit for your Miami as another of the administration's planned products.

	Don't let them take it away. When the administration publicity men steal the credit for an achievement, they intend to distract attention from some new folly or new crime perpetrated by their political bosses.

	They try to cover up the terrible and terrifying contributions of the administration--the mess in Washington; the shrinkage in American prestige around the world; the toll we pay in blood and dollars for an uneasy security. These things Americans must talk out between now and November 4th. Thereafter, we shall correct them.

	Some people think it is a little unorthodox for a presidential candidate to come to Florida. My opponents take you for granted; they consider you a captive vote; they figure you will vote the straight ticket anyway, even though they ignore you year after year in presidential campaigns. They will find out they figured you wrong. I don't believe there is any captive vote in the United States.

	I believe you are as interested as I am in rescuing our country from the terrible threat of total war. I believe you are determined to restore our government to the hands of men and women who, as Grover Cleveland said, believe public office is a public trust. I believe you are determined to eliminate waste, inefficiency, and corruption. That is why I am here. That is why I intend to take my message to the American people from south to north and from coast to coast.

	I am here because this is indeed a campaign of all America and for all Americans. I am here because you have hope and faith in your country.

	On the basis of many years' experience in dealing with many nationalities and their leaders throughout the world, I know we can develop programs designed to lead our country to a secure peace.

	We can have prosperity in America without war.

	This country can build a solid economy where inflation and an ever-rising cost of living do not rob our people of their savings, their life insurance, their Social Security and their pensions.

	We can create a new atmosphere of friendliness and understanding between management and labor by getting a government which plays fair and square with all Americans.

	We can assure agriculture its fair share of the national income without regimenting our farmers.

	We can restore the American people's faith in the honesty of their government by cleaning out corruption and keeping it out.

	Before this campaign is over I shall discuss programs on each of these and the other major issues in full detail. Tonight I would like to dwell upon a condition which is eating away at the vitals of our country. It is the tragic need for common woodshed honesty in the government of the United States.

	A few days ago, an American housewife wrote me in plaintive terms about something that was much on her mind and, I am sure, is on the minds of millions of Americans. I quote her words: "I shall certainly vote for you if you promise that more of our tax money gets to Washington." She obviously knows that as of now too much of our tax money sticks to too many pockets.

	Yesterday I spent some time with Republican Senator John J. Williams of Delaware who has been tireless in his exposure of corruption within our government. The venality--the outright theft of the people's money--that he has uncovered is staggering in its proportions and in its extent. To describe the whole sordid story to you would keep us here for hours. I shall briefly touch on three cases that span the country.

	On December 11, 1947, a committee of the House of Representatives reported "a condition which may embrace criminality" in the great Boston office of the Bureau of Internal Revenue. The present Democrat Majority Leader of the House cried the report was "an attempt to smear the Democratic party."

	No one will ever know what it cost the people of the United States in money; what it cost in breakdown of public morals. It was not until June 27, 1951--three and a half years later--that the head of that office, the collector of internal revenue himself, was finally suspended. Since then he has been indicted and convicted, fined and sentenced to the penitentiary.

	There went some of the money you paid in federal taxes.

	Ladies and gentlemen, there can always be one rotten apple in a bushel and it might be nobody's fault. But I can promise you this: If I should ever find a rotten apple in any barrel given to my care, it won't take me three and a half years to get rid of it. There will be no cover-up of the corruption.

	Now, let's take a quick look at the office of the Bureau of Internal Revenue at St. Louis, Missouri. On April 14, 1951, the collector resigned of his own accord. Only through the persistent efforts of Senator Williams and the stern action of a federal judge in Missouri were the facts finally smoked out. During the weary months that Senator Williams was digging into this smelly mess, the collector's superiors in Washington continued to defend him though they had in their possession the evidence upon which he was later brought to justice. This collector of internal revenue was indicted and convicted, fired and sentenced to prison. In the judge's words, he "sold his influence for a dirty mess of dollars."

	That wasn't just St. Louis money stolen from the governmental revenue--it was your money too!

	At this point it begins to look like a lot of rotten apples in the same department.

	Next, let's look at the Bureau of Internal Revenue at San Francisco. In the early months of 1950, the California Crime Commission produced evidence of corruption in the collection of federal revenue in that state. Nothing was done from Washington. Nothing was done anywhere for more than a year. Then an assistant United States attorney in California, acting entirely on his own, took evidence to a grand jury. Before he could get anywhere, his investigation was hushed up, he was ordered off the case and recommended for dismissal by his boss. Only the intervention of Senator Williams prevented his dismissal. Even so he was finally frozen out of his job.

	In November, 1951, a year and a half after the initial exposure, the collector and others in his office were dismissed.

	Now, those three offices--Boston, St. Louis and San Francisco--have been collecting yearly $5.5 billion of tax money that they report and send to Washington. The unanswered $64 billion question is: How much have these men and others like them over the nation failed to send to Washington?

	I ask you this as Americans: If charges of corruption were ever made against anyone serving by your appointment, would you allow those charges to be stifled or buried?

	Would you allow the men who made the exposures to be persecuted? Or would you reward them?

	Would you wait eighteen months until somebody else forced the corruption into the open?

	You wouldn't wait eighteen minutes. Neither would I.

	These are only a few samples of a corroding, nationwide scandal. I cannot tell you the whole extent of this corruption because there has been too much hiding and too little exposing by the responsible officials of government. All we know is what has been brought out into the light of day, mostly by the work of a single senator and a committee of the House. But that's bad enough. The present commissioner of internal revenue has told us that in a little more than twelve months of this year and last, 177 persons in the Bureau of Internal Revenue were fired for dishonesty and other improper activities.

	At the high levels of government in Washington one assistant attorney general of the United States in charge of tax frauds has been dismissed. A commissioner of internal revenue and an assistant commissioner have resigned for "ill health." A chief counsel of the Bureau of Internal Revenue of the United States has resigned under the exposures of Congressional committees.

	How many hundreds of millions of dollars corruption has cost the millions of hard working taxpayers of America, I do not know. How many dishonest men escaped their taxes by bribery, I do not now know. How many decent taxpayers were pushed into the ignominious position of having to pay to get justice, I do not know. How many small taxpayers have been subjected to a shakedown while the country's most notorious racketeers were getting off amazingly well, I do not know.

	But, I pledge you one thing: I intend to do my part, either as citizen or as a public official, to find out the answers to these questions. The American people have a right to know the answers and the only way they will ever find out the truth is to get an administration that will stop trying to cover up the mess. We will no longer throw the whole burden on Congressional committees. The government will do its duty, every official of the executive branch will do his duty, as charged by the Constitution, and the whole power of the administration will be thrown into the job.

	There is a whole lot you and I can do about this on Election Day, November 4th. We can make sure that the whole atmosphere of our government is one of common honesty. With honesty, we will have competence. We will set an example of industry and integrity which will again make free government the shining object of admiration and respect throughout the world.

	Many would like to make you think that all will be well if you continue the present administration in office--of course, recommending that you change a face or two.

	No change of goods in the showcase can make the rotten goods back in the warehouse any better.

	No man, however honest, can clean up this mess if he is elected as the nominee of the administration which created the mess. No man can set out to restore honesty to government if he owes his elections in any degree to those who have condoned corruption. He could have no real freedom to put his house in order if he was in that kind of debt to that kind of officials.

	I would rather not be elected president than to be elected by the help of those who have lost their sense of public morals.

	As the nominee of one of our great political parties for the highest office in the land, it is my duty to tell every citizen--as far as it is possible for me to do so--exactly what my intentions and plans are concerning national issues.

	With respect to corruption, it is my purpose, if you should assign me to that high post, to clean out every vestige of crookedness from every nook and cranny of the federal government. This I can do only if people like you are ready to help. Unless you are ready to help, unless every one of you is willing to devote himself to this task--don't send me to Washington. But if you do, I promise we'll use the scoop-shovel--not the white--wash brush--in handling this dirty business.

	A special reason we have to do this job is for the sake of the great body of honest, devoted career servants of the United States government. I have worked with the civil service all my life. There is no finer body of people more devoted to the welfare of their country. It is a shame that corrupt political appointments should degrade fine services.

	I pledge to the federal employees of the United States that they will have no more crooked bosses. They will have the best men I can find. They will get honest, able, fine leadership.

	I would never even have mentioned this subject to you tonight if it involved a single isolated individual, or a single isolated office, or even two in one department of government. But the tragedy is that it involves offices all over the United States, not only in the treasury Department, but similar conditions are beginning to come to light in other departments. This erodes the very soul of a government.

	Any group of men who are busy covering up their own crooks, are too busy to look after the welfare, the housing, the jobs and the security of the American people. They are too busy to think through the hard decisions and provide the leadership which is necessary to build the peace of this world.

	The building of peace is at one and the same time our greatest problem and our greatest responsibility. It is the cause to which every day of my life's experience, every hour of my labors will be devoted. All of us know that peace cannot be built by just guns and trained men. Peace is not built at the conference tables alone. Peace is not built merely by knowing the nations of this world, and their hopes and fears, and making the great decisions correctly.

	Peace is not built merely by knowing the economic facts of the world and adjusting to them.

	Peace is not built just by knowing how to get along and creating firm alliances with our friends in the world, or by knowing the evil machinations and brutal ambitions and techniques of the communist aggressor.

	Peace is based first upon the moral and spiritual devotion of each one of us to the faith of our fathers. It is built upon our calm and firm devotion to liberty and justice. It is built upon our voluntary support of those steps which are necessary to thwart aggression and to give us security.

	That is why we must cut out the cancer which eats away the faith of our people in their government. That is why we must achieve a clean and fine government for our country. That is why we must build a happier day for all Americans, calmly, confidently and unafraid.

GOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     : ~: x: t: j:
 \: W: R: M: F: D: 2: ': M  0 e: