

	My fellow Americans and my neighbors:  I say neighbors advisedly because as you know, I live up here on 116th Street when I have a home.  I should like to remind you that the last time I was privileged to meet with a large group over here in Harlem was in 1949.  We were dedicating that day, you will recall, a special wing on the YMCA building.  The reason, my friends, that I bring this to your attention is this:  that was approximately one year after I had written a letter that I thought removed me forever and forever from politics. I had no idea that my name would ever again be attached to partisan or political activities in this country.

	So I came as a neighbor, interested with you in those projects which would benefit our end of New York City, which would provide facilities for the use of people in this particular section, and we had, as you will recall, a big day.  I have just been extravagantly commended by Judge Houston and the Benevolent Order of the Elks. One specific item mentioned was my use of two-thousand volunteer Negro troops in the fall of 1944 when we were desperate for fighting men on the front lines--and these men came forward.  They had relatively safe billets.  They had nothing in their hearts that had to do with safety when their country was in danger.

	The point I want to make is this.  I deserve no credit for using those men.  They were fighting men and I needed fighting men very badly, indeed.  But they did do this for me:  By their coming forward so determinedly, so promptly and operating so effectively, they gave me again a renewed lesson that devotion to America is not determined by any such inconsequential factors as color, religion or origin.  If a man is a dedicated American citizen, he is just that and nothing else.

	So ever since that day, I have tried to make my comrades in the fighting services understand that what the Army, the Air Force, the Navy, the Marines--what we need are fighting hearts.  Let us not look too closely at service indication as to what makes an American citizen.

	Now we are in a political campaign, and I have just gone over this country and I have tried to deal with many subjects.  I cannot, no one can, in the space of the brief time that we can meet here today, cover all of the issues of a political campaign.  So, in each meeting I try to discuss more than any other those subjects of immediate interest to the locality.  When I am in the agriculture region, naturally I talk farming; when I am in a great industrial region, I usually talk labor-management relationships and so on.

	Here we have certain special problems arising out a peculiar feature of this political campaign.  Since the opposition realizes that it is perfectly futile for them to try to defend the sorry record of the last seven years made by our national administration, they have been going around selling a program of fear.  They are selling all kinds of fear.  For example, one of them they sell about me is this:  They say, "We fear that if you should make the old general president of the United States he would reduce soldiers' pay."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, I have spent forty years in the armed services, and I think there are probably hundreds of men in this crowd who have served with me.  I will leave my case with them.  If ever I did an injustice to a soldier, I have found yet no political opponent that could prove it.  So neither now nor in the future do I intend to take the men who are defending our country in uniform, no matter where they have had to serve, and treating them as second-class citizens or someone who is not worthy of their hire.

	They fear that if this crusade is successful and such brilliant associates of mine as you have seen on this platform come to power, if you reelect Senator Ives and with our Governor Dewey and the rest of these men, young Mr. Roosevelt, we are the kind of people that would want to bring about a depression, to take your jobs away from you, to give you a chance to sell apples again on the street.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, what are we interested in?  We are interested in, of course, getting rid of war. We don't want any more of our men killed.  But what do we need if we are going to get out of war?  The first thing we need is a strong United States.  What does a strong United States mean?  One where all men and women who need work are working, where they have good earnings, can consume the articles that our farmers produce and the products of our great industrial plants--when they can produce those surpluses we need to ship abroad in order to get the things we need.  We need men and women working at good wages.

	Why then would we want a depression?  I assure you, these political opponents of mine don't need to fear that any more.  Let me say to you people what I have said time and again and with the full concurrence of all these associates of mine in this political crusade.  Never again shall we allow a depression in the United States.  The Soviet Communism is looking for one great victory.  That victory is the economic collapse of our country.  They want to see us go broke.  Why, then, would a nation such as ours refuse to mobilize all its resources to defeat a depression as we would mobilize all our resources to defeat an invasion?  One is just as serious as the other.

	So I pledge you this.  If the finest brains, the finest hearts, that we can mobilize in Washington can foresee the signs of any recession, and depression, that would put honest, hard working men and women out of work, the full power of private industry, of municipal government, of state governments, of the federal government will be mobilized to see that that does not happen.  I cannot pledge you more than that.

	Then, the next thing they fear is this:  They say, "Let this crusade come to power and we fear that all of your social security programs will be eliminated."  Now, we are pledged as a body down to include the last voter, and up to include the top leaders of this crusade, to this:  To improve and expand social security.  My friends, I want to show you how we look upon social security.

	These social security programs are not an end in themselves.  They are not all that America wants.  But they put a floor of security under you so you are not afraid to go and take risks, to take a new job if you want to, to go out and earn everything you can, to say that you can, and to give a better life to your children.  Then we do this on top of that.  We say we are going to make this dollar of yours a good dollar so that what you have in your insurance policies, what you have in bonds, what you may have in a savings account, and above all what you are entitled to in these security programs, will not be zero when you try to use it; but it will be worth something.

	We pledge ourselves to defending the social security programs.  That, my friends, is something that this fair deal administration has utterly failed to do.  Ask your wives.  The very basket of groceries you could have bought at the corner store for $10 in 1940 you now have to pay $24.50 for.  Let that go on, and what will these programs be worth?  We pledge to you every possible program that will assure you of your dollar.

	Now I bring you another question obviously of great interest to you people.  We know that America has not achieved under its great Constitution that full perfection of operation that it should with respect to equal opportunity for all citizens.  There is discrimination.  This crusade is pledged to use every single item of leadership and influence it has to eliminate it.  It intends to enforce the full Constitution, not part of it.  Specifically, something has been said about my past efforts to eliminate segregation in the services.  I want before I leave that subject to say this.  I mentioned the 2600 Negro troops that volunteered for front line service in the most critical part of our campaign in Europe.  Most of those who served in the army knew of a great and exacting soldier, a man who knew a brave man when he saw him.  That was George Patton.  His personal report to me was these men serving in these squads and platoons in these divisions upheld their part.  They performed real fighting service.

	It was on that evidence and on that kind of knowledge that I worked for this business of reducing and working toward elimination of segregation.  That has gone on.  It is well under way, and I pledge you that it is going to be done promptly and without any further alibis or excuses.

	Next, my friends, in the nation's capital, we have had the poorest possible example given to those of other lands of what this country is, and what it means to each of us.  So far as there is power placed in me as an individual or officially, I shall never cease to work with all the power I can to get rid of that kind of thing in the District of Columbia.  Let me extend that.  Wherever the federal government has responsibility--wherever it collects taxes from you to spend money, whether it be in a contract for recreational facilities or anything else that it does for a citizen of the United States--there will be no discrimination as long as I can help it in private or public life based upon any such thing as color or creed or religion--never.  Wherever funds are used--where federal authority extends--there will be fairness.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, in concluding this short statement, I want to say this:  I do not come before you to engage in any competition of political promises.  This party in power in the last seven years has used up every possible political promise there is, and some of them have gotten pretty shopworn.  For example, there is no easier way to duck an issue than to say this, "I will promise you a law," well knowing they cannot deliver it.  There is no easier way to get out of a situation.  What I promise you is work, never ending work, to make certain that justice is done.  So I cannot come before you with the competition of promises, but I do come before you with a pledge, and this is the pledge.  If you want to put this crusade at the helm of your government; if you want to substitute for these 22 caliber men who are trying to hold 45 caliber jobs the finest men and women that we can draw from all sections of this country, from every walk of life--and let me say plainly, based upon merit and without respect to color or creed; if you want to have a government of that kind, then you belong in this crusade.

	The pledge will be that that group of men and women responsible for directing the political destinies of the country will be fair and just.  They will be fair and just, as God gives them the power to see justice and right.  Moreover, they will be friendly.  They will be people right out of this crowd that will be occupying positions where they will be your representatives to see that this government is serving you, not trying to rule over you.  Above all things, ladies and gentlemen, it will be honest.  It will not be guilty of what a St. Louis judge, a judge appointed by a Democratic administration, said about certain highly appointed people.  He said, "He sold his birthright for a dirty mess of dollars."  You will have your own representatives down here and they can assure you that this new government will not only open up all these dark closets--drag out these skeletons, expose them to view--but they will keep these closets open so you and I and the rest of the people can look in them every day of our lives and know that we have an honest government, a government behind which we can follow with pride, and for which we will not be apologizing for our national leadership.

	Ladies and gentlemen, if that is what you believe, if that is what you want, get aboard. 
AFRICAN AMERICANSDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALECONOMY--DEPRESSIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYMILITARY PERSONNELRACE RELATIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIASOCIAL SECURITYVETERANS     O/ / / / /
 . . . . . . . .	  	  	 q 	 ^ 	 M 	 ; 	  	  e: