

	Thank you very much, Jan [missing text]. Happy birthday to [missing text] and also I wish to congratulate [missing text] to [missing text] who landed in Cape Canaveral at 8:13 this morning after 188 days in space.

	Thank you all for coming. Thank you [missing text], and Tom Slade, our great chairman, and Jack Zararias, our state finance chairman. And I want to tell you very honestly that Florida is a key state and we need to win this state, and we need your help--and we're going to work very, very hard.

	And I'll be here again, and my wife will be here again, and Jack Kemp will be here with his wife, Joanne. We understand the importance of Florida--it's one of my home states. When I first came back from the service in a body cast from head to toe, I landed in Miami, so I've been in Florida a long time. And now we have my wife and brother--I have a little brother--my little brother has a little place in Bal Harbor, where I'll spend the night tonight. So we claim Florida as a home state. You've got to go out and work for your home state candidate.

	And I know that Elizabeth was here not long ago and I must say, as I've said many times, she is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her. That's how talented she is.

	Now it won't be long until the first debate--it's going to take place in Hartford, Connecticut, and what I'm going to tell the American people in that debate is the money belongs to you--it doesn't belong to Bill Clinton. It belongs to you.

	And I'll say you haven't had a tax cut for ten years and it's overdue. And I'll say that taxes are too high and the economy is not on the right track, so long as families across America--the one spouse works full-time for the family and the other works full-time for the government, just to pay the taxes. It will not be that way in a Dole-Kemp administration. If either--if both spouses want to work, it ought to be because they want to, and not because they're forced to work to pay higher taxes.

	And so this election comes down to a very clear choice of two distinct visions of government and two distinct visions of America's future. Our opponents--and they are our opponents, they're not our enemies, but they're our opponents--they have a vision that places government at the center of your lives, as Tom was pointing out, that puts economic growth on the back burner.

	President Clinton said the era of big government is over, but for four years he's tried everything in his power to make sure the government got bigger and bigger and bigger. And now he says it's over, about Election Day.

	And of course you won't hear him talking about it during this campaign. But in politics, as in little things, action speaks louder than words. You must remember the action--we'll just say three.

	The first time he came, the first thing he tried to do when he came, became the President of the United States, was a so-called stimulus hike--we're going to stimulate the economy in America with $16 billion in pork-barrel spending. Let me give you a few ideas where your money was going to go: a casino in Connecticut, a bike path in Oregon, carousel renovations in Rhode Island, a shopping center in Indiana, an alpine slide, believe it, in Puerto Rico--an alpine slide in Puerto Rico, a baseball field in Alabama. And all [missing text] spent, but fortunately Republicans stopped it and it didn't go through.

	But it is--it is his big wish--his second big wish is to see how high he can raise taxes--he raised taxes $265 billion. And the taxes were on senior citizens, small-businessmen and women, and anyone who drives a car or truck and many, many others.

	And it's their big idea that to give the government--turn over to the government the health care system. The greatest health care system in the world is in America--they want it turned over to the federal government. And what would this have meant?

	It would have meant $1.5 billion in new spending, seventeen new taxes on America's workers, and fifty brand new federal bureaucracies and a truckload of new laws and penalties and price controls, and it would have put one-seventh of our total economy under government control. And that's the real Clinton--that's the real, liberal Bill Clinton--the real, liberal Bill Clinton. And that's what this election is all about.

	That is his three [missing text] agenda.

	And I'll tell you something--thank you--when you stop to think about it--Dole-Kemp. That's two four-letter words you can teach your kids, so keep working at it.

	But [missing text] election year--you're not going to hear Bill Clinton talking about these things he tried and he might try again if he were elected--the power grab, the biggest tax increase, the stimulus package. How would he pay for all these? Well, since he never offered a list of spending cuts, there's only one conclusion: he'll do what he did the last time--he'll raise taxes again on the American people if he's reelected.

	He's done it before. He'll do it again. He promised a tax cut during the campaign and he'll issue a tax increase once in office.

	In fact, let me tell you--it's already out there--some of the plans are leaking out. Just last week the Secretary of the Interior, Bruce Babbitt--he claimed he never knew Bruce Babbitt, but he did himself--he appointed him--he [missing text] the idea of a new sales tax on outdoor equipment. And Bruce Babbitt said this is a win-win for everybody, [missing text] taxes [missing text]camp or ride a bike, or take pictures or feed the birds. They've even going to tax birdseed--a 5 percent tax on birdseed.

	They can't tax the birds; they're going to tax the seeds. They're going to tax backpacks and canteens and bikes and hiking boots and skis and scuba gear and binoculars and even birdseed, believe it or not. And anybody who uses a camera, uses film or other photographic equipment will also pay special new taxes to Washington.

	And the list goes on and on, so there he is--he'll be out on the floor, he'll be out there trying to scare people again--and he'll talk about--if you ask him about this tax, "Oh, we're not for that--that was somebody in my Cabinet." Well, I thought somebody in your Cabinet generally spoke for the President of the United States. And I think he did speak for the President of the United States. And this is what happens.

	They tax you when you work, they tax you when you save, they tax you when you take some time off with your family, and if they get it their way you won't even be able to escape the IRS when you're hiking in the wilderness. Somebody will be there: "Have you paid your taxes, paid your taxes, paid your taxes?"

	Well, I say it's time to tell the big taxers to take a hike--we've taken a hike long enough.

	While Bill Clinton has a million little plans for our government to tell you how to run your life--Jack Kemp and I have one big plan that's simple and it's straightforward. It's a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut for families.

	It's a $500-per-child tax credit, and I see a lot of little $500 tax credits in front of me, right here.

	One child--$500, two children--$1,000. Ten children--you're probably too busy to file, but that will be $5,000.

	And then we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half, 50 percent, and we're going to eliminate--eliminate capital gains taxes for virtually all homeowners, which would be a big, big boon in a state like Florida.

	And finally, and we are going to repeal Bill Clinton's hikes on four to six million senior citizens. We're going to do that. And it's all based on one simple principle: it is your money. It is your money. It's not his money, it's your money--it's your money.

	And that is only phase--that's phase one. In phase two we're going to have a flatter, fairer, and simpler tax system, and we're going to end the IRS as we know it.

	And we're going to [missing text] tax, estate tax, where if you work all your life, the husband and wife and children work all their lives, finally put together a few assets--somebody passes on, you've got to sell off the assets to pay the estate tax. That should not happen in the United States of America. And we're going to [missing text].

	So we will balance the budget and cut taxes, we'll balance the budget by the year 2002, and we're going to lock it in with a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, and [missing text] the United States Senate.

	And our opponents say it can't be done and I agree with them--they can't do it. They can't do anything but raise taxes, raise taxes, raise taxes.

	And let me touch on another matter finally, here. Let me touch on another matter right here. Whenever I visit Florida--whenever I visit Florida, I recall the privilege of working with the late Claude Pepper. The former congressman was the highest advocate of America's seniors. And one of my prize possessions, which I have in front of me here, and which you'll be--we'll pass out to people here--is a letter from Claude Pepper that I received way back in 1983, before some of you were even around. And here's a copy which will be available to people all over Florida. This letter thanked me for helping save Social Security in 1983, and I want to quote just one paragraph--or one sentence.

	Claude Pepper said, "We could never have produced the package without your skill and sincerest desire to see that our Commission makes a meaningful contribution to the saving of Social Security, without the wholesome influence you [missing text] upon the Commission." We were on the Commission together, we took out politics, as we ought to do with Medicare, and we saved Social Security.

	The Commission was formed by Republican Ronald Reagan and by the Democratic Speaker, Tip O'Neill, and the Republican majority of the Senate, Howard Baker--because they got tired of playing politics and scaring people, said, "Let's stop." Let's stop scaring seniors--your mothers, your grandmothers.

	Well, last year, last year, history repeated itself. Because the Trustees [missing text]--and three of the Trustees were his--that if we hadn't fixed Medicare, it was on the verge of bankruptcy. But instead of working with Republicans and other Democrats to try to secure, preserve, and strengthen Medicare, the President chose to engage in a campaign to scare America's seniors. We call it Mediscare--Mediscare--Mediscare.

	And all the ads you see in Florida, all the ads you see in Florida are negative, Mediscare ads. I just left a place where the last lady I talked to as I left--everybody else understood it--this lady said, "Why are you cutting my Medicare?" And the lady pushing the wheelchair said, "All she hears all day long in the Clinton ads is you're going to cut Medicare, cut Medicare, cut Medicare."

	Listen, I helped rescue Social Security. All my mother had were Social Security income and Medicare. And I know how important it is for seniors, men and women. So let's set the record straight--I want to do that right now.

	The Republican plan--the Republican plan helped secure Medicare while increasing benefits. In fact, it increases benefits for every beneficiary. Under our plan Medicare's spending relies [missing text] on average from $5,200 to $7,000 a person over the next six years. And my economic plan is based on the same principles, protecting vital programs like Medicare and Social Security.

	And [missing text] charges--that's all they've got. They don't have any ideas, they don't have any agenda, they don't have any candidates--all they do is scare you--cause fear. But remember this--under my economic plan Social Security spending will increase 34 percent, Medicare spending will increase 39 percent, and I'm proud to be known as the senator who helped save Social Security, and [missing text] will save Medicare for seniors [missing text].

	And I challenge President Clinton here today--and I know it's hard to get President Clinton off the soapbox--he's out there every day announcing some new gimmick to get him votes somewhere. But I would say to the President--Mr. President, why don't you be honest with Florida's seniors and other seniors across America? Why don't you suggest that we have a Commission as we did on Social Security? Why don't you understand it's got to be taken out of politics? Why don't you stop your negative ads all across America? Why don't you tell the truth, Mr. President? And once he does that, we're going to wipe him out in Florida and all across America.

	But he won't do it, because all he has is fear. He wants to frighten people, but I don't think the people scare that easily. [Missing text] this President--he's been frightening you for a long time. We're going to give him one more scare, November 5th, 1996.

	Now I want to give you a little quiz here, I want to give you a little quiz. I want you to listen carefully, because otherwise you flunk. Now, believe it or not, believe it or not, Bill Clinton says he's not a liberal. All right. Now, I want to ask you, before you [missing text], I want to ask you the question--you can respond any way you want--I'm--you know, it's a free country. But I want to ask you what you think. What do you call someone who gave you the biggest tax increase in history?

	What do you call someone who appointed judges known for bending the law to let criminals go free?

	What do you call someone who tried to put the government in charge of our health care system?

	And what do you call someone who twisted arms in Congress to kill the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution?

	And what do you call someone whose Surgeon General talked about legalizing drugs?

	And what do you call someone who proposed 484 new spending initiatives costing $2 trillion?

	You got it right every time. I knew you would.

	Liberal, liberal, liberal every step of the way. So [missing text] historically clear distinction between two sides in this election, between our opponents and myself and our party. They are liberals and we are conservatives. They are [missing text] and we are [missing text] They believe in hiding their leader's liberal agenda with [missing text] and negative advertising to fool and frighten the people. We also [missing text] advocate our [missing text] conservative agenda and show our trust in the people. We trust the people, they trust the government. That is a big, big difference.

	And let me close with this little 10th Amendment here. The 10th Amendment to the Constitution, part of the Bill of Rights, Article Ten, for now two hundred and some years--what does it say? Our Founding Fathers were so concerned about domination by an all-powerful central government, they made this Article Ten of the Bill of Rights, and it says this: unless the Constitution gives the federal government the power [missing text], it belongs to the states and to the people."

	It does not belong to Bill Clinton or anybody in his family or anybody in his [missing text] or anybody in his [missing text]. The power belongs to you. The power belongs to you.

	So I ask--I ask for your support. We're going to win the state of Florida. It's a big, big state. We're going to win this state, we're going to win the election. Thank you very much and God bless America.
BILL OF RIGHTSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCELIBERALISMMEDICARESALES TAXSOCIAL SECURITYSENIOR CITIZENSTAXATION--GENERAL     < j< d< `< V<
 N< I< D< 5< .< ,< !<	  	 z 	 e 	 J 	 @ 	 8 	 /      e: