
	
	I am grateful for your invitation to speak here about a critical issue in the 1972 campaign.

	There is no shortage of sharp policy differences between President Nixon and me. On the war, on the economy, on taxes, on crime, on a dozen other issues, we have sharply different views of the proper course for America. He has described the campaign as the "choice of the century." And I agree.

	But we must be equally concerned--and I think even more concerned this year--about the environment in which those policies are made and carried out, and about the influences that are brought to bear.

	Our tradition in this country is that government is the instrument of the people. Our essential faith is that each man, woman, and child among us deserves the respect and protection of government, not because he has wealth or power, not because of his wit or skill or station, but simply because he is a citizen of the United States.

	In America, government derives its power from the people, and it must provide equal service to them all.

	But today those principles have become so corroded that many Americans have given up in despair.

	Government cannot serve two masters.

	And I suggest today that government is serving money more than people. I suggest that the influence of big money has become so pervasive in Washington that the American people are being systematically denied the protection they deserve.

	The cumulative power of government is almost beyond imagination. It decides how much of our income we keep and how much is taxed away. It sends our sons to war. It essentially determines how many of us have jobs, what interest rates we pay, whether the laws will be enforced, whether prices will go up or down. It reaches deeply into the daily lives of us all.

	Every time that enormous power is abused, a part of democracy dies. And I am alarmed by the growing evidence that the present administration has abused that power as a matter of course.

	Consider these examples:

	We know that the Department of Justice dropped a major antitrust case against ITT precisely at the time that the company agreed to underwrite $400,000 in Republican Convention costs.

	Whose interests did that decision represent? Certainly not the American people.

	We know that another antitrust action, to block the merger of two giant companies, Parke-Davis and Warner-Lambert, was also dropped by the Justice Department against the strong recommendation of the government's top antitrust lawyer. The honorary chairman of one of those companies is a close friend of Mr. Nixon and a big contributor to his campaigns.

	Whose interest did that decision represent? Certainly not the people who pay for high-priced drugs.

	We know that the Price Commission wrote a narrow exemption to free Combined Insurance Company of Chicago, and hardly any other companies, from any price controls at all. The Chairman of the Board of that company is W. Clement Stone, a man who gave $1 million to Mr. Nixon's 1968 campaign, and who has already kicked in $500,000 in 1972.

	Whose interests did that decision represent? Certainly not the people who buy insurance.

	We know that the Republican Treasury Department granted a Jones Act waiver for the Liberian ship Sansineas, so that it could operate in the American coastal trade. That waiver was worth $6 million to $7 million to the men who owned and controlled the ship. In fact, it was owned by a company set up by Peter Flanigan, a top White House assistant to the President. And until 1985, it is chartered to a company whose president is Mr. Nixon's chief West Coast fund-raiser. Fortunately, this decision was overturned by the alertness and action of Senator Joseph Tydings.

	We know that several giant grain companies had inside information on the sale of American wheat to the Soviet Union--information which enabled them to rob unsuspecting farmers of the fruit of their labor. We know the Republican Department of Agriculture granted a special grade period for export subsidies to swell the windfall profits of the grain companies even more.

	Whose interests were represented in that sorry affair? Certainly not the farmers who were gouged, nor the consumers who are paying higher prices for bread, and most certainly not the taxpayer, who was forced to contribute to the profits of the wheat traders.

	We know that the same Republican Department of Agriculture withheld an increase in milk price supports, until the milk lobbyists came through with $352,000 in donations to the Republican campaign.

	Whose interests were represented in that transaction? If the price increase was a just one, it should have been granted without the demand for a political bribe. Certainly not the ordinary American, who expects government to make decisions on the merits, and not on the money.

	We know that the Republican administration tried every shortcut in the book--and a few that were not--to give federal funds to the Penn Central Railroad. We know that while those machinations were going on, top officials of the Republican Transportation Department and the Republican Treasury Department were keeping the biggest investors in the Penn Central clued in, so they could dump their stock before Penn Central went broke. And the small investors took the loss.

	We know, because your own Senator Magnuson has exposed it, that the nation's carpet manufacturers were promised an indefinite postponement of effective safety regulations--after they collected nearly $95,000 for Mr. Nixon's campaign.

	Whose interests were represented in that exchange? Certainly not the people's whose lives are endangered by flammable carpets.

	We know that the Federal Power Commission has deregulated the price of most natural gas--an action that means about $10 billion in higher profits for the oil companies. One of the major beneficiaries of that action was Penzoil United, whose president is Mr. Nixon's chief Texas fund-raiser. He collected the money that was sent to Mexico to be "laundered" and that ended up in the hands of the Republican burglars who broke into Democratic headquarters at the Watergate.

	Whose interests were represented in that case? Certainly not the consumers, who will have to shell out an extra $10 billion.

	And there are other cases that elude public view. They are hidden in Mr. Nixon's $10 million secret campaign fund.

	Mr. Nixon and his agents insist that the public has no right to know who gave that $10 million--or what the big givers got in return.

	But we know something about how it was raised--by Mr. Stans's vigorous solicitations of business executives and by letters such as the one from a West Coast fund-raiser who told potential donors: "I cannot emphasize too strongly that the protection of your stake and my stake is precisely what is at stake here."

	When he signed the law requiring disclosure, Mr. Nixon said this:

	"By giving the American people full access to the facts of political campaigning, this legislation will guard against campaign abuses and will work to build public confidence in the integrity of the electoral process."

	In light of the record, I frankly don't feel much confidence when I know that Mr. Nixon is sitting on a $10 million secret fund.

	How does the Nixon administration respond?

	They begin with a shocking assertion that this is the normal course of events in Washington.

	But lesser scandals have rocked the nation.

	In 1952, General Eisenhower ordered Richard Nixon to come clean with the American people if he wanted to stay on the Republican ticket--all over an $18,000 fund. 

	When Mr. Eisenhower was president, his top adviser, Sherman Adams, was fired over a vicuna coat, and the donor went to jail.

	Yet today, when we find political money and special favors flowing like Niagara, even the fishiest denials are accepted as explanations. We see a few timid questions, a few artful dodges, and then icy, indifferent silence. And what must the American people think about their government?

	Meanwhile, Mr. Nixon staunchly denies responsibility for the whole mess. He refuses to hold press conferences; he refuses to answer questions; he hides in the White House and seeks exoneration in silence.

	But the American people know who appointed Earl Butz as Secretary of Agriculture. It was Richard Nixon.

	The American people know who appointed and then promoted Richard Kleindienst. The same Richard Nixon.

	The American people know who Peter Flanigan works for. And they certainly know who was Murray Chotiner's boss when he milked the dairy industry.

	Are we expected to believe that Mr. Nixon does not know what his own staff, and his own Cabinet officers, are up to?

	Does anyone think Maurice Stans is just an enthusiastic volunteer who gathers big gifts on his own? Does anyone believe that Mr. Stans would still refuse to disclose that secret $10 million fund, if he got orders from the White House to do so?

	President Truman had a sign in the White House which read, "The buck stops here."

	I suggest today that while the dollars may all be flowing to Mr. Stans, the buck still stops in the White House.

	We have an urgent task ahead--to break the dangerous link between those in power who seek money, and those with money who seek favors. We must restore the faith of all Americans in a government that will serve the public interest over the special interest.

	It will take more than a new administration to restore that faith. We will need new rules, new standards, and new tools.

	Toward that end, I am today proposing an Ethics in Government Program designed to end present abuses, and to restore the integrity of our government in the eyes of the people.

	First, we must sever the link between political contributions and government actions. As president, I will urge the Congress to enact the bill I introduced last year to assure all candidates for federal office in the general elections and the primaries a federally financed campaign fund. For the cost of 93 cents for every voter per year, we could provide each major party presidential candidate with $18 million dollars for his campaign, and a similarly adequate fund for candidates for Congress. At the same time, we should set strict limitation on private political contributions of $50 per person.

	Second, as president, I will not allow any special interest group to plead its case in secret meetings at the White House unless the fact of the meeting and the presentation are made public.

	Third, I will urge Congress to enact legislation requiring prior public notice and public transcripts of all ex parte meetings held by regulatory agencies and the departments and agencies under the president's supervision.

	Fourth, I will instruct the White House staff to keep hands off the independent regulatory agencies. I will order them not to make any ex parte contact during the pendency of a proceeding, and if they do, I will ask them to resign.

	And I will ask the chairman of each regulatory agency, including the Wage Board and the Price Commission, to notify the president and the press of every call or contact from the White House on any adjudicative case before his body. I will remind them that they serve as judges as well as administrators, and that billions of dollars of the taxpayers' money depends on their decisions.

	Fifth, I will urge the Congress to strengthen the present laws on conflicts of interest to require a wait of five years before any government employee can take a job with a company with which he has had dealings on behalf of the government.

	Sixth, I will urge the enactment of legislation to require full public disclosure of the income, assets and liabilities of every employee of the government whose income exceeds $15,000 a year.

	Seventh, I will propose creation of a separate Office of Investigations, to supplement the Department of Justice, with the power to look into charges of illegal activity made against members of the Executive Department or the White House staff. The attorney general is the president's lawyer, and his department cannot act as both prosecution and defense in the same case.

	This agency would be independent of both the president and the Congress, and have at its disposal the resources of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

	I believe these reforms would go a long way toward restoring public confidence in the government of the United States. But in the last analysis honesty and ethics in government come down to the attitude of public men themselves. If they take their jobs with an eye toward enhancing their future in private life, no list of rules can keep them from temptation. If, on the other hand, they resolve to guide themselves by the motto that a public office is a public trust, no amount of temptation can keep them from the honest performance of their job.

	Those who hold public office for money or for power have had their day in America. The time has come for those who want to serve. Let us dedicate ourselves to restoring for this country the atmosphere of probity in the White House and throughout the government of the United States. Only then can we restore the most precious asset any government can have--the people's firm faith that it is working each day and each hour in their behalf.

	It was Franklin D. Roosevelt who said: "The presidency is above all a place of moral leadership." That is the kind of presidency I want for the people of America.

AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONBUSINESS, CORPORATECAMPAIGN FINANCEMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     5 5 5 5 5
 5 5 5 5 5 5 m5 c5	  	  	  	 o 	 W  @   e: