

	Senator Lehman, I didn't know my friends of Utica could get so many people in such a small space. You know, if I had one tenth of the combined virtues that our distinguished Senator Lehman was good enough to assign to me this afternoon, I don't think this would be an election campaign. I should think it would be a coronation. You were very kind to me, Senator Lehman, and I don't suppose a little flattery hurts as long as you don't inhale.

	I am very much flattered to hear that there are students from Colgate and from Hamilton and from Utica. Some of you students know that I don't have all of the newspapers in the country supporting me, but I do have practically all of the college papers supporting me, including the college paper of Columbia University, which has endorsed a candidate for president for the first time in 80 years, and it isn't the president of the university either.

	You know, a few minutes ago we were in Rome. That always excites me to be able to say I was in Rome a few minutes ago. That reminded me of my own experiences in Italy just nine years ago. The war was still raging in northern Italy. We hadn't gotten past Cassino at that time. The southern parts of the country had been liberated. The destruction and the devastation were tragic, for the war had been bitterly fought up the Italian peninsula. I don't doubt that there are many in the audience this afternoon that fought their way up the peninsula in 1943. Some of you know what I am talking about from firsthand experience.

	Did you? A boy from the 45th Division. My job was to make recommendations to our government as to what we could and should do to start Italy on the road to recovery; how to support the civilian economy behind the allied lines as we moved north. I know if we hadn't given aid, and given it promptly and generously, Italy today would probably be no longer a free country. One of America's greatest assets in our world-wide struggle with Communism, of course, is our economic strength, for if we use that wisely within our prudent limits we can give many peoples new hope for the future; and when men have hope they are not likely to choose of their own free will to submit to this Communist conspiracy--this godless menace that threatens our whole world. I think that 1952 would be a good year to send to Congress some men who understand this simple fact. And you have just such a man here in Dr. Ray Wilson, of Colgate University, your Democratic candidate. What is more, my friends, I think he is the kind of a man that I am going to need to help me. He has been long interested in international affairs, as well as being a student of our own political history in our institutions.

	You know, I had just today delivered on this train a letter from the president of Colgate University who was a classmate of mine at Princeton. I would like to read you just a line from it. He said, "I am supporting Ray Wilson with mixed emotions. We can ill afford to lose him here at Colgate, but I am satisfied that our loss will be the country's gain. He is a man of great intelligence, complete integrity, and anything you say in his support, you can say without apprehension or reservation."

	I wonder if General Eisenhower has that opportunity very often. You know, that phrase, "mixed emotions," in President Case's letter reminded me of a definition of a mixed emotion I heard the other day. A fellow said, "That is when you see your mother-in-law driving over a cliff in your new Cadillac."

	And I am also flattered to discover from this letter--which I had not known before--that President Case of Colgate University is a member of the Honorary National Committee of the Volunteers for Stevenson, bless his heart. The fact of the matter is, the more I hear of these colleges around here the more discriminating and more intelligent groups they must be.

I had hoped, my friends, in all seriousness, that foreign policy would not become a major issue in this campaign. I am sure many of you shared the same hope at the time of General Eisenhower's nomination last summer. I had thought that he would stand for the foreign policies with which his own name has been so long identified. But evidently the General has concluded that it was time for a change during the campaign. He has even changed his friends. Two years ago, as an illustration, he strongly backed up a man well known to you here in Utica--Dr. Phillip Jessup, a graduate of Hamilton College--who was also married to a Utica girl. Mr. Jessup has done, as many of you know, most notable work for his country in the field of foreign relations. It was he, as you remember, who conducted the negotiations which led to the end of the Berlin Blockade. And now the General is strongly backing the most extreme isolationists in the whole Republican party. They are the colonels in this strange crusade, and they have fought every step of the way against our program for building peace in the world. They have fought to slash our defense program, our programs to assist our friends and allies, and to strengthen their defenses. And they have fought the Point Four Program and all the other programs of economic and technical assistance by which we are helping our friends and allies. These are the men who don't want to do anything except talk tough.

	You remember, it was Theodore Roosevelt, a great Republican president, who said, "walk softly and carry a big stick." These fellows say, "Talk loudly and carry a twig."

	They hold out false promises of quick and of easy and painless solutions. This sort of fakery is not only dishonest--it is also very dangerous, for a policy of weakness and of tough talk invites aggression.

	I have not made any such promises, and neither will Mr. Ray Wilson or any other Democratic candidate, I hope, and among them I want to include with my sincerest mark of respect, my esteemed and old friend, Mr. John Cashmore who has been introduced to you by Senator Lehman, the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate--I could use him too down in Washington.

	We Democrats believe that the American people want the truth, sometimes the truth is hard and unpleasant, but we want to know it all the same. We know from experience that tragedy stalks the life of every person and of every nation that doesn't pay attention to the truth. There is hard work ahead--sacrifice, sorrow--but there is hope ahead, too and the future is anything but dark. We and our allies are growing stronger every day. The Communists have been stopped in their tracks in the Far East and in Western Europe. Many nations have put aside old rivalry to unite in their fight for freedom. The battle goes slowly but we are winning that battle bit by bit, step by step and day by day.

	Who would have ever thought a few years ago that the major countries of Western Europe would be today discussing a constitution for a United States of Europe?

	I pledge you that the Democratic party will press this battle and press it relentlessly with every ounce of our energy and with every confidence that America has the strength, the wisdom and the courage to win through to the final goal, that has been man's everlasting dream, of peace on earth.

	I am so grateful to you for coming here this afternoon and affording us this brief opportunity to meet with you. I feel grateful and indebted to you for the courtesy and the patience with which you have listened to what little I have had to say. And to these younger people--the students from the universities--I would like to say that the opportunity to participate in political affairs, to vote in our elections, things that we take for granted, are among the most precious things that will come to you in life. I am delighted to find so many of you all across the country who take a lively part in our political affairs. I like the fact that you are taking a part--even if you don't take a part in my behalf--of course, I prefer it--and I think you would show a lot more sense if you do.

	But this is our hope, that people can mature more rapidly so that we can have a sophisticated, intimate understanding of what these issues are, of what these things are, what these things represent to us, not in the short term but in the long term. The only way you can do that, the only way you can participate actively and wholesomely in our political life is to participate while you are young. And I am mighty glad to see it, these young people from the colleges here. The fact of the matter is that I would like them even if they were carrying "Ike" signs.

	I was sure there were some in hiding.

	I want to tell you--because I must go along--that I had a most engaging experience, speaking at Spokane, Washington, last week, way up in Washington, going through a crowd of little boys--you know how in the motorcades, driving through the city, they wave at you--one little boy came out to the side of the car--I don't know whether he was confused or whether he was a very cautious young man--I would say he was about eight or nine--and he shouted at the top of his voice, "Hooray for Stevenhower."

	Well, that my friends from the university is being too discrete politically. Good-bye; God bless all of you and many many thanks for coming here.

	Thank you so much. I am very much honored and I am grateful to you, sir, for presenting me with this banner.

	What has Colgate got to offer here?

	I hope nobody sends a photograph of this to Princeton, New Jersey, is all I can say.

	May I introduce to you my sister, Mrs. Ives, and may I introduce to you a Republican--vice chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson, Mrs. Dick.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEEUROPEISOLATIONISMWORLD WAR II     o& ;& 5& 1& )&
 & & & & & & & %	 ? 	  	  	  e: