

	I've come to New Brunswick this morning to make an announcement.  The announcement is:  We're going to win this election.

	We will win this election because, number one, we're all together; the Democrats, the American people are together, and when we're united, we win.

	Second, we're going to win because we're mad.  We've had enough of this, and we want a change.

	Finally, we're going to win because we're right.  We see our future, and we know where we must go.

	Two weeks ago, Mr. Reagan came to New Jersey and tried to steal one of New Jersey's most important heroes:  Bruce Springsteen.  He came and quoted Bruce's "message of hope."

	Well, Bruce may have been "Born to Run," but he wasn't born yesterday.

	And when Bruce heard what Mr. Reagan had said, here's what the Boss had to say to him:  "There's something really dangerous happening to us out there.  We're slowly getting split into two Americas.  There's a promise being broken.  I don't think the American dream was that everyone was going to make a billion dollars.  But it was that everyone was going to have an opportunity and the chance to live a life with some decency and some dignity and a chance for some self-respect."

	That's the real Bruce Springsteen.

	Not only is he trying to steal Bruce Springsteen, he's trying to steal our Democratic heroes.

	A few weeks ago, he went up to Waterbury, Connecticut, and he said he really liked John F. Kennedy.  And he reminded them of the night John Kennedy gave his last campaign speech in that community.  I remember that night, and so does Mr. Reagan.

	On that evening, I was the chairman of Minnesotans for John F. Kennedy.  And he was the chairman of something called Democrats for Nixon.

	Thank God I had my way and he didn't.

	Mr. Reagan can quote great Democrats.  But he can't rewrite history.

	Can you imagine Franklin Roosevelt cutting Social Security and Medicare--as this crowd did?

	Can you imagine Harry Truman letting nearly 300 Marines and Americans die in Lebanon--and then passing the buck to the previous administration?

	Can you imagine Lyndon Johnson trying to give tax breaks to segregation academies?

	Can you imagine Bill Bradley giving billions in tax breaks to the wealthy while socking it to taxpayers of moderate income?

	Can you imagine Frank Lautenberg running up the deficit at the expense of our children's education?

	Can you imagine Jim Florio or Bernie Dwyer or Frank Guarini ignoring New Jersey's toxic dumps and turning the Superfund into a superfraud?

	Today, I've got some advice for these Republicans.  You leave our heroes alone.  Quote your own, like Coolidge, Hoover, and Nixon--you can have them.

	Not only are they trying to steal our heroes.  They're trying to trivialize this election.  They're trying to ignore what's at stake.

	This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's about toxic wastes that are poisoning our children.

	This election is not about banners and balloons.  It's about old folks who can't afford to pay for medicine.

	This election is not about who is proud of our kids at the Olympics--we all are.  It's about the civil rights laws that opened athletics to the women and minorities who helped win our gold medals.

	This election is not about sending a teacher into space.  It's about educating our children and advancing science here on earth.

	This election is not about the size of my opponent's crowds.  It's about the size of his deficits.

	This election is not about Republicans sending hecklers to my rallies.  It's about Jerry Falwell picking justices to the Supreme Court.

	This election is not about my standing in the polls.  It's about my stand against extending the arms race into the heavens.

	Our future, your future, is at stake.  And we must have a president who leads.  To do so, we must first have a president who knows what he believes.

	In the last few days, we've heard a soothing new tone from Mr. Reagan, and we welcome it.  For four years, he sounded like Ronald Reagan.  This last week, he's tried to sound like Walter Mondale.

	The new Reagan meets with Gromyko.  The old Reagan was the first president since Herbert Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart.

	The new Reagan praises arms control.  The old Reagan opposed every arms control agreement reached by every president of both political parties since the bomb went off.

	The new Reagan condemns nuclear war.  The old Reagan crowd talked about winning nuclear war and firing nuclear warning shots.

	The new Reagan praises peace groups.  The old Reagan insulted supporters of the freeze.

	This presidential sea change raises a crucial question:  Which Reagan would be president if he's re-elected?  Which Reagan are we to believe?  How do we know?

	Well, there's a clear choice.  If you pick Walter Mondale as president, he will work for peace from the first day that he's in office, and not from the first day of his campaign for re-election.

	Second, a president must know what he wants, but he must also be in touch and in charge.  There is no reason to doubt Mr. Reagan's desire for peace.  He dreams the same dreams that we do.  But a president must also master, command, learn, and lead.

	You can dream all you want.  But if you believe that nuclear missiles can be recalled after they're launched--as Mr. Reagan did--you won't lead us toward a safer world.

	You can dream to your heart's content.  But if you believe that submarines and bombers don't have nuclear warheads on them--as Mr. Reagan thought--you won't move us back away from the brink.

	You can dream of the lion lying down with the lamb.  But if you don't learn that most Soviet missiles are land based--as Mr. Reagan didn't bother to learn--then your efforts at arms control are doomed.

	When the fate of the earth is at stake, good intentions are not enough.  And good intentions are all that we have today.

	This morning, a respected columnist put it this way:  "Mr. Reagan is the most passive, remotest president since Calvin Coolidge."  In four years, this administration has not achieved a single significant foreign policy success.

	I don't doubt that the president is for peace.  But he has not mastered what he must know to command his own government and to lead.  When a president doesn't know what he must, he can't command.  It guarantees deadlock among his advisers.  The forces of inertia inevitably prevail.  Those who oppose progress almost always win.  When a president is not vigorously involved, things just don't happen--and they're not.

	In Central America, there are no talks.

	In the Middle East, there is no policy.

	In Lebanon, there was no protection.

	And on earth, there is no arms control.

	If a president doesn't know--if he doesn't decide--a president can't lead.

	Finally, a president must be responsible for his presidency.  He must be accountable.  If he won't, no one else in the government will.

	What we have today is a president who gives us alibis.  Three times in seventeen months, brave American personnel have been attacked and killed in Lebanon.  The first time, it could have happened to anyone.  The second time, when over 200 Marines lost their lives, it could have been prevented.  The Joint Chiefs of Staffs warned the president not to put our troops in that unprotected position.

	But this time, it's inexcusable.  These terrorists' threats were publicly known.  The Long Commission, the State Department, and the Defense Intelligence Agency all recommended security measures and warned that the East Beirut embassy was in danger.  But they weren't implemented.

	Instead, Mr. Reagan's response has been a parade of alibis.  First, he said everything that could be done was done, and we all know differently.

	Second, he compared the tragedy to remodeling a kitchen, blaming the contractor.  But we all know, when you're dealing with bloody terrorists, you need a tough president who does what needs to be done to protect our people.

	Third, he tried to blame the previous administration for weakening our intelligence capabilities.  But his own vice president and CIA director ran away from that one.

	And fourth, he blamed the press.  And even Gerald Ford told him to own up and take responsibility.

	A president must be responsible for his own government.  He must be accountable.  Harry Truman had that sign on his desk that said, "The buck stops here."  Mr. Reagan should put a sign on his desk that says, "The buck stops everywhere but here."

	The ability of this nation to lead in the world requires a president who knows what he believes, and an American people who know what he believes.  It requires a president who masters his government, the essential facts; who is in touch and in charge.  And it requires a president who stands up and takes the responsibility of the government for which he was elected.  We do not have that today, and our future demands it.

	This election is about many things, but above all it is about leadership for our future.  When John Kennedy spoke at Waterbury in 1960, he said this:  "Ours is a great country, but it must be greater."  This year the debate is between those who say America is back, and those who want America to go forward.  I say it is time to raise our sights--toward excellence and toward the future.  It is time to remind ourselves again what America is all about.

	A few days ago, I appeared jointly with President Reagan at the Italian American Foundation banquet in Washington.  In his remarks he gave a moving story about how this immigrant Italian family came to the United States, penniless; lived on a meager income.  But the family produced a bright young child, whom they helped get through medical school.  As a young doctor, he then saved the life of a president.  Mr. Reagan said, "I know, because I was the patient."

	A few days later, Dr. Giordano wrote an article for the Los Angeles Times.  In it, he said, "Mr. President, I'm glad I could help save your life.  But you should know that I got through medical school with the help of a low-cost federal loan."  And then he said, "Most of the modern, medical miracles are the result of past presidential leadership that funded medical research at the National Institutes of Health, and at our great universities, and our great centers of research around the country."  Finally, he said, "You should know that my father and my mother are both on Social Security, and my father has had to use Medicare on more than one occasion."

	And he concluded by saying, "It is true, Mr. President, that some Americans can do everything all on their own.  But for most Americans--as in my case--every once in a while the best of us need a little help."  And that's the difference between Ronald Reagan and Walter Mondale.

	Now, we've got thirty-six days to go to build our nation's future.  I need your help, not for myself but for our future.

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any classroom in America and hear some of the brightest students say, "I want to be a teacher."

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any public health clinic in America and hear the doctor say, "We haven't seen a single hungry child this year."

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any store in America pick up the best product, at the best price; turn it over and read, "Made in the U.S.A."

	By the end of this decade, I want to come to New Jersey, meet with you and your leaders, and say we have cleaned up these toxic dumps and protected your air, and your water, and your land.

	By the end of this decade, I want to point to the Supreme Court and say, "Justice is in good hands."

	By the end of this decade, I want to go to my second inaugural and raise my right hand and swear to "preserve, protect, and defend" a constitution that includes the provisions of the Equal Rights Amendment.

	And by the end of the decade, I want to ask our children about their dreams and hear not one word about nuclear nightmares.  

	Give me your help, and we can build that future together.  Let's get it done.  Thank you very much.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESLEBANONMEDICAL PROFESSIONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)TERRORISM     0 ]0 W0 S0 K0
 @0 ;0 60 )0 0 0 0 0	  	  	  	 V 	 O 	 = 	 	 e: