

	Thank you. Thank you, Commander Bill Galbraith, members of the American Legion, and the very distinguished guests: It isn't often that the nominee of the Democratic party could be introduced by a famed and respected Republican. How about that?

	Things have been sort of managing up on me today anyway. I thought for a while when I was landing out at the airport, coming here to greet you, that you Legionnaires were just trying to tell me something. Stepping off the plane I saw that banker from Chicago, Jack Gleason. I saw trial lawyers Bacon and James. I saw Judge Dan Foley. Then I ran face to face with the FBI, deLoach, and I pleaded not guilty.

	But, this is not enough. As I have already indicated to you, I am being greeted now and introduced by your distinguished and respected and dedicated commander, Bill Galbraith, who is a good, good, staunch Republican.

	Nevertheless, Commander, I am not discouraged. I learned from a good source just coming through the hall here that probably tomorrow you will elect a great New Jersey Democrat as head of the American Legion.

	Bill Doyle. Bill Doyle. I saw a sign right up over there. I just want to say that I truthfully hope this is a sign of good things to come. I hope this is a national trend that you are setting here now.

	Well, I can take some lessons from all of you delegates, Legionnaires. I remember only two years ago when Eldon James was your commander. The legion got Vietnam veterans membership eligibility legislation through both the houses of the Congress and on the desk of the president and signed by President Lyndon Johnson all in one day.

	If Hubert Humphrey is as good in his legislation program, I can consider it a great success.

	I want to say I have never heard of anything like it in my 16 years in Congress. How you did it, please tell me. We can use it again.

	While I am here with you, Mrs. Humphrey is with the American Legion Auxiliary. She generally gets the best of the deal and she is over there having a fine visit. I know that this is the beginning event of your fiftieth anniversary--and if you will pardon me for some parochial pride as I see the standard of my friend from Minnesota.

	I have been given to understand that the final event of your anniversary celebration will be in November 1969 in Minneapolis. I hope I will be able to attend with the "Vice" out of me.

	I come to serious-minded citizens, serious-minded leaders, men of unquestioned patriotic devotion, community leaders, to talk to you about some serious business. If there is any lesson that this nation of ours has learned or should learn in the past twenty years, yes, the past fifty years, it is that no progress, social, economic or political, can be made without conditions of order. Or, let me put it another way, because it cannot be restated too often: violence at home, aggression abroad, lawlessness anywhere are the stepping stones to anarchy and ultimately lead to oppression. We Americans are a free people and you helped keep this country free. We believe in all that democracy stands for, its debate, its discussion, its dissent. So, I say to you today: dissent, yes; disorder, no.

	I am not unaware of the fact that change is the prevailing topic of the time. It is always such. There will be change whether we have presidents or not. It just comes. But if that change is to be directed in positive and constructive channels, then it must come in an environment of law and of mutual respect among people and among nations.

	Now, I am not going to deliver myself of a dissertation on international policy today. You have learned from the Commander in Chief. You know my views. I believe in strong national security because without strength there is no security. I believe that any form of violence threatens the fabric of law and order and I believe that aggression, wherever it takes place, is dangerous, and I believe in this country keeping its word and keeping its commitments. I have never believed that peace was served through appeasement and I have never thought that it was served through demagoguery. The highest calling of statesmanship is a just and enduring peace. The highest calling today is international peace. But that will not be obtained by wishing for it; rather, through the sacrifice and the working for it. I have said from many a platform and I repeat it here that Scriptures say, "Blessed are the peacemakers," not the talkers, not the walkers, or even the shouters, just the makers. And the making of peace is hard, courageous business. Sometimes it comes painfully, even as it comes now in Southeast Asia, where our goal is not conquest but justice, where our goal is not dominion but self-determination, and where our goal is not war but peace, and I think it is time for Americans to stand up and applaud our goals as being worthy of a great people.

	International peace, national security, national development, these are three fundamental building stones of a better order. These are the goals of your America. They are the goals of ourselves and they are goals for others. Now, my topic today is limited to the domestic scene. I want to speak of national development and our national security. Yes, I want to speak of what our Constitution calls for, domestic tranquility, and to secure justice, and I believe that both can be obtained. 

	Thirty-five years ago Franklin Roosevelt told this nation that all we had to fear was fear itself. Today fear stalks this land and you know it and I know it. The fear that comes from tension, from lawlessness and crime, the fear even that some people invite through acts of demagoguery and extremism, through acts of violence and subversion. Today we face above all, one problem, a problem that I think that we could come to grips with, that we need to talk about as sensible citizens, the problem of lawlessness and crime in our land, and again fear. Fear is the enemy because fear paralyzes us. It prevents us from rational thought. It produces more empty slogans than it does hard answers. Fear and paralysis, members of the American Legion, are not worthy of America. We are known as a nation of the free and the brave and we are known as a nation of people who do things, and governed not by our fears but more by our hopes and we trust in practical analysis rather than the prophesies of doom and gloom. Crime and violence, we know we think about it. It is here to think about. And it is a national challenge and danger, and it is not, let me make it clear, it is not, it should not be and you ought not let it be, a partisan political issue because it is not partisan. Crime affects rich and poor, black and white, Republican and Democrat, third party, fourth party, independent, or whoever else it may be.

	I could stand up here and give you a pretty good partisan speech on this, but it wouldn't add up to much. I could give you and recite to you the facts and they are facts to prove that crime rates are highest in states that have Republican governors and lowest in states that have Democratic governors, but so what? What does that prove? I don't believe that there is a governor in this land that wants crime and I don't believe there is a mayor that does, either.

	Who is responsible for crime? Well, it is committed by criminals, not by governors, Republican or Democratic, and not by vice presidents, former or present, and not by presidents, Republican or Democratic, and not even by attorney generals, Republican or Democratic. So, let's stop the double talk. As the kids say, let's tell it like it is. Political quibbling and election year slogans about law and order are not going to lick crime or stop violence. They may get votes but they don't do the job.

	What we need is a massive unified nonpartisan national campaign to meet this challenge, a national citizen government campaign commitment, first to respect the law, to teach it in our homes, in our schools, in our churches, in our Legion, every place, and then a program to enforce the law fearlessly, and where the need is, to change the law, but to do it through peaceful processes.

	I began my career in public life as the mayor of a great city, a lovely city and one that you visited and will visit again. I think I know a little bit about police departments and what it means to try to maintain law and order. It is no secret that when I came into office Minneapolis was suffering from organized crime, and it is no secret that when I left four years to go to the United States Senate, that organized crime's back was broken and a new day had come to that beautiful city. So, I can speak to you with some authority and with some experience. I did nothing more than I should have done and there are people here today who helped make it possible.

	My prescription was this: be fair, be tough, spend enough--that is where you lose some of the folks along the way. You know your enemy. No general ever goes into battle, at least I hope not, without all the intelligence that he can gather and he ought not to go into battle without equipping his own forces in order to meet the enemy on the most advantageous terms.

	Now, who is the enemy and where is he and how is he supplied? How is he reinforced? What are his objectives? What are his weak points? What do we need to beat him? And the first question is, who commits most of the crime?

	I am a parent. So are you, and we had better face up to the hard facts, ladies and gentlemen, because most of the crime is committed by juveniles and young adults, even serious crime. Crime rates for adults have remained relatively stable these past years. They are still high but they are relatively stable. In fact, the major increase in the crime rate since 1960 is caused by those who are under eighteen and the major increase in the crime rate from 1950 to 1960 was caused by those who were under eighteen.

	Now, what does this tell us about our country, our institutions and our tactics? Well, I suggest that an important part of the answer lies in the activities designed to give young people, our young people, not somebody else's, but our young people, positive and constructive activities that will lead them away from the temptations to crime and lawlessness and violence.

	Our young people of today have much but they lack a great deal. Many a home today is not really a home. And many a father today cannot do what my father did for me, to take me by his side to his business. You would be surprised. General Motors and Ford Motors and others just don't appreciate you bringing your kid along when you are on the assembly line and there isn't much time for you with them.

	So, we need to look to new programs designed to strengthen family ties, and, ladies and gentlemen, everything that we do in this nation from here on out, government or private, ought to be related to the welfare of the family institution.

	How are we going to protect that home? How are we going to make the family a better social institution? How are we going to hold that family together?

	That is the way we ought to be planning our cities, thinking about our education, our recreation.

	Our present welfare system, it is a disgrace. It often destroys rather than fosters family life. You and I know that it needs to be changed and I am going to ask you to help get it done. Most of our schools close their doors at four p.m.  You own them, by the way, but they are generally closed up at the time that they are needed most, and particularly on weekends. Constructive activities after classes for parents as well as children might make some sense. I think so.

	More extensive day care centers would help mothers who are on relief now get a chance to be self-sustaining, self-respecting mothers, and would help some today who have to leave their children in the crowded streets of a slum. It would help them to have a healthy environment at a critical time of the youngsters in their lives.

	For older children we simply must provide a wide range of constructive programs. In the summer, after school, and throughout the year. And the American Legion has taken the lead. The police boys clubs around the country have taken the lead. You know what I am talking about and you know that it makes sense.

	My fellow Americans, you ought to take your message of your juvenile program and your young people's program to every community in America, not only into the Legion, but into every voluntary, every volunteer organization in this land before it's too late.

	I have spent a lot of time working with young people. I am chairman of the President's Council on Youth Opportunity. I have been in most of the slums of America. I have been to every one of our major cities with few exceptions. The mayor of this city, Mayor Schiro, has a youth counselor and youth coordinator right here that I met today. With little or no resource, my fellow Americans, we have opened up jobs for teenagers that were unemployed and standing on street corners--the first time a million four hundred thousand needy teenagers this summer got gainful work because somebody cared, because you helped, and the Legion has helped.

	This great organization stood alongside of me in Washington when we launched our program. We didn't have much money but I tell you what we had: we had commitment, we had determination. We said we are going to do something. We opened up eight-thousand new playgrounds in this country. We have recreation programs, junior Olympic, in fifty of the major cities. We enlisted the help of top athletes in America, free of charge, young men and women, and they came out of the ghettos to become your national champions, to carry the banner of America into the Olympic, the children of the poor that bring glory to America. They have been helping the young people of this country this summer, and I think they deserve a pat on the back.

	So, let me tell you this. Given an even chance, a fair break, most of our youngsters will not let you down, and you know it and I know it.

	And it is about time we played up some of their good activities rather than always having to see what the most raucous, the most outrageous, the most extremist of the group does.

	Now, next, where is the enemy? Well, crime affects all of us. You are not immune from it. None of us are. But crime rates are highest among the people that can afford it the least, the poor and the disadvantaged, who, by the way, commit more crime and who also suffer more from crime. And in the long run we can only cut crime by getting at its causes: slums, filth, deprivation, bitterness, unemployment, run-down schools, filthy housing, deprivation, and you and I know that that kind of environment breeds exactly what it sounds like, trouble.

	Now, this is where crime begins in most instances and it is where it must be brought to an end. It isn't as if we didn't know where the battlefield is and it isn't as if we didn't know who the enemy is. We do. And at the same time, with equal commitment, we must press the battle on crime itself through enforcement with all of the resources at our command. 

	Now, what are those forces that are at our command? Well, first of all, and I am going to speak up for a group in this nation that hasn't had a pat on the back for a long time, first of all, there are the frontline forces of peace and security in this country, the local police, who carry the burden of our battle against crime and violence.

	I would like to have each legionnaire go home to his respective city and call on the mayor to have in your city an honor day for your police department. Give them a pat on the back for a change.

	What do we find when we look at our police? Well, we find first of all, that they have been neglected and overlooked and short changed for a long time. I know a little bit about this. When I became mayor of my city, I found my police officers required to work fifty-two hours a week with no time and a half and no overtime. When I left they had a forty-hour week.

	When I came in their pay was terrible. When I left it was least double, which didn't make it good.

	Our police forces are undermanned, and the men are underpaid, and they are often regrettably undertrained.

	Now, we give these brave men one of the most important jobs in our society. Their job at home is as important as our soldiers abroad. And then, we pay them on the average of two-thirds of what is necessary to support a family in even moderate circumstances. And you expect to have law enforcement.

	The criminal is pretty well heeled. I think we had better equip our force of law enforcement so they can meet the enemy. We make them the agents of social order and we rightly demand that they behave lawfully in the face of extreme provocation from lawbreakers, but we rarely give these police officers the kind of quality training that they need to do their jobs effectively. We don't even give them, in many instances, modern technical equipment. We even tie them up with clerical work totally unconnected with the business of preventing, deterring or detecting crime. And we don't adequately train them in race relations and community relations.

	In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we just don't back them up. That is the problem.

	And is it any wonder, then, that we don't often have the kind of law enforcement that we demand and that we deserve.

	Now, I am going to do something about this if I have my chance because I know what to do about it because I have done something about it. I do not come here to talk theory. I come here to talk from experience and I am going to put the resources of the federal government for the first time on a major scale behind our local police forces so they can do their job.

	Now, let me divert for just a minute to say something that is very much on my mind. I spoke this to a fraternal order in Washington just last Sunday, the B'nai B'rith, and I said these words and I want to share them with you because there are some people in this country today that think that the way you settle things is just by being militant, and then they define the meaning of that term. They pick and choose the laws that they want to obey and that applies to black and white alike.

	Let me make it very clear to this audience that when you are talking about lawlessness and crime and violence, you are not talking about the other guy. You are not talking about the black or the brown or the red or the white. You are talking about all of us. This is American crime, not black crime, not white crime. It is our crime--grabbing guns, throwing fire bombs, cynically discrediting American institutions, shooting people down in cold blood black or white, violence and looting, sniping and burning.

	Now, we all know they are wrong. They are illegal. They are dastardly. They are deadly wrong. And we ought not to be having a lot of philosophical discussion about it. We can and we must put a stop to it. We cannot tolerate in this country armed terrorist bands, black or white, and we cannot tolerate in this country extremism, black or white. It is wrong and it solves nothing, and it destroys everything that it touches.

	This nation is not going to become a better country by those who either seek to burn it or those who seek to use repression and repressive measures upon their fellow citizens so they can have their way. This America belongs to every majority of people in this land that believe that this can be one nation under God, and indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.

	Now, our courts are overworked. They are frequently understaffed. The dockets are overcrowded. And while it is a favorite past time for some speakers to pick on the courts, any of you that have ever had to go to court, I think you prefer that you have a system of justice.

	The solution is to give the courts the tools to do their jobs, the manpower, and I intend to do just that. The Federal Government can and should support training and recruitment of the necessary court personnel and we ought to make the District of Columbia the model of the criminal justice process in the United States of America, and then be judged on what we do when we have federal control and a federal say so.

	Now, a word quickly about our correctional institutions. I wonder how many of us realize that about 95 cents out of the every dollar we spend on our correctional institutions goes for brick and mortar. Just custody. Five cents out of every dollar goes for the care, the rehabilitation, the training of the inmates. Ninety-five cents for the building and the heat and the water, five cents for their health, their education, their training, their rehabilitation. Is it any wonder that almost four out of every five of those who ever had been in a penal institution are repeaters. Over 75 percent of all the people arrested proved to be repeaters. These institutions of correction that we have are not institutions of correction. They are schools for crime in many, many instances, and that needs to be stopped and it can be.

	You say, "Well, what would you do about it?" Well, I would take the reports which your Federal Bureau of Investigation knows, which your National Crime Commission knows, and which this Legion knows, and I would put those reports to work, and I would propose that the federal government for the first time in a big way provide assistance to our state and local correctional institutions and do a better job in the federal penitentiaries.

	You say it costs money? It costs more not to do it. It costs money to stay well. It costs more money to go to the hospital. It costs money, my friends, to keep healthy. It costs more to die.

	I don't know any way that you can do anything without it costing you some money. It is a question of what you want to spend it for. I prefer to spend mine on living, not on dying. I prefer to spend mine on helping.

	So, I would propose the assistance necessary to bring the vital work of law enforcement, crime prevention, to professional standards.

	Now, let me summarize for you. On this issue of crime I have tried to be as frank and open and nonpartisan as one can be. There isn't any substitute for plain talk, honest talk and responsible talk, so I put it frankly and bluntly, so you may understand. Rioting, burning, sniping, mugging, traffic in narcotics, which is a scourge in this country, and disregard for law are the vanguard of anarchy. They must and they will and they can be stopped if we want to.

	And I put it responsibly to this mature audience: the answer does not lie in political attacks on our courts or on our laws or on law enforcement officials. You don't engender respect for the law by demeaning disrespect for the law when that happens. 

	The answer lies in reasoned, effective action by state, local and federal authority, each bearing its share of the burden, each exercising its rightful responsibility to protect the lives and the property of our citizens. We do not want a police state, and I want to forewarn you in our anxiety for law and order: don't make your big government bigger with bigger and bigger policemen at the federal level. Law and order is a local responsibility with the help of federal assistance, but this big central government of ours is big enough today without a national force.

	The safety and security of our people do not require that. We do not want a police state but we must have a state of law and justice, and I say the time, therefore, has come for us to support our local police, to support them with action and not with slogans, to support them with better salaries so they can raise their families in security and dignity, to support them with better training so they can have the skills that they need for fighting crime, to support them with better equipment.

	We must support our police with effective gun control legislation starting right in your home town right at the local level. That is where you need to start it.

	And in cities with weak gun laws, the murder rate is double as compared to those cities that have effective and strong gun laws, and we need to support our police by building communities and neighborhoods of law observers where citizens obey the law willingly because the law is just and fair and because their lives have meaning and opportunity. And that is the other side of it. That means jobs for the jobless. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, this richest country on the face of the Earth that has more to do than any nation ever dreamed possible ought to make it a matter of national commitment that any person that wants to work and is able to work ought to have an opportunity to work. The jobs ought to be provided in private enterprise, but if they can't be we ought to find some other way to put them to work rather than have them on welfare.

	What this nation needs today is a spirit of community. Neighborhoods filled with neighbors rather than neighborhoods filled with strangers. And in the end we must support our police with dollars as well as resolutions, with dollars as well as sense, because all of these things are not cheap.

	Yes, the bumpers are right, and I have seen them all over America: "Support your police." But, I want to say to you that the man who is not willing to support our police with the money that it takes to do the job, that person is fooling himself and trying to fool somebody else and really is fooling his family.

	There is no way to get national security on the cheap and there is no way to have law and order on the cheap, and there is no way to fight crime cheaply. You either pitch in and mobilize and fight it or you lose the battle and lose the war. And I call upon you to stand for a real commitment.

	I think it is time for a moratorium on the emotion and passion that surrounds this issue. I know of no more political leader or legitimate institution of this country opposing law and order, and the attacks on individual political leaders in our institutions do not serve the cause of either law or order. They serve to break down the confidence in the very rule of law vital to this country.

	The only question about civil peace in your America and mine is this. How do we best get it? I have given you a few of my suggestions today and what I think is a reasoned message.

	I guess my final summing up would be this. Civil peace is made up of two equal parts, order and justice, a safe society and a just society. The two go together. And you can't separate them. And those who say you can either don't understand what is going on or they mislead you.

	People must obey the law and the law must be enforced, but at the same time, people must feel that the society of law in which they live offers them justice in the truest sense of the word. So, we have to keep moving on both fronts. And I appeal to you today as one of the spokesmen for this country and a political party. I appeal not to your fears. We all have that. But that is not my appeal. I appeal to your reason. I ask you to vote your hopes, not your hates. And I ask you to join me in a testament to this country.

	We have many people today who pride themselves in selling our country short. Some people try to stand tall by cutting others down. Some people would have you believe that this nation is sick because they see it through their own confused eyes. Some people would have you believe that the ferment and the turbulence that we have today means we have lost our course.

	I would have you believe that America is not sick, that America is growing, a young nation, not having lost its way, my friends, but a great nation that is searching for a better way which has always been our way.

	I ask you to join me, then, with faith in the essential goodness and greatness of this country, building an America, a society where the rule of law to which this great organization is pledged, where that law is supreme, and where the people live by that law, and live by it because the law is just.

	My fellow Americans, give a man something to do for his country and he shall love it. Deny him a chance to be a part of his country and he shall have no love for it.

	What this country needs today above all is a realization of its purpose, and that purpose is to assure to every citizen that inalienable right of life with liberty, a life that is meaningful, life with liberty so that he can really pursue what he believes to be his happiness. I think we can do it.

	I do not want the year of 1968 to be a year of decision in which we decide the future course of America because we are afraid, because we have lost faith. I want this year of 1968 to be a year of decision because we have found a new faith, that we think there is a new day, that we think there is a new chance for each and every one of us, that we stand up and proudly say once again for ourselves and the whole world: I love my country and I think it is the last best hope of Earth. That, I do. And I ask you, as you have always done, to join me in the affirmation of faith in the institutions of this country, law and order, and in the institutions of peaceful change and orderly progress for the better society that you and I want to build.

	Thank you very much.

CHILD CARECRIME--GENERALCRIME--JUVENILE OFFENDERSCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALEMPLOYMENT--YOUTHFAMILIESGUN CONTROLLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALRECREATION PROGRAMS--YOUTHREHABILITATION OF CRIMINALSWELFARE