

	Last night the President made another speech on the Middle East. And let's get one thing clear right away. The President went on a paid political broadcast two or three weeks ago to talk about good new from Suez. When he thought the Suez crisis could be exploited for political advantage, he exploited it, while I refrained from talking about it to avoid any possible embarrassment of our government's negotiations. Now that his policy has ended in failure, he wants to silence discussion.

	It is all very well to talk about principle as the President did last night. Of course we should act in accordance with principle. Nobody disagrees about that. Of course we should use our influence to halt aggression wherever and whenever and by whomever it is committed. Nobody disagrees about that.

	But to talk of principle is one thing--and to play fast and loose in our international dealings is another.

	The administration first offered and then refused to help Egypt with the Aswan Dam.

	It refused to send Israel defensive arms but encouraged other to do so.

	It came forward with one proposal after another in the dispute over the Suez Canal but never really committed itself to stand firm on anything.

	And it acquired for itself in these and similar incidents a reputation for unreliability--which is about as damaging a reputation as a great power can have. And, unhappily, the illustrations of principle in words and opportunism in action could be multiplied. The trouble is precisely that our present policy in the Middle East has totally lacked principle! And it has led directly to the present catastrophe in the Middle East and the breakdown of the Western Alliance.

	The question now is: where do we go from here?

	As I said in a wire to the President Wednesday night, I see nothing in this situation warranting any involvement of our armed forces. And I was relieved that this is the present position of the President.

	Nor is there any disagreement on making the fullest possible use of the United Nations in seeking a settlement. Indeed, I proposed bringing the United Nations into the Israel-Arab situation a year ago to prevent collisions between the forces of both sides.

	But even if all forces are withdrawn, pursuant to the resolution of the United Nations, it would still be not a settlement at all, but only a return to the previous situation--which was dangerous and unsatisfactory.

	The President has not a word to say about the basis on which any real settlement can be reached. But I believe there are things which a determined American government could do to stop the war and strike a blow for peace.

	And I remind you that when Stalin tried to establish Soviet influence in the Middle East at the height of his terrible power, he failed. Why? Because Harry Truman saw what he was trying to do and, with the trust and cooperation of our allies, stopped him cold in Iran, and then in Greece and Turkey.

	We badly need to get down to fundamentals. The first is that whatever the provocation, aggression can no longer be tolerated in the atomic age. This has been our position always. We welcome the U.N. resolution as expressing the sense of the world community on this point, and we all hope that a cease-fire can be promptly arranged.

	This is but the first step. The next is to restore the sense of unified purpose among the free nations and rebuild the grand alliance upon which the fate of all free men depends. Then, in concert with our friends, both European and non-European, we must forge a common policy for the Middle East.

	First, security must be restored along the frontiers dividing Israel from her neighbors. One root of all the trouble in the Middle East is that Israel's neighbors have denied her right to exist and have engaged in continual hostility and provocation against her. This must stop.

	Second, we should insist that passage of ships through the Suez Canal is a matter of international concern and that no single country and especially no single man can willfully sever the lifeline of Europe and Asia.

	Third, we must launch an all-out attack in concert with like-minded nations on the problem of resettling the 900,000 Arab refugees who now live in misery and hopelessness.

	Fourth, we must, in concert with other nations, present a program to improve economic conditions in the Middle East for the benefit of the people, and not just to serve political interests.

	And above all, we must restore to our foreign policy a sense of human concern.

	We must persuade the peoples of the world that our concern is, not just for military bases, or oil, or alliances, but for men and women and children and their right everywhere to equality and dignity.

	There can be no real peace on earth that is mixed with misery and want, where the population is increasing at the rate of 90,000 a day, where two-thirds of mankind is hungry, hungrier than they were forty years ago, until the rising hopes for a better life began to come true.

	We cannot win unless we have the people on our side; and an administration which is indifferent to the people at home will never gain the confidence or inspire the loyalties of distant peoples. It will never understand the origins and meaning of the great revolution of rising expectations that is sweeping the world.

	You can't separate foreign policy from domestic policy. They are both expressions of a single attitude, a single set of values, a single faith.

	I say to you that the faith of the Democratic party--the faith in people--offers humanity, in America and in the world, its highest hope. 

	One question which arises irresistibly out of the Middle Eastern crisis is this: Has the President of the United States really been in charge of our foreign policy? Only a few days ago, the President told the American people that he had good news from Suez. Today there is war in the Middle East. Only a few days ago, the President told the American people that he knew of no disagreements with our European allies; Secretary Dulles, he said, had assured him that everything was fine. Today the Soviet Union has achieved a major victory by splitting the coalition of free nations; and we find ourselves in bed with Communist Russia and the dictator of Egypt. Did the President of the United States know what was going on? I choose to think he didn't mislead us deliberately, that he didn't know, and that someone had misled him.

	It's the same old pattern--and we know it in domestic policy just as much as in foreign policy. And it illustrates one of the main issues in this campaign: the Republicans are asking the nation to choose one man as President so that a lot of other men, whom the people have not chosen, can run the country.

	Shall we ratify in this election the foreign policy which has brought us to the lowest estate in many years--the foreign policy of John Foster Dulles?

	Shall we ratify, in this election, the defense polices of the man who has presided over our military establishment in the period when we have lost our decisive margin of military superiority--Charles E. Wilson?

	Shall we ratify the economic policies of the man who favored tax reduction for the well-to-do and a sales tax for you--George Humphrey?

	Shall we ratify the farm policies of a man who helped to produce the lowest prices for the farmers and the highest prices for the consumers in recent history--Ezra Benson?

	Shall we ratify the labor policies of a man who believes in the right-to-work laws, Sinclair Weeks, and of President Eisenhower's National Labor Relations Board, which has whittled away at labor's rights and freedoms?

	Shall we ratify the President's refusal to accept responsibility in the field of civil rights--his refusal to even express his views on desegregation in the public schools, his acceptance of the abuses of our liberties by a government which is suppose to protect them.

	I have expressed my views on the Supreme Court decision in every part of the country. I say here in Detroit, as I did in Little Rock, Arkansas, that I think that decision was right! But I notice that my Republican opponent, when he went down to Florida and Virginia the other day, said nothing at all about the Supreme Court decision. He talked not about civil rights, but about states rights.

	And above all, we must be clear that the country does not endorse the Republican candidate's choice for his heir apparent. For, if there one thing certain about what happens on Tuesday, it is this: you can't have Eisenhower without Nixon.

	A second term would, or course, mean years of waning political power for Mr. Eisenhower himself. His one great hold on the Republican politicians--the prospect of his candidacy for reelection--would be gone. 

	Don't take my word for it. Listen to what Senator Malone of the Republican Old Guard said in San Francisco last week. The "greatest sin" committed by the Republicans, he said, has been "carrying on what the Democrats started." Then he added: "But we'll change that in 1957 and 1958 if you elect... President Eisenhower."

	And, while these four years would be years where Mr. Eisenhower would be even less active and exert even less power than in his first term, they would be years of growing power for the vice president.

	When the President spoke of the GOP as the party of the future, I guess he was referring to Nixon's future!

	And I ask you point-blank--for this is the question that counts--whether you are prepared to entrust the hard decisions of war and peace, the terrible question of the hydrogen bomb, and all the other matters which may decide the future of our children and of civilization itself--I ask you whether you are prepared to entrust these decision to Richard M. Nixon.

	Next Tuesday will be a serious day for every American. When you step out of the voting booth, you will have said your last say about who is to run your government for the next four years. So think about the men and the measures you are asked to ratify and approve by your vote--our failures abroad, our paralysis at home, and the men who will manage your affairs. And think, too, about the kind of America we want. I say we do not want an America suspicious and fearful. We want a free and open America, where men can speak their minds without looking over their shoulders and go their way without regard to their race and color and live in dignity and self-respect.

	The spirit of the Democratic party--the spirit of decency and compassion and justice--can give us the New America.

	That spirit can wipe the slums out of our cities and give every American family a chance to grow up in health and sunlight.

	It can give us the schoolhouses and the teachers we need for our children.

	It can give us the medical care we need for our sick and ailing. 

	It can provide our parents the security they deserve in the evening of their lives.

	It can offer our farmers a decent income and our workingmen and women jobs in a steadily growing economy.

	It can keep prices steady so that earnings and savings will not blow away in inflation.

	It can restore the Bill of Rights to the place where it ought to be--right in the center of American life.

	And it can help us along the road to a new world--a world in which America commands the respect and deserves the confidence of peoples everywhere, and leads the way to lasting peace.

	Let us rededicate ourselves to that spirit tonight.

	And let us be confident that all America is with us in this rededication.

	The Democratic tide is rising across the land. The country is alive with hope--and this means--a Democratic victory on Tuesday!
ALLIES/ALLIANCESCABINET OFFICIALSCIVIL RIGHTSEGYPT--SUEZ CANALRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)UNITED NATIONSMIDDLE EAST     . c. ].  Y. Q.
 D. ?. :. 3. +. ). ). .	  	  	 o 	 c 	 R 	 4 	    e: