

	Thank you so much. Hey, Bill [Clemens]. Thank you. Thank you so very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Hey, Tony. Hi, Penny. 

	MRS. BUSH. You saw the Judge?

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. Yeah, I saw the Judge. Thank you all. Thank you so much. Thank you very, very much. I'm delighted to be here. And so is all our family. And first I want to thank our governor for the introduction and our great Senator Phil Gramm for being at my side and being here this evening, and these other distinguished officials, members of the United States Congress, our chairman and co-chairman in this state for a long time, Tom Loeffler and Penny Butler, our distinguished members of the Congress. I see my national finance chairman here, Bob Mosbacher and Bob Holt from Midland. And so many, many friends.

	I do want to single out one son of Houston who is at my side now as he has been for many years, and I'm talking about the former Secretary of Treasury, our friend, the "Son of Houston," Jim Baker. And I don't know where he is. Right here. Come on, Jimmy! Come up here. What a job he has done.

	And of course, one of the great joys of campaigning for me this year has to be out there on the trail with Loretta Lynn and Peggy Sue and Crystal Gail and Moe Bandy. And I am so pleased that they are with us here tonight.

	You know--all of us here, and we're missing some of the Bush family--the rest of them will be in tomorrow. But I've been all over this great country in these last few months--the coffee shop in Nashua, New Hampshire to a roadside stop with the beautiful little school children outside of Jefferson City, Missouri, out to the plains of Midland to a chilly walk down the main street, two nights ago, of Chillicothe, Illinois. And let me say this, though, from the bottom of my heart: tonight, as this wonderful campaign draws to a close, and this is our final event, fittingly, before the people go to the polls, it is great to be back where for me it all began--right here in Texas. There is no place like home.

	It was 40 years ago that Barbara and I voted in Odessa, Texas, and we voted in every presidential and congressional election since then, in Texas, and tomorrow I will cast my vote right here, in Houston--and it is fitting that we have come home. You know, I hope you don't mind if tonight, among so many friends, I get a little bit personal. I'd like to tell you about what I've seen and what I've learned and what I believe, and you learn a lot in a campaign like this.

	And I've learned that people have big dreams for the United States, and what better place to talk about big dreams than right here, in Texas, the state with the biggest dreams of all. And leave aside all the campaign rhetoric, I've learned what sustains people in this great and diverse country of ours, and it is values, strong family values, faith in God, and belief in the United States of America.

	And how many times I've realized as I've crisscrossed this country, staying up late on the airplane, engaging in the rough-and-tumble of the campaign, trying to get my message of hope and opportunity out there, that I am blessed with a wonderful family. And they have sustained me on this journey. And my wife Barbara and our five children and their spouses, and their ten grandchildren--they are my strength and my pride, and I am grateful to each and every one of them.

	And being with them and seeing them in action have doubled my resolve if I am elected to strengthen those values which keep American families together. And I know that faith has sustained me, and I will push, as president, to find some constitutional way to allow our kids to begin their day with a voluntary prayer in the schools of the United States of America.

	And I know that pride in our country has sustained me, and I promise you I will keep our country strong and free and proud. And I've learned something else. I've learned in this campaign that most Americans--an overwhelming majority of Americans--believe that our best days are still ahead. And I believe that.

	And Americans are looking forward, and they don't want to turn back to the days of the misery index and the malaise--and to the crowd who now claims to be on your side, but the crowd that left America on its back. Keep America going forward.

	You see, Americans understand that it is big dreams, not big government, that made this country great. And so tomorrow America has a chance to send a message to the taxpayer, taxers, and the spenders in the Congress, a message summed up by three little words, "No new taxes."

	And you know, Americans understand something else, too. They understand that it is America's strength which made it the force for peace in the world. And tomorrow America has a chance to send a message to the liberals in Congress who would undercut our leadership and who are critical of our power, and it is a message summed in these four words, "Peace through strength works."

	But tomorrow is more than a referendum on peace and prosperity, it's a referendum on a philosophy, a way of life, a way of life that's well and alive right here, deep in the heart of Texas. And here in Texas, we believe that we can build on the peace we've achieved, a peace which brought us the first agreement in the history of the nuclear age that will eliminate an entire generation of nuclear weapons by pursuing a policy of realism, leadership and strength. We have achieved that resolve.

	And I wish all of you could have been with me in Marshall, Texas when I saw the destruction of those missiles provided for in the agreement. When I saw that, I saw what leadership can do, and I want to continue it and I'd love to be able to tell our ten grandchildren, your granddad had a hand in working with the Soviets and the Europeans in eliminating chemical and biological weapons from the face of the Earth.

	We believe that the best poverty program is a job--a job with dignity, and I will keep this expansion going until every man and woman that wants a job has a job.

	And we Texans believe in freedom and we believe in the rights of sportsmen and hunters, and ordinary, law-abiding citizens to keep and bear arms, and I will protect that right.

	We believe that parents should choose the best kind of childcare for their kids and not the government. And I will help the parents and the neighbors and the companies, and yes, the churches, make more childcare available for the working parents of this country--but the control must be with the families, not with the federal government.

	We believe that excellence should be rewarded in our schools. And I'll bring to the White House a commitment to that excellence. I will be the education president and I will invest in the future of our kids.

	And frankly, we believe that there is nothing wrong with having the teachers lead the children of this country in the Pledge of Allegiance to our flag.

	You know, maybe it's just because we're getting down to the wire, but I think sometimes the other side wants to make this a referendum on the way that we conduct campaigns, or on our television commercials, or on anything but the issues. What I said to them yesterday--and I'll repeat it here--they can dish it out, but they can't take it. And frankly, it isn't easy, and it has been hurtful. But my advice is, if you can't stand the heat, get the hell out of the kitchen.

	So, enough complaining and negativism. Tomorrow is about issues. It's about the philosophy that we brought to Washington eight years ago that has taken America from double-digit inflation to a double-barreled recovery, and it's about we can build a better America. Tomorrow is a referendum on opportunity, and the issue is simple, we want more of it and the other side, when they had a chance, produced less of it. And I now know, better than most, that not every corner of America has benefited from this economic expansion, and I care.

	And I got my start in the energy business right here in Texas, and I understand the importance of that business to our national security, and I have put forward a plan to get our energy industry back on its feet, tax incentives to encourage exploration and production and the decontrol of natural gas. But we'll never get that comeback fully implemented if we stifle the economic growth of the country itself.

	And so I say to the people of my great state, have faith in opportunity, stick with a president that understands your problems and concerns, and don't play recession roulette with the liberal governor of the state of Massachusetts. 

	You know, I started my active politics right here in Houston, Texas many years ago and I began this campaign over a year ago in this city. And at that time, I asked for your help and along the way, in these many months, I've spelled out some very specific plans for how I would accomplish the mission I now seek--to build a better America. And now I've come back to Texas, among friends, to ask once more for your help.

	And tomorrow, when you walk into that booth, you will hold the future of this nation in your hands. And our very future is at stake and I ask you to cast a vote for opportunity. I ask you to cast a vote for the values, our mainstream values, that have made America the greatest, freest nation in the world, the last best hope of man on earth. And so tonight, from my home base of Houston, Texas, I ask the people all across the United States of America for their help--all Americans, because you see, I am confident that together we can build a better America and so it's a great pleasure to be home. Thank you. God bless you and God bless this great country.
CHILD CARECONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESGUN CONTROLNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SCHOOL PRAYER     & & & & &
 & & & |& w& u& R& H&	  	 z 	 c 	 L 	 A 	  e: