

	Thank you very much.  Thank you very much, Danny Brewster.  Thank you very, very much, the soon to be re-elected United States senator for the state of Maryland, Daniel Brewster.

	First of all, may I just take a moment to express to every one of the young people here today my thanks for their participation.  I want to thank Charlie Brown and Snoopy for this endorsement today.  I appreciate that.  I thank you for the entertainment and on November 6th, I would like to thank everyone of you for your vote.  

	We have just come back from a wonderful visit in several states.  The gentleman that you see standing here--this fine gentleman that you see alongside me who gives me a real comfort and security--is one of the great champions of America, Rafer Johnson.  He is a tremendous human being.  He is a very fine gentleman and he has become a fine and steadfast friend.  He has been with me all week as, by the way, was the very lovely actress, Inger Stevens.  She had to go back to Los Angeles but between Inger and Rafer Johnson, we have had quite a time, I will tell you, out on the roads this past week.  

	I thank you for the presentation of my many friends because I lived in Maryland longer than I lived in Washington.  I want to thank you very much for your presence, for your words, for your encouragement, what you stand for in this country.  And ladies and gentlemen, this is the kind of a country where Rafer Johnsons can stand big and tall and where they can make their contribution and where every one of us can live together as neighbors if we want to and be decent human beings to one another.  That is what Rafer Johnson stands for.  

	Now, Hervey, Hervey Machen, he is an old friend of mine.  I have been in his home.  I know that he is going to be elected.  I want you to give Hervey full hearted support in Prince Georges County.  I want you to help him go back to Congress because we need him and, Hervey, God bless you and may you have enough majority in your congressional district so you can spill a few over to me.  

	I am deeply indebted to the state of Maryland for the help of their attorney general.  Their attorney general, Bill Burch, has been working for me in West Virginia, has been making it possible for us to carry that state, and Bill has taken a lot of time out of a very busy life and given to me his help an I want to thank Bill Burch now, his home state, for the call of duty.  I know we are going to carry West Virginia.  

	Thank you very much.  

	Now, there are so many other people to thank that I spend all my time here doing that and yet I come up with one other, but Esther, what I am wanting to do is thank the people.  We have been making anywhere from six to eight speeches a day and we are doing this because we needed the help of the people.  We haven't had all the money we would like to have for television.  We haven't had the funds we would like to have or campaign material.  We have had to resort to--may I have your attention back there, please?

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And Humphrey wants you, too.  

	I want to talk to you just a little bit about this campaign.  I want to talk to you about what I think are the issues in this campaign.  The central issue in this campaign is which candidate and which party or which team of candidates and which party do you want to trust your country to for these next four years?  That is the central issue.  

	Everyone here knows that your country has troubles.  Every one of you know that we live in a period of uncertainty.  Every one of you know that the world situation is tense.  Every one of you know that at home here we have problems of immense proportions.  And because we know these things, it becomes ever more important that we have leadership that can, first of all, unite our country and secondly, to mobilize its resources to meet the difficulties at home and abroad.  

	So, I want to talk to you a little bit about the candidates in this campaign and about the parties.

	Now, we have three candidates, and I have asked these candidates time after time to stand before the American audience on national television, the great media that we have that communication with the American people, to stand before the same audience at the same place at the same time, under the same circumstances and to state their case to the American people.  I have never believed that any of us have the right to take the people for granted.  I have not believed and I refuse to believe that the presidency ought to go to the man with the biggest advertising budget.  

	I do not believe that the White House is for sale.  I think that what is needed in this country is for the American people to know, for every American to know where the respective candidates stand on the vital issues of our time.

	Now, let's talk about candidate number three first and we are going to talk about the gentleman who seeks to be president of the United States on what he calls the independent ticket.  He is determined--

	VOICES:  Boo, boo, boo, boo.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That third-party candidate has two issues, two issues that he talks about.

	VOICES:  Law and order.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The first is law and order, that is correct.  So, we will talk about law and order for a minute.  The governor of Alabama--by the way, the state has the police power, not the federal government.  The governor of Alabama had complete power in his state as the governor for law and order.  What is his record?  The state had the highest murder rate of any state in the union.  

	The state had the second-highest aggravated assault rate of serious crime of any state in the union.  

	Number three, the police officers are some of the most poorly paid police officers of any state in the union.  

	Number four, this governor decides which laws he will obey and which ones he will defy, which courts he will respect and which ones he will not.  He stands in front of a school house in defiance of the law of the United States, tells you which children will come in and which will not.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that is good for Alabama and I don't think it is good for America.  

	Now, my friends, law and order is a very, very serious matter.  Every person here wants to be able to walk the streets in safety, wants to walk the parks in safety.  Every person here, white or black, wants equal protection of the laws and just like John Kennedy said, peace and freedom are not cheap.  Law and order are not cheap.  You have to pay for it.  You pay for it through better police, through better police salaries, through better training, through better equipment, through better education.  That is the way you pay for law and order, and what does the third-party candidate offer when he is asked?  He was asked what will you do when you are president to back up the police?  He said he will give them moral support.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the candidate that is talking to you has told you by national television, laid out a program of support for our law enforcement officers, of strengthening our police departments, of modernizing them, training them, equipping them and not only that, but training our police officers in human relations as well as police relations.  

	Law and order we can give you and law we will give you.

	Now, what does Mr. Nixon say about this?  Mr. Nixon, when he does talk, he came forward with a four point program.  Four points, three of which are already in effect in the present government and one other program that he said he would like to have town meetings on crime.  Well, ladies and gentlemen, we don't need any more meetings about crime.  What we need is action.  And that is what I intend to give.  

	Let us take a look at the third-party candidate, the third-party candidate program for this economy.  I think the government workers here would be interested to know that he has yet to advance a single idea that affects the well being of the families of the government workers.  I think you would be interested to know that his state has some of the lowest wage scales in the United States.  I think the housewives would like to know that in Alabama, the sales tax is six percent on every purchase--the highest sales tax in America.

	I think the worker would like to know that the workmen's compensation laws are the poorest and the lowest in terms of workmen's compensation of any state in the union.

	The candidacy of George Wallace is as phony as a three-dollar confederate bill.  

	Let's talk a little bit about the candidacy of the Republican nominee.

	VOICE:  What about the Pueblo?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The man wants us to talk about the Pueblo.  Well, may I say that the "Bombsey Twins", Wallace and LeMay...[missing text]...they are getting in on it down there. 

	Let's talk now about the Republican nominee.  One thing you can say for Mr. Wallace:  He is loud.  He is loud.  What you can say for Mr. Nixon is, he is silent.  

	Mr. Nixon, I know that you don't want to debate.  You don't want to debate Mr. Wallace or myself.  I will say for Mr. Wallace he has been much more courageous about it.  But Mr. Nixon says no.  And I think I know why.  I don't think he would like to come to Prince Georges County or Montgomery County and face federal workers because he never voted ever to help them and his administration gave them no protections.  Comparability, the right of bargaining, the fringe benefits that the workers have didn't come under Republican administrations and any federal worker that is enjoying what I consider to be some of the better benefits that have come out of legislation better remember that those benefits came from a Democratic Congress and a Democratic president.  

	Now, let's see why Mr. Nixon is afraid to debate.  I will tell you why he is afraid to debate.  He is afraid, my dear friends, to debate because he doesn't want me to ask him why he opposed Medicare and why he said it wouldn't work.  He has yet to explain whether he is for it.  I would like to find out, Mr. Nixon, I would like to have you tell the old people of America why you only once in your public career voted for any benefits under Social Security.  I want you to tell the American people why your political party, the one that you represent, over 90 percent of the members of the House of Representatives that were Republicans voted against Medicare, the greatest blessing, may I say, that our senior citizens have ever received.  

	I would like to ask Mr. Nixon why it was when he was vice president and he had his one chance to exercise some authority, which vice presidents have very little of, the one chance to break a tie vote of federal aid to education, to help our students, to help our teachers, to help our schools, when he had that once chance, what did he do?:  He voted no, not for young people.  He voted against you, my young friends.  Teachers, he voted against you.  School boards, he voted against you.  He had his chance and when he faced that moment of crisis, one of his other crises, when he faced it, he voted, "no".

	Well, thank God that John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson and Democrats have made possible federal aid to education.  

	You know, there is a sign around that says, "Nixon is the One"--you have read that.  I will say he is.  Let me tell you, let me ask you some questions.  Let me ask you some questions about who is the one.  Who is the one that fought against Medicare?

	VOICES:  Nixon

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who is the one that voted against federal aid to education?

	VOICES:  Nixon.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who is the one that never voted for a consumer protection bill in his life?

	VOICES:  Nixon.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who is the one, if you please, that said the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was a cruel hoax?

	VOICES:  Nixon.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who is the one that said the Peace Corps was a haven for draft dodgers?

	VOICES:  Nixon.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who is the one that is not going to go to the White House on November 5th?

	VOICES:  Nixon.  

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who is the one, if you please, who is the one that made that strange marriage of convenience with Mr. Dixiecrat himself, Strom Thurmond?  Who is the one?

	VOICES:  Nixon.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who is the one, if you please, that says he thinks it is sort of all right if we have a treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons but not now?  Who is the one?

	VOICES:  Nixon.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Do you want that fellow for president?

	VOICES:  No. No.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Neither do I.  All right, now, my friends.  Which Administration, which party, which party is the one, my friends, that has done more for our elderly people than any political party in the history of America?

	VOICES:  The Democrats.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Which Administration and which party, which political party, if you please, increased the investments in education in these last five years by 300 percent?

	VOICES:  The Democrats.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  My dear friends, let me tell you we have a record and we are going to build on that record.

	Let me ask you one other question.  Who would you like to have for vice president?

	VOICES:  Muskie.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Who would you like to have for president?

	VOICES:  Humphrey.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Hey, we have got a good Democratic drummer over there, haven't we?  

	Now, my friends, we have been together a long time and I want--I just want in the few moments that remain that I am with you here to talk to you about something of the tomorrows because tomorrow is what counts.  The yesterdays are important only because of our experience through them.  A record is important because it gives you some idea of what you might expect.  

	Ladies and gentlemen, I put my public record before you and I think you know what it is.  It is a record of working in the field of human rights for twenty-five years.  It is a record of working for those people who are handicapped in this country.  It is a record of working for education for our young.  It is a record that has been dedicated to the cause of peace.  The Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, the Peace Corps, the disarmament agency, the Food for Peace program--

	VOICES:  How about the war in Vietnam?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And may I say, my good friends, that every decent citizen in this land knows that as of this hour, the present president of the United States is working ceaselessly to bring that war in Vietnam to an honorable end and if he is unable to do it, if time does not permit him, then the team of Humphrey and Muskie will make that a top priority.  

	Dear friends, there is an issue that transcends all others.  This country under its Constitution says, we the people of these United States do establish and ordain.  We the people, not we white people, not we black people, not we poor people, not we rich people, but we the people.  And ladies and gentlemen, there are forces at work in this country today that want to divide we the people--

	VOICES:  Wallace.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:--that wants to set us against each other.  Those forces appeal to the most evil instincts that we have.  Those forces appeal to fear and they appeal to hate and they appeal to racism.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the first question that Americans must answer is, can we trust each other?--because if we can't trust each other, then there is no hope.  I know that on our currency it says:  "In God We Trust", but my dear friends, there is no hope for America unless Americans trust each other.  That is what America means.

	Friends, we are going through a period of turbulence and change.  We are going through a time when we need people who will be leaders.  We are going through a time when we need people who can reconcile our differences.  

	Now, listen, will you keep quiet out there?

	All right, now, everybody has their right to speak and I am one of those that wants every Humphrey supporter to permit every other candidate to speak without interruption, and I want to say to those who do not let our side speak without interruption, you are violating the basic fundamental tenets of decency and democracy.  

	My friends, let me say this, that we have got to keep this economy of ours strong and growing, running.  We keep it strong and growing so that there is room for everybody.  We can't afford in this country to turn back, we cannot build the schools that we will need, we cannot revitalize our cities.  We cannot take care of the health of our people.  We cannot do the things that America needs if it is in recession or depression.  A growing, steady growing economy is the base from which we build everything else.  It is the way that we fulfill our requirements of national security.  It is the way that we will fulfill our requirements of domestic tranquillity, and I stand before you as a candidate that believes that we can make our cities over and make them livable.  

	I stand before you as a candidate that believes that the greatest days of America are yet to be lived.  I believe that America--I believe that the story of America is the story of the unfinished business of a great people.  I know that in these last eight years that 12 million people, 12 million, have walked out of poverty into becoming productive, self-respecting citizens because the government cared, because industry worked with us, because it was a partnership between federal, state and local government and private enterprise, 12 million people who only a short time ago, my friends, were down and out, couldn't pay taxes and didn't, people who ate off the public payroll or off the relief.

	Ladies and gentlemen, those 12 million today are bearing their share of the burden.  Their sons help fight the wars.  Their people help build this country.

	Now, there are millions that are called the poor.  Some are black, more are white. The poor people of America.  Now, those people need a break.  They don't need a handout.  What they need is opportunity.  What they need, my friends, is an education.  What they need is training.  What they need is our understanding, what they need is our acceptance, what they need is to be wanted.  What they need above all, is our respect.  They want a chance and if I am their president they are going to get it.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Yes, my friends, let me tell you the resources of this nation are great.  The great untapped human resources.  The great untapped human resources. 

	Some of the finest artists of today, some of the greatest men of literature, some of the finest doctors, some of the greatest athletes, some of the best architects, some of the best teachers, some of the best of everything, only fifteen or ten years ago, twenty years ago, were the children of the poorest of the poor.  This is the story of America: for little people become big people and some big people become great people.  I want to carry on a campaign that is directed towards every American.  I believe that we must learn to live as neighbors, not as enemies.  I believe that we must build a community, not a garrison.  I believe, my dear friends, that this election is going to be looked upon in the world as a great referendum.  The people are going to ask throughout the world does America mean it?  Does it really mean that mankind has these inalienable rights of life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness?  Do we really mean equal rights under the law?  Do we really mean "We the people of the United States?"  Do we really mean "One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all?"  Do we really mean it?

	VOICES:  Yes.  Yes.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I know that if we have leadership we can bind up the wounds.  We can heal.  We can reconcile.  We can bring understanding.  We can get people to work together as partners in this great country of ours.  We can have them by the thousands, yea, the millions, and America will be the richer and better and the stronger for it.

	I want you to help me build not only a richer America, but a better America, no only a stronger America, but a more just America.  I want you to help me build in this country an America in which every child can look up and say proudly, "I am an American and I am proud to be an American."  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Humphrey wants you very much, and I want to tell you what I want you to do.  Now, listen friends, we are faced these last two weeks with a financial blitz.  I have been out working day and night, day and night, to carry your message because this fight is not my fight.  It is your fight, too.  It is your families, your kids, your parents, your loved ones, your needy, your handicapped that we are talking about, and I want you, my friends, to substitute for--or to put it this way, the other side has the money power.  I want you to give me the people power so that we can get the vote power on November 5th and if we do, my friends, we will have a great victory.

	Let's not let them take this election away from us because they have more public relations, more confetti, more balloons, more television, more radio spots.  Let's not do that.  You young people here in this great room today, you can win this election for your future.  You can win this election for your country.  And let me tell you when I am your president, the White House will not be merely a mansion that is of historical significance.  When I am your president the White House will be a welcome house for every young man and woman.  

	I want to thank all of the officers of the Maryland party that are here.  I want to thank my friend, Louis Goldstein, who is here with me.  I want to thank Marvin Mandell, Bill Burch.  Hervey, I want to thank you for your wonderful help, Hervey Machen.  I want to thank--is Margaret here?  Well, Margaret Schweinhart is here, too, from Montgomery County.  Say, she is my favorite.  I will tell you.  She is a Montgomery County girl and we lived over there an awful long time and she is running for Congress--and you Montgomery County people, vote for her, will you?  And we have Gladys Spellman, who is also here with us, and, let's see, who else do we have here?  Oh, yes, I must not forget, there is a young fellow that likes to go back to the Senate and he ought to be there.  He is a good senator.  I have worked with him.  He represents the things that I believe in.  He is a progressive, is forward-looking and the nation needs him, and Maryland needs him and I ask that you back Danny Brewster with all that you have got.  

	Go on out now and win this election.

	Thank you.
ALABAMACRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALEDUCATION--GENERALLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONMEDICAREPOVERTYRACE RELATIONS     Z PZ JZ FZ >Z
 2Z -Z (Z  Z Z Z 
Z Y	 s 	 l 	 ^ 	 I 	 7 	  	  	  e: