

	The great educator, Benjamin Mays, who was a classmate of my father's here at Bates almost seventy years ago, once said that "it is not a disgrace not to reach the stars, but it is a disgrace to have no stars to reach for."

	I'm running for president because I want all Americans to aim high; not only for themselves, but for their country; and to understand that the best life, the fullest life, the richest life is a life that reaches out to your fellow citizens and that works to improve the quality of all our lives; to make our country stronger and to make our country better.

	These are the kind of values that I learned from my parents, both of whom attended Bates.

	These are the kind of values that Ed Muskie and George Mitchell have fought for throughout their careers in public service.

	And those are the kind of values that I intend to fight for as president of the United States.

	That's why, as president, I'll be asking you when you graduate to look beyond the borders of your own lives, and to consider the needs of your community.

	To think about careers in teaching and public service; to help end homelessness and illiteracy in this country.  To work for a clean and healthy environment.  To use your energy and your skills to help make America stronger--and better.

	Today, we stand on the threshold of a new era.  We can't stand still, because we know that our competitors and our adversaries will be moving forward.  And we know that this country didn't become the greatest nation on earth because we were satisfied with the status quo.  We've always moved forward--determined to meet new challenges--and conquer new frontiers.

	We've got to rebuild our economy, retool our factories, retrain our workers, and meet the challenges of education and childcare and health care and housing that our families face every day.

	But above all, we've got to restore our commitment to basic American values.  We need a government that will set high standards not only for the American people, but for itself.  A government that not only enforces the law, but that obeys the law.  A president who will insist on high standards for himself and for the people who serve with him.  A president who will slam shut the revolving door at the White House--once and for all.

	Like Benjamin Mays, we're going to aim high.

	We're going to aim high because that's the kind of leadership America needs.  And we're going to stand up for American values because that's what America deserves.

	America is a special place.  And so is Bates College.  Both of my parents loved Bates.  My father became a doctor; my mother a teacher.  They used to tell me all the time that this was the greatest nation on earth.  And that there wasn't anything I couldn't accomplish if I worked hard enough, and if I gave something back to the country that has given so much to me and to my family.

	Not long ago, my mother was asked what it was like coming to America for the first time seventy-five years ago.

	And she said, "people were coming to the United States in droves from everywhere ... because this was the Promised Land.  This was the land that we [had] ... heard about ... there were opportunities here that we didn't have in the old countries."

	That--for her and for the millions who came to this country seeking opportunity--is America.

	It's the America I believe in.  And if we aim high enough and work hard enough, it's the America we will build--for ourselves--and for generations to come.

	But it's going to take strong leadership.  Leadership with integrity.  Leadership that takes responsibility--and gets results.

	And that's not the kind of leadership that we've seen from the Republican nominee for the presidency.

	George Bush likes to talk about American values, but time and time again, he hasn't stood up for them.

	When Ed Meese was turning the Justice Department into a laughingstock, Mr. Bush didn't stand up for the rule of law; he cheered him on.

	When those people in the White House basement came up with the idea of selling arms to the Ayatollah, Mr. Bush didn't stand up to them; he sat in on 17 meetings and approved the deal.

	When just about everybody in Washington knew that Manuel Noriega was involved in drug trafficking, Mr. Bush --instead of acting--turned his back.

	But nothing demonstrates Mr. Bush's cynicism and disregard for American values quite as clearly as what we heard from Mr. Bush yesterday and what we've heard from him for months on the subject of prison furloughs and the Willie Horton case.

	Mr. Bush now challenges my commitment and my concern for the victims of crime.

	And when I hear those outrageous statements from Mr. Bush these days, I think particularly of two victims of crime.  One was a seventy-seven-year old doctor--robbed, tied up, and left in his office late one afternoon.  The other was a forty-three-year old man--struck down and killed by a hit and run driver--a driver whom we all believe was drunk or on drugs.

	Both those victims went to Bates.  The first was my father.  The second was my brother.

	I don't need any lectures from Mr. Bush on crime fighting or on the sensitivity or compassion we must extend to the victims of crime.  Unlike Mr. Bush, I've been a chief executive on the front lines of fighting crime.  Unlike Mr. Bush--who will not take responsibility for anything--I, as a chief executive, took full responsibility for that tragic Horton case and acted to change that policy--and Mr. Bush knows it.

	So let's look at the facts and stop this shameless playing of politics with the tragedy of crime.  And looking at the facts, I can understand why Mr. Bush is struggling so hard to run away from them.

	Mr. Bush knows that most states in this country have furlough programs.

	He knows that under Governor Ronald Reagan's furlough program in California there were two terrible tragedies: the murder of a police officer and the murder of a school teacher by inmates on furlough.  And unlike Mr. Bush, Governor Reagan took full responsibility for them.

	He knows that under his Administration, the federal prison system has granted thousands of furloughs to drug pushers and drug traffickers.

	He certainly knows of his role in supporting a correctional halfway house in Houston, one of whose inmates left the house and raped and murdered a minister's wife.  He even presented that halfway house with a Presidential award--after the tragedy occurred.

	And he knows, or should know, that I just signed extradition papers for a convicted bank robber who is wanted to stand trial for the murder of a Boston police officer after Mr. Bush's prison system paroled him less than half-way through his fifteen-year sentence.

	So why in the last few days are we now being treated to a fresh assault on the Horton case by Mr. Bush?

	Because of his own pathetic record in the fight against crime and drugs.  The failure of the south Florida task force.  The failure of the federal drug interdiction effort.  The trading of arms to a terrorist nation.  The dealings and payoffs to Noriega.

	And because, since Wednesday, he's been running away from his choice for vice president--remember what he said--"watch my vice presidential decision.  That will tell all."

	It sure does.  And George, you can try and run from that decision, but you can't hide it.  And you can't run away from your own record of failure by exploiting a human tragedy for your own political ends.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I will stand up for American values.  We won't be doing business with drug peddlers.  We won't be selling arms to terrorists.  We won't line the pockets of dishonest defense contractors.  We won't cut sweetheart deals with polluters.  We won't let anyone we appoint to public office come back and lobby our Administration as long as I'm president of the United States.  And we will never exploit human tragedy for cynical political purposes.

	We believe in a different America.  A better America.  An America where values count.  An America where truth is cherished.  And an America where public service is a public trust.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHCRIME VICTIMSCRIME, VIOLENTIMMIGRATIONIRAN--IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIRPRISONS--RELEASE PROGRAMS              
 t  o  j  b  ]  [  N  C 	  	 u 	 W 	 J 	 < 	 1 	  e: