

	Thank you very much.

	Let me introduce two outstanding people who keep track of me and Jack every day--Elizabeth and Joanne--right here. You think we made a good choice with Jack Kemp? I do.

	As Jack knows and I know, that anything worth having you work hard for. You come from behind sometimes. He says you don't keep your eye on the scoreboard. We are going to carry California. And to do it, we need to carry Orange County big time.

	At the same time, we need to reelect Bob Dornan, who's done a great job for America.

	And I'm sorry that President Clinton's missing this retirement party, but we'll go ahead and have it without him. There are a lot of differences between Bob Dole and Bill Clinton, and one is that I'm getting ready to move into the White House and he's getting ready to move out of the White House.

	And I said the other day, but I've had to change it some, I said if I had a dollar for every time he leveled with the American people, I would keep one and give the other one to Elizabeth. But I can't think of two things. So I'll keep working on that line; maybe we'll get it right.

	But in any event, I'm very honored to be here. I'm honored to be here with all my colleagues in the Congress and the others here. I'm happy to be here with the mayor of San Diego. We had a great convention in San Diego. Susan, thank you very much.

	I want to thank Chad and Bo and others for being here, too. We appreciate their assistance and their help. We had--Bo Derek was with us the other day, and I--I couldn't get people off the bus. They didn't want to give up their seat. One was P.F. Bentley with Time magazine. He's still on the bus. I think he stayed on there all weekend.

	But in any event, I want these four gentlemen to come up here so you can really appreciate America. I want these four Medal of Honor winners to come up and stand right behind me here for a minute. Right here.

	You know, sometimes--sometimes they make fun of us--they make fun of us and ridicule us for thinking about the past, and I know there are a lot of men and women right out here in this audience who've been in uniform, served their country, but I want to make this a special point.

	They don't put medals of honor in Post Toasties or Wheaties. You earn it the old-fashioned way. You risk your life, you're willing to lay down your life for your fellow man. This is courage. This is courage.

	And Admiral Stockdale can tell you about prison camp and how bad it was day after day, month after month, year after year. And every one of these men can tell you a story that would make you proud to be an American. Aren't you proud to be an American?

	And I'm very proud that they're standing here with all of us--not just with me, but standing here with all of us, standing up for America that they believe in, they risked their lives, they saved other lives--acts of heroism you couldn't even describe. Thank you very much, fellows, we appreciate it very much--Lou, Walt, thank you. Thank you.

	And that is why this election is so important. It's not about me, it's not about Bill Clinton. It's about America, it's about our future, it's about our prestige, it's about respect around the world. We've lost respect with our friends; our enemies don't fear us any more. We've got a lot of catching up to do. We've got a lot of catching up to do.

	And I don't believe--and Jack has just indicated--we can't afford weak leadership. This is the United States of America, the greatest country on the face of the Earth--make no mistake about it--and we're going to keep it that way.

	And don't watch all these polls--don't watch the polls, don't----you are the polls, right here. You're the polls.

	And don't be swayed by the commentators or anybody else. You know, they're just giving their point of view. You will make the decision right here in California. You will make that decision.

	The liberals have had their chance, and on November 5, America's going to say, "good-bye."

	They're going back home. They're going back home. Four new years. I like it.

	And this campaign is about telling the truth, and the truth is that the federal government is too big and spends too much of your money----your money.

	And I'll bet there are families represented here where both parents work--one parent to take care of the family's obligation, the other parent in some cases forced to work just to pay the taxes. Forty percent of what you earn is--now goes to taxes. That should not happen in America, and Jack and I are going to send it down the other way. We're going to cut taxes for a change.

	And Bill Clinton will come to California later this week, and he'll brag. "I've created 11 million new jobs," he'll say. Well, I met a guy--a lot of lawyers. Yeah, I know that. But I met--I met a guy the other day that got three of them.

	You have to work harder and longer just to make ends meet. Wages are stagnant. In fact, wages for women have actually gone down about 2 percent. A lot of women have had to go back to work--if they want to work, that's fine--but had to go back to work just to pay the bills and just to pay the taxes. And Jack and I think enough is enough. Let's cut your taxes.

	Fifteen percent across the board. I read a report today that said that 80--81 percent of the media coverage on our tax cut was negative. Now trouble understanding it. If 81 percent of the media coverage was negative, we've got to talk a little louder and a little longer, because this is good for you, it's good for the American people, it's good for your family.

	Fifteen percent across the board, $500 per-child tax credit, and cut the capital gains rate in half. Cut it in half. Cut it in half to create more jobs and more opportunities.

	And why is this important? We want the economy to grow. We want to create more jobs in the private sector. This would help up and down the line, up and down the line. And it will work.

	The tax revolution started right here in California when Ronald Reagan was elected president of the United States.

	And we want it to continue. And one thing I would say, and I've said it hundreds of times, you should not have to apologize because the government wants more. They ought to apologize for taking too much in the first place. It's your money. It's your money.--I know Bob Dornan believes this very strongly. He used to talk about it as we--around the country. We believe--family pinching pennies every day and--and for those who work all their life--the kids work, the husband works, the wife works--and you finally get a business or maybe you have a little farm, save some money. And somebody passes on. You have to sell off half the property and pay the estate tax. We think that's wrong. We think you ought to keep that business--and we're going to start providing estate-tax relief.

	Now the best thing that could happen to California would be the election of Bob Dole and Jack Kemp--Bob Dole and Jack Kemp.

	Because after--our first phase, the second phase of our tax plan is to make the system flatter and fairer and simpler, and to end the IRS as we know it.

	Now let's take a look at what President Clinton has done for California. I know he comes out here. He likes California.

	He passed the largest tax increase in history--and you know how much--and sixty-five billion dollars you get to pay in California? Thirty-seven billion dollars right on your backs, right out here in California; $37 billion.

	He raised the income tax; he raised the gas tax that only affected the rich. Seventy percent of the taxes were paid by small-businessmen and small--and senior citizens.

	Let me say a word--I don't see any seniors here. But if one shows up, I want you to pass this on. He talks about Medi--well, Medi-scare, we call it--he talks about Medicare and what Bob Dole would do to Medicare and what I would do to student loans.

	Keep in mind not a single Republican voted to raise taxes on Social Security benefits, it was his proposal, and he said in his original proposal if you are a senior citizen, had $25,000 of income, you were rich. You were rich, and they ought to tax 85 percent of your benefits--.

	Even the dead were not overlooked in his tax increase. He made estate taxes retroactive, believe it or not, believe it or not. You can't even rest in peace any more with this outfit around. He--families, so we're going to change that.

	Now they're talking about there's a new tax called--they love taxes, you know. I tell this story about when I was speaking on the Senate floor one day, and I was having a little fun, and I said, "Now, gentlemen, let me tax your memories," and Ted Kennedy jumped in and said, "Why haven't we thought of that before?" They love taxes. They love taxes.

	They--you know Secretary Babbitt, part of the Cabinet. He's got a tax--President Clinton said, "Well, that's not my plan." Well, I thought Babbitt was part of the administration. He's in the Cabinet, he speaks with great authority--don't take any chances. Stick with Bob Dole and Jack Kemp, and you're not going to get a tax increase, you're going to get a tax cut.

	And don't forget that he opposed 187 and I supported it. It's costing the state of California. In fact, he refused to approve an immigration bill.

	They insisted on the removal of a provision prohibiting illegal aliens from earning Social Security benefits. We've got enough trouble with Social Security without having benefits being paid to those who are illegally in this country. If they're legally in this country, all right.

	And Clinton refused to reimburse the state by 457--I think--million a year for incarcerating illegal aliens. Kay Hutchison, Secretary Hutchison and myself finally got that done, but right now, as you know, Clinton's holding about a billion dollars, much of which would go to California.

	There are a lot of things he's done. Illegal immigration costs the state of California $3 billion a year. You pay it. You pay it.

	Now, we're all very compassionate. We're a very compassionate party, and we feel sorry for people. But if we don't draw the line somewhere, we're going to be denying benefits to people who are legally in America, poor people and others who are here and are here legally. We cannot take everybody in the world in the United States of America, Mr. President.

	And Mayor Golding was telling me on the way down there's a big story in the L.A. Times about all these--the rush to naturalize all these--which President Clinton opposes, it's a balanced budget by the year 2002.

	It's regulatory reform that costs the average California family about $7,000 a year. It's litigation reform, so you're not sued every time you turn around by some trial lawyer.

	And I don't--I don't object to trial lawyers. When I fell off that platform in Chico, California, on the way down I got a call on my cell phone from a trial lawyer saying, "Bob, I think we got a case here." So, whatever.

	We need to send power back to the states and back to the people. That's what we need to do. It's called the 10th Amendment to the Constitution. Here it is. It's twenty-eight words long. Been around a couple of hundred years. Jack and I didn't dream it up after the convention. It's been around. Our Founding Fathers were so concerned about an all-powerful central government taking control of our lives, confiscating our property, whatever, that they put this as Article 10, the Bill of Rights. It says unless the Constitution gives a power to the federal government or denies it to the states, that it belongs to the states and to the people.

	And that's what Jack and I will do in our administration--more and more back to the states, back to the people, closer to the people, closer to the people.

	And I'll tell you one other thing. You send me the partial-birth abortion bill, and I'll sign it. I will not veto it.

	We can have different views. We can have different views on the issue of abortion--pro-choice, pro-life. But Dr. Koop, who's very pro-choice, said this procedure is never necessary; it's in fact unnecessary. And if you could ever see the procedure, you would never support it.

	President Clinton, of course, like his double-talk--he said, "Well, I would sign if they do this and this and this." I offered the amendment myself to protect the life of the mother. It passed ninety-nine to zero in the United States Senate. So we knew what we were doing. But he said, "Oh, well, I want to veto this." Keep in mind what he says, keep in mind what he does, and keep in mind one other thing--one other thing. As I said, it--well.

	He will be eligible for the tax cut, if he leaves his forwarding address, when he leaves the White House in January. Keep that in mind.

	But we--I want to leave one final...[missing text]...because we can win, and we're going to win, if you just do a couple of things.

	First, if you think about it--you saw these four Medal of Honor winners standing here. It makes you proud. It makes you proud to be an American, right?

	I want you to be just as proud when you cast your vote on November 5 and a year from now, and ten years from now and twenty years from now, just as I was proud to have cast my first vote for Ike, Eisenhower. I was proud of it then, and I am proud of it today. Think about it. And think about America and think about our future. Think about America. Think about our future.

	When you go home tonight and you see your children or grandchildren, your friends, your neighbors, you grandparents, whoever, think about America. Which way do we want to go? How far left do we want to go?

	Remember the big health-care takeover by the federal government he wants you to forget about? Right. Seventeen new taxes, fifty new bureaucracies, price controls; you couldn't choose your own doctor. Remember that?

	And I would say to the seniors, now that I've found a couple here, under our plan Medicare grows 7 percent a year. It was Mrs. Clinton that said there ought to be zero growth in Medicare when she appeared before a congressional committee. We are going to save Medicare, as Jack said, just as we did Social Security in 1983, in a bipartisan, nonpartisan commission. Take it out of politics; take it out of politics and save the system for America's seniors.

	So again, let me emphasize the importance of this part of California. Tom, you've done a great job here today. You always do a great job. And we want to make certain. And I'd be willing to settle now for 68 percent of the vote in Orange County here or seventy. Make it seventy.

	Seventy percent. Seventy percent. This will be the real Orange Bowl if that happens. This is it. And if you will make--help us make it happen. Jack's going to be here a couple days. We're coming back next weekend. Don't let anybody ever tell you we didn't fight for California. We're fighting for every vote in this great state--all over California.

	I remember, back in Arkansas, when Clinton was running for reelection for governor. He was twenty-two points ahead. He lost. He lost. It's going to happen, it's going to happen. There are going to be a lot of surprised pundits wake up on the 6th of November.

	So, if you will stand with us on November 5, we will stand with you the next eight years, sixteen years, however long we're going to be around there. Thank you very much, and God bless America.
ABORTIONBILL OF RIGHTSCAPITAL GAINS TAXELECTIONS--MEDIA COVERAGEGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALILLEGAL ALIENSIMMIGRATIONINHERITANCE TAXLITIGATION REFORMMEDICARENATURALIZATIONSOCIAL SECURITYTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERALVETERANS     = X= R= N= D=
 <= 7= 2= += != = < <	  	  	  	  	  	  	 s 	 h 	 Y 	 H 	 @ 	 2 	 # 	  	  e: