

	Mr. Shapiro and my friends of Kankakee: I heard a rumor that this was Republican territory and that when we came here there wouldn't be anybody to meet us and that we would have to spend all of our time talking to ourselves. Well, you know talking to yourself isn't such a hard job for politicians. I once heard a definition of a politician, as a man who approached every question with an open mouth. But it only goes to show that political predictions can sometimes be wrong. You will be hearing a lot of political predictions in the next few days. I remember some predictions that were made four years ago. I remember them very well because they involved me and they were all bad. But I also remember that I--contrary to the predictions--was elected governor of Illinois by the largest majority in history.

	I will let you in on a secret; we think our campaign is going pretty well but we concede that the Republicans still have a chance--a chance to carry Maine and Vermont. The fact of the matter is that it happens that we even have the babies on our side. I had a letter announcing--from some people I don't know, Mr. and Mrs. so and so--announcing the birth of their son James Frank so and so on October 12th, and I opened it up and printed on the inside of it, it says, "I was only born yesterday but I am for Stevenson--Jimmie."

	Well, it seemed to me that that was a young man of extraordinary character and discriminating judgment. I will say nothing about whether or not he wanted a change.

	The fact of the matter is that people seem to be thinking--thinking in this campaign. I had another letter from a woman somewhere in Pennsylvania the other day and she said she wanted to commend me on some speech I had made. She went on to say, "You know I am very easily swayed by emotion until I think, which I occasionally do."

	Well, it happens that the people are occasionally thinking these days, and this year most Americans are going to decide how to vote on the basis of which party can best be trusted to continue giving us energetic government directed toward advancing the freedom and the well-being of our people and achieving peace in the world. I think my opponent, the distinguished General is sincere in his intention to give the people clean and efficient government; I am not sure, however, that he knows how. But I am sure that he means very well, but what, if the General was elected, could he do? All he could do as far as I can see, as far as carrying on the basic programs for domestic progress and peace that the country must have, is to follow the leadership that he will have in the Congress. 

	If the Republicans are elected this fall, the Old Guard Republicans led by Senator Taft will dominate the Congress and they will write the country's laws. Senator Taft and many other leaders in the Congress are the very same men who have bitterly opposed the laws in the last twenty years that have led to jobs and homes and free collective bargaining and farm prosperity and the other advances our people have made. If we had left it up to the Republicans in Congress, none of these things would have happened. The Democratic party has led all the way, led to a better life for all of us, rich and poor alike, and that is what we propose to continue to do. But if I may say so--and you are not getting too cold--there is something even more important at stake in this election and that is our chance for bringing peace to this troubled, anguished world in which we live. I have tried my level best to talk honestly in this campaign about these grave questions. I have not attempted to fool the people into believing that there are easy solutions to Korea and to the other stern problems of our time. I have not played politics with the sacrifices of our fighting men in Korea. There is nothing partisan, my friends, about those sacrifices and no candidate does credit to himself by seeking political advantage from them. Winning the peace is far more important than winning the election. Wherever I go, I tell the American people that strength is the road to peace--that weakness is the road to war.

	I am proud that the Democratic leaders have had the courage and the wisdom to lead the free world toward strength and to stand up against Communist aggression. That is the only way to win the peace. I point out to you also the fact that the same Old Guard Republicans who have fought against our domestic progress have also fought against a strong foreign policy. They have voted time and time again to weaken our defenses against Communism and to abandon our allies.

	My friends, this is not the way to peace; it is the way to invite world war--yes, and there are grave issues to be decided in this election but they are not by any means all of the national issues. The election here in Illinois is important too. It is of the utmost importance to me because there is at stake here all of the work and the strain and the struggle of four tireless years to bring about the reforms in the administration of our state affairs of which I am so inordinately proud. One of the things that I have been proud during these last four years has been raising the standards of service in our welfare institutions, including the state hospitals. You in Kankakee County are familiar with that effort because you have helped the state to care for thousands of unfortunate men, women, and children who are the patients of the state of Illinois. There are today almost twelve thousand of them in this county, in the Kankakee and Manteno State Hospitals. These institutions are not only among the largest in the nation but they are also among the most enlightened in the nation. More than two thousand of your citizens are employed in this service of healing and of rehabilitation. Nearly a thousand more are rendering very useful service in the volunteer programs of these institutions. I am deeply grateful for the kind of volunteer help--this kind of help because it also always provides and improves a public service and brings more people into close touch with their government and with its complicated operations.

	At Manteno today very significant research projects are in progress, designed to increase our understanding of mental illness. Dr. Karl Menninger and a group of other prominent psychiatrists who visited Manteno only recently--they were very high in their praise of this research program and of the improved services and of the work being done in staff training and research. I want to see this work carried on, and I think you do too. I want the state highway program completed and a program for better schools to go forward. That's why I hope and why, indeed, I pray that you will help elect Sherwood Dixon as governor on November 4. He will preserve all of the gains we have made and he will press forward all along the line. I know him personally, intimately and officially, and I know he will be an outstanding chief executive of this state. He is honest in his personal life--in his public life. He is humane in his purposes and he is just in his decisions.

	What we have accomplished here in Illinois during these past few years, we have accomplished as a team, and I hope you will send the other members of that team back to Springfield. I mean Ivan Elliott for Attorney General, and I mean Eddie Barrett for Secretary of State--as good a Secretary of State as we have ever had. And that is saying a lot from me because my father was Secretary of State. And Ben Cooper for auditor; and Fred Cain for treasurer; and Herbert Paschon for Lieutenant governor. All of these gentlemen that you have seen on the platform this afternoon. I also mean men like your own Sam Shapiro, who has been a great member of our state legislature--one of the most helpful we have had in the House of Representatives at Springfield. We could use some more of that same kind of Democrats in the Senate. And I hope you will send Rodney Benson of Morris, Illinois, to Springfield next January. And, of course, I want to see very much Mr. John Kinneman, who is standing here at my left, in the House of Representatives in Washington. It is not unlikely that I may be living in Washington next year, and I want him there too.

	You, in the 17th District, should congratulate yourselves that you have a man of his capacity running for Congress. I know John Kinneman. I have known him for many years. He comes from my hometown of Bloomington and Normal. I know he is a man of integrity and extraordinary intellectual capacity--a distinguished and beloved teacher for many years at the Illinois State Normal University--a man who understands not only the problems of you people here in this district, but who understands the problems of our contemporary world.

	I am deeply touched and grateful to all of you. I have been to Kankakee to political meetings before, but I have never had such a reception as this. I am so grateful to all of you for coming here to greet us this afternoon--for giving us this opportunity to talk to you. I have talked perhaps too long, but I suppose...

Anyway, I suspect that is the occupational disease of all candidates for public office. At any rate, I hope I haven't talked so long that you will never invite me back again. I remember asking a doctor the other day, sometime back, if he thought I was talking too much for my throat, and he said, "No, Governor, I don't think you are talking too much for your throat but you may be talking a little too much for your reputation."

	I don't believe you have ever had an opportunity to send to the Congress of the United States a more vigorous, a more enlightened, a more understanding man--and where they are needed, incidentally, so badly--than Mr. John Kinneman of Normal, Illinois. I wish you would remember his name and remember it well.

	And now, my friends, I want to say just this: That I have traveled extensively all over the United States in these past two difficult months. It has been a long and a weary journey. It has also been an experience for which I shall be forever grateful. It is something more than an experience; it is an adventure; it is a great exploration; there is something about the United States--we all of us know parts of it. Few of us have an opportunity to see it all unfold, unfold rapidly like a motion picture. You get a feeling of the might, the majesty, the enormity, the variety of the United States when you travel the way I have traveled. Everywhere I have met warm and friendly crowds. Everywhere I have looked into the faces that were hopeful; and also people who didn't sound like the oppressed, half bankrupt, downtrodden, regimented crowds that the Republican orators have painted for us in this campaign. They looked to me like stalwart, vigorous, free Americans, anxious to see our country pressing ahead, anxious to meet all of the challenges of these very difficult times in which we live. This has been a heartening and ennobling experience for me. It has also, I am frank to confess, filled me with a great sense of inadequacy and of humility. Anybody who confronts the possible responsibility of being president of the United States can only feel a sense of utter--utter insufficiency. I confess I feel it. I can say to you also that if you honor me with this most responsible job in the whole known world, I shall discharge my responsibilities honestly and decently, and in accordance with my own conscience as best I can. That is what we have tried to do in Springfield and that is what we will go on doing.

	And now, before I go, and let you go home, may I introduce to you Mrs. Sherwood Dixon. You would never believe it, but she has seven children. And now I should like to introduce to you--because I have none of my sons with me--my aunt--my aunt who sixty years ago this year traveled to Washington to see my grandfather inaugurated as vice president. I have also my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives. Her job is to keep me out of trouble, and she does it entirely too well.

	I thank you all from the bottom of my heart. You have touched me deeply by coming here this afternoon, and on behalf of the old team, as I call them, of state candidates--the people with whom I have worked so long--I want you all to know that we are deeply grateful for your response and for your coming here, and we hope you are not frozen to death.

	Good-bye and God bless you all.

	That's it. That's the whistle in the whistle-stop.
ILLINOISMENTAL HEALTH CAREVOLUNTEERISM     X1 $1 1 