

	Thank you, thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, and thank you very much my fellow Democrats for that real Democratic cheer.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you. Thank you.  Well now, my dear friends, if you think you want Humphrey, let me tell you Humphrey wants you. 

	Mr. Mayor, Governor Shapiro, and indeed the next governor of the state of Illinois, Sam Shapiro, and Mr. William Clark, our great candidate for the Senate--and the next senator always will be the senator from this state, always be the great senator of the United States, Paul Douglas. 

	These wonderful state candidates, you know every one of them, these fine country and city candidates, every one of them a Democrat.  May I suggest that you start at city hall, up to the courthouse, up to the Congress, and then into the White House, and make it a real Democratic victory.

	Well, friends, we have come a long way, we have come a long way since August in Chicago.  It has been an uphill fight for Ed Muskie and me, and sometimes it has been a lonely fight--but not tonight--we are in this fight together tonight.

	And Mr. Nixon, I want you to know we are moving fast tonight, and we are gong to keep right on moving, and next Tuesday we are going to win this election with your help.

	Well, my friends, there are those who say there isn't much difference this year between the two parties and the two candidates, but let me tell you there is a world of difference, all the difference in the world.  First of all, your Democratic candidates have pledged full employment--but not Richard Nixon.  

	President Kennedy, President Kennedy got the Peace Corps, but not Richard Nixon.  President Johnson got the Civil Rights Act, but not Richard Nixon. 

	Robert Kennedy fought for the disinherited from Appalachia and the California grape fields to Spanish Harlem and the red dust of Mississippi, but not Richard Nixon.  Gene McCarthy had the courage to speak from his conscience on Vietnam, but not Richard Nixon.  Ladies and gentlemen, I was privileged to author the Job Corps which gave jobs to thousands of young men, but not Richard Nixon. 

	And tonight, tonight on this platform, I have a special treat for you; tonight on this platform is a man who at the very time that Mr. Nixon was saying that we ought to do away with the training of the Job Corps, this young man was being decorated with the highest honors of the international Olympics, a gold medal for the United States, and he was the young man who said that the Job Corps gave him his chance.  He is George Foreman, Olympic heavyweight champion, who--yes, friends, here he is, George Foreman, who thrilled America by waving the American flag in Mexico City from the Job Corps to the greatest title that can be given in amateur athletics, and Mr. Nixon on the same hour, the same night, says we ought to abolish the Job Corps.  That is the difference between these two parties.  

	You see, there are some other differences.  I want to debate the issues.  I wanted to debate the great issues of this campaign, but not Richard Nixon.  He is no debater.  And next Tuesday the people of the United States will elect a president that they can trust, but not Richard Nixon. 

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Yes, my friends, I have traveled America from coast to coast, from border to border in this year of anguish and anxiety, and we know that Americans have gone through a lot in 1968, more than most nations could ever take, and in the next four years they want and they need a president that they can trust.  They want a president who can build a solid and honorable peace, and they want a president who can hold this country together and keep it growing and open and free to every American. 

	That is your candidate.  As your candidate, let me tell you something else.  I have seen this nation, and I know that it is a great nation, but it can be greater, and the Democratic party is a great party, but it can be greater, and it is up to us here tonight and in the weeks and the days ahead, yes, the years ahead, to make this nation greater, and to make this party greater.

	First, the future of our nation: ours is a democratic society, but not democratic enough.  It is an open society, but not open enough.  It isn't right when children go to bed hungry on Indian reservations, when teenagers are out of school and out of work in the asphalt desert of our urban slums or when Mexican-American children drowned in California irrigation ditches because their mothers have no day nurseries to care for them, or when a grandfather loses hope in a lonely room, when an able-bodied man comes to a city hunting a job but finds he isn't trained to hold one.

	No, my friends, it isn't right when over 20 million Americans do not have enough to eat while millions of others are concerned with the problems of overweight.  It isn't right, and we must change it.  And we in the Democratic party, we will change it. 

	If Chicago, this great city of Chicago, had shut out the Polish people, the Italians, the Czechs, the Slovaks, the Lithuanians, the Yugoslavs, the Ukrainians and all the others, all those who came here to seek a better life, they and their children would not have built this great city.  But they did build it and yesterday it was the Poles and the Italians who were being shut out, and today we are talking about the black people and the Spanish people, the Spanish-speaking people, immigrants, too, people from outside wanting in.    

	And because this is America, all peoples, all of our people want to share the burden of building a better society.  They deserve to participate fully in the benefits of that society, and they will, they will have their chance, every one of them, when I am president. 

	Now, a word about the Democratic party, our party, this party that has been the instrument of great progress.  Our is a democratic party, but, frankly, it is not democratic enough.  It is an open party, but not yet open enough.  Any political party, like any person, can have hardening of the arteries.  The Republican party has had hardening of the arteries since the days of William McKinley. 

	I doubt that it has produced a new idea, I doubt it has produced a now idea since that false promise of two chickens in every pot and two cars in every garage.  But at least that was their last idea.

	Now this is why we Democrats have won elections.  We have won because we welcomed the young, and we dared to try new ideas.  We changed and we have grown with the times, and I am here to say tonight that we must keep on changing, we must generate new ideas, we must welcome new people, we must welcome the young.

	We have differed over issues because we cared, and because we cared deeply about those issues.  Yet we have always united around our common concern for justice and for the ordinary man.  This is the hallmark of the Democratic party.  

	Tonight I am happy to report to you--I am very happy to report to you that our party is uniting, that those brave men who led dissent last spring have made their mark on policy, and they have helped us search for peace, they are coming home, and that justice once more is the cause which binds us together, Democrats of all kinds tonight on this first day of November of every faction in our party, Democrats tonight are united, to win this election for the Democratic ticket. 

	Yes, I am proud to say from this platform tonight, gentlemen and ladies, that many thousands of the young people who went door to door in New Hampshire last winter, and Indiana, in Nebraska, in Oregon, in California, that those thousands of young people will go from door to door next Monday and next Tuesday for our party, for Ed Muskie and me, but most of all they will go door-to-door for America and for justice in this country. 

	We know every one of us here in Chicago last August was filled with pain, but despite our troubles we took steps in our convention to open the selection of our convention delegates.  We struck down racial barriers, we laid the groundwork for the elimination of the unit rule, and some other things happened in Chicago at our convention that we are not proud of and that you are not proud of.  But if we quarrel over the past, I tell you that we will lose the future; blame is not important, self-examination is, and what is important is the future.  What is important in our turbulent, tortured time is change, and we must, and we know that there must be change and the question is will the change be peaceful and constructive, or will it be violent and destructive?  Our party must help decide that question here tonight. 

	Our party, but our party must do more than make room for change.  It must give voice to those who cry out for change.  It must itself be the instrument of change, and I call upon the Democratic party tonight and in the years ahead to rejuvenate itself, to stay alive, to reject the status quo, to avoid political hardening of the arteries, to renew itself every year, year by year, in the struggle to build what you and I want: a better America through the Democratic process. 

	And I want to lead that fight.  I want to lead that fight, that fight for a better, for a more open, for a more democratic party, and I want to lead that party, and I shall, and I want to lead this nation, and, with your help I shall. 

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey! 

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, friends, now the presidency itself:  eleven weeks from Monday, eleven weeks from this Monday, two men will stand on the steps of the Capitol in Washington.  They will take their solemn oath as president and vice president of the United States, one to lead this nation, the other, if necessary, to be ready to lead it, and those two men will chart a course for all of us in the next four years, and those men will have the power to change or destroy the world in a nuclear age.

	The Democratic party offers leadership ready to meet that challenge, so let me tell you what kind of a president that I will be if you, the people, give me the chance.   

	Thank you, thank you.  Let me tell you the kind of a president that I will be if you give me the chance.  First, I will try to earn...

	VOICES:  We want peace!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:...to earn and deserve the people's trust.  I will be willing to tell the people the truth.  I will open the doors of the White House to listen to the people, those who talk in soft voice and those who talk loudly.  I will do everything within my power to heal the wounds and end the divisions of our people between the angry black and the fearful white, between the worried rich and the desperate poor, between the young rebel without a cause and his anxious father, by offering the boy a real cause, the cause of social justice in America. 

	Thank you, thank you.  

	VOICES:  We want peace!
 
	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  All right, my fellow Americans, I want to appeal, I want to appeal to the best in our people, not the worst.  I want to ignite our hopes, not our fears and our hates.  I want to lift up the people, not put them down.  And I will do it if you give me the chance.

	Now every man knows, and I want you to know, that I, like you, want peace.  Our President on Thursday this week took a wise, courageous, firm decision, a step towards ending the cruel war in Vietnam. 

	It is a step, it is a step that all Americans who love peace will support, because we are most of all a peaceful people and a peaceful nation that wants peace for ourselves and for the world.  

	Now there is another priority of peace.  Beyond Vietnam--and that struggle will come to an end--and even before it is ended--I commit myself tonight to end the dangerous nuclear arms race.  Mr. Nixon says he favors building even more nuclear weaponry, he favors increasing the influence of the military over our foreign policy and our national life.  We reject that, we Democrats.  We would ask--he said he would add anywhere from $25 billion to $50 billion to our staggering defense budget, and it would be for the wrong purpose, for the wrong weapons, at the wrong time--$50 billion for arms that we do not need, but precious little, Mr. Nixon, for the needs of our children, our schools and our cities in your plan.

	I worked with the late beloved President Kennedy to get the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, which Mr. Nixon called a "cruel hoax" and "catastrophic nonsense".  I have urged the Senate to ratify immediate a treaty to stop the spread of these dangerous nuclear weapons while Mr. Nixon stood by silent.  And when I am your president, I will press for the ratification of that treaty, and I will continue to keep America as it is today: the strongest nation on the Earth. 

	Finally, friends, we will do what you and I know we must do, we must press forward with the great work of building the real America.  Mr. Agnew says if you have seen one slum, you have seen them all.  I say if you have seen one slum, you have seen one too many. 

	I want to move forward.  I want to move forward, not stand still.  I want to move forward with the basic building blocks of help for our people: education for our children, Social Security for our elderly, and continued economic prosperity for this economy.  That is our program.  I want to use those building blocks not to stave off trouble but to do what is right.

	Yes, I want to change things, to right old wrongs, to correct old injustices, and when I am your president, with your help, we will do it.  We will do it.  I want to change not only laws, but I want to change hearts, not through fear, but through hope; not through hate, but through compassion.  

	I speak to the decency and the goodness of the American people,.  And it is there, my friends, and I have plans and I have dreams for this country.  I want an America where every family can live in safety, where every man has the things that mean self-respect; where we have order, but order with liberty, too; where every voice is heard.  I want an America at peace, an America that our young people will be proud to call their own, an America where the people trust their president and where he puts his trust in them. 

	And I want a world where the nuclear cloud, that ghastly nuclear cloud, that deadly burden of the arms race, is lifted from the backs of the ordinary people of this Earth; and, with your help, and only with your help, we shall have that kind of a country and that kind of a world, and it is worth fighting for, my friends. 

	So, tonight, four days from tonight, the ballots will be counted, four days from now the American voter will be alone with his conscience and his God in the voting booth, and in that privacy he will ask, "Which men and which party deserve my trust?"  To you here tonight of the Democratic party, I say help us, help Ed Muskie and me and our party, help us win that trust. 

	And to all of our country and everywhere I say this: to every American everywhere I say vote, vote on Tuesday.  In our democracy voting is a privilege.  This year there is more to that.  It is a solemn duty.  There are powerful forces at work within America, many of them dark, bitter and repressive, and you alone, the people, can insure the triumph of decency and good.

	The choice that you make next Tuesday can well set the course for America in this last third of the twentieth century.  It will be community or separatism, peace or tension, justice or repression, growth or stagnation.  These are the stakes of the election of 1968.  As for myself, I offer you tonight the words of a great American patriot, Nathan Hale, and here is what he said:  "I am only one, but I am one.  I cannot do everything, but I can do something.  And what I can do, that I ought to do.  And what I want to do, by the grace of God, I shall do."

	Eight years ago, eight years ago this very night, John F. Kennedy came to this very place in search of victory over Richard M. Nixon.  The stakes were high then as they are now.  Chicago and Illinois responded to John F. Kennedy.  John Kennedy carried Chicago, he carried Illinois, and America won.  Tonight I ask the same help from you tonight in building a great Democratic victory.  Will you help me as you helped John Kennedy?  

	VOICES:  Yes! Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  If you do, we shall win. 

IMMIGRATIONJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)OPEN PRESIDENCYPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WAR     cA /A )A %A A
 A A A  A @ @ @ @	  	  	 y 	 J 	 ; 	 ( e: