

	Thank you very much. Governor Rockefeller, Senator Javits, Senator Goodell, Senator Bridges, all of the distinguished gentlemen and ladies of the platform, all of this great audience here in Buffalo and in Erie County: I remember very well, as I was saying to the Governor as we arrived here in this hall tonight, that one of the greatest rallies of the 1960 campaign was in this very place. I didn't think then that it could be surpassed, but I say tonight to those who have helped put on this rally, to the county leaders, to all of them, that this is the biggest and best ever, and it means that we are going to carry the state of New York.

	And I want to express my appreciation, too, to all of those who have entertained you earlier, to Lionel Hampton. I think I will take him along as my permanent master of ceremonies. Boy, how he can charge up an audience. And to Frankie Fontaine, I could take him, too, and all of those who have been participating and entertaining you, my grateful thanks to you.

	And may I also express my appreciation, too, to the thousands here, the Nixonaires and the Nixonettes, and all this audience.

	And I want to say to you that one of the great things about this campaign is the tremendous number of young people that we have seen, and all over America it's the same. The young people are on the march because they want a better future, and we are going to provide a better future for you.

	And now, my friends, I know that tonight this rally is for the candidate for president. I know, too, however, that on this platform are other candidates. And also it happens that a long time friend of mine who went to a rival college of mine, years after I did, and who became a great star for the Buffalo Bills, Jack Kemp, is here. And I know, too, that Jack Kemp would be the first to say it doesn't make any difference how good the passer is, it doesn't make any difference how good the quarterback is, it doesn't make any difference how good the captain is, if you don't have that team.

	And I want to say that I am very proud to be on the same team with a man that I came to the Congress with twenty-one years ago. I said then he was one of the brightest men, most intelligent men that had ever come to that Congress, Jack Javits, your Senator running for re-election. And he is being joined by another who is making a brilliant record in the Congress, Charlie Goodell.

	And I would like at this point for not only those two, one of course is a candidate, the other is not, he runs next time--but I would like also for the candidates for Congress and the candidates for the State Legislature on this platform please to stand with me. Here is your team. Look at them.

	And I just leave this one thought with you. Naturally I am tremendously interested in how you vote for president. But, my friends, remember that we need help in the Senate and the House of Representatives if we are going to do the job that you want done in America. And here in the state of New York, as Governor Rockefeller would tell you, he needs the help in the Assembly and in the State Senate, and so give all these men your support. It's a great team, so that we can do the job for you.

	And now, as you see this great crowd in this hall tonight, I am sure that many of you wonder if this is something that is just happening here? Because so many are here, standing, not able to get in even outside. And I want to tell you, my friends, that what you see in Buffalo tonight, it's gone on in Chicago, in San Francisco, in Houston, in Detroit, in Pittsburgh, in Miami, all over America, the word is the same.

	The American people are on the march, and they are going to get new leadership with your help in November. I can assure you, my friends, that as one who has been in more national campaigns than probably any living American, I am not one to stand here and say that because we have these great crowds, because most of the experts think we may be ahead, that we are taking anything for granted. I think you should know that as far as I am concerned now is the time to sock it to 'em, and that's what we are going to do.

	My friends, just for the benefit of those who may be old enough, and that's very few down in these front rows, but just for the benefit of those who may be old enough to remember the year 1948, let me tell you, my friends, it isn't going to be like '48. I know that Mr. Humphrey says it's going to be like '48. You remember that was the year that Harry Truman gave them hell. Well, I don't think it's going to work this time, because it's one thing to give them hell, but it's something else to give them Humphrey.

	This year, my friends, the American people are on the march as they have not been in any campaign in my political lifetime. And I want to tell you who they are. These are not just Republican crowds. They are Republicans and Democrats and Independents, because we must unite this great country to do the job, and it's going to take a coalition of Americans to do it.

	Second, these are not just voters and older people. They are younger people, people who cannot vote because they are thinking of the future. This is a great cross-section of America.

	And, third, this great audience that we see, and across this nation it's the same, there are the workers, there are the managers, there are people from all segments of American life, because Americans recognize that this is one of those years when we must not think in partisan terms, when we must not think in sectional terms, when we must not think in class terms.

	But we got to think of America, and that's what we stand for, what is best for America in this campaign. And I want to tell you why the American people are concerned. Across this land, whether you go to the north or the east or the west or the south, it's the same. Across this land Americans are concerned because they realize that the choice they make this year is the clearest choice and the most important choice they will make in their political lifetime. And here is that choice, and remember it, get it in your minds, because I am going to ask you to carry this message to your friends and your neighbors from now on out.

	My friends, the choice is this. The other party at its convention in Chicago nominated a man who helped to make the policies of the past four years, who has defended those policies more articulately and more uncompromisingly than any other man. He is a man who pledges to continue those policies. He, in effect, is saying to the American people that if he is elected he is going to give us four more years of what we have had. And I say, my friends, America can't afford four years of Hubert Humphrey in the White House.

	My friends, let us look back, let us look not in partisan terms of Republican versus Democratic, but again put yourself in the position of Americans concerned about your country. Look back over the last four years. Look back to the time that Dwight Eisenhower left office in January. See what has happened to America and then see whether you think we continue down the same road or we take a new road.

	And I say as we look at that road, here's what we find. You know what this country is. This is the place. This is the greatest country. You know that the United States of America has been a nation that has stood for years as a nation of peace and progress and leadership and excellence. And yet during the stewardship of the present administration over the past four years, what has happened? Listen to the record.

	Progress has been in retreat; leadership has given way to indecisiveness; and the pursuit of excellence has been relegated to the acceptance of the second rate.

	Eight years ago, you remember, the United States stood as the undisputed leader of the forces of freedom and peace in the world. And today, not only are we at war in Vietnam and have we been for four years, not a moment of peace, but the prospects for real peace are less, the danger of wider war is greater and respect for America is lower in every area of the world than it was eight years ago. And I say we need a change based on what has happened.

	Listen to the record. Over those years we have spent $450 billion, a half a trillion, on defense. And yet we have seen our military power become eroded and eroded until presently the superiority of the United States is threatened, and they will pass us unless we get new policies.

	We find that we have spent $35 billion in the race for space, and yet when Mr. Webb resigned that office he said that the United States was second in space and not because we had not spent enough money.

	We have seen our long lead in science, of which we have been so proud, we have seen it eroded away until now there is a crucial research gap which the people of America must face up to and do something about and which we can do something about through the great educational institutions of this state, which your governor, incidentally, is supporting in this particular area here.

	We have found that over these years we have lost half of our gold. We have found that for the first time in America's history the American dollar isn't as good as gold around the world. We have seen respect for the United States of America sink so low that a fourth-rate military power like North Korea would dare to seize an American naval vessel on the high seas. And I say it's time for leadership when that happens.

	But, my friends, respect abroad is one thing. Let's look at the situation at home. We have seen respect for order and justice under the law in this great country which is supposed to be the symbol of progress with justice under the law, we have seen that justice and that law and order decline until last year 12,000 people were killed in violent crimes, there were 200,000 hospitalized, billions of dollars lost, and I say to you tonight, and this is my challenge to you, and this is the commitment I ask you to make: isn't it time to make the United States first again, first in peace?

	My friends, let's make America first in peace, let's make America first in respect in the world, let's make America first in our military power so that we can use it for peace, let's make America first in space, let's make America first in research and development. Let's make it first in the confidence in our dollar and let's make America first again in respect for order and justice under law. Now, isn't that what you want? Isn't that where we are going to go?

	I say to you tonight, my friends, the policies that led to America's retreat, those policies are not the ones to lead a forward march. The team that settled for second-rate now suddenly is not going to bring on the decades of progress that we need. What we need is the new leadership that recognized that wealth without guidance is sterile, that greatness without leadership soon becomes power without purpose.

	And so we need new leadership, new direction, new inspiration which will top the slide toward second rank, and we can do it.

	I say to you, my friends, we begin--and now, my friends, I want to tell you what you are going to be voting for. The new leadership that a new administration can provide. And we begin with a new foreign policy for America, a new foreign policy which will end the war in which we are involved in an honorable way and will bring that war to a conclusion.

	My friends, I say to you that when we look over the past four years, when we recognize that I, along with others, have criticized the conduct of that war, that if our criticisms had been listened to the war might now well be over, and when we look at a situation that at the present time in a responsible way we are saying nothing that will undercut our negotiators, I say that if peace does not come by the time this election is reached, then turn away from the men that are tied to the policies of the past and let us who can approach these problems with a fresh hand and a fresh eye--give us the chance and we will bring this war to an honorable conclusion.

	My friends, our new foreign policy must go much further than that. We must strengthen America so that we will be able to negotiate from a position of strength. And as we negotiate from that position of strength, we will avoid that nuclear confrontation that we all want to avoid. And we need a new foreign policy direction in another way. We must strengthen America's alliance with Europe and develop our friends around the world, for a fundamental reason.

	Look at what America has done over the past twenty years. Over the past twenty years the United States has been generous with its money, $150 billion in foreign aid, and yet over these past twenty years we have also furnished most of the men to help other nations, Korea and then Vietnam, defend their freedom.

	And I say to you, my friends, America is a rich country and America is a strong country and we have 200 million people. But there are two billion people that live in the free world, and I think we need a new foreign policy in which other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world. Let us have as our objectives, my friends, recognizing that our responsibilities are not to turn to isolation but to help others to fight their wars if they have to be fought, but not to fight the wars for them, these are new directions.

	And I would say finally that as you see a candidate and he speaks to you in these terms, you wonder, can he produce? And, my friends, I say you look at the record and as you look at that record--it's quite obvious in this audience, as I have said on a previous occasion, that the difference between a Humphrey meeting and a Nixon meeting, that here the hecklers are shouted down by the people that are for us.

	My friends, to those of you who say, "Who can provide the leadership," I contrast the two men. One, a member of an administration in which we have had no peace for four years. and I am proud to have had a good teacher. I served in an administration in which we ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's the kind of leadership America wants today.

	My friends, if we are going to keep the peace abroad, if we are going to lead the forces of law abroad, we have to restore peace in America, because if a nation can't keep the peace at home, it isn't going to be trusted to the task of leading the forces of peace abroad.

	And so we look at the two candidates here and we again see a contrast. On the one side Mr. Humphrey, nominated by the other party, defends the record of the last four years. He defends the Department of Justice, he defends the Attorney General and his conduct of that office, and that Attorney General is the one who has said that there is no crime wave of significance in the United States.

	And this is my answer. My friends, I say to you as I look back over those four years, when I see that crime has gone up nine times as fast as population, when I see that we have had riots in 300 cities, 200 dead and 7,000 injured and a quarter of a billion dollars in property damage, and when I see according to the President's Commission that 43 percent of the American people are afraid to walk the streets at night, I say we need a housecleaning, a new attorney general, and new leadership that will restore respect for law and order.

	My friends, I have a program which will do that. It will restore respect for law and we will have laws that deserve respect. A national council on law enforcement, a national academy for the training of those who will come back and be the experts in local communities.

	It can be done. It will be the first priority of the Nixon administration. You give me the chance and we will stop the rise of crime in America. That's what we will do. My friends, we do not stop here. We go far beyond that, because not only do we want peace, law and order at home, that uneasy order that comes when those who might break the law are repressed because they fear what might happen in the way of criminal felonies, but the real order that comes when the great masses of the American people have the lamp of hope lit in their homes, wherever they may be, and that's why I say that we are proud to present to the American people in this campaign a new road to progress, a new road that America should be on and a new road that will provide an opportunity for all Americans, for white Americans, for black Americans, to have an equal chance at the starting line. That's what we will provide if you give us that chance.

	Here again, you have a contrast between two candidates. On the one side the other candidate says that he is going to continue the programs of the past four years. What are they? Billions of dollars for federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare, and so he says more of the same.

	And let me tell you my answer. What have programs done? All we have reaped is a harvest of frustration, of failure and riot. And, my friends, I say when you are on the wrong road that reaches you to a dead end, let's get off that road and take a new road, and give us that chance to bring you on that new road. That new road tonight, my friends, that new road is one that most Americans will recognize as one we have traveled, but we have new direction signs because we have learned from the past. And that new road recognizes that when we look at America and where we are, that we became the richest country and that we are--it recognizes this fundamental truth, that America is a great nation, that we have waged the most successful war on poverty ever waged in the history of nations for 190 years in this country. How did we do it? And remember this, if you forget everything else I say. America is a great nation not because of what government did for people, but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years. That's why tonight we stand for programs that will care for the aged, that will provide the Social Security benefits and an increase in those benefits automatically whenever the cost of living goes up. That is why we stand for programs that will care for those in need. But that is why we also stand for programs that where individuals can care for themselves. Let our goal in America be not more millions on welfare rolls but more millions on payrolls in the United States of America.

	That is why our programs, programs that your own Charlie Goodell sponsored in the House, that Senator Javits sponsored in the Senate, let's provide through private enterprise the tax credits to train the unemployed. Let's provide to private enterprise the incentives to build the housing so that people, instead of living in government housing, can have the pride of owning their own house and their own apartment. Then they will have something to defend.

	My friends, and let us provide in addition to that not just the jobs and the housing, but let us provide for every American, through new programs, a chance to become an owner and manager, because as people get a stake in private enterprise, then they will be for this system and not against it.

	That's what we stand for and that's what you are voting for in this election campaign.

	My friends, as we look across this nation today and as we look across America, we are all keenly aware, I am sure, that we stand at one of these great moments in history. I am keenly aware of it because I have traveled this world, not only as Vice President but many times around the world since then. Let me tell you how significant this period in history is. For the first time in the history of the world and the history of America, what happens in America and America alone will determine whether peace or freedom survives in the world. Because no other nation in the free world has the power. That wasn't true in the first third of the century before World War I. It wasn't true in the second third of the century before World War II, when decisions in London and Paris and Berlin and Tokyo decided whether there was war or peace. But now here's where the action is. Here's the responsibility. And the question is, is America ready? Are you ready? Are the American people ready?

	And my answer is, my friends, America is ready. Oh, we have our problems, but I have never seen a country that was richer, richer not only in material wealth but richer in the motivation of its young people. Ours is a good people. Ours is a people who know that this isn't going to be a good country for any of us to live in if it isn't a good country for all of us to live in. And this great nation, I say to you, is ready to meet its rendezvous with destiny.

	We are going to solve our problems at home. We are going again to be first in peace and first in respect for law and first in respect throughout the world, so that America will be able to provide the leadership that will mean peace for us and peace for others. And let me put it in quite personal terms so that you can see it as we travel about the world.

	I rode a few years ago along a road in the Urals in Russia and I remember children throwing into the car flowers, and as they threw the flowers into the car, they shouted the word "Friendship," and my interpreter said that friendship was the first word they learned of English.

	I was in Poland just a week later, and as I rode through the streets of Warsaw 250,000 Poles threw flowers into our car, and they cried, "Niech zyje Amerika"--long live America. Why?

	And across this world I can say to you that at the present time, my friends, whether it's in the Soviet Union or whether it's in Poland or whether it's in Hungary or Rumania or Czechoslovakia or in Latin America, the hopes of the world for peace and freedom, they are with us and so it is up to us. And I say to you we cannot fail this challenge--we will not fail it--and with your help we will win a great victory for America and a great victory for peace.
CRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEMILITARY PREPAREDNESSPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYSPACE EXPLORATIONVIETNAM WAR     KW W W W W
 V V V V V V V V	  	  	  	 s 	 ^ 	 I 	 2 	  	  e: