

	Thank you very, very much. Dr. Vagelos ladies and gentlemen. I am elated to be here at the headquarters of this magnificent company and such good company.

	I want to thank all those who are here with me. I want to thank Governor Florio for being here and for the work he has done in health care.

	And to remind those of you who received him in the beginning that state governments are not like the federal government. We don't get to print money and we have to balance our books.

	And I thank him for his innovations in health care and other areas. I want to say a word of thanks to Senator Harris Wofford, who has been an inspiration to me, and to Senator Jay Rockefeller, who used to serve with me as a governor. You need to know something else about these two people. Jay Rockefeller whispered to me when Harris Wofford got up to speak that America knows Harris Wofford now as the United States senator who put health care on the nation's agenda, but many years ago, Jay said Harris Wofford personally convinced me to join the Peace Corps and give something to the world.

	Harris Wofford has spent a lifetime trying to solve the problems of this country and the human problems of human beings all over the world, and I think the work that he and Jay Rockefeller have done in health care is immensely commendable.

	Let me say one other thing to you. I want to say a little more about Merck. But one of the things that impressed me about Merck that may not be so well known is that a magazine for working women declared that Merck was one of the top ten family friendly companies in the United States.

And in that connection, I think I should announce that thanks to Senator Wofford and Senator Rockefeller and Senator Bradley and Senator Lautenberg and sixty-four others, this morning the United States Senate overrode President Bush's veto of the Family Leave Act.

	Merck has been for six years now declared by Fortune magazine the most admired company in the United States of America.

	I know something about admired companies. My wife was on the board of the Wal-Mart Corporation, Arkansas' fastest growing company for many years. I have been interested in quality management, running a big operation, which is what a government is. My state was the first state in the country to institute total quality management for the entire state government. I know it's easy to talk about things and more difficult to get results.

	In 1987, as you heard Dr. Vagelos say, this company decided to give the drug to Africa to combat river blindness. In 1989, in the face of prescription drugs going at three times the national average in price, this company, without announcement, decided it would keep its drug prices in line with inflation and it has done so since then.

	One of the real problems with the people who control the White House today is that they have such a lousy record and no vision. The only way they think they can stay in power is to stomp out free speech, end honest debate, and divert the attention of the American people.

	And I must say, if they're that desperate to stay in, it may be the only way they can do it.

	I want to say that I decided to come here to Merck today not because the management of this company or its employees will agree with everything I have to say about health care, but because this company represents what we can do as Americans if we set our minds to it. And I think we have to see this problem in the context of the overall American economic scene.

	This has to be part of our efforts to restore growth, improve education, and manage change in a tough global economy. It's part of a plan to create a high-wage, high-growth, high-opportunity society in American, to educate and train our people, to develop new energy policies, new environmental policies, to promote both personal responsibility and family security. And in that context, we have to do what we all agree we should do--promote control of costs, access to health care and maintain quality.

	I have offered this country plan that maintains the Promise of America's health card system, ground breaking research and development excellence in providers--that deals with the problems that are well known, but bears some repeating here.

	Since 1980, the cost increase in American health care has outstripped the rate of any other country in any previous decade in America, going from aggregate expenditures of $250 billion in 1980 to in excess of $800 billion this year. Family and individual spending on health care has tripled in the last decade. Out-of-pocket spending--listen to this--out-of-pocket spending by senior citizens as a percentage of their income will be greater this year than it was in the year before Medicare was adopted. Elderly people are spending a bigger percentage of their income on health care today than they were before Medicare came in.

	Companies are forced to move jobs overseas because of health care costs and people can't change jobs because they or someone in their family have pre-existing conditions which would preclude them from getting health insurance if they change. There are people in this audience today who either are covered by that or have someone in their family affected by that condition.

	We have been losing--listen to this--in the last four years, we have been losing on average almost 100,000 people a month from any health care coverage at all--over a million a year. A recent analysis estimated that 200,000 jobs have been lost in the last four years because of rising health care costs alone in the private sector.

	We are spending 30 percent more of our income than any nation on Earth on health care and in our hospitals today. Clerical employment is growing at four times the rate of health care giver employment.

	All of this leads to heartbreaking stories, some of which have been mentioned, but let me just tell you that from the beginning to the end of this presidential campaign process I have seen these people. I met a young man in New Hampshire whose child had open heart surgery and he couldn't get anybody to hire him after his family business went under because they couldn't afford to take his child in the health insurance system.

	I met a young couple in Columbus, Ohio, who had three children and the youngest of their children was born with cerebral palsy. They were insured at the young woman's place of employment, a community nonprofit organization with only twenty employees. When the child was born, the company was left with the choice of either firing her or having premiums go up an average of $200 a month per employee.

	I met a woman with seven children--a divorcee--who is supporting her children with a $50,000 income. Her youngest child developed a serious health problem with monumental costs, and the only way she could get any help at all--the only way she could get any help at all--was to leave her job to qualify for Medicaid, by becoming a welfare recipient, instead of an American productive worker with a $50,000 income.

	I met a young couple in Detroit a couple of days ago when I went to Michigan for the debate that didn't happen. In the midst of all the rhetoric that occupies the front lines of the newspapers, most of which has very little to do with how we'll live on the day after the election, this young couple stood up and the woman was in tears because she had gotten AIDS and her baby had AIDS and these young people thought that no one really cared about them or whether the child, particularly, would have a chance to live.

	Our infant mortality and low-birth-weight rates are too high. Our life expectancy, given our national wealth, is too low. We are not getting the system that we are paying for, and nobody is paying as much as we are for health care. That's why I have pledged that within the first one hundred days of a Clinton administration I would submit a comprehensive health care plan for real change that deals with costs and coverage and access, with quality and the maintenance of consumer choice. One that would have less micro-management by the federal government, but more effective control of costs; one that would encourage us to use market incentives to manage to get costs down.

	Everybody wants change now--working families and businesses, states and cities, doctors and nurses. Eighty percent of all the strikes in America today are not over wages. They are over health care benefits. We cannot afford to let any more time go by before we address this problem.

	Last week the American College of Physicians--a group of 77,000 doctors--joined the American Nurses Association, a business group called the National Leadership Coalition on Health Care and the American Association of Family Physicians in endorsing health care plans remarkably similar to the one that I have recommended.

	As has already been said, states all across America are trying to address these issues. Oregon, Minnesota, Vermont--the state with the only doctor in the governor's office in the country--has a comprehensive health care plan under consideration. California--there are a couple of places which give us models in America that prove we can cover everybody and control costs. The state of Hawaii has a plan under which 98 percent of the people who live in Hawaii are covered by their employers, and health care premiums there are much lower than the national average. And before you jump to the conclusion of saying, well, we all know they're more healthy out there, let me remind you that 20 percent of the people who are in the Hawaiian health care system are native islanders who come to the Hawaiian Islands for health care and they live. in poverty.

	Rochester, New York--because of the remarkable leadership of the business community and cooperation with health care providers--have developed a plan which provides virtually universal coverage for people who live in the city of Rochester and health insurance premiums in that city are now only two-thirds the national average, covering everybody and stopping the cost shifting that is wracking this country.

	For the last five years in Germany, health care costs have cone up slightly less than the rate of inflation, while they have gone up in this country at over twice the rate of inflation, and government health costs have gone up at about two and a half times the rate of inflation. That may be one reason why the average German factory worker makes 20 percent more than the average American for working a shorter work week, gets four weeks paid vacation, family leave, and has comprehensive health care. We must do something about this problem if we want to preserve opportunity for all Americans.

	The fundamental difference between my plan and the Bush plan has already been laid out. The Bush plan would put another $100 billion in tax credits through the same system between now and 1997, pouring good money after bad with no plan for cost control. It would not mandate any kind of universal coverage. It would not deal with the very real problems of access that many of our people have in inner cities and rural areas. It would cut continually Medicare benefits which would continue the cost shifting that providers do now when they get underpaid for Medicare or Medicaid or when they have to deal with uncompensated care. They just shift the costs on to the employees of Merck and other companies that have health insurance, and that further adds to the administrative burden and drives prices up. This plan is too little, too late, and everybody who has examined it knows it.

	I do not want to further contribute to the rhetorical hot air today. I want to try to tell you exactly what I think we ought to do. Usually when this issue is discussed by my opponent, he says that I offer you a national system that will bankrupt small business and have all the compassion of the KGB and the confidence of the House Post Office.

	Now; those--are very good lines,--but I remind you that, they are being uttered by a person who has enjoyed the benefits of socialized medicine for the last twelve years.

	What we need to do is to cut through all the bull and ask ourselves how are we going to address these problems--costs, coverage, access. How can we get costs in line with inflation and the whole American health care system, following the lead of Merck? We have to require change from all the major players in this system--change from the providers, from the insurers from the drug companies, from the government and from consumers.

	There ought to be the following points in national reform. First of all, we have to change the system by which people are insured in this country. We must require insurance companies to go back to broad-based community ratings and we must require people not to be denied access to health coverage because of pre-existing conditions.

	Secondly, there must be national spending targets for aggregate health care expenditures every year and a required comprehensive schedule of benefits offered at a minimum by employers. These two things should be done not by government but by a board composed of consumers and providers--people who know what they're talking about.

	If you did these two things, you could then drastically simplify the administrative costs of the American health care system. Only the United States has 1,500 separate health insurance companies writing thousands of different policies, all of which have to be kept up with by bookkeepers in doctors' offices and hospitals throughout America and on top of that, they have to keep up with a blizzard of rules for Medicare and Medicaid and for different categories of people under those programs constantly changing, irregularly enforced, and hard to understand.

	[missing text] . . . government to cover all the non-employed in a program which requires people to pay in accordance with their ability to pay and not more. We can do that and still be fair to small employers if we do three things.

	First of all, phase in the requirement for small businesses to cover their employees over a period of years as savings are achieved so that the unit cost of covering the, employees is less. Secondly, provide opportunities for small business people to go into large pools so that they can achieve the same costs per employee that large companies like Merck can achieve. And third, in the early years of transition, provide tax credits for those employees and businesses so we can make sure that no one loses their work by covering their workers.

	Now, if we do this, let me point out something. Every time I say something like this, people say, well, there you go again. You're going to really hurt small businesses. Most small businesses in this country insure their employees. They are being hurt by the system we have. They are going broke under the system we have. We have to think about them, too.

	And I want to point out--and I'll come back to this later--the major savings which will be achieved over the next decade with a comprehensive national health system like this will not be in tax dollars. They will be in private dollars. If we can cover everybody and bring costs within inflation, we will save hundreds of billions of dollars per year by the end of the decade to the private sector--money which can then be reinvested in growth and productivity and wages and benefits and making America a stronger country. It is very important.

	The fourth thing we have to do is to give people real incentives to be in managed care networks so that the costs can be held down by the forces of the marketplace and by companies that are well managed, as this one is.

	The fifth thing we have to do is to recognize that even if you cover everybody, not everyone will have access in the world we're living in today.

	Some money has to be set aside, just as Hawaii now does, to establish primary and preventive health care clinics in our inner city areas and in our rural areas, either in health clinics--public health clinics--in schools or in places of work, so that people can actually reach the health care that we say they're entitled to.

	Next, we have to emphasize health education and prevention in school and the work place. We don't do nearly enough of it. In areas like AIDS, it's a matter of life and death. In areas like maintaining a healthy physique to minimize heart disease and stroke, it can be a matter of life and death, and it's always a matter of productivity and costs to the American health care system.

	The American consumers are going to have to do more in terms of education and prevention, and we have to do more in the schools and in the workplace to provide support for those efforts.

	Over time we should phase in long-term care through the Medicare program so that people can purchase less expensive but more comprehensive options. Most people with disabilities and most elderly people today are under a system that requires them to spend themselves into poverty and then to go into a nursing home in order to get any help at all from their government.

	We should be moving towards a period of greater independence. With the fastest-growing group of Americans being people over eighty, with more and more people with disabilities realizing the fullness of their God-given potential, we have no choice other than to build a comprehensive long-term care network that emphasizes in-home services, personal care services, mobility to senior citizen centers or to other adult day care centers, access to the workplace. We have all kinds of things that we'll have to do. People should be required to pay for these things, again based on their ability to pay, but we cannot afford, in the direction we're going, given the population we have, to continue to have a long-term care system that says spend yourself into poverty, then we'll put you into a nursing home. We have to do more and different things.

	And finally, I think we have to do more with research and development. We have to continue to invest in health care research. The pharmaceutical companies do a lot of it. There are a lot of incentives to do it. But there are all kinds of other health research that needs to be done. That's why I was so disturbed when the health research bill was vetoed a few weeks ago by Mr. Bush because of the fetal tissue issue.

	And let me just say that bill had $300 million for breast cancer research. It would have done more for research on ovarian cancer. It would have done more for research into osteoporosis among women. It would have set up a women's health research center in our national government. And I have a friend in Carolina who has a child who means more to him than anybody in the world, who has terrible diabetic problems. The kid is very athletic. He does fine, but every now and then he goes into insulin shock. And he knows, my friend, a conservative businessperson, that fetal tissue research can do more to help solve the problems of his child's diabetes than any other known avenue of medical research. We should take the politics out of this and go back to a real commitment to research and development in our country.

	So that's my plan. Personal choice, private care, private insurance, private management, but a national system to put a lid on costs, to require insurance reforms, to facilitate partnerships between business, government, and health care providers. These are the things that we have to do. And I think they are terribly important.

	Again I will say we have to have a national budget ceiling. That would be the most controversial thing across the country, I guess, but we have to have that, and we have to have a national comprehensive package mandated. We cannot go on with 1,500 separate companies writing thousands of policies, and the blizzard of variations caused by the national government itself. We are spending nearly $200 billion a year in paperwork and bureaucracy alone and it is too much.

	We have got to stop spending billions of dollars having insurance companies trying to minimize risk instead of insure health care, deciding who to cover and who to overcharge. We have got to change that. We need a single set of billing codes, a single national claims form, computerized claims. Eventually everybody will be able to carry a smart card which will save tens of billions of dollars in the billing alone. These things must be done.

	Secondly, with a national health budget, we will be able to keep costs within inflation.

	There is no starker example of these problems than what a lot of people face now in the curious mix of cost and coverage as it relates to prescription drugs. Over the last twelve years prescription drugs, unlike the practice of the last few years at Merck, have increased at three times the rate of inflation. And according to the Department of Health and Human Services, many European countries, because of their policies, are paying half what Americans pay for the same prescription drugs that are often actually made here in America.

	Three out of four older Americans say their highest out-of-pocket medical expense is for prescription drugs. More than 18 million say they have trouble paying for their prescriptions, and 8 million Americans over the age of 45 say they have to cut back on essentials like food and fuel in order to pay for medicine.

	When I was in New Hampshire I actually saw this in a senior citizens' living center where a couple named Mary Annie and Edward Davis actually broke down and cried talking to me because they had not one scrap of food in their refrigerator upstairs, in the place they were living, because they had to spend their money every week to keep one of them alive on medicine. Why? Governor Florio mentioned it. They were eligible for Medicare, which doesn't cover medicine, and they weren't poor enough for Medicaid. But their medical requirements were not taken into account in determining whether they were poor or not.

	Only a national system can solve mindless problems like this, and we need to have one. But we also must address the fact that not every company in this country has been as responsible as this one is in the runaway costs, not of new experimental drugs--I think the market should pay what is appropriate to cover all research and development costs of bringing those drugs to market, and they are enormous--but for regular drugs.

	That's why I have endorsed my Senator David Pryor's proposal to end special breaks for companies that do not keep the costs of traditional already-established drugs within inflation. We spend $50 billion a year in this country on prescription drugs. We must, we must get the cost of those that are already in the market in line with inflation.

	But we have to do more. We have to decide what we're going to spend on health care and then spend it in a sensible way.

	Now, every time I say this, those people who attack me say, there they go again, they want to ration health care. I don't want to ration health care. That's why I want a sensible system. We are rationing health care today. If you don't believe it look at the infant mortality rate. Look at the low birth weight rate. Look at the people who don't have long-term care who need it. Look at the people who don't get medicine who need it. We are rationing health care today, but we are doing it in sneaky, bureaucratic, confusing, absolutely indefensible ways, and we ought to change it.

	I want to keep consumers with a variety of choices, including access to local health care networks put together by insurers, hospitals, clinics, and doctors--managed care networks that will receive the money they need to meet a consumer's full health care needs over a lifetime. By limiting a network's total spending, without interfering at all with its practices, the state-by-state budgets that I recommend will create real incentives for hospitals, clinics, doctors and consumers to reduce bureaucracy, eliminate unnecessary duplicative technology and practices, and cut waste on their own.

	This is very, very important. We've got to quit having the federal government try to micro-manage health care and instead set up incentives for the private sector to manage the costs down within limits, beyond which we absolutely must not go in spending. These things will really help, especially when we provide the same incentives for small businesses to band together in large pools, so we do not discriminate against small business. Eighty-five percent of the jobs in America in the last twelve years have been created in units of under fifty. We have got to promote that.

	But I remind you, over two-thirds of the small businesses in this country do today cover their employees, and they are getting murdered. The fair thing to do is to require everybody to have coverage, but to make that coverage affordable, manageable, predictable. That will lead to increased sanity, security, and productivity in the workplace and, as I said, over the next decade, will free up literally hundreds of billions of dollars for reinvestment in the private sector.

	Imagine what that can mean. Imagine what that can mean. We should start with covering the people that have to be covered--the uninsured, beginning with pregnant women and their little children and helping small businesses to move into coverage. But by the end of this decade, we will have a health care system that is the envy of the world, not only for the best doctors, the best pharmaceuticals, the best health care that the best of us can afford, the wealthy of us can afford, those of us that have the best policies now. We will have a system that also has American entrepreneurial ingenuity holding costs within inflation and providing basic, good quality, affordable health care to all of our people. I think that's what we should have and I think that's what most Americans want.

	This is a private system. It is not pay or play. It does not require new taxes. It will preserve what is best about the present health care system, but it will also incorporate what we have learned about what is wrong.

	My fellow Americans, we are the only advanced nation in the world that does not provide basic health care to all its citizens We spend 30 percent more of our income than any other country in the world on health care at a time when we desperately need to spend more on new plants, new equipment, new businesses, reinvesting in the education and training of our citizens, and rebuilding our cities and our depressed rural areas.

	We cannot go on like this. This needs to be beyond partisan political debate, beyond the shallow and simplified rhetoric of hurtling arrows at one's opponent. This is a matter that is critical for the future of this country's survival.

	And I ask you, I ask you, in the next forty days--whatever your party or your position, whether you agree with the specifics that I have recommended or not, do not let this forty days go by without making a decision that you, as an American voter, will insist and demand that this problem be solved, not in another ten years but next year. That is as major, major, major factor in what ought to determine the outcome of this election for president of the United States.

	Thank you very much and God bless you all.
HEALTH CARE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCESPHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRYHEALTH CAREHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCE     k k k k k
 k k k k k k Wk Lk	 { 	 V 	 =  &   e: