
	We've been hearing a lot recently about American's prosperity. But you here in Wilkes-Barre know better than most how uneven, how lopsided, how incomplete this prosperity is. The income of big corporations has gone up, but the income of small business has gone down. The income of the food processing companies has gone up, but the income of farmers has gone down. The income of the big banks has gone up, but veterans and married couples all over the country are paying for this through the nose every time they try to buy a house.

	Now I know that the Republicans tell us that we shouldn't worry our heads about these matters. President Eisenhower spoke the other day about what he called these "fancied ills" which so disturb Democrats. But I say that every American must be concerned with the weak spots in our economy. And I say that it is only by strengthening these weak spots that we can realize the full promise of American abundance.

	Many communities in our country--through no fault of their own--suffer from excessive unemployment. This is a big problem here and in other parts of Pennsylvania, in the southern part of my own state of Illinois, in New England, in the rural countries of the South, and in many, many places all across the nation. It is a tough problem, but that is no reason for not trying to lick it.

	There are some who say: If a man can't get a job in his hometown, let him go look for one somewhere else. Now, if a man or woman wants to move to another town to seek a future there, that is in keeping with the American tradition, but the love of home is also part of the American tradition.

	In depressed areas where there are not enough jobs to go around, one answer is to create more jobs right there. This is a task that in some cases requires efforts beyond the capacity of private enterprise and local government.

	In your own state of Pennsylvania, and in its communities, some very constructive work in this field has been done. But one of the big problems has been the lack of adequate machinery for making the lessons of successful experience in one area available to guide other areas. There is a scarcity of trained people and lack of adequate funds where they are most needed.

	This is clearly a field in which a vigorous federal program can backstop and supplement local efforts. There were people in Congress who recognized this. Some of them were Republicans, although most of them were Democrats. One of the chiefs among them was your own Dan Flood, who joined with my friend Paul Douglas of Illinois in introducing a bill to provide a Federal program.

	Now the administration began to get worried. It decided there might be some political gold in these bills, and it wouldn't do to let the Democrats walk away with it. So it drafted an administration bill, which had two distinctive features. One, it would consign the execution of the program to the Department of Commerce and the tender mercies of that champion of the people, Sinclair Weeks. Two, it was characterized in all its provisions by those twin trademarks of the Eisenhower Administration: Too Little and Too Late.

	Hearings were held in Congress. Bills were reported by the Committees in both Houses. These were not the administration bills, but good, substantial Democratic bills. They would set up a man-sized program to do a man-sized job, and would create a new, independent agency to administer it. The Democrats, you see, meant business.

	The Flood-Douglas bill was taken up in the Senate, debated, and passed by a vote of sixty to thirty. Forty-four Democrats voted for the bill and only three against it. Sixteen Republicans voted for the bill and twenty-seven against it.

	It was on July 27, 1956, that the Senate passed the bill. Congress was to be in session only one more day. The next developments were fantastic.

	Let me tell you in the words of your own Congressman Flood what happened when the House of Representatives received this bill after its passage by the Senate. I quote from his remarks in the Congressional Record (July 28, 1956, p. A5984):

	."I immediately moved and obtained the consent of the majority leadership of the House...[Speaker Rayburn and Democratic Leader McCormack] to have this bill called up in the House under suspension of the rules. Mr. Rayburn and Mr. McCormack advised me they would do so, if... [Mr. Martin] the minority leader would agree. I immediately contacted the two gentlemen from Pennsylvania [Mr. Van Zandt and Fenton] and enlisted their aid in view of the fact that both... represent such distressed economic areas, and each had introduced similar bills this year... I was advised by the gentlemen from Pennsylvania, that an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, Mr. Corwin, stated the administration would not accept the Douglas-Flood bill. I talked to the Secretary of Commerce, Mr. Weeks, on the telephone immediately, acquainted him with the situation..., and he said he would dispatch his assistant, Mr. Mueller, to the Capitol at once, to discuss the matter... with Mr. Van Zandt and Mr. Fenton. This was done.

	"Two hours later, Mr. Van Zandt and Mr. Fenton advised me that the administration was adamant and against any bill whatsoever...

	"The Democratic leadership even agreed to call up on the floor for final passage... the administration bill, the very bill the President asked the Congress to pass on this problem. The Department of Commerce spokesman and the Republican leadership of the House refused even to agree to consider the administration bill as proposed by the President."

	And so, my friends, that is the way the bill died--knifed in the back by the Republican administration.

	Then the story has a sequel, which is perhaps the most revealing part of all. The week after Congress adjourned, the President had a press conference. A reporter asked why the Republicans had refused to back the legislation.

	The President answered as follows: "You are telling me something now that I didn't know. As a matter of fact, it is one piece of legislation I was disappointed was not passed, and I don't know the reason lying behind it."

	It is any wonder we ask, "Who's in charge here?"

	Unfortunately, this failure of leadership on the depressed areas bill is not unique. In other vital matters as well, it has appeared that the President has not known or has not cared what was going on. This may well have cost us the school aid legislation we need so badly for the sake of our children. This may explain why the administration entered into the scandalous Dixon-Yates contract which the Department of Justice now says is "in violation of the statutes and laws of the United States, and is unlawful, null and void." This may explain why the administration waited four years--and after Congress had adjourned in the election year--before it even brought out a program to help small business. I do not question to President's motives. I only point to the results. The results are what hurt the American people.

	The President has asked to be judged on his record. I have placed part of that record before you today. We are all indebted to Dan Flood for the light he has shed upon it.

	The lesson is this: action to help create jobs in areas where men and women need jobs is not going to come from this administration.

	And I assure you that such action will come--and the record leaves no question of it--from a Democratic administration.

	For the Democratic party is dedicated above all to one thing--to the meeting of human needs.

	We mean to build schools for our children.

	We mean to build hospitals and expand medical care for those who are sick.

	We mean to increase the minimum wage for our workingmen and women.

	We mean to restore income and a decent life for our farmers.

	We mean to provide security in their old age for our elder citizens.

	We mean to use the teeming abundance of America, not to enrich a few, but to serve the many.

	That is our mission as a party.

	It is our faith. And in this faith we can, with your help, build a New America.
PENNSYLVANIAUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTJOB GROWTH/CREATIONLEGISLATION (NEW)     o  ;  5  1  ) 
            	 Y 	 M  8  $   e: