

	The invitation to address your convention gives me the first opportunity to do something I have long wanted to do.  That is, to stand before the American Federation of Labor and say to you directly that the free world will be forever in your debt for your help in winning the war.

	When I addressed messages to labor unions during the war, I was very conscious that I wore the uniform of my country.  So I stressed but two facts:  The first was that we were at war, engaged in a desperate conflict in defense of freedom.  The second fact was that the men lying in the fox holes, fighting on the sea, fighting in the air--your own sons, dear ones and comrades--needed the arms, the production, which the working men and women of America alone could provide.

	Into those messages I put all the fervor of a man who writes what he really believes.  But the response was more--far more--than every could be stirred by one man's appeal.  Let me say now, plainly and clearly, the contribution that free American labor made to the winning of the war was beyond all calculation.

	This you have proved for all time:  Free labor can outwork, outproduce, outearn and outdo slave labor, whether that slave labor be located in a Nazi Germany or a Communist Russia.

	Today our task is less dramatic, but not any less demanding or important.  It is to make secure the peace which cost us so dear.  Again, labor, together with every other group in America, must play its part in making the free world so strong of heart and sinew that aggression becomes unthinkable.

	Your responsibility in that great task is somewhat different than it was while we were at war.  So is mine.  My role is a brand new one for me.  And I know you will believe this:  I would never have taken it on unless I was convinced of one thing--that it was my job to do in the service of America.

	Because I come before you today as a civilian, a candidate for the highest office in the land, does not mean that I have anything more to ask of you than if I had appeared here in uniform.  Certainly you now me well enough to know I have not come to curry any special favor. I have not come to bid or compete for your endorsement.  My views toward labor will be the same as they long have been, regardless of the action taken by the A.F. of L. at this convention in the matter of endorsing a presidential candidate.  My guide in this vital matter, as in others, will always remain the same:  What is good for America--all America.

	Now, my role may have changed but I have not changed.

	All of my life I have said what I mean, and meant what I said.  No one will change that.  All of my life I have had a deep and fundamental faith in my country, in its people, in its principles, and in its spiritual values.  No one will change that.

	I have been talking with my fellow citizens about the great issues of today and the grave problems we will be called upon to meet in the next four years.  Everyone is entitled to know what is in my mind and what is in my heart.

	Under the heavy hands of men who regard power as their right and not as their responsibility, this nation has come to take counsel of despair.  Political leaders have allowed our nation to fall into a war with no plans for its winning.  Political leaders have allowed our abhorrence for Communism to divide us, not unite us as it could.  And instead of solving domestic problems, political leaders exploit them for narrow partisan ends.  I know that millions of members of the A.F. of L. are as fed up with this Washington mess as I am and I know that many of them are going to join me in helping to clean it up.

	The blunt truth is that American labor has been smarter and quicker in meeting these problems than the administration.  For example, I never heard you call the problem of a Communist agent in a high policy-making position "a red herring."  On the contrary, you have shown what an understanding of Communism and a determination to oppose it can do to keep organizations free of Communist influence.  You have not provided a happy home in which Communists could thrive and advance themselves.  Our truly American labor unions have helped greatly in stiffening the American worker's resistance to Communism.

	What you want me to discuss, I know, are my views on labor problems.  Therefore, at the outset, let me say that I feel strongly that there should be in Washington a government which can command the trust of both labor and employers.  We do not have such a government now.  To get a government that can be trusted by both sides requires not more law, but more leadership.

	Perhaps in these days of political claim and counter claim it is not amiss to recall that it was my party which established in law the right of labor to organize and bargain collectively.  That was first written into statute in the Railway Labor Act of 1926.  It was considered a model law.  Until later administrations began playing politics with it, that law worked well.

	The Norris-LaGuardia Act was also passed under my party's administration.  Both these laws established a basis of legal rights for workers and their unions.  On this foundation further legal enactments were built.  They helped the American labor movement grow.

	I know well what the growth of the American Labor movement has meant in concrete gains.

	When I went into the Army forty-one years ago, I left a job working eighty-four hours a week on the night shift--from six to six, seven nights a week.  I was working in a creamery and refrigeration plant in Kansas.  It was a pretty good job for those days in Kansas.  But in the years since just think how unions, cooperating with employers, have improved the job of working men and women.  It is something to marvel at. 

	Today in America unions have secure place in our industrial life.  Only a handful of reactionaries, harbor the ugly thought of breaking unions and of depriving working men or working women of the right to join the union of their choice.

	I have no use for those--regardless of their political party--who hold some vain and foolish dream of spinning the clock back to days when unorganized labor was a huddled, almost helpless mass.  But it is not only the employer who can exploit workers.  Can labor have forgotten the extraordinary proposal of the present administration for dealing with a threatened railroad strike?  It was the demand from the head of the Democrat Party that the strikers be drafted into the Army!

	I have no use for those--regardless of their political party--who hold some vain and foolish dream of spinning the clock back to days when unorganized labor was a huddled, almost helpless mass.  But it is not only the employer who can exploit workers.  Can labor have forgotten the extraordinary proposal of the present administration or dealing with a threatened railroad strike?  It was the demand from the head of the Democrat Party that the strikers be drafted into the Army!

	As Chief of Staff, I found myself involved in that affair.  That was in the spring of 1946.  I had just returned from a tour of inspection in the Pacific.  I was trying to get some rest down in Georgia.  I got a telephone call form Washington.  The message asked that I return to Washington immediately to assume command of the railway strikers, who were going to be drafted into the Army.  With a bitter protest, I refused.  Then I was told that I was considered the only soldier with whom the railway workers would even talk.  So I agreed to meet with them.  I was a soldier, not a strikebreaker.

	So far as I am aware, my opponent in this election did not object to the draft of strikers into the Army.  His running mate voted for it.  It was the members of my party in the Senate who finally defeated the proposal.

	I don't want arbitrary power over either labor or industry.  I do not believe that the president of a free nation can have such power without that nation losing its freedom.  My opponent made plain on Labor Day that he wanted power, as president, to compel arbitration.  That is exactly what I am against.  If you want the basic, irreconcilable difference between his position and mine, there it is.  He and his party embrace compulsion.  I reject compulsion!

	Let us face up frankly to this problem of strikes.  The right of men to leave their jobs is a test of freedom.  Hitler suppressed strikes.  Stalin suppresses strikes.  The drafting of strikers into the Army would suppress strikes.  But each also suppresses freedom.  There are some things worse, much worse, than strikes--one of them is the loss of freedom.

	The time has come to tell our people the truth.  Today, on Constitution Day, which commemorates the adoption of our founding document, this truth has special point.  Most strikes can be avoided without violating the Constitution either by the illegal seizure of property or by putting strikers into the Army.  A great deal can be done, which is not now being done, to get labor disputes settled without recourse to strikes.

	Certainly there is enough responsible leadership in industry and in the union movement on which to build a firm foundation for labor peace.  It is time we got some responsible leadership in government so that we can get on with that job.

	As just one example of where that job could begin, consider how woefully ineffective is our federal mediation and conciliation service.  It stands aside, in deference to political maneuvering, until disputes have reached the boiling point.

	Federal mediation has fallen into such disrepute in America that our people may have forgotten what mediation can do.  Serious, dedicated mediation has found solutions to conflicting national interests; it has ended wars.  Remember what Ralph Bunche did in mediating between the Arabs and the Jews.  Surely no labor problem is as complex, as emotion-filled, as bitterly contested, as the problem he helped solve in bringing into being the new state of Israel.  That is what mediation can do.  Let us not lose that vision.

	Surely we can apply such genuine effort and calm fair-mindedness to labor disputes.  We can if we have men in government who are themselves calm and fair-minded.

	For the fever of most strikes, there can be preventive medicine.  Preventive medicine has worked wonders in preserving health.  Preventive mediation could often anticipate the fever spots in our economy.

	For those few disputes which are of national importance and which will survive intensive efforts at mediation--and of those there will be some--I stand with a great labor statesman.  He was for voluntarism and against compulsion.  I quote his words, "The workers of America adhere to voluntary institutions in preference to compulsory systems which are held to be not only impractical but a menace to their rights, welfare and liberty."  Those were the words of the founder and far-sighted leader of the A.F. of L., Sam Gompers.

	Certainly for this audience I do not have to spell out the fact that there is no quick cure for every labor dispute.  Nor is the dispensation of favors from high places the easy road to winning strikes once they have begun--as the steel workers recently learned.

	Injunctions, seizures, and other such devices will not settle the underlying fundamental problems which cause a strike.  Where does the heavy hand of government intervention push us?  It pushes us into the waiting rooms of government officials far removed from the issue.  You can guarantee that men so remote from the problem will know practically nothing about it.

	Anyone who says he is against injunctions and for seizure as a remedy in national emergencies is talking out of both sides of his mouth.  Seizure carries with it the power of injunction in emphatic form.  The moment the government seizes the mines or the railroads the courts will grant an injunction against any strike because the strikers have, without their consent, become government employees.

	After the railroads were seized, the government obtained one injunction after another against the railroad workers.  Railroad workers will tell you that seizure can be a calamity for employees.  The type of injunction authorized by seizure is completely unlimited both in time and in scope.

	If, in a national emergency declared by Congress, government does move into a strike situation to secure a resumption of operations, it must at the same time stimulate, not stifle, collective bargaining.  There is no other way to attack the dispute which underlies the strike.

	Again I say peace--either on the labor front or on the international front--cannot be legislated.  It can be secured only when there is mutual respect, a will for peace, and responsible, humane leadership.

	An industrial society dedicated to the largest possible measure of economic freedom must keep firm faith in collective bargaining.  That process is the best method we have for changing and improving labor conditions and thus helping to raise the American standard of living.

	Healthy collective bargaining requires responsible unions and responsible employers.  Irresponsible bargainers cannot get results.  Weak unions cannot be responsible.  That alone is sufficient reason for having strong unions.

	The contest between labor and industry cannot be abolished without abolishing economic freedom.  The role of government is to serve as a referee.  It is my hope that we will soon have an administration that will observe the rules of fair play.

	Our most miserable failures with collective bargaining in the last fifty years have come when government has abandoned the role of impartial referee and become a participant in the contest. 

	I suppose you men have been waiting for me to say something about the Taft-Hartley Act.  Well, I'll tell you how I feel.

	I believe that your own Executive Council has stated that it was prepared to take what it called a "realistic" view of amendments to the law.  And that is my position too.  I give it to you simply and clearly.  I am in favor not of repealing, but of amending, the law.

	I will not support any amendments which weaken the rights of working men and women.  In seeking desirable amendments, I will ask the advice and suggestions of all groups--public, management, and labor.  And, gentlemen, I assure you that this invitation of mine will be genuine and in good faith.  It will not be one of those empty theatrical gestures so often made in recent years.  In my own mind I have complete confidence that this job of amending the law can be worked out so that no fair-minded member of your group will consider the results unreasonable.  No such legislation must ever be regarded as final, and in considering amendments to labor legislation, labor will have an equal voice.  It is the American way to take what we have and constantly seek to make it better.

	Here are some of the principles I think it is important we continue in law:  The encouragement of collective bargaining; the right to strike; an advance notice before a strike is called; a requirement that both unions and employers live up to their contracts; the assurance that members of unions get a regular report on their organization's finances.

	I have talked about the Taft-Hartley Act with both labor and industry people.  I know the law might be used to break unions.  That must be changed.  America wants no law licensing union-busting.

	I also think that since patriotic American union leaders must swear that they are not Communists, then the employers with whom they deal should be subject to the same requirement.  I would not mind, every morning swearing an oath of loyalty to the United States of America.  I would be proud every night to give my sworn oath that I am not a Communist.  But I would resent doing this, and I would resent it bitterly, if I were singled out to do it because I happened to be a veteran, or someone who lived in Kansas--or if I were a labor union official.

	I want now to pay tribute to the magnificent work you have done in opposing Communism and Communist influences among working people in other countries.  Our American Labor organizations have been giving aid and support to their brothers who are fighting Communism where the fight is toughest.  The whole free world is in their debt.

	The fundamental problems of my recent tour of duty in Europe involved the combating of Communism.  I want publicly to acknowledge the valuable cooperation I got from the A.F. of L.'s representative, Mr. Irving Brown. He is helping over there in the workshops, on the docks, in the mines and in the union halls--in all the places where the battle is the hardest.

	We must never forget that American labor has the strength to help its brothers overseas because our economic system here has enabled it to grow strong.  The gains that American workers have made, and the gains they will make in the future, would be impossible without the free, expanding, productive system of American industry.  He who is bold enough to ask us to take a substitute for our system strikes directly at the interest of labor.  He is dangerous whether he presumes to speak in the name of a union, an ideology, or a political party.

	How well you men of labor must know this to be true!  Workers always and everywhere have been the chosen targets of the demagogue.  How many twisted and ambitious schemers have dreamed of climbing to power on the backs of the workers of the world!  They have had these dreams wherever the backs of men have been bowed by poverty and despair.

	It is one of America's real marks of greatness that here a man from the ranks of labor is not set apart.  He has no class label.  We are not a closed society.  We are a society of free men, free citizens.  We are all--by hand or brain, with skill and strength--workers.

	For this reason I resent those who address special slanted appeals to American Labor.  You are not to be set apart from the rest of your citizenry by special treatment of any kind--either stern or patronizing.  To treat you as a special case is to deny the fullness of your dignity as American citizens.

	I do not believe that the American worker will ask anything more than justice and fairness from his government.

	My pledge to you is simply this:  to the limit my judgment can discern, you will always get both justice and fairness from me.  Moreover, take whatever political action your conscience dictates; I will always try to be a true friend of labor.

	These simple ideals of justice and fairness for all are the strength of our whole way of life.  They can, however, be imperiled by industrial strife.  That strife, degenerating into class war, has destroyed freedom in other countries of the world.

	To prevent that strife is one of the great challenges and great duties of government.  To prevent it, however, means not just to mourn its outbreak but to attack its underlying causes.  One menacing cause today is inflation.  In the coming weeks, I shall have plenty to say about fighting this menace.  By now, I think one fact should be clear to us all:  The men who let that threat develop will not drive it away from the homes of the American worker.  This ominous menace will not be dispelled by self-satisfied men who view the votes of American workers as safely in their pockets.

	Gentlemen, I was humbly born.  I believe I know well the elemental needs and rights of all working men and women.  I know them too well to try to make political capital out of every man's concern over social security, housing, workmen's compensation, unemployment insurance, or preserving the value of a savings account.  It is cheap and demeaning to try to convert these problems into ammunition for partisan spite or partisan gain.  They are problems to whose solution must be pledged the intelligence and the integrity of all Americans of good will.

	I bring you no prophecy of doom; neither do I promise Utopia.  I do bring you a deep conviction that unlimited opportunities lie ahead for all of us.  We are a young people and a young land.  The building of America has only begun.  We can build an America whose spirit of justice and good will can match our material endowments and the genius of our working men and women.

	With God's help, we will.

COMMUNISMMANUFACTURINGMILITARY RECRUITMENTORGANIZED LABOR--SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITSORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTES--FEDERAL MEDIATIONORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     P P P P {P
 mP hP cP [P SP QP 'P P	  	  	  	  	 g  D   e: