

	The first campaign I was in, I was a young man--not old enough to vote.  I rode on the Truman train.  They told old Harry he couldn't win.  It was over.  The polls said it was hopeless.

	I was a farm kid, and I know what happened in those days.  Harry went out and told the truth.  They thought it was hell.  He was telling the truth, and it felt like hell because they were turning their backs on rural America.

	Though he didn't have any money, though the polls didn't say he was ahead, he had something else that was more important.  The people started thinking.  They started considering what had happened and what they needed for themselves and their families and for this country.

	At first a couple hundred, then a couple thousand, then a couple of million Americans just quietly went in there and put Harry Truman back in the White House.  After that, farmers had four of the best years they ever had in the history of this country.

	We're in the same situation here today, folks.  For four years, they couldn't have done more to hurt rural America.  Farm income is off.  Parity ratios are the lowest since the deep depression.  Farm values have plummeted.  We have lost 20 percent of our farm exports.  The bankruptcy levels in rural America are the worst ever.  These high debts drive up the cost of farming.  Farmers are hanging on the ropes.

	This morning, I gave a speech about agriculture, and I cited ten reasons why rural Americans ought to vote for Walter Mondale.  Let me go over them quickly and then we'll have a discussion.

	First, I understand family farming and farmers, and he doesn't.  I grew up in rural America, worked on the farm when I was a kid, served on the Senate Agriculture Committee, and, for over twenty years, I always fought for rural America and family farming because I understand these programs and know what's going on.

	I understand that agriculture is still America's biggest business, when farmers are in trouble, that things back up, people lose their jobs, and the whole country loses.

	I understand that what farmers produce is still the best bargain that any people on earth get in terms of food.  Americans feed themselves for a lower percentage of their income than any people on earth.

	I understand that farmers don't just produce food.  They produce values that are important to our country.  Those are the values I was raised with.  I also understand that if you're going to be for family farming, the farmer has to make a profit.  You can't stay in business losing money.

	Reason number two:  I will unify rural America.  They have divided it.  In 1981, they said, "Our strategy is:  set up such a bad farm bill that it gets farmers fighting with each other.  We'll divide the farm bloc and pass a bad bill."

	That's exactly what they did.  A president is supposed to remember this is the United States of America.  We're supposed to be together.  I'm going to get rural America back together.  North and South and East and West and all the commodities and the people are represented in a single, unified rural approach.  I'll bring them together in the White House.  I won't divide them, I'll unify them, and out of that comes strength.  In unity comes strength.

	Third, I'll cut this national debt, and he won't tell us a darn thing about what he's going to do.  The farmers--you're paying that debt every day.  You're paying it in lower farm prices.  Every commodity is priced lower.  Why?  Because in order to sell your stock in the international market, you've got to reduce your prices to adjust for the overvalued price of the dollar so you're competitive.  So corn is off; beans are off; wheat's off; everything's off.

	Now we're being swamped with hogs coming in from Canada.  Why?  Because the same hog produced in Canada is 30 percent cheaper than the hogs you can produce here in this area.

	You are the most efficient producers on earth, but because of these national debts, you're being driven off the land because of subsidized foreign imports that result directly from those debts.

	It raises your cost of interest.  There isn't any farmer today who isn't probably paying more in interest than any other cost he's got.  For that reason, we've got to get that national debt down.

	I'm committed to doing it.  I've made that a central part of my campaign.  You watched that first debate.  Nobody has any more idea of what Reagan has in mind on that thing than anything else he might have in his mind.

	Point four:  I'll manage those farm programs so they work.  I understand those programs.  The key to them is to get supply into relationship with demand; to use paid diversion programs; to use the minimum support programs, the target price level programs; to tighten up supplies so the farmer gets a decent income.

	If you want predictability, you need profit, you need stability, and that will occur with a president who understands the programs.  I do.  He doesn't, and he never will.

	Five:   We need a strong farm credit program.  A lot of good farmers are in trouble now.  Even with good programs, they're going to need a couple of years to work themselves out of the hole that they're in.  My proposal is sensible.  It's across the board.  It writes down interest rates.  It's affordable and will help all farmers.

	Take a close look at the Reagan credit program.  You wouldn't do anything for four years.  Look at it very closely before you buy it.  Basically, it deals just with farmers' home credit, and it doesn't deal at all with private credit.  Six percent of those in private credit would get any help.  Eighty-seven percent of all farm credit is private.  It barely touches private credit at all.

	My program is across the board for all farmers who are in trouble, whether it is in public or private credit.  It works and it's affordable,and it works in a way that's sensible because a lot of these rural banks are in trouble, too.  They're hanging on the ropes.

	His program assumes that the same banks that are in trouble can do some more.  Most of them can't.  We've got to be realistic about it.

	Finally, you won't know whether his program works at all until after the election.  Don't bet on it.

	Six:  I'll get tough on trade.  This is a very serious problem for rural America.  More and more, our bean markets, our grain markets, our soybean oil markets, our broiler markets--now we see the hog markets, the dairy market--are being affected by other countries' governmental trade policies.

	Now, you can compete with another farmer, and you've got to.  But you can't compete with a foreign government, and when they're cheating on you, only the president of the United States can stand up and defend you.

	Billions of dollars of American agriculture have disappeared because our president won't fight.  I believe an American president is elected to stand up for Americans.  That's his first job.  That's what I will do.

	I will oppose all farm embargoes.  I opposed the Nixon embargo.  I opposed the Ford embargo, and as vice president, I pleaded with President Carter not to put that Soviet grain embargo.  I did everything I could to stop it.  The president made his choice.  It was a mistake.

	Now this president, due to these policies, we've got a 20 percent loss in farm exports.  This national debt acts as a big embargo on American exports, the most massive ever.  I stood up against those embargoes.  In '75, Mr. Reagan called for an embargo, and what is this?

	It's like everything else.  Here we are four years into his term, and he's trying to blame the farm collapse on an act four years ago.  This is the first blameless president in American history.  This is his fault.  These are his policies, and we need a president who takes some responsibility and restores farm prosperity.

	I will support strong farm soil conservation programs.  He won't.  I strongly support rural electrification and rural telephone programs.  They're out to kill them.  And I will support the use of food to help people.  This idea that we sell more guns and less food--I'd like to sell more food and fewer guns.  I think that's what people need.


QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

	Now we have a few minutes for questions.  I understand we're a little late, but I want to take some questions and hear your concerns.  Who's going to start?

	Q:  I'm Paul Parsons, a Nobson County farmer.  Make that Missouri, not Illinois.  What do you plan to do, sir, for our agri-banks to continue their private financing for farmers?

	MONDALE:  Are you talking about the PCAs?

	Q:  No, I'm talking about our hometown banks.

	MONDALE:  I touched on that very briefly.  One of the things a lot of people don't understand is when the farmer goes broke, it backs its way through the economy.  The local bank starts going broke, Main Street starts going under, seed and feed go a little later.  It backs up, and then farm equipment workers go broke.  Then Caterpillar closes and John Deere closes its plants.

	It backs through the system and everybody gets hurt.  One of the first to get hurt is that small rural bank.  A lot of these rural banks--I think sixty-seven of them--went broke this year.  There are more banks in trouble this year than at any time since 1939.

	My program that I proposed makes sense for those small bankers.  Reagan's proposal requires these banks to waive a lot of the equity, and they don't have any equity to waive.

	Mine writes down the interest costs to permit those loans to be carried forward, to permit these banks to avoid what they call loss provisioning, which will cause a lot of them to go broke.  My proposal makes sense for that vulnerable, small-town, rural bank so we can keep going.  As we improve farm income, that farm bank will be restored to solvency.

	Mine works.  The president's proposal really makes no sense at all for these small banks.

	Now, the American Bankers Association is for that proposal, but, as you know, that association doesn't often represent the best interests of those rural banks.

	My proposal, first of all, is for the purpose of helping farmers, but those small rural banks--we've got to keep them going because they're essential to these communities as well.

	Q:  Mr. Mondale, we know that you have to be going.  Time's running short.  During the last four years, the cost of farming has increased, yet the prices of farm products have actually decreased.  When you are elected president, what will your administration do to strengthen farm prices?

	MONDALE:  I tried to outline it very briefly.  Number one, you've got to get that debt down.  If we can get the national debt down and restore the value of the dollar to where it should be, farm exports will begin to soar again.  That will firm up farm income.  You'll be able to have a minimum loan rate that is much higher without getting into trouble with the competitiveness of American farm exports.  So that's a very important thing.

	The second thing is:  I intend to use paid diversion, minimum loan levels, target price mechanisms to make these farm programs attractive so farmers participate in them and get supply pulled down so that the market price is firmed up so that the farmers make a profit and there's some stability.

	I've worked for these farm programs for years.  The genius of the farm programs is to make certain you're not producing surplus stocks.  Once you produce surplus stocks, those prices are going to go down, I don't care what you say.  This administration has allowed those surpluses to build up in '81 and '82.

	The '85 program isn't any good, is it?  Doesn't do a darn thing.  What it means is that people are going to plant to the fence line.  Surpluses are going to build.  The prices go down.

	I'm going to use those tools to reduce farm production so that we get a firming up of prices and expanded exports.  Those are the best ways in which to proceed.  I'm a strong believer in farmer-held reserves, so that farmers can hold those products to get a better price as well.  Those are the two essential tools that are needed.

	Q:   Mr. Mondale, I am a farm wife, and I might add I'm proud to be an American farm wife.  Agriculture is a large industry, one of the largest.  We are acutely aware the present administration's trickle-down policy will never reach agriculture and will only continue to depress the agricultural economy.

	When you are elected, what will your administration do to strengthen agriculture and put a strong and solid economic base under the nation's economy?

	MONDALE:  I answered that in some respects in the earlier question.  I grew up in rural America down in southern Minnesota, and I know what's in your mind.

	You heard what I said I'd do, and your question is:  "Is this another politician?  Can we believe him or not?"  Am I right?

	AUDIENCE:  No.

	MONDALE:  That's what you've got to ask yourself.  Politicians have a way, every four years, of showing up and promising things.  Right?  And leaving you back on your farm to deal with cost of broken promises.  We just had four years of the worst.  We don't have to dwell on it.  You know that.

	AUDIENCE:  We can't afford four more.

	MONDALE:  They riddled these farm programs.  They've turned their back on farm credit.  Farm exports have disappeared.  Your life and your dreams are disappearing, aren't they?  Every farmer I've ever known wanted their kids to take over.  How many young farm families are there around anymore?  How many of your children--although they all want to farm--how many have any chance of it?

	AUDIENCE:  Mine's ready to quit.

	MONDALE:  That's right.  So what we're talking about is a revolution in rural America.  It will never be like it was again if we have four more years of this, will it?  It's gone.  There's no mystery to this.  People are going broke.

	Here comes Walter Mondale, and he says, "I'm going to do something about it."  If you think I'm just another politician putting out the bull, why worry?  I'm here today to ask you to trust me.  I need you. 

	AUDIENCE:  We need you.

	MONDALE:..and you need me.  I know what you're going through.  You don't know me that well.  Tom Eagleton and some do.  I'm a person who keeps his word because trust is everything to me.  I'd rather have your trust than your vote, but I'd like your vote if I could.

	If rural America rises up and throws Mr. Reagan out and elects me, the message will be out from here on out:  "Don't mess with those farmers.  They're dangerous.  Don't mess with them."

	We'll deliver.  You've got my word.  I hope you trust me.  But that's for you to decide.  I can't talk you into that.  Check me out.  Listen to what I say.  See if what I say makes sense, if it's practical, doable.

	If it is, give me a chance.  Get it moving here in Missouri.  Talk to your friends and your neighbors.  Say, "Look, think it through.  You've got thirteen days."

	And if you'll move, and the farmers and the rural Americans will move, I'll win this election.  And I'll guarantee we'll have four of the best years that farmers ever had.

	Thank you.

AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSBANKING/LOANS/CREDITBUDGET DEFICITEMBARGOES/SANCTIONS (FOOD)--AGAINST THE SOVIET UNIONAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     < ; ; ; ;
 ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ;	  	 j 	 V 	 H   e: