

	Today we meet with some serious business to conduct.  This campaign is red-hot.  Americans are thinking this over carefully.  On November 6, it's not the big shots who run America.  You will.

	On that day alone, when you go into that poll, you decide the most important thing an American citizen ever decides, and that is, "Who will be the next president of the United States?"

	Because you know, when you make that decision, you entrust that person with so much.  Will we have prosperity or a recession?  Will we be at peace or at war?  Will we have justice and compassion in American life, or will we turn our backs on those basic, fundamental principles?  Will we be investing in our children so that they're the best educated and prepared to meet the responsibilities of their time?  Will we show decency toward our seniors with Social Security and Medicare?  Will we protect our environment?

	All of those things that are so important to everything in our life you decide in one moment when you pull that lever.

	So I come to you today not to trifle for a moment but to speak clearly and with all the strength that I can muster about what I believe, what I think is at issue in this campaign, why I need your help, and why I hope you will help me.

	There are so many deep issues in this campaign.  It's not about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's not a decision between personalities.  What we're talking about are the values of American life and the kind of country we want this to be.

	All my life, I've believed in an America that's open to all faiths without prejudice or preference; that affirms our commitment to democracy and human rights, not only at home but abroad; that opposes terrorism and tyranny wherever it occurs and treats every citizen with justice and respect.

	There is no surer test of these commitments than our stance on anti-Semitism.  Some, a very few, think that scourge is behind us.  But you know and I know that they're wrong.

	In an age when the Soviet Union ruthlessly persecutes the Jews, when the right to emigrate, which ought to be the right of every human being, has been reduced to the thinnest trickle.

	When the official United Nations passes resolutions equating Zionism with racism, and so many of its institutions routinely vilify the Jewish state of Israel.

	When the misguided would make Christianity a test of American citizenship.

	When Louis Farrakhan calls Judaism a "gutter religion".

	When synagogues and Jewish cemeteries are defaced all over this country--and I understand you've had that in this community just recently, to remind us in an ugly way--we all know that anti-Semitism is not dead, but continues to be a vicious disease and cancer that can destroy us.

	We must make certain that every one of our public servants sees it, is committed to oppose it with everything he or she has.

	I make this point because, last week, the president went to Long Island and accused me of being soft on anti-Semitism.  Let me tell it to you straight.  It angered me.  I resent it.  I think it's despicable.  I think it's inexcusable.

	Do you think Ed Koch would be with me today if he had any doubt on that?  Do you think Steve Solarz and I would work together for over a decade if there were any question about that?  Do you think some of the leading rabbis of almost every aspect of the Hebrew faith would have come out for me as leaders if they had any doubt about that?

	My father and my mother would have run me out of my home if there had been any doubt about it.

	I believe in human decency.  I believe in fairness.  I respect differences in faith, and I'm here today to tell you that, as president of the United States, no president in American history will do more to sweep anti-Semitism out of this country and to stand up for the rights of Jewish Americans throughout this world than I will.

	I know that there's no question about Mr. Reagan.  He is not an anti-Semite, and I want to make that very clear.  I have no doubt about it.  But what about some of the people he's permitted to get around that White House and get into his political party, and what they're telling this country?

	When Mr. Reagan was trying to sell the AWACs to a reluctant Congress, to the Saudi Arabians, and we were fighting that, right in the middle of that fight, all over this country, we started hearing stories about divided loyalties, whether it was Reagan or Begin.

	One of my friends, a United States senator--who will remain nameless--from a Midwestern state, called me in the middle of that fight, and he said, "Fritz, I have heard more anti-Semitic comments in the last week than I've heard in the last twenty-five years of my life."

	What had happened, wittingly or unwittingly, is that people in and around this administration converted the question of whether this country should give that advanced technology to the Saudi Arabians into the question of whether Jewish Americans were divided in their loyalty to this country.  For shame.  For shame.  There are no more loyal people in this country than people of the Jewish faith.

	What about this crowd that gathered in Dallas at the Republican convention, the people who seized control of that platform and the podium and the future of the Republican Party?  The Falwells and the Swaggarts and the Griswells and the Robertsons--what I call the "electronic intolerance," the "preachers against pluralism."

	They want control over your most personal and religious choices.  I am a Methodist preacher's kid.  My wife is a Presbyterian daughter.  I believe in prayer, but I believe that should be personal.

	We are the most religious nation on earth because we were founded on a constitutional principle that the politicians and the government should keep their noses out of the private religious lives of the American people.

	In our first debate, the president said, "These prayers are voluntary."  They are?  What that amendment calls for is this:  The local school districts that decide to have prayer will select a prayer that the child must recite or ask to be excused.

	You know what kids are like.  You know peer pressure.  First of all, who writes the prayer?  What does it say?  How can you possibly write a prayer of meaning that speaks with integrity to all the different faiths and beliefs in this country?  It's not possible.

	Then suppose you are a child of a faith that's offended by the prayer?  You either recite it and you know that's wrong, or you ask to be excused and walk out, and you know what happens when that occurs.

	Why do that to our children?  What is there that would compel this radical use of the federal government to impose itself in this most personal of all religious questions?

	I'll tell you what it is.  This crowd doubts the depth of faith of the American people.  They don't trust the American people to come to those decisions, and they think government must be used to somehow save the people from their own lack of commitment to their own religious faith.

	I'll tell you, they don't understand a thing.  We are the most religious people on earth.  More people go to churches and synagogues in America than anywhere in the world because, in America, our faith is pure and uncorrupted because we keep the politicians' noses out of that business.

	I believe in a government that honors the separation of church and state, that our faith must be pure and unintimidated, and that the First Amendment does not need to be fixed; it needs to be followed.

	I do not doubt Mr. Reagan's position, but some of his friends threaten to unleash an orgy of intolerance in this land.  I don't want them to have any influence whatsoever.

	The rise of religious extremism is not the only menace of a second Reagan administration.  Think of the deepening dangers in the Middle East.  This president has squandered the promise of Camp David.

	Progress toward peace has not just stopped; it's been reversed.  There is no Egyptian ambassador in Israel.  No significant trade or human contact at all.  There is deep concern over the size of the Egyptian fortifications in the Sinai.  Anti-Semitic propaganda there is on the rise.

	We've got a cold peace with no negotiations in cold storage. In a synagogue speech last week, Mr. Reagan forgot quite a bit about his record in the Middle East.  Does he think we've forgotten about the AWACs the F15s and the Stinger missiles that he sold to the Arabs that are still at war with Israel?

	Did he think we forgot about the four hundred hours of so-called unofficial talks between his administration and Yasser Arafat and the PLO?

	Does he think we've forgotten about the Reagan Plan, which the Israelis called a formula for suicide?  I condemned that plan the day it was announced, because I could see exactly what it was.

	This is the basic problem in the Middle East.  Sadat sat down with Begin, and they reached peace.  Those two men arched over their antagonisms.  There had been four wars in thirty years, but they were big enough and courageous enough to work out their differences and find peace.

	But to do that, Sadat had to accept and recognize the state of Israel and negotiate among equals.  The other Arab nations are unwilling to do that, and what they always try to do is to get a hold of the president and say, "Now, Mr. President, if you'll just force Israel to do all of these things that we want, we'll accept what you get for us."

	And if the president will do that, impose a result on Israel, they get everything they want, and they've yet to concede the existence of Israel.

	I will never do that.  I will tell Mr. Hussein, "Please sit down with the prime minister of Israel and resolve your differences.  But if you don't, don't expect me to negotiate for you or impose a thing on Israel.  I'm her friend."

	The Reagan Plan threw away all the cards before the negotiations began.  The reason they did that was that they assumed they could seduce Hussein to sit down.  I knew it wouldn't happen.  Anybody who has been over there knew it wouldn't happen.

	They thought if they pressed Israel and Lebanon, the Syrians would leave.  Where did they get that idea?  Anybody who has been around there knows better than that.

	Mr. Reagan forgot about Lebanon.  He pressured Israel, but not Syria, to withdraw from Lebanon.  He embargoed the F16s, which are under contract for sale, terminated the strategic cooperation agreement--all because they thought they could get Syria to act responsibly.  We lost three hundred brave Americans and then withdrew, humiliated and too weakened to help Israel deploy from southern Lebanon.

	When he came here the other day, he even invoked the Holocaust in an effort to justify his failed policy in Lebanon.  That had nothing to do with the Holocaust.  Our first entrance into Lebanon under this administration was for the purpose of providing cover to permit the PLO to get out of Lebanon.  It had nothing whatsoever to do with the Holocaust.  It turned history upside down and left some implications that should not be left in the minds of the American people.

	If the president is re-elected, there have been rumors all over the place about what is going to happen after the election, stories about two thousand more Sidewinder missiles, sixty more F15s and the latest M-1 tanks to Saudi Arabia, and F16s to Jordan.

	What kind of renewed pressure will he put on Israel to force her to accept his plan?  Will they resume private talks with the PLO?  They won't answer any of those questions before the election.  You'll get the answer after the election.

	As my father used to teach me:  first time, their fault; second time, your fault.  You've had four years.  You've seen it.  You've got a choice here between that kind of record and my record, in the Senate, which was flawless and committed to Israel.  As vice president, you talk to any of the ambassadors from Israel, you talk to the congressional delegation, and they'll tell you that for four solid years, I worked my heart [out] for good U.S.-Israeli relations.

	I did it because I think it serves the interests of our country.  I want to change directions in the Middle East.  I will once again make America's partnership with Israel the cornerstone of Middle East policies.  I will strengthen our strategic cooperation agreements.  I will stand firmly with Israel.  We are not embarrassed by our support.  We proclaim it.  We are proud of it.  Israel is forever, and we intend to be her friend forever.

	I will provide the help that Israel needs to get back on her feet.  I will end the fiction that Jerusalem is not the capital of that good country.  I have supported moving our embassy there, and, as president, I will do it.

	I will fight for Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union, as I have all my life--as a senator, as the vice president--to pressure that country to let loose and let those people leave.

	Ever since Israel was founded, America has had a special relationship with that embattled democracy.  All my life, I've worked to strengthen Israel because it serves our national interests, and that's why we're all together here on this platform today.

	One final point.  I got into politics because of some beliefs about justice and decency.  I was encouraged to do so by one of the finest men ever to be in public life, Hubert Humphrey.

	My notion from the beginning has been that this country must be a just, compassionate, and caring nation; that while we believe in independence and self-reliance, we also believe in kindness and caring toward one another.  That's missing totally from this administration.

	Whether it's Social Security or Medicare--and mark my words, right after the election, they are going after those programs again;  don't believe them for a minute--or education for our children or student assistance for our young people or help for the handicapped, they're missing in action every time.

	Just yesterday, they vetoed a bill to provide a few thousand jobs for young Americans to work in the parks and the playgrounds.  That doesn't save money.  When young people are raised and never learn to work, never learn the dignity of work, never learn how to care for themselves, you're creating someone who might have a lifetime of welfare experience that we would have to pay for.

	I believe when you invest in human beings, when you fight for justice, when you understand the potential of the human mind and the human spirit, and when a president taps that great energy, there's no limit to what this country can accomplish.

	We need this kind of leadership in the United States again.  That's what I'm fighting for.

	It's close.  How many of you remember the Truman campaign?  Give me your hands.  The same thing is happening.  I was in that campaign.  I was too young to vote, but they took polls there and said, "Harry's done."  They stopped taking polls because they didn't want to waste money.

	I was on that train with Truman one day, and you couldn't believe it.  Tremendous crowds, every town on that train.  They were hot.  You could see it in their eyes.  They were for Truman.

	And they thought it was over.  I'll never forget getting off that train in Rochester, Minnesota.  I turned to a friend of mine, and I said, "You know, he'd make a wonderful president for four more years.  It's so sad he can't be re-elected."

	My friend said, "Yeah, that's right.  But look at these people here.  What explains these thousands and thousands of people here who are leaning to see the president and are saying they want him?  What do you do with that?"

	I said, "I don't know."  Well, I found out what I should have done with it.  I should have seen victory coming down the train.

	That's what's happening to me right now.  We're getting crowds.  I believe today, Mr. Mayor, we had the largest Garment District rally in history.  We had a quarter of a million people down there.

	We just came from Chicago where they had the largest Torchlight Parade in their history, maybe a half a million people.  The largest rally in Seattle.  They expected two thousand people last night in Buffalo on Halloween eve, and over ten thousand showed up because they're scared of the Republicans.

	I'm telling you, something is happening.  I think I know what it is.  The Americans now see the issues.  Polls don't vote.  People vote.  They resent these slick magazines trying to tell you what you're going to do.  This is your country.  Take it into your hands.  Think it over and elect someone who will build our future.  Do it.  Do it.

	Thank you.

EMIGRATION--SOVIET JEWSEMPLOYMENT--YOUTHJEWISH AMERICANSLEBANONPALESTINE AND PALESTINIAN ISSUESSCHOOL PRAYERSEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATEWEAPONS SALES--ARAB NATIONSANTI-SEMITISMISRAELMIDDLE EAST     2B A A A A
 A A A A A A A A	  	  	  	  	  	 d 	 W 	 9       e: