

	In the course of this campaign, I have frequently referred to the party in power as the party too long in power.  The evidence to support that description is far too voluminous to compress into a single speech, or even into all the speeches of a whole campaign.  And that evidence continues to pile up.

	But I do want to refer, tonight, to a single revealing fact--a fact which helps to prove that the administration party--after all these years--doesn't know where it is going, is afraid it won't get there and is sure it wouldn't know what to do if it arrived.

	For purposes of this campaign, the party too long in power has come out with a theme song.  Its title is:  "Don't Let Them Take It Away."  They evidently believe that that song will help them stay in power.  I don't believe it.  I don't believe it simply because I do not believe that that is any song for a dynamic America.

	Such a song and such a theme have a strange sound in America's ears.  They inspire no fervent response in America's hearts.  And I can think of no place where they have a stranger sound or awaken less response than here in Utah.

	If that had been the theme song of your pioneer forebears, they would never have set forth on their historic pilgrimage in the first place.  They would never have looked down on this valley and cared to believe that, here, they could make the desert blossom like the rose.

	They had little of material things that any man could take away.  But they had spiritual wealth which no man could destroy.

	It was that faith which made them strong--to defy and subdue the wilderness and build into wonderful reality their vision of a veritable City of God.

	To revive such faith is a major aim of this crusade.

	Let no one out of great fear and little faith say that America is finished; that the days of our pioneering are ended.

	I believe that if the great leader who brought you here were to stand today and look down on America, as he once looked down on your valley, he would say again:  "This is the place," and I believe he would add, "this is the time."

	This is the time to go on--in America's historic pilgrimage--to make this land of promise more and more a Promised Land.

	It is that opportunity which the American people will welcome and endorse on next November 4.

	As we approach that day of decision, what are America's prospects?  Will America after November 4 be more divided, more embittered, more weakened because of this campaign or will America go forward, benefited and strengthened for the hard tasks that lie ahead?

	As this political campaign began, we were promised that the party in power would wage a campaign aimed to "educate and elevate" the American people.  To me, that was heartening news.  I believed then that the issues of this campaign would be [missing text] and [missing text] settled on a level in keeping with the critical times in which we live and the critical problems that confront us.

	I regret that those who speak for the party in power have not seen fit to abide by that pledge.  I regret that what was promised as "education" has now been so far forgotten that instead of "elevation", we are being given name--calling and a variety of assorted nonsense.

	I have not replied in kind.

	I do not intend to do so.

	I do not intend to appeal to prejudice, to fear, to self-interest.  To do that would be to lose more than an election.  I have appealed to the devotion to country, to the good sense, the sound conviction, the capacity of American citizens to face facts.  I intend to go right on.  No other appeal is worthy of America.  Only such an appeal could make victory useful in the service of America.

	When I left my old way of life for this campaign, I knew I was starting out with what appeared to be certain handicaps.  For one thing, I was not a politician--and I'm not one now.

	But I thought--and I still think--that the American people were suffering from an overdose of administration politics.  I thought--and still think--that you would welcome a change.  I thought that you would welcome a change from too many bosses and too much machine politics.  I still think you would welcome that change--a total change from the prevailing political practice of divide, exploit, tax, spend and rule.

	Everything I have found out since this campaign began has confirmed these convictions.  We Americans--you and I--want to write "finish" to this dreary record--and finish it we will.

	We are not only looking for an end; we are looking for a new beginning.  We want to go forward--not to the right or to the left--but straight forward.  We want to get rid of extremes and extremists and back on the middle way.

	For America, that is the road of progress.  And from the very outset, I have discussed the issues of this campaign in the light of that direction and that goal.

	Let me review some of these issues with you.  Let us see how we can lot an American course into the future on that middle way.

	First comes this major question of our time:  What is the proper province of government in the life of each one of us?

	We know what the extremists say.  One cries:  "The more government the better."  This is the cry of those who have little or no faith in the people; who look on free men as so weak, so irresponsible that an all--powerful government must direct and protect him.

	The end of this road is dictatorship.

	The other extremists are those who deny the obligation of government to intervene on behalf of the people even when the complexities of modern life demand it.

	The end of that road is anarchy.

	Both extremes are wrong.  Both are dangerous.  One shackles man to the power of central government.  The other strips him of the protection of his fellows, and returns him to the law of the jungle.  Both rob him of his chance to be what he can become.

	Let us see where our middle way, takes us in specific cases.

	Take this example.  Legislation which compels you to join in a federal health insurance plan is wrong.  It is also wrong--morally and economically wrong--to ignore the health problems of those who cannot pay the cost of adequate medical care.  But federal aid to local health plans that helps make medical care available to those who need it is right.

	Or again, take the question of natural resources and public power.  By our principle of the middle way our federal government should not be the monopolist of our power program.  But it should be an active, helping partner to our state and local agencies.

	Whatever the problem--from electric power to family health--government should proceed along the middle way.  Thus we keep in balance the twin ideals of security and of liberty.  To work for one at the expense of the other ends by endangering both.

	We will strengthen both liberty and security.  That is the aim of this crusade.

	Next:  what is true of government is true of labor.  In addressing the American Federation of Labor Convention last month in New York, I summed up my principles in two firm convictions.  First, I pledged a government that would give fair and just hearing to all labor's needs and problems.  Second: I declared slanted appeals to labor--that treated our working men as a race apart, rather than in the fullness of their dignity as free American citizens wanting no kind of special treatment--stern and patronizing.

	Here again, I know, the extremes probably offer more alluring solutions.  Radicals hail American workers as their neglected brothers--and hope to climb to political power on their backs.  Reactionary extremists attack American unions as unnecessary or greedy--and hope to climb to wealth on their broken backs.  In the matter of labor disputes, I stand for the simple, too long neglected ideal of voluntary arbitration.  I stand by my conviction that labor problems need not and should not be exploited by employers for economic gain or by politicians for political gain.  I am deeply suspicious of compulsion by any side--by union leaders, by employers, or by a government.  Especially I distrust a government whose only remedy for strikes is seizure and whose chief concern for labor is its votes.

	Next: What is true of these problems of government and of labor is equally true of problems of foreign policy.  Bluster in words could here mean national humiliation.  So, too, would meek appeasement in deeds.  The way to true national security is something different from either extreme: quiet firmness in words, effective strength in purpose, in productivity, and in arms.

	The specific problem of arming our nation presents a particularly clear problem in finding and adhering to the middle way.  One extreme view would have us arm with hysterical speed--leading us to an unmanageable financial problem.  The opposite extreme is no less dangerous: Its obsession with economy is so fierce that it would simply convert us into a rich and defenseless prize for the bold aggressor.

	Real security demands both military strength and solvency.  It involves complex logistics, but it also involves simple mathematics.

	This ideal of the middle way also points to the method of defending against Communist subversion.

	Here we all know the two most extreme approaches.  The first attacks the danger with a zeal that takes no account of our civil liberties.  It wounds the innocent as well as the guilty.  It is a parody of righteous justice.

	That extreme I have firmly and explicitly renounced.  We cannot pretend to defend freedom with weapons suited only to the arsenal of tyrants.

	The opposite extreme is no less repugnant to me.  This extreme talks in the slick vocabulary of "Red Herring" and "Phantoms."  This view inspired the opposition leaders to treat with a light touch the whole ugly record of Communist infiltration and subversion.  You and I do not regard it lightly.  We will not treat it that way.  The truth--and freedom's way--lies between these extremes.  It respects and supports those individual liberties that guarantee the rights of millions of people to speak freely out of free minds.  It likewise rejects the idea that you and I, in order to sustain our individual liberties, must remain helpless in the face of a Communist conspiracy attacking us from behind the shield of those liberties.

	Freedom can defend itself without destroying itself.

	You and I have been talking tonight about the road American men and women must travel in the future.  There is a better road than the extreme right or the extreme left.  There is the broad middle way.

	On this broad road of decision we can bring together honest differences in American life.  Here there is room to resolve these differences and march forward, together.

	I welcome each one of you in this friendly audience to the crusade in which we are enlisted.  Every American is welcome who believes in a strong America; who wants a government for America of which we will be proud: sound, clean and capable.

	I know when I talk about these things how much you and I have in common.  We bring to such a cause as this, an earnest purpose, a burning conviction.  When we talk about these things, we are citizens talking to each other--speaking the same language.

	And as a people, we speak the same language, whatever our party or whether we have no party at all.

	We know, when we talk together, that we can have the kind of government we believe in; that, once and for all, we can clean out the mess; that we can go forward from here to the tasks that lie ahead.

	But these tasks cannot be successfully undertaken by any one person or by any one party.  They are the task of all of us, together.  Let us--every one of us--resolve tonight to go out, enlisted ourselves and determined to enlist ten others--our neighbors and friends--in this cause.

	Then we will carry forward this great work--to make this United States of ours--this Union--an even better, nobler, more perfect Union.
COMMUNISMELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     / / / / /
 t/ o/ j/ \/ X/ V/ V/ L/	  	  	 g 	 R 	 3 	  e: