 (GORE/1958, CLINTON/3016)

	SENATOR GORE: Thank you. Thank you, Terry Sanford. Nobody works harder. Nobody gives better advice, nobody has a wiser voice, nobody is more effective than Terry Sanford. Bill Clinton and I stand for change and we need Terry Sanford to help us change America for the better. Please reelect Terry Sanford to the United States Senate. He is the best.

	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. What a crowd this is. Thank you so much for being a part of it.

	Before I acknowledge the others who should be singled out, I want to apologize to you for the fact that we are so late. They had told us there would be little crowds of people at various stops along the way, but we have been overwhelmed. There have been people at every stop along the way. Schoolchildren and towns have turned out, more people than there are in the towns. It has been an overwhelming response.

	We really apologize to you. We feel badly that we are this late, but there was no way it could be avoided simply because of the tremendous response all along the way. They would say, you know, in place after place, give us eight minutes and we'll give you eight years. And we said, okay. We'll stop there at this place.

	Anyway, thank you very much. I want to return for a moment to what I said about Terry Sanford. This is a very important decision that North Carolina has to make and we really ask you with every ounce of energy that we can summon to help this nation and help this state by reelecting Terry. And ladies and gentlemen, we want to ask you to elect another partner for progress and change as the next governor of this state, Jim Hunt. He is a tremendous visionary and leader of this state.

	We are honored to be joined here on this platform and for this bus tour today by one of the most distinguished members of the United States Senate. Terry Sanford and I are proud to know him as a friend and colleague and he is Mr. Health Care in the United States Senate, Senator Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia. Where are you Jay? Right there. Thank you so much.

	And we are proud of Dan Blue, Speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives, who is a co-chair of our campaign with Jeanette Hyde and Lacy Thornburg. And ladies and gentlemen, I also want to acknowledge Congressman David Price who does an outstanding job and who is here with is family. And Congressman Jim Valentine of Raleigh does a wonderful job. We want you to reelect both David Price and Jim Valentine.

	And may I introduce the next congressman from North Carolina from the 12th District, Mel Watt. With your help he's going to win this race and do a fantastic job.

	You know, there are going to be thirteen new African-American members of the House of Representatives, all from here in the South. When Bill Clinton asked me to join his team, some people in other parts of the country said, "You can't do that. You can't possibly have both the presidential and vice presidential candidate from this part of the country. One is pushing it a little bit." But you know what, ladies and gentlemen? North Carolina and Tennessee and Arkansas have some fresh ideas and we're ready to provide some leadership for this country with your help.

	And one of the things we want to share on the basis of our experience here in the South with the rest of the country is that the time for division is long past. Our future is one nation under God, black and white together. No more division. We're ready to go forward together.

	We want to thank Chancellor Benson and all of the staff for the wonderful hospitality here today and especially the grounds crew and maintenance workers and everybody who has worked so hard to make this a success. I want to acknowledge also Edward Renfrow, State Auditor, and all of the other distinguished guests who are present.

	Former Mayor Harvey Gant just arrived. I'm proud to call Harvey Gant a friend. Thank you, Harvey.

	You may have noticed in the second debate when George Bush kept on looking at his watch like that. Did you notice that? That meant he wanted to be somewhere else. We're going to give him a chance to go somewhere else because we're ready for a change in this country. This crowd that's been in there, Bush and Quayle, have given us the worst economic performance since the Great Depression. They have created a situation that has led to the loss of jobs right here in North Carolina and Tennessee and elsewhere. We've seen the results of one program where they've actually used our tax dollars to shut down factories and caused them to move overseas and use our tax dollars to train the replacement workers. Bill Clinton and I will get rid of that program on day one, I'll tell you that.

	But you know, under Bush and Quayle there are fewer jobs and 1.5 million fewer manufacturing jobs. In other words, if George Bush went out to Hollywood and made a movie, he'd have to call it, Honey, I Shrunk the Economy. And you know what the sequel would have to be, Honey, I Blew Up the Deficit, because it's twice as big as it was when they took over.

	Under Bush and Quayle, unemployment here in North Carolina and around the country has gone up. The number of jobs has gone down. The trade deficit has gone up. Personal income has gone down. The budget deficit has gone up. Consumer confidence has gone down. Poverty has gone up. The number of jobs has gone down. Bankruptcies have gone up. Jobs down. Fear up. Hope down. Everything that ought to be down is up. Everything that should be up is down. They've got it upside down and we're going to turn it right side up with your help.

	You listen to them. They're saying--their few remaining supporters are trying to muster up some little enthusiasm when they say, "Four more years." It sounds more like a threat than a promise. What about one more week?

	We want changes in education. We want changes in health care. We want changes to create jobs for our people. We want changes in the environment. We want to lead the environmental revolution. We don't want to drag our feet and bring up the rear. Bill Clinton and I believe that we can create millions of new jobs by manufacturing and selling the new technologies and products that foster economic progress without environmental destruction.

	And we want changes in agriculture. We'll give you a Secretary for Agriculture to lift farm incomes and provide rural development. Bush and Quayle don't know about farming and they put on these phony advertisements here in North Carolina, just a pack of falsehoods. They don't know what they're talking about.

	When they get to the time just before the election, that's when they start getting very nervous. The only time they start talking about your jobs is when their jobs are on the line. That's what they're all about. All they want to talk about is trickle-down economics. They want to convince you that all we need to do is wait a little bit longer and give money to the very wealthy and wait for it to trickle down. Somebody says voodoo. You remember who called it voodoo economics? George Bush called it voodoo economics.

	Now, how could he say it's voodoo economics one day and then the next day when Ronald Reagan asked him to run with him, all of a sudden he turns around and says, "No, no. I actually love voodoo--I mean, trickle-down--I mean, supply side economics." Could it possibly be that this man has no backbone?

	You know, a woman named Clementine Battleford wrote once, she said, "Don't put a wishbone where a backbone should be." That's George Bush's problem. We've got an alternative for you, Bill Clinton, who has backbone and who has leadership and who knows how to create jobs. He fights for average working families because he comes from one. His father was killed three months before he was born and he came up the hard way. He worked his way through college; took his education, and instead of making a personal fortune with it, he went back home to help the families in the same circumstances from which he came.

	He's created manufacturing jobs at ten times the national average. He's taken 17,000 people off the welfare rolls and moved them to the payrolls. He's introduced new ideas in education and in health care. He's balanced twelve budgets in a row while maintaining the second-lowest tax rate in the country. For the last two years his state has been number one among all fifty in the creation of jobs in the private sector. And the other forty-nine governors, Republicans and Democrats, voted to name Bill Clinton the best, most effective, governor in the entire United States of America. That's the leadership we need.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me just ask you to focus on how high the stakes are in this election. North Carolina can decide the outcome. North Carolina can shut the door on trickle-down. North Carolina can choose the future over the past. North Carolina can lead the way. But you have to be personally committed and involved. You have to undertake in your own lives the work of creating this change you know our country needs.

	Try to imagine the difference that it would make, depending on the outcome of this election. Just imagine how you personally would feel if you woke up on the morning of November 4th and you had gone to bed early the night before and you didn't know the outcome of the election. And you looked out the window November 4th morning and it was cold and gray and raining and you walked to the front door with sleep still in your eyes. And having trouble waking up, you opened the door and picked up the newspaper and it said, "Four more years of the same old stuff."

	Well, if you don't like that, that's not the only alternative. Imagine instead if you woke upon the morning of November 4th bright and early and you looked out the window and the sun was shining down and the birds were chirping and the smell of fresh roasted coffee was coming in from the kitchen, and you had a job and there were fresh cut flowers in the hallway. And you went to the door with a song in your heart by James Taylor about "Carolina Home." And you opened the door and picked up the newspaper headline and it said, "A new day. Change is on the way."

	That's the choice, ladies and gentlemen, but it's up to you. And the time to make that choice is not the morning of November the 4th after you wake up. The time to make that choice is every day between now and November 3rd when the polls close. You can do it, but you've got to decide. Do you want four more years of trickle-down?

	Do you want four more years of, "Read my lips?" What about four more years of Dan Quayle? Four more years of George Bush? Is it time for them to go? What time is it? Again, what time is it? One more time. What time? I give you the next president of the United States of America, Bill Clinton.

	GOVERNOR CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you for the sign up there. Thank you.

	Thank you very, very much. I am glad to be here at North Carolina Central University with Speaker Dan Blue, an alumnus of this school, with Chancellor Benson, and with all of you who are here.

	I do want to say that I'm proud to be part of a Democratic ticket that represents a new day for America; that has candidates like Mel Watt and Eva Clayton, people who are going to show that in the South we're going up together because we don't want to go down apart.

	There's one person who wasn't introduced. I'd like to ask him to come up here on the stage. He is the first African-American candidate for statewide office in North Carolina, Ralph Campbell, a candidate for State Auditor. I want him to come up here and be seen. I'm kind of partial to him because he's got this Campbell Soup sticker. He's running on Campbell Soup and I was raised on it. So we all have something in common with him. Please elect him.

	I want to thank my dear friend, Senator Jay Rockefeller, for coming over from West Virginia, and I want you to know with leadership like what Jay Rockefeller can provide we're going to finally give this country a system that controls health care costs and provides basic health care to all Americans. That's one good reason to vote for the Clinton-Gore.

	I want to say to Congressman Tim Valentine and David Price, I look forward to working with you. I want to say to my dear friend, Jim Hunt, you're one of the best governors I ever served with, and I hope the people of North Carolina are going to give you the chance to be governor again.

	I want to thank Harvey Gant for his support and his leadership and his example. I hope you'll be voting for him again some day before long.

	I want to thank the person of all those who spoke today who is youngest at heart, Terry Sanford. Send him back to the Senate. We need him. America needs him.

	I also want to tell you that I talked to a friend of mine just as we were pulling in here today. I called Julius Chambers and congratulated him on his new job, and I want you to make him feel at home.

	I always love to come to this town for a lot of reasons. And I hope you'll indulge me just one personal reminiscence because I know we've got some students from Duke here, too. When I was a--I'm not going to talk about basketball. I'm not going to talk about any of that. I'm going to tell you something. I learned something about North Carolina a long time ago. When I was a senior in college and my stepfather was taken desperately ill, he went to the Duke Medical Center. And for six weeks every weekend I used to drive down here from Washington where I was a student at Georgetown, 266 miles one-way, to come to this wonderful town in the springtime. And I will never forget it as long as I live.

	I've loved this place since then. I've always felt close to it. And I tell you, I want the people of Durham, the people of this wonderful school, the people of this state to end a message to America; that we're ready for change and it's going to be the right kind of change, and we're going to do it together.

	We've helped to build a new South, you and I. Let's help to build a new America. Let's say at the end of the Cold War we're going to make this country what it ought to be.

	I got into this race for two or three basic reasons. A long time ago, when even my own mother didn't think I could win and Mr. Bush was at 70 percent in the polls, I got in here for two reasons. One is I couldn't bear the thought of the people in my state working harder every year for less. No matter how hard they worked and how much they played by the rules, under the grip of trickle-down economics America was losing its way.

	The other reason is I didn't want my daughter, who's here with us today, and all the young people in this audience to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents, when I believe the end of the Cold War offers us the opportunity to make the best America we have ever known, if only we have the courage to change.

	I came to this race with nothing but a heart full of passion and a head full of ideas to see that every person ought to live up to the fullest of their God-given capacities, and I wanted this race to be a race of ideas. And it still is, fundamentally, but I have to tell you in the last few weeks we've seen some other reasons that we ought to change.

	I mean, in this administration, the President says trust me with four more years. But I look at Washington every day and I find the Justice Department is investigating the FBI and the FBI is investigating the Justice Department. They don't have any time for crooks any more. They've got to look into each other now.

	Then, there's a federal court case down in Atlanta over this Iraq business and whether the money was diverted, our money, to help Saddam Hussein build his war machine and all these other things that happened. And the CIA and the Justice Department are arguing over which one of them lied to the federal court to cover up what we did.

	And then, we find the other day that the State Department has these three political cronies that were sent over to rummage through my passport files in the middle of the night. And that was all right. But then, when they didn't find anything on me, these people, in their desperate desire to keep power, looked into my mother's passport file.

	Now, I don't know about you but it seems to me like they ought to leave my mother alone, wouldn't you think?

	Now, I'm not really worried about her. My mother has dealt with people a lot tougher than George Bush. And the more I thought about it, it's not all bad, because what these people did, they waited until the government offices closed down and they sneaked over there at six o'clock at night and they rummaged around in all these old files, you know. They did it until ten o'clock at night. And it occurred to me that that was the first time since George Bush has been President that those three political hacks had worked until ten o'clock at night.

	So maybe it's not all bad. Now, this would be funny if it weren't your money and your time. Now, one look at the press in the last couple of days--it went on today. Mr. Bush and Mr. Perot have called each other names for months because Mr. Bush says Mr. Perot hired people to investigate his children. Now Mr. Perot says Mr. Bush hired people to look into his children.

	Looks to me what we ought to be doing is what I've been doing. I'm looking into your children and their future and their promise and their problems and what we ought to be doing. We don't need that any more. We don't need the cheap politics of division. We don't need the politics of personal destruction. We need to say we are all in this together and we have to accept the challenges of the time in which we live.

	I do not offer you just a bunch of opportunities. I ask for more responsibilities. I offer you a challenge to make a new America. Our job, if you elect us on November 3rd, will be to get rid of trickle-down economics; to get rid of any notion of tax-and-spend economics; to go forward with a new economic policy to invest in jobs; to invest in our cities; to invest in our rural areas; to give people work. Work is still the best social program that has ever been devised, and that's all people want is a chance to work and to be rewarded for their efforts.

	We offer you a new health care policy that at long last puts America in line with the rest of the world to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans and give people the right to change jobs, and millions are now stuck and they can't change because they've had somebody in their family sick and they know if they change jobs they'll lose their health insurance.

	I see people nodding their heads all throughout this crowd. We want to change that and give you a new American health care system that is fair to the elderly, fair to the little children, and fair to the working people of this country. We can do it. I'm tired of being told we cannot do that. I know that we can.

	We want to take all the money by which defense is cut and reinvest it in building new transportation systems and new communications systems and new environmental systems. Al Gore and I believe we can create jobs by cleaning up the environment, with recycling, with clean water, with clean air technology, with different energy policies. We think Americans can go to work by preserving this planet. That's a big difference between us and our opponents.

	Finally, we want to make it possible for America to say you have a real education president. Preschool for the kids who need it, smaller classes in the early grades, and counselors for kids who've got trouble at home. Real, meaningful standards so that we'll all know whether our children are learning what they need to know before they just keep getting promoted year in and year out. And for the young people who don't go on to college, to a four-year college, a guarantee that they'll have at least two years of further education in a community college or an apprenticeship training program to get a good job, not a dead-end job.

	And finally, the thing that would affect you in this crowd the most, I want to open the doors of college education to all Americans. Do you know that the college dropout rate in America is more than twice the high school dropout rate because the cost is going like this and student aid has gone like this? Is that right?

	Do you know that the student loan program we have every year costs the taxpayers $4 billion? A billion dollars in payments to banks and $3 billion because people never pay them back?

	Here's our idea. Scrap the existing student loan program. Set up a national trust fund. Let anybody, without regard to their income borrow the money to go to college and then say, "Here's how you're going to pay it back. You have two choices. You can pay it back as a small percentage of your income after you go to work--always tied to your income so if you take a lower paying job, if you become a teacher, you won't be bankrupted by your student loan payment. But you must pay it back at tax time so you can't beat the bill like a lot of people do. But even better, we'd like to invite you to pay it back by working for two years to your country being teachers, being police officers, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities, working with little children to keep them out of trouble, working to lift this country up from the grassroots." We could solve the problems of America and educate a whole generation of Americans. That's what we want to invite you to do.

But we also want to challenge you. We want to challenge you to liberate the capacities of all of our people. I don't want bigger government. I want more effective government. I'm going to change the government. We're going to reduce the influence of lobbyists. We're going to reduce the influence of special interests. We're going to open the congressional process. We're going to open the lobbying process so people can get in. But we also want other people to change, too. I'm telling you something. Anybody that runs for office and promises you to make the economy stable the way it used to be is not telling you the truth. Every one of you is going to have to change jobs about eight times in a lifetime, even if you have to keep working for the same company. Nobody can promise you anything else.

	So, all we can do for you is make it possible for you to seize your own destiny, to always be more productive, to always be better educated, to always have the courage to change. And I want to do that for people who are unfortunate, too. I want to tell people on welfare we're going to invest in you, in your education and the support for your children. Then you've got to go to work. I want to tell people who are getting ripped off because people aren't paying their child support, we're going to give you the toughest system of child support enforcement this country has ever seen. I want to challenge everybody to take control of their own lives. That is the object of this. And it can be the best family policy and the best social policy we ever had if we all had the courage the change.

	One last thing. We didn't get into this mess overnight. We're not going to get out of it overnight. And I'll make a few mistakes, because unlike the present occupant I will do something about these things from day one. But the one thing we have got to do is face our problems. I wish you could see all the people we've met on these bus trips, but just let me tell you one story.

	We were in Ocala, Florida the other night in a rodeo arena. I related to it because I'm from Arkansas and I've spent half my time in rodeo arenas when I was a kid, going to the county fairs and all. And here we are in this sort of rural crowd and a couple comes up to me and they handed me a button with a picture of their son on it who had died of AIDS. And then I went to Richmond, Virginia, and stopped in Williamsburg, Colonial Williamsburg, to practice for the debate. And the woman came up to me and she said, "I lost my twenty-one-year-old daughter and my four-year-old grandchild to AIDS. I want you to help me."

	And you know what they said? They didn't ask for miracles. They said, I want a president who faces the problems, who talks about it, who doesn't wait until election time, who tries to keep our kids alive, tries to deal with it. Deal with the problem. We can take the truth if you'll deal with the problem. That's what people tell me all over.

	So I want you to support the kind of government that is not working miracles but is making progress in dealing with problems.

	The last thing I want to say, I'm just sick and tired of the kind of divisions I've seen in this country in the last year. I've seen swastikas painted on Jewish synagogues. I've seen blacks called all kinds of names; not in the South, but outside the South. I've seen people separated; Hispanics and Asians and African American and all different kinds of people. You know, folks, we've got 150 different racial and ethnic groups in this country now and it could be the source of our greatest strength as we move into a global economy. But we have to decide we need each other, that we care for each other, and that we're going up or down together. We don't have a person to waste. That's what I stand for.

	I want you to think about this. I'm telling you in the next week you'll hear some of the awfulLest stuff you've ever heard. I've heard old Bush's ad on agriculture trying to convince you that Al Gore and I were going to regulate every farmer in the country, when the truth is that half of what he was accusing us of is stuff he's tried to do. You'll hear all that stuff.

	But let me tell you. When it's all said and done, this race is going to be determined by you and the rest of the people of America determining what you want for your lives, not what we want. What you want. What kind of people are we? What kind of people are we? What we do want. I've laid out where I stand. You know what we believe in. We've written a book saying what we're going to do. The most important thing is, and you know as well as I do, we've got no more business than the man in the moon of doing four more years of what we've been doing and we've got to have the courage to change.

	I want to ask you to help us build a new America, to make this country what it ought to be, to lift all of our people up, to meet the challenges that we now face together. We can have a great future if we have the courage to change. Send them a message on November 3rd that North Carolina is in the vanguard of change.

	Thank you and God bless you all.

AIDSCHILD SUPPORTCONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEJOB GROWTH/CREATION     i i i i i
 i i i i ri pi Ki	  	  	  	  	  	 s 	 [ 	 . 	  e: