

	Mayor Hanlon and my friends of Scranton:

	I think I have seen everything now. After all the experiences of the past two months, in my innocent life, this is the first time I have laid a wreath at eight o'clock in the morning in the snow.

	I am deeply grateful, and likewise astonished, to find so many of you here at this hour. As for me, I haven't had a chance to shave or get my breakfast. But you do me great courtesy, and I shall never forget it.

	I thought perhaps I might, instead of talking entirely about politics, in view of the hour of the day, and in view of the fact that this was the home of John Mitchell, say just a word about him because of the fact that he came from my state of Illinois. Before I do so I should like to say to the young man who is carrying the Ike banner down here, that it is okay by me. I like him too, you know. You might be amused by an incident that took place out at Spokane, in the state of Washington, I think it was the week before last, when we were driving through the streets, and with crowds pushing up around the car, and a little boy ran out in front--I don't know whether he was just confused, or whether he had already selected his vocation in life, and it included being a diplomat--at all events he shouted at the top of his voice, "Hooray for Stevenhower."

	I am very glad to have had this opportunity of commemorating the memory of John Mitchell, a great American, and an extraordinary leader of men. The story of Mitchell, of course, is known, I am sure, to all of you here in Scranton. And yet, I think it appropriate on this day to recall that story, for it contains some lessons for us today.

	The facts of his life are simple. He was born in 1870 in my home state of Illinois. He was an orphan and he went to work in the soft coal mines when he was but thirteen years old. He joined what was then known as the Knights of Labor when he was seventeen, and saw his first strike the following year. That strike lasted a year and it resulted in a 20 percent wage cut. In the death throes of the Knights of Labor, the United Mine Workers, of course, was born. John Mitchell joined the UMW at its beginning in 1890. He became its president in 1898 when he was only twenty-eight years old. They called him the boy president. His great years were at hand. Those were the days when the newspapers were full of stories about playboys, and about the get-rich-quick people who lit cigars with $100 bills; and they were the days when men dug coal for a few cents an hour. John Mitchell came from Illinois to organize the anthracite fields. He found about 150,000 men without a leader and grouped into warring factions. Mitchell built those people into a labor union, and they struck the anthracite mines on September 11th in 1900. Six weeks that strike lasted, and on October 29th they won their strike--the first strike American miners had ever won. It is that day that we now commemorate here in Scranton; that day and Mitchell's.

	The enemies of John Mitchell, of course, in his day, called him a radical and revolutionary; but the people knew better. They knew him for what he was--a man who was with his--with the miners--who wanted only to make sure that they got their fair share. John Mitchell built better than he knew. He worked not merely for the interests of the miners--he worked for the good of all of the people--not just some of them.

	As we look about us today, with the unprecedented prosperity in our land, we must not lose sight it seems to me of the fact that the people of our country depend on one another. If the miners are unemployed, they can't spend money in the city stores, and the businessman is in trouble. If one man is hungry or ill fed, we are all the poorer. We have come a long way in our land since the days of John Mitchell. We have built a free and a prosperous society that is properly the envy of the entire world. And we have not done this by accident. Nor was it done, I might add, with the help of the do-nothing, the care-nothing Old Guard of the Republican party. It was done by the people of America. It was done by the people of America with the help of the Democratic party and some great American leaders--Woodrow Wilson, and Franklin Roosevelt, and Harry Truman. I don't need to remind you people here of the days of the Great Depression. You know what has happened in these past twenty years. You know that the Democratic party has inaugurated the minimum wage and hours law, the social security system, and all of the other laws that defend individual men and women against the greatest disasters that are beyond their control. You know that we have inaugurated these measures and defended them against various attacks of the Republican Old Guard, and you know we will keep on working for the welfare, the strength, and the prosperity of all of the people of this country. The Democratic party has a positive program for advancing the well-being of all of our people.

	I have spelled it out as best I can throughout this campaign. And you know, I think, what our program is. I shan't take up your time to tell you about it today. What is more, I am going to freeze to death.

	This day belongs to John Mitchell. That man had courage and he had the vision to lead the people. Yet, he was also a man who never lost sight of the broader public interest.

	I think John Mitchell's greatest contribution to his country and his greatest legacy to us was something other than his victory in terrible labor disorders and strikes. It was Woodrow Wilson's secretary of labor who said about him, "The value of men like Mitchell lies in their ability to communicate the spirit of Democracy to others."

	There is, my friends, no greater gift in society as we have organized it in the United States. John Mitchell came to Pennsylvania and found there men fighting among themselves--the newer immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe fighting for a place in the sun--the early English speaking arrivals, struggling to keep the new arrivals down. John Mitchell taught them to work together and to struggle together, and in teaching them this, he taught them the meaning of the American idea of democracy--and this is the story--this is the meaning of America.

	You right here in Scranton have seen in your lifetime the American dream come true. Today, as never before, this nation of ours is strong, it is rich, and above all, it is basically united. We have need of this unity; we have desperate great need of it in this terrible third quarter of the twentieth century.

	We face a cold, inscrutable, implacable and hostile enemy in the world--something entirely new for the United States--and we must be united. Basically, I think we are. I must say at this point of a campaign, it doesn't look that way. We are united because of the work of John Mitchell and other men like him, and that is why he lives today and that is why we commemorate him. This is why his story is also written in your hearts and mine, and this is why we now press forward together, carrying on his work, laying brick by brick, stone by stone, laboring with patience and with steadfast purpose to construct the kind of a world that we mean to have, a world where all men dwell as brothers under the law of God.

	I feel as though I have imposed upon you most ungraciously this morning by talking to you so seriously, but after all, it is awfully hard to get mad at eight o'clock in the morning. And I should like to express my great satisfaction at finding myself here on this platform in Scranton with the Democratic candidate for Congress, Harry O'Neil, and our distinguished candidate for the United States Senate, Judge Barnes. It is just possible that I might conclude to move to Washington next year, and if so, I wish you would send these fellows with me.

	You have done me a great courtesy by coming here. I say once more that if people are as docile, as patient and as interested in our public life as you must be to stand here so early in the morning in the snow, that it bodes well for the future of American politics and it also looks mighty good for the Democratic party. 

	Thank you so much. God bless you all.

AWARDS AND COMMEMORATIONSCOAL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--ORGANIZED LABORHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     !!        
                	  	  	 h 	 A 	  e: