

	It's just great to be in the state of Wisconsin and the state of the Wisconsin Badger.  Because if you've ever seen a badger in a fight, you know they're scrappy little guys and they fight to win and that's what we're going to do.

	One week to go.  Seven days.  Seven of the most important days in the history of this country.

	Now, I know a couple of weeks ago the Republicans were already celebrating.  Popping those champagne corks in their penthouses.  But I want to tell them something for you and me.  We're the ones that are going to be celebrating on the 8th of November--and we're going to be celebrating, with some good old Milwaukee beer.

	Mr. Bush is coasting, we're fighting!  He's reading the polls--we're taking our case directly to the American people.  He thinks he can inherit the White House.  I think the next president has to earn the right to lead this country.

	Because there's a fundamental difference between Mr. Bush and me, he wants to help the people that already have it made.

	I want to help every American family make it in this country.  He wants to help the people on Easy Street.  We want to help the people on Main Street--that's who we want to help.

	I picked Lloyd Bentsen.  He picked Dan Quayle.  And that tells you everything you want to know about the kind of people and the kind of standards and the kind of ability and the kind of competence we're going to have in the White House beginning in January 1989.

	Because Lloyd Bentsen and I are on your side and on the side of average Americans all over this country.  And that is what this election is all about.

	Mr. Bush and the Republican Party have waged what I believe is the most cynical campaign in the history of American politics.  A campaign of distortions and misrepresentations and outright falsehoods.

	I just came from Youngstown, Ohio where they're distributing another one of these pamphlets, this time on Social Security,attacking my record on Social Security.

	Wasn't it George Bush that flew all the way from the west coast to the Senate of the United States to break a tie and deny Social Security recipients in this country the cost of living increase they deserve?

	And why are they doing this?  Why are they waging this kind of campaign?  You know.  And so, increasingly, do the American people.

	They want you to forget the hundreds and hundreds of billions of hot checks that they've used to finance the government over the past eight years.  This mountain of debt that Bill Proxmire described.

	Interest on the national debt is now exceeding $150 billion a year.  More than three times what it was in 1980, and he's right, it doesn't buy you a thing, does it?

	Does it educate a child?

	Does it provide health care?

	Does it build a house?

	Does it provide college opportunity for young people?

	They want you to forget this massive trade deficit.  Here we are--the nation that eight years ago was the biggest lending nation in the world, today the biggest borrower.

	And that trade deficit, my friends, has cost us five million jobs for the American people.  Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to turn that trade deficit into a trade surplus in four years and we're going to bring those jobs home and help Americans go to work.

	There's a lot of talk about labels in this campaign.  The label I care about, the label you care about, the label the American people care about, is the label "Made in America."  That's the label we care about.

	And we want that label to be the international symbol of quality and value and durability all over this world.  That's our goal.  That's what we want to do.  We want to export our products, not our jobs.

	We're going to use that new trade bill, led by Lloyd Bentsen, to bring down unfair barriers to American products.

	Mr. Bush said last week that Senator Bentsen and I were trying to scare the American people by talking about the importance of standing up for American workers and American farmers and working hard to export our products, and not our jobs overseas.

	Let me tell you what scares me.

	What scares me is a candidate whose only idea for the economic future of this country is a five-year, $40 billion tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent of the people in this country, that's what scares me.

	What scares me is a candidate who thinks that average Americans can buy a home or start a business or send their kids to college with a savings plan that's worth twenty bucks a year for the average American family.  That won't pay the application fee to college, let alone the tuition.

	What scares me is a candidate who hasn't said a thing about the merger and acquisition binge that's sweeping this country.  It's an epidemic!  Billions and billions being borrowed to buy companies and break them up to make millions for some and to provide no new jobs, no new productivity, no expansion, none of the things that will employ Americans and give them good jobs at good wages.

	That's what scares me, and I know it scares you as well.  In the first six months of this year, we've seen 1600 takeovers in this country, worth $90 billion, creating billions in new debt for our corporations.

	We've seen companies like Goodyear carved up and workers laid off.

	We've seen foreign investors buying up some of America's best known brand names, while the Republican ticket stood on the sidelines and did nothing.

	As your president, I'm not going to be standing up for sharp operators.  I'm going to be standing up for lathe operators and machine operators and the people who made this country and worked hard and made us what we are.

	Hard workers, not high rollers, built this country and they deserve a president who will stand up for them.

	If you believe that our resources in this country ought to go not to enrich the few but to enrich us all; to retrain our workers and to create good jobs and to invest in communities and states and regions all across this country that need help, need growth, need new jobs, then we're on your side, that's where we are.

	If you believe every workplace should be a productive workplace and a safe workplace, we're on your side.

	If you believe that American workers and their families are entitled to at least sixty days notice before they're thrown out in the street, then we're on your side.  If you believe that the minimum wage in this country ought to be a living wage and not a poverty wage, we're on your side.

	If you believe that it's about time that women in this country earn more than 65 cents for every dollar that a man earns, then we're on your side.

	If you believe as I do, and as Bill Proxmire does, that it's time that every job in this country came with basic health insurance for working families, then we're on your side.

	If you believe that we need an Attorney General who will crack down on this merger mania, an Attorney General who knows the difference between anti-trust and anti-freeze, then we're on your side.

	And if you want to make sure that we take this country back from the foreign bankers that are lending us the money to pay for these deficits, if you want Americans to invest in America again, then we're on your side, we're on America's side, and we'll be on the winning side, one week from today.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to lead an Administration that stands for clean air, and for clean water, and for a clean environment, and for clean government in Washington, D.C.

	And I'm proud to be here in a state that has been a symbol of clean government and competent government and integrity for a long time--to be here with a man who during his entire Senate career has been the watchdog of government waste and corruption and inefficiency.

	And I'm here to tell him and tell you and tell the American people that we're going to demand public service, not self-service in our government in Washington.

	Bill Proxmire talked about business as usual in another Republican Administration and today we had another example of just what he means:  business as usual for foreign agents and for influence peddlers in Washington.

	If you can believe this, the company of a top Bush campaign aide, his deputy finance chairman, this past month, was already seeking to use its contacts to promote the interests of the latest military dictator in Haiti.  Suggesting to them that that firm could not only help them, it could do so even during the transition period.

	You know, we Americans have had a bellyful of allowing representatives of foreign governments easy access to the White House.

	We don't need a White House staff with divided loyalties in this country.

	We don't need a White House where the back door is a front door for lobbyists.

	We don't need a White House that's a meal ticket for former presidential campaign aides.

	We need a White House where the ethics office is in the Oval Office, not someplace down the hall.  And I want to tell you that under a Dukakis-Bentsen Administration, if you work for us, and you leave the administration, you will not be permitted to lobby any agency of the federal government, until the administration itself leaves government.

	The Dukakis Administration, we're only going to pledge allegiance to one flag, Old Glory.

	Seven days to go.  Seven important days.  And remember 1960.  That ticket of ours won by a margin of 112,000 votes out of nearly 70 million cast.  Less than one vote per precinct.

	So I'm here today to tell you that your work out there, in your neighborhoods, communities, on those phone banks, with your friends and relatives and fellow workers, is crucial to our success.

	We want to win in Wisconsin, and we want to win all across this nation of ours.  And if you'll win Wisconsin for us, and I know you can, we're going to win all across this nation, then Kitty and I are going to invite you to a party.

	Because then we're going to say "yes" to the future, "yes" to an America of unlimited ambition and boundless opportunity, not just for some, but for all of our people.

	Dave Schultz was right.  As we turn to face the future, the best America is not behind us, the best America is yet to come.  

	Thank you all very, very much.

ELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     ) ( ( ( (
 ( ( ( ( ( ( ( (	  	  	  	 o 	 R 	 : 	 # e: