

	Lt. Governor Finch, Senator Brooke, and all the distinguished guests on the platform, and this great audience here: as we arrive in California, I want you to know how deeply grateful I am for the welcome you have given us. I want you to know, too, that as I look at this great crowd, I am reminded of crowds that I have seen all over this country in the past ten days, and I can tell you that something is happening in America today.

	The reason that I know that it is happening is what I see in your faces, not just the number that are here, but what I have seen all over America. Let me tell you about it. Ten days ago we got to Chicago. We got there just after the other fellow left town. And when we got to Chicago, the biggest political crowd that they have had in the last thirty years came out--600,000. We are going to carry Illinois, that is what that means, in November. And then the next day in San Francisco, 300,000. That night in Santa Clara, 32,000. The next day in Houston, 45,000. The next day in Pittsburgh, a record crowd at the airport. Then Westchester County, Governor Rockefeller, when he introduced me three nights ago in Westchester County, said it was the biggest, most enthusiastic crowd they ever had in that country. We are going to win New York. And then the next night it was in Charlotte, North Carolina, and then the following day in Indianapolis at the Circle, 22,000, the biggest crowd ever held in that particular area. And then this morning in Cleveland, Ohio, again, at the West Gate Shopping Center--a crowd like this, oh, not quite as big as this, but big.

	But Bob Finch has put his finger on it very well. He talks about the chemistry of a campaign and the feel of it. The feel of it is here, as I have seen it across this nation, not just the numbers, but what you are trying to say, what you believe, what you want for America. Oh, I see it in your faces. I also see it in some of your signs. I have seen a lot of interesting ones here today. Here is one, "We Love Pat." That is fine. I do, too--I mean Pat Nixon, of course.

	Over here it says, "Sock it to 'em, Dick." We'll do that, too. "Nixon's Got Soul." I like that one. That is the first one we've seen there. Over here it says, "Dump the Hump."

	In Indianapolis they had one that said "Trade Hubert for the Pueblo." The trouble is I don't think North Korea would take him. And the American people aren't going to take him because they want new leadership, and that's why you are here. The American people want new leadership.

	What these crowds mean very simply is this: they are not Republican crowds alone. They are Republicans and Democrats and Independents. They are not older voters alone. They are a lot of younger voters. In Iowa today, an immense crowd there, I remarked that I had been stationed in Iowa twenty-five years ago, just before going overseas in World War II, and I asked the people there to hold up their hands, all of those who were less than twenty-five years of age--a third of the audience. I would like to ask this audience, how many in this audience are less than twenty-five years of age?

	There you are, young America. So today it is because this is a young nation, it is because this is a nation that wants new vital leadership, it is because this nation does not want to turn to the past or to continue with the leadership of the past that you are here. It is because millions of Americans who have not been violating the law, millions of Americans who haven't been engaging in violence, millions of Americans who haven't been shouting in the streets--now you are coming out. The forgotten Americans are being heard, and you are going to continue to be heard. It is because this great group of Americans--they are good people, decent people. You recognize if this isn't a good country for all of us to live in, it isn't a good country for any of us. You are people, however, who know that what happened to America over the past four years must not be allowed to continue to happen. And you know that the choice for America in the year 1968--and this is the significant thing to remember--you know that it is the most important choice politically that you will make in your lifetime, in my view, the clearest choice that this country has had in a century. Let me tell you about it.

	One man nominated by his party in Chicago says to the American people, "I supported the policies of the past four years." He says, "I helped to make those policies. I have no disagreement with those policies." And he says, "Let's go forward with more of the same."

	And this is my answer, and I think it is yours, to those who say we go forward that way, I say that when the strongest nation in this world can be tied down for four years in a war in Vietnam with no end in sight; I tell you, my friends, that when the richest nation in the whole world can't manage its own economy; I say that when the nation with the greatest tradition for respect for law is torn apart by unprecedented violence and lawlessness; and when the time comes in America when the President of the United States can't travel abroad or to any major city in this country without fear of a hostile demonstration--then it is time for new leadership for the United States of America.

	My friends, today I want all of you, my friends, in California, to know that I accept the challenge not only to furnish that leadership but that I offer you a great team, a great team that goes clear across this country, a team made up of men from California, from New York, men like Ed Brooke, Governor Rockefeller, Governor Reagan, Bob Finch. This is the new leadership we offer.

	I present to you today a party that has been able to unite itself, and a party that can unite itself can unite America. But beyond that, I present to you a cause that's bigger than party. We need not just Republicans. We need Democrats, we need Independents, we need all Americans to give America the new leadership that it needs. That's why you are here, and that's why we are going to win.

	So, as we embark on this great journey, let me tell you what you are going to be working for and fighting for and voting for. You are going to be working and voting for a new foreign policy, and for a new foreign policy, my friends, I refer not only to the war in Vietnam, but I refer to a policy that will see to it that these young people here, so many of you, will not go through what my generation did. I look back over those two years--three wars in one generation. I think we can do better. I know we can. Give us a chance, and we will produce that kind of leadership for you.

	I say to you as far as the war in Vietnam is concerned, let us make one thing very clear. I can assure you that I have my differences, very great differences, with the conduct of the war. But I also say that no candidate for president should do anything that might destroy the chance of the present President of the United States to end the war by negotiation, and I will say nothing to do that.

	But if they don't end it by November 5th, then I say after four years of all that power and all that wealth and 200,000 American casualties, they've failed, then give us a chance and we will end the war on an honorable basis. That is what America wants.

	We will go beyond. Looking to the future we give you a new foreign policy. Not a continuation of the tired men of the past, but new men with fresh ideas. And one of those ideas is a very solid one. You know, this is a great country and a strong country. It's a rich country, and we have lots of people. But for the last twenty years, do you realize, and all of you who studied America know this, do you realize that we furnished most of the money, $150 billion, we furnished most of the arms and we furnished most of the lives in Korea and then in Vietnam to help other nations defend themselves against aggression.

	My friends, let's make one thing very clear. We are strong. We are rich. But there are 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world, and I am for a foreign policy that will get other nations to bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world.

	My friends, in this era, which must be an era in which we seek peace but seek it from strength rather than weakness, in which we negotiate but we negotiate realistically rather than in terms that will be misunderstood, let me tell you that the first place to start is to restore respect for the United States of America all over this world, and you are going to help us do that. Because--I will tell you this--when respect for this great nation, and it is a great nation, has sunk so low that a nation like North Korea would dare to seize an American naval vessel on the high seas, then it's time for leadership that will restore respect to the United States of America.

	That brings us then to the great task of what we do at home too, because, you know, a nation that is not respected at home, a nation that cannot keep the peace at home, will not be trusted to keep the peace abroad.

So we look at America today, this country of ours. We look at it here in this state of California, with all of its hope and all of its promise and all of its future. And then we look across America and we see a country that is divided. We see a country that is torn apart by lawlessness. We see a country of fear and hatred developing. And I say to you it doesn't need to be that way. I say to you that here we have a clear choice. A clear choice that I ask you to make.

	On the one side, one man says that the President of the United States and the Vice President of the United States and the Attorney General of the United States haven't been breaking the law. Consequently, you can't blame them for the fact that we have lawlessness.

	I happen to disagree. I tell you that as president of the United States I assume the responsibility and I will assume it to reestablish respect for law and establish freedom from fear in the United States of America today.

	I say to you that when we have reached the conditions in the United States of America when crime--and listen to these figures--has been going up nine times as fast as population over the last four years; when we have reached a point in the United States of America when over the last four years we have had riots in 200 of our cities; and, in addition to that, we have had a total of 7,000 wounded, injured, in violence in riots; and when, over those last four years, we find that respect for law has reached a low point all over the United States--then I say what we need is a complete housecleaning. We are going to get a new attorney general, we are going to get a new team up and down the line, and we will establish that respect.

	My friends, we are going to go further than that. You know, when we talk about respect for law, we also must remember that with all the laws that you have, and all the beliefs that you have, that unless people have hope, unless there is a chance for them to go up, a chance of justice, you will still have these terrible disturbances that we speak about. So here we again have the choice, the choice on the one side of a man who says we have spent billions of dollars over the past four years for federal programs, federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare, and all he offers to America is four more years of the same. He says, "Let's spend billions of dollars more for more programs like those we have had."

	Look, I say that when we have been spending billions of dollars for programs that have failed, let's take a new road, a new road to progress, and that is what we want to do for the American people. That is why I bring my message to you today.

	Oh, we recognize the responsibility of our government. Government in the field of education, government in the field of providing for the needy and for the aged. Government in the field of taking care of those who are unable to care for themselves. Government must assume a responsibility and we will go forward in all these fields.

But my friends, let us never forget this. Let us remember that as far as those are concerned who are able to take care of themselves, what we need in America is not more millions on welfare rolls, what we need are more millions on payrolls. That's the way we move in the United States of America.

	What we remember and what I leave with you here today is this, that America is a great country today and it became great not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves. Let's give people a chance to move forward. That's why I say we have been on their road, they have had their chance, and now they tell us four more years of it.

	My friends, I say to you four years of failure abroad, four years of failure at home is enough. Let's go forward with the new leadership and we accept the challenge to furnish that leadership. Join us in it. Join us in bringing that leadership to the American people.

	My friends, because there are so many here in this audience who are below that twenty-five years of age, could I leave one thought with you that I think must be left with every young American audience. We hear a lot about--we hear a lot these days about what's wrong with young people. I want you to know that I have seen hundreds of thousands of you in crowds across this nation. I believe in young America. I am for you. I think you want to move forward with the new program, and that's why you are going to support our ticket.

	My friends, I want to tell you what I believe with regard to your future. You will hear it said in some quarters that never could a younger generation live at a worse time. You know, all this line that we inherited a world that we didn't create, and isn't that too bad. I don't agree at all. Let me tell you what I think of this world and of our country at this time and place.

	Yes, we have things that are wrong, but I have been much around the world over these past years. I think I know also America and its people. As I study the whole history of man from the beginning of time, and as I look at all the nations of the world today, if I were to pick a place in which to live and a time in which to live, I'd pick the United States of America, 1968.

	What I am saying to you is that here is where the action is. Here is where the challenge is. What happens in America is going to determine whether peace and freedom survive in the world. And what a great challenge, what an exciting journey for all of us to embark on. This is your chance, this is your generation.

	And I say to you that on November 5th a new day is going to dawn for America. The long night is going to be brought to an end, and in that new day we are going to be looking forward to a new America, a new America in which we shall have peace abroad, a new America in which we can have peace at home, a new America in which we will light the lamp of hope in millions of homes across this land where there is no hope today, a new America in which every American will stand on his own feet, proud, with dignity and self-respect rather than waiting for government to do something for him. This is the cause I ask you to join. It's a great cause.

	Now let's go out and win it big in California in November.
CIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALVIETNAM WARYOUTH     = < < < <
 < < < < < < {< q<	 l 	 ^ 	 P 	 < 	 ' 	  	  e: