

	In one particular, at least, my distinguished opponent for the presidency is ahead of me in this campaign. He has made two speeches on farm policy, while I, until this afternoon, have made but one.

	But he is not a hard man to catch, because in this one short sentence, I can say more about farm policy than he will say in the whole campaign: "I stand on the Democratic record and on the Democratic platform."

	He can't stand on the Republican record on farm policy, and he didn't even try to stand on the Republican platform. Instead he jumped on ours, right in broad daylight. We're thinking of sending them a bill for rent, because the Republicans have a lot of money, as usual, and we don't, also as usual.

	When this campaign began, I hoped agricultural policy would be discussed in its proper setting--not as something to be thrown every four years on the chopping block of partisan strife. In its proper context, farm policy deals with a good life on the land, and this means an efficient, effective--yes, and a prosperous--agriculture. In this setting, agricultural policy is a matter of the gravest importance to our economic strength, and to our relations with other nations.

	There is a real clash of opinion about farm policy in this country. The Republican Party has a point of view all its own. But they don't talk about it during the campaign.

	Instead, it has a "me-too" candidate running on a "yes-but" platform, advised by a "has-been" staff. It consists largely of those Republicans who have opposed, obstructed, delayed, trimmed, shackled and harassed progressive Democratic legislation for the past twenty years. They can't even give themselves good advice. How can they give it to the General?

	They led him to describe the progressive farm programs adopted over the past twenty years as "nonpartisan." And on another occasion he referred to them as "those programs which I understand have been overwhelmingly supported by our party."

	Of course, they can find an occasional enlightened Republican who has voted for some of these Democratic programs. And I expect these gentlemen will be fattened up, curried lovingly and trotted out between now and November 4 with blue ribbons dangling from their halters, to show what prize exhibits the Republicans have tucked away for campaign exhibition. But, my friends, that "overwhelming support" stuff they have fed the General is a little raw, because the overwhelming weight of the Republican Party has been thrown time and again, over and over, in one session of Congress after another, in one voting test after another, against these progressive Democratic farm programs the General thinks they favored.

	When I finished reading his first speech on farm programs, I wondered whether my name was Rip Van Winkle and if I had been dreaming the last twenty years. In fact, I wondered whether I had been dreaming this year when more than half of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against extending 90 percent price supports. I also thought I remembered four years ago when the Republican Eightieth Congress forbade the CCC to acquire storage facilities for grain. It turns out now that the Republicans didn't do this--according to the story they gave the General to tell. He said there was no shortage of storage space in 1948. Our memories, they tell us, are faulty. But my memory is perfectly clear. So is that of hundreds of thousands of corn and wheat producers who had to sell their grain below support prices--because there wasn't enough storage space. Right here in Webster County farmers piled their corn outdoors where they could not get loans. When the General says otherwise, he is plainly the victim of his advisors who evidently think you can say anything you please and get away with it--if you're a Republican!

	Now let's examine a little more of the record. For my business is to see that you don't forget the record. And besides I have a farm myself.

	House Republicans voted against the original Agricultural Adjustment Act nearly two to one.

	They voted against the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act three to one.

	They voted against the Triple-A, which is still our basic price support legislation, five to one.

	They voted against parity payments seven to one in 1939.

	They voted to kill crop insurance sixteen to one and against expanding rural electric power facilities three to one, in 1943.

	They voted to kill the farm ownership programs eight to one in 1947.

	That same year they voted to kill the agricultural conservation program twelve to one.

	In 1949 a majority of House Republicans voted against the rural telephone service programs. They called it socialistic and a threat to free enterprise, just what they said about REA years before.

	In 1949 they voted against price supports on perishables forty to one.

	In 1951 they voted against expanding rural electric power nine to one.

	That same year the Senate Republicans voted to cripple crop insurance two to one. And they also voted to cripple the conservation program.

	Let me add--I do not cite that record merely to recall the past mistakes of Republican leaders. They have been wrong so long and on so many things that a purposeless recital of their voting record would be wanton cruelty. And I believe in repentance and forgiveness. I cite the record not as it recalls the past--but as it reveals the future.

	One of the slogans they think will win the election is "It's time for a change." Change to what? They don't say. What would they change? They don't say. Change the jobholders, yes, and I also have a suspicion that they would like to change this Republican voting record. But just a thirty-day change--that is, between now and election day--because the record shows they have been voting against change for twenty years.

	While we're talking about change, let me remind you that the Democratic Party has helped the people work a real change--one of the most drastic in our history. A friend told me about an experience of Leo Martin, then a farmer near Dubuque--now sheriff of Dubuque County--who sent a carload of sheep to the Chicago stockyards in the depression days. They sold for a price which did not equal the shipping costs. So he was billed for $18--his loss after selling a carload of sheep. Leo wrote back: "I don't have the $18 but I've got some more sheep if you want them."

	There has been a change all right. It began with the old corn loan program, put into effect by the Democrats in 1933. The first loan made under this program was at Pocahontas, in the next county. The very land on which we now stand, where this new airport is located, was being foreclosed in 1933 and was saved through the corn loan program.

	I call this change: when the farmer's income increases four times over what it was twenty years ago. That is what has happened--and in terms of what a bushel of corn or 100 pounds of pork will buy. In dollars, the increase has been tenfold.

	You see the results around you every day. Finer homes, greater comfort, more freedom to read and travel, a more secure and a better life. Consider what electrification alone has meant to country living.

	Democrats are proud of the accomplishments of the REA cooperatives--of the way you, as customers and directors, have seen this job through to a point where rural America is now 90 percent electrified. Farmers here in northwest Iowa know what I mean. They have watched the development of the Corn Belt Power Cooperative at Humboldt.

	I'm letting a lot pass because I can't blame him personally for everything his advisers put in his mouth, but the General has had some things to say about REA which I can't let pass. He said REA co-ops must not be satellites of the federal government. Can you tie that? Nothing in this world, that I know, is any more independent than an independent farm cooperative.

	The General said we must make certain that, as REA loans are repaid, the sticky hands of federal bureaucrats are removed. I don't know where he got that phrase, but I see no reason to question either the honesty or the intelligence of the REA co-ops and your own neighbors who serve as directors.

	Finally, the General said the Republican Eightieth Congress made available for REA loans the largest amount ever made available by one Congress. At that point I rubbed my eyes. It was the Democrats in the Eightieth Congress who voted for REA money, over the bitter opposition--as usual--of the Republicans. For instance, on April 1, 1943, in one vote that meant a lot to the REA, the Democrats voted for the appropriation bill 146 to 3, while the Republicans voted against it, 151 to 51. I believe the General has been neglecting his homework.

	We Democrats are also proud of your soil conservation districts. Nothing is more important to our continued national strength than the preservation of our basic resource--the land. These districts are expanding our democratic institutions, too--keeping alive the old American tradition that the way to solve a community problem is to get together with neighbors. We have almost 2,500 soil conservation districts in the country now, covering more than four-fifths of our farms. What I like best about this problem is that you assume the main responsibility for seeing that the job gets done instead of asking the government to do it for you.

	Soil conservation is well begun but far from finished. For one thing, you must pay more attention to flood control around the headquarters of small streams--on your farms, in your fields, where the floods begin. That is where water can be retained at small cost, and put to good use. You have a drastic example of what this sort of conservation can accomplish around Shenandoah right here in Iowa.

	I just want to add that your farm credit co-ops are also managed by farmer-elected boards. And you know how your local [missing text] committeemen are chosen by secret, nonpartisan balloting.

	I touch on the broad democratic base of these farm programs for a reason. I have watched these programs work at firsthand in Illinois. I know they increase the freedom and independence of farmers. I know they create new opportunities and strengthen our democratic life. But I find the General has just the contrary impression. To him, somehow, they are tainted with the threat of regimentation.

	I presume he has not had the opportunity I have had to observe their growth and great accomplishments during the past twenty years. He has picked up these strange ideas from the men around him--bitter obstructionists who oppose these programs in Congress and who seek now to divert attention from the record with baseless, hollow warnings about iron-fisted regimentation, and a sinister government. In short, the General has fallen victim to the same old Republican oratory we've been hearing for the past twenty years.

	But you farmers have not. You helped start these programs. You have voted for the farmer committees which administer them and you have voted for the party which sponsored them. And if you believe in these programs, you'd better be careful what you do on election day.

	Just keeping what we have is not enough. Our farm policies must not be static. They cannot be handed over to [missing text]. They are living devices of free government, sensitive always to changing needs and new conditions. The work of free government is never finished.

	We've just begun the task of bringing rural telephone service up to present day standards.

	We must find ways to bring lower income farmers into a fuller participation in the economic life of the country.

	Price supports will be debated in every Congress--and changed in many, if the experience of the past is a good guide. During the term of the next Congress and the next president, the choice between 90 percent supports and the sliding scale of supports must again be faced.

	In this connection farmers everywhere will be interested in a recent interview with Senator Taft in which he says he "believes that General Eisenhower...will be for a flexible farm support program after the present two-year agreement for 90 percent parity is over." Senator Taft has, as you know, established himself as the greatest living authority on what General Eisenhower really thinks; and if he says that the General's honeymoon with the Democratic platform is going to be a short one, the rest of us can believe it.

	Most Iowa farmers know what is involved. If the sliding scale and new parity formula were now in effect--and they will go into effect in two years unless new legislation is enacted--the mandatory support price for corn this year would be $1.42 per bushel, not $1.60 as it is now. The support price of wheat would be $1.59--not $2.20 as it is now. If we were operating under the Agriculture Act passed by the Republican Eightieth Congress, the mandatory support price for corn would be only $1.18 and for wheat $1.27.

	And there is the challenge of finding a way to support perishable products. The Democratic platform pledges the party to continue its search for practical methods of supporting perishables. As we watch the price of hogs, the urgency of the problem becomes increasingly clear. I have no easy solution to offer. But I do ask: on the basis of the record, which party can you trust to seek a fair solution?

	The Republican voting record on such unresolved issues is clear enough. But their campaign talk is impossible to decipher. Their confusion began when they adopted a platform packed with vague and empty words of praise for the programs they have consistently opposed--with plenty of qualifying words scattered through as loopholes. They merely "aim" at parity--that's the word they use--"aim." And they favor a "sound" R.E.A program--of course, reserving the right to decide what is "sound." When I practiced law we looked for the jokers in a contract. In the Republican farm platform it is not a question of finding the loopholes in the contract. It is a question of finding a contract in the loopholes.

	Since their convention, they have piled on more confusion. A few weeks ago my opponent told a group of farm editors that he was as much at sea in a farm group as they would be trying to plan an attack across the channel. This admirable and engaging frankness has been replaced by an effort to stuff the Republican voting record out of sight, and then the Republican platform, and now to beguile the farmer with confident talk about a Republican farm program that looks like a facsimile of the Democratic platform.

	Perhaps it is due to the fact that instead of two Republican parties--the modern and the ancient--as in foreign affairs and almost everything else--there are at least three Republican parties when it comes to agricultural policies.

	One group seized control of the platform writers and in vague words endorsed a sliding scale of price supports.

	A second group produced the General's speech at Kasson, Minnesota, a month ago. There the General came out for 90 percent supports as in the present law, plowing under the very plank which Republican word jugglers had toiled so hard to create.

	The third--and the most important--is the party I have already refreshed in your memory--the one that made the voting record in Congress. It is the most important for it is the party of action, not words. It is the one which has been silenced until after the election. But last June when Congress was in session it was the boss and a majority of the Republicans in the House voted then against 90 percent supports.

	Farmers may well ask--which of these Republican parties can we trust? The party that voted against 90 percent supports in June? The one that came out half-heartedly for flexible supports in the platform in July? Or the party that wrote the General's speech in September? The answer, of course, is that a two-headed elephant trying to go three directions at once is not exactly dependable.

	Can you trust a party that has voted consistently against your programs? Can you trust a party that votes against them, and now for a few short weeks before election, pretends to be for them?

	Can you trust a party with a clear record of obstruction--but empty-handed when it comes to constructive ideas?

	Can you trust a party that cannot tell the difference between rigid regimentation and local, democratic, neighborhood initiative?

	I don't believe America will entrust its future to the masters of a house divided against itself on foreign policy, on domestic policy and perhaps most of all on farm policy.

	I do not ask these questions of men who are farmers and nothing else, of women who are farm women and nothing else.

	I ask these questions wherever I go--whether I am talking about labor problems, inflation, the cost of government, or about our relations with other countries.

	And the answer must come from the whole citizen--the whole man. Nobody is just a farmer, or just a farm woman, or just a businessman dependent on farmers for his own prosperity, or just a worker in a meat packing plant. The fragmented man is a myth. I address these questions about which party you can trust to the whole man--perhaps a farmer, yes, but also a father, a husband, an educator of his children; a man with some religious faith, devoted to his country, who prays for peace in this tormented world, and thinks hard and long about matters which go far beyond his farm.

	If Republican leaders had truly accepted the farm program and had made a record of reasonable sincerity, we would have a better political campaign. We would talk more about other issues of deep interest to the whole man.

	One of these is good government, decent, careful government. I am proud that the cost of government in my state of Illinois, in relation to the income of its citizens, is one of the lowest in the country. And I am even prouder that commercial gambling is at its lowest point; that our schools and mental hospitals have been vastly improved; that we are reconstructing our immense and neglected highway system; that we have actually reduced the operating costs of most state departments, in spite of wage increases and inflated costs; that we have reorganized and tightened up all along the line. I have learned as governor of a great state that to make government lean and efficient is a hard, demanding job, but it can be done. You can govern efficiently just as you can farm efficiently, and the better you do anything the more fun and satisfaction there is in it. Our friend, Herschel Loveless, the Democratic candidate for governor of Iowa, would like the work of governing better, too!

	There are many other things I should like to mention to you here today. I think we often forget in these post-war years the decisive role that food--and the people who produce it--can play in our effort to reach a stable peace.

	The ability of the American farmer to beat back the encroachment of hunger in our own land, and to produce enough for foreign assistance in times of acute need, is one of the great and shining hopes of the free world. Your friends abroad know this, if we at home sometimes forget it.

	I know some of you are wondering how your parents will manage when you go into the Army. Some of you are laboring beyond your strength and years because your boys are not at home.

	I will not give you any cheap promises to make everything right. I would deserve your contempt if I did. But I can say that our best chance for peace is strength because we are dealing with people who understand only strength. And a strong and healthy agriculture is the base of a strong and healthy national economy.

	We will have to stand fast, work hard, and face the ugly realities of our world for years to come, and meanwhile count our countless blessings, I hope. Need I add that one of them is the Democratic Party! Well, I won't press that point, but we have had the people's confidence for a long time, not by being perfect--perfection is not given to human beings, and I am willing to concede that we Democrats are human! I like to think we have held your confidence because we have earned it, and that we have earned it because we have kept faith with you--not alone as farmers--but as whole citizens building our nation's strength and a lasting peace.

AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESRURAL DEVELOPMENTAGRICULTURE--GENERALAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTS     P P }P yP qP
 dP _P ZP PP LP JP JP ?P	  	  	 n 	 J  9  % e: