
	In 1980 Texas isn't just a great state--it's an absolutely vital part of the drive toward victory in November.

	The people of Texas have always been leaders in the field of energy--but Jimmy Carter has moved Texas and America away from a policy of energy growth toward continued dependence on OPEC.

	The people of Texas have always been leaders in supporting a strong national defense--but Jimmy Carter has presided over the erosion of that margin of safety our nation needs to survive.

	The people of Texas have always been leaders in the field of economic growth--but Jimmy Carter has given us high unemployment along with rising inflation, rising interest rates, and rising taxes; in fact the only thing that has not risen during his term are the hopes of the American people.

	No one is more aware of what this election campaign can mean for America than Texans.

	And something that candidate Jimmy Carter said right here in Houston, almost exactly four years ago, gives us some idea of how out of touch he is with what is happening to Texas and to America.

	On September 24, 1976, he came to Houston like an avenging angel, breathing fire and brimstone. He said that the then-current rate of inflation was--and I quote--"terrible" and "unacceptable."

	That supposedly terrible rate of inflation was well below six percent. And because President Ford had the courage and determination to do something about inflation, that rate was down to 4.8 percent when Jimmy Carter took office.

	But the candidate who saw an inflation rate of six percent as unacceptable has accepted rates double and even triple that rate during the last three and one-half years.

	Mr. Carter does not want to participate in the kind of debates desired by an overwhelming majority of the American people. He says the format is all wrong.

	But we know the real reason. With his record, he couldn't win a debate if it were held in the Rose Garden before an audience of administration officials with the questions asked by Jody Powell.

	The fact is he has been engaging in a debate for three and one-half years. He has been debating the Jimmy Carter of 1976.

	On March 7, 1976, the Atlanta Constitution quoted Candidate Carter as saying full employment was his number one priority and that "a government which cannot ensure for its citizens an opportunity to work does not deserve their support."

	But the Jimmy Carter of 1980 has put two million Americans out of work this year alone. There are now eight million unemployed.

	On August 31, 1976, Candidate Carter promised that if elected he would "establish a comprehensive program to fight the many causes of inflation."

	But the Jimmy Carter of 1980 finds an inflation rate of 12.7 percent this year so acceptable that he said in his "new" economic message--the fifth "new" one in three and a half years: "Inflation has fallen sharply." Well it all depends how you look at things. If you accept annualized rates of 18 percent as normal, then a rate of 12.7 has indeed "fallen sharply." But if you look at the same figure from the perspective of 1977 when Jimmy Carter inherited a 4.8 percent inflation rate, 12.7 is not only unacceptable--it's all but unimaginable.

	On September 29, 1976, he was quoted in the New York Times as follows: "I would never increase taxes for working people of our country and the lower- and middle-income groups... and you can depend on that if I am elected."

	As president he imposed the single largest tax increase in peacetime history. In Mr. Carter's 1981 budget, taxes are double what they were in 1976 which is equivalent to an average increase in taxes of $5,000 for a family of four.

	On May 5, 1976, Candidate Carter was quoted by Newsweek: "With a progressively managed economy, we can attain a balanced budget... by 1979."

	He not only didn't make it by 1979, but the 1980 budget deficit, with off-budget items included, is $77 billion, the largest in history.

	As a candidate, Mr. Carter said, "I do not believe we need the massive, government-imposed price increase... which would... increase fuel costs by $50 billion in this year alone." Then, as president, he proposed a 50-cent gasoline tax. It was rejected by Congress. Unsatisfied, Mr. Carter proposed another gas tax increase this year--this time a 10-cent per gallon tax. Again the Congress rejected it. Another is the Jimmy Carter who, in 1976, said he would "work in harmony" with Congress. If Jimmy Carter thinks his record of dealing with Congress reflects "harmony" he needs a music teacher!

	As a candidate, Mr. Carter said, "Nor do I believe we need the more than $2 billion annual cost, the tens of thousands of new federal, state, and local employees, and the nationwide frustration of consumer rationing." So what did he give us as president? A new Energy Department costing more than $10 billion per year, with 20,000 employees, a contingency plan for gasoline rationing and a new national Department of Education.

	No wonder President Carter doesn't want to debate. He's been debating Candidate Carter for three and a half years--and losing.

	He lost another debate just the other day. Speaking on energy, I had told an audience in Cleveland, Ohio, what his energy policies have done to the nation. I listed the facts and figures on the availability of energy sources in the United States which his policies have prevented us from finding and developing. He called the press together and declared my figures were inaccurate. Well, you know some people look up figures and some people make them up. The figures I had used were from his own Department of Energy and U.S. Geological Survey. Production of oil in the continental United States has declined every year he has been in office.

	If it were not for the lucky bonanza of increased oil production from Alaska--which not even Jimmy Carter has yet claimed we owe to him--although that wouldn't surprise me--we would have imported 34 percent more oil the first half of this year than we did in 1976.

	In 1976 he said he would maintain our national security needs but still cut $7 billion from the defense budget.

	We are living with the tragic consequences of that kind of thinking.

	Consider the following:

	"While the Soviets push ahead on all fronts we cancel the B-1 bomber, push aside the neutron bomb, stretch out the cruise missile, scrap the nuclear aircraft carrier, stretch deployment of Trident far into the future, and shut down the production line for the Minuteman II missile and have stood aside while thousands of our best military personnel have been driven out of uniform by inadequate pay and benefits."

	Those are not my words. They were spoken by Senator Hollings of South Carolina, a defense expert, a patriot--and a Democrat.

	And this brings me to the message I hope you will take home with you tonight and tell to everyone in Texas:

	We miss the essential point of Jimmy Carter's failures if we think that all of this concerns only the past. That's what Jimmy Carter wants us to think. He would like us to think it's all in the past, that he can escape his record--and we can escape its consequences.

	But it is not in the past. The Carter administration's failures are with us now, at this very moment. And even now these failures spread their atmosphere of despair and hopelessness to the future.

	And that is the major issue today. Not just what he has done, not just the promises he has broken, not just the sorry record he has made--but what he is doing to us now, what his policies have already done to shape the future.

	Mr. Carter's broken promises are not simply a matter for historians--they are an urgent, current matter of concern to every American family.

	Jimmy Carter cannot be allowed to walk away from what he has done, and what he is doing, and the consequences of his actions on the future.

	And if it is asked what vision we offer the people of Texas and the people of the United States, I cannot do better than offer the vision of Thomas Jefferson, who saw the need for "a wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, which shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government, and this is necessary to close the circle of our felicities."

	We offer the American people a chance to regain and defend the kind of government envisioned two hundred years ago by Thomas Jefferson. We have it in our power, as one of Jefferson's contemporaries once put it, "to begin the world over again."

	Let's start by making America great again! 
ENERGY CONSERVATIONGASOLINE TAXINCOME TAXMILITARY CUTBACKSMILITARY PREPAREDNESSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALINFLATIONOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     # " " " "
 " " " " " " y" o"	  	 p 	 d 	 Z 	 I 	 4     e: