

	Thank you, President Johnson.  Thank you, thank you, Mr. President.

	Mr. President, my dear friends, and the lovely and wonderful Mrs. Lyndon Johnson, my wonderful friend, and what a magnificent wonderful first lady;  Senator Yarborough, and Mrs. Yarborough, two distinguished congressmen here in this area, Congressman Ichord and Congressman Katzen, and the other members of this distinguished congressional delegation, my fellow Democrats and my fellow Americans: what a day, what a day you give me in Houston in this great Astrodome.

	What a high honor it is, one that comes very seldom, if ever, to anyone in either public or private life, to be presented in such a generous, warm and sincere manner as came to me today when I was introduced to you by one of the truly great men of our country and for all times: the President of the United States, my friend and yours.

	I was told by Ralph Yarborough that we would have a little meeting down in Houston, and I forgot what he meant by a little meeting in Texas.  I am overwhelmed.

	I hope our Republican friends won't be shocked, but I hope they will be frightened.

	This is politics Texas style, American style--big, enthusiastic and friendly politics, and that is the Democratic style, too.

	Something is happening in America, friends.  Something is happening, and I hope that you sense it as I do, the aroma, yes, the sweet sense of Democratic victory is in the air right now.

	You know I jokingly said from many a platform that some people have indicated that Mr. Republican had this election in the bag, and I have said to them when he opens that bag on election day, November 5th, out will jump Humphrey and Muskie.  That is with your help, and it is your help that counts, because this is, as every one of us knows, no normal campaign year.  This has been a year that we all remember, a year of unpredictability, far too much pain, too much shock, sometimes too much violence, too much uncertainty for our people to sustain, and yet, my fellow Americans, this great republic and its institutions have been able to take it, and we are here today as a proud people, and a strong people.

	I entered this campaign knowing what it meant, knowing the uphill fight, and if we succeed on Tuesday, and I think we shall, I shall enter the presidency, Mr. President, because of your help, knowing at least a little of what it means.  I have served with a great president who has courageously borne the demanding and heavy burdens of his office, and I am proud--yes, very proud--to be the vice president of the United States during the presidency of Lyndon Baines Johnson.

	I have been, at least I have tried to be, and I will continue to be for all the years to come, his faithful friend, and during these months of his presidency, his loyal vice president, and proud of it.

	But no one knows better than President Johnson, as he has said from this platform today, that America is in crisis, but we have had crises before, and the American people have always prevailed.  It is mighty easy for us to forget the crises of our parents; generation, a generation that lost its homes and lost its jobs, lost, its businesses and out in South Dakota, where I was born, lost its hopes, lost its dreams in the blowing dust of the sandstorms and the windstorms.  But I saw those hopes reborn, and I saw them reborn under a great Democratic president, and every crisis has called for a Democratic president to give new life to the hopes of the American people.

	And it is all too easy to forget the crises of the years that followed, the sacrifices of men by the millions who fought on the beaches and in blood and mud against totalitarianism.  We do not forget those days, but we say freedom won because two great Democratic presidents, Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman had the strength and the character that was required.

	And I do not forget the crises, the many others, which our nation has met and overcame.  But I don not underestimate the difficulties and the crisis that now runs through our country.  For we see today in America nothing less than the confluence of the great forces of change, literally the confluence of the coming together of three revolutions:  the technological revolution of the space age, the jet, and the computer; the desperate, quiet revolution of the individual against the impersonality of bigness; and the revolution of race, and these revolutions could bring this country to violence, could challenge the very idea that we are able to govern ourselves, unless we remain a peaceful people, and that we have learned how to trust one another to work together as a family of friends and not a community of enemies.

	The essential question, then, at the base of all of these revolutions is this question:  can the individual for which this nation stands, can the individual human being live his own life free, free of repression by his government, free of the tyranny of machines, free of the fear of his fellow man.  I have always believed that we could, and I have always believed that freedom was possible, and I have always believed that both order and justice at the same time are possible.

	And I have always believed, too, that the basic decency within this nation would enable us to lift the veil from our eyes and see each for what we are as a people, not black or white, not rich or poor, not attending one church or another, but as a people, the American people, standing proudly and equally together, free of hate and free of suspicion, which is the only way that you ought to be in America.

	And I have always believed that this rich, creative nation possessed not only the wealth and the inventiveness to build systems of technology, but also the wisdom and the moral strength to master the machines before the machines master men.  I believe that within the sharecropper, the son of the immigrant, the grandson of the slave, lay such human potential that America need only call it forth to see its full realization.  I believe that America's greatest days are yet to be lived, that is why I seek the presidency.

	But, beyond this city, beyond this campaign, and even beyond this country lies a world torn, tormented by other revolutions, the revolution of human emancipation of ordinary people against coercion and force; the revolution triggered by the deadly triangle of hunger, disease and over-population, and over all mankind hangs at mushroom cloud of nuclear war, and nuclear disaster, and the highest calling of the presidency, which our President Johnson and those before him have so faithfully fulfilled, is to prevent that tragedy from occurring.  Thank God for such leadership.

	Now, it is to us, we here in America, that the world's proud, the weak, the weak and the humble look for leadership.  They do see in us something that is beautiful, something that we must keep that way.  They see in us the last best hope of Earth, and yet they rightly question whether or not America can be great abroad unless she is truly great at home.  So I say to them from his platform, trust in us, put your faith in us.  We shall not falter, we shall not fail.  We keep our word.

	This country has given me much.  I am indebted to it for all of my life and I ask now the chance to give back what my country has given to me, and to give it the full measure of whatever ability I may have.  I have fought hard in this campaign, as I shall work ceaselessly in the presidency.

	I have set forth new ideas and new programs as I shall execute them in the presidency.  I have made no compromise with extremism in this campaign, extremism of the right or extremism of the left, as I shall make no compromise with it during my presidency.  And I shall not condone violence or lawlessness, nor shall I condone injustice or despair.  America is taking care of both, and together we shall do it.

	I have sometimes set my face against the tide of public opinion and I don't regret a moment of it, and I shall seek to lead that opinion in the presidency.  I believe the presidency is not worth winning if winning it means compromising its integrity or compromising personal beliefs of the man who seeks to win it. 

	So, today, I come before you as one who has spoken from his heart as well as from his mind and who has fought his fight, and hopefully fighting your fight.  And I come before you as one who is proud to represent the Democratic party in this campaign, and proud to represent, may I say, the administration of which I have been a part, an administration that will go down in history as one of the greatest. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said the same thing in the north as I have in the south, because to me there is no North, no South, no East, no West.  There just is America.  I have not taken the people for granted.  I have put my trust in the people, I have gone to the people to share my thoughts, and to listen to their concerns, and I have told you the hard truths about our nation's problems at home and abroad, and I have told you, too, to the best of my ability, what I will do about them.  That is what a campaign is all about.  I only wish our opposition would do the same. 

	And I have told you where I stand, so that when you vote for me you will know not only whom but what you are voting for.  And I have offered you no easy solutions because, ladies and gentlemen, there are none.  I tell you that the next four years will be years of trial, they will be years of challenge for the American people and for the American president, but they will be years that are filled with the most exciting experiences of our century.  Come join me in this. 

	And I tell you, also, that I do not have all of the answers.  No man has, but I tell you that together we shall find them.  This is the meaning of our democracy, the people and their leaders thinking together, working together, deciding together, and moving forward together and, my fellow Americans, we will move forward together if you give me your help. 

	People have made our problems.  People, you, and I, working together, can solve them.  I know we can, and what is more is, I know that we will.

	Yes, America's greatest days are yet to be had.  Our finest victory is yet to be won.  The story of America is the unfinished business of a great people, and I want us to write another chapter of greatness in that book of life of this nation. 

	So let me give you my vision of America, the America that we must have, and the America that we have been building together.  I see an America where black and white, Spanish-speaking and English-speaking will work together, will learn together and will live together.

	I see an America lifting high the torch of not only our great political and economic leadership in this world but more importantly than that, our moral leadership in the world.

	And I see an America where very child, Mr. President, as you have wanted it, every child in every house will grow up with the best education that a people can provide, the best health, and the best chance for individual development and expression that any society has ever know.  That is the America that we want.

	And I see an America where men do not bow down to helplessness and despair, overwhelmed by bigness and machines but they stand tall, and they are erect and they are masters of their fate.

	I see an America where the young, where the young will help guide the decisions of our national life, and I see an America not only powerful and rich but more importantly, just and compassionate, that is our America.

	I see an America that we have been building together, and that we will continue to build, where the old and the handicapped are respected, and where they are helped, and I see an America that is wide open with opportunity, young in spirit, free, unafraid, and an America that is filled with hope and brotherhood which is the message of this nation to the entire world.

	Yes, I see our America, yours and mine, at peace with itself, and at peace with the family of man.  This is my vision of the America that we are working toward.  This is my vision of the America that can be and this is my vision, with your help, of the America that will be, and what a great glory it will be for us.

	So, my fellow Americans, two days from now the American people will exercise that great sovereign power of the right of the ballot, and they will be in the voting booth where they will make the great decision as to who shall lead them.  Whom can they trust?  Whom can they trust to work for a better America at home, and a stronger America at home and abroad?  And the people will speak with that ballot, and they will be heard.  I want you to speak with that ballot, and I want you to speak for your team and for your ticket.  I want you to speak for you party, because I believe it is good for America. 

	The American people will make their decision about the kind of a world in which their children will live, and I want you, my fellow Americans, to vote your hopes, not your hates; to vote your faith, not your doubts; to vote your ideals, not your suspicions, and if you vote that way, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt in my mind that the Democratic ticket that is on that ballot, for which you can cast your vote, will triumph, and victory will be ours. 

	I know and you know that no one man, no one man can alone lead this country out of any crisis and into a certain or happier future.  We must work together, and that is the team, my friends, of this decade, together, building together, planning together, working together, learning together, living together, and trusting one another.  And if we do it there is nothing that we cannot do to make our lives better. 

	So I ask this great assemblage today to reject those voices of hate and doubt, to reject those voices of suspicion and despair.  I ask you to reject those who ask America to stand still.  I ask you to join those forces represented on this platform, to join your president, to join me, your vice president, to join me as your candidate in seeing that America does continue on the upward path of a better and new day for this country. 

	And with that, I want to give you my pledge:  if you will trust me, I shall do my best, with God's help, to call forth from America the best that lies within it that might have so much good within it.  I shall call forth the basic decency and the basic goodness that have served this country in other days.  I shall appeal to them for their goodness and greatness that defines the American character.  I shall tell the truth to the people, and in the days ahead I shall ask them to help me, and above all, I shall not be afraid.

	As the Psalmist said, "I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, whence cometh all my strength."  And, ladies and gentlemen, I lift my eyes up to you, the people, from whence cometh the strength of our democracy.  Give me your help, give us your help, and we can do anything, we can win, we can win this great election on November the 5th. 
RACE RELATIONSREVOLUTIONS (SOCIAL)SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY     ; t; n; j; b;
 V; Q; L; E; @; >; 5; *;	 8 	 * 	  e: