

	Governor Rockefeller, Lieutenant Governor Wilson, Attorney General Lefkowitz, Congressman Reid, all of my fellow candidates, and to this great audience:

	When you say, "We want Nixon," believe me: if this keeps up, you are going to get him. As you know, over the past weeks since the two conventions have been concluded, I have had the opportunity to travel over this country to visit the major states.

	I have been in Illinois, California, in Texas and Pennsylvania, and now New York. I want you to know that based on what I have seen in these great states, the ones that we have to win, that a message is coming out loud and clear across this country.

	You expressed it tonight. Governor Rockefeller expressed it in his introduction. That message is this: this country is going to get new leadership by its votes on November 5th. We are going to win.

	I think as we open this campaign in the state of New York, I should report to you briefly on what I have seen and perhaps what you have shared with me by seeing it on television over the past week.

	In Chicago last Wednesday in a motorcade, there was an enormous crowd in the streets, bigger than any political crowd in thirty years, and that can only mean one thing: Illinois is a state we are going to win in November.

	Again, in California, in San Francisco--a crowd of 300,000 in San Francisco and 30,000 in a rally that night. It means we are going to carry California in November.

	Then again, down to Houston, Texas--the biggest political crowd ever in that state, 45,000 in the Houston Stadium, and those figures are by the Democratic Mayor of Houston, who left their convention two days early. You know why? He wanted to welcome me to Houston.

	Then in Pittsburgh, a great crowd at the airport. But I want you to know this: as I saw the enormous group outside--thousands could not get in--in their enthusiasm--as I came into this hall tonight and heard your warm demonstration, I can say we may have had bigger crowds in some places because the places and the halls are bigger, but, believe me, I had to come back to New York State and to the home county of Governor Rockefeller and Lieutenant Governor Malcolm Wilson, to get the most enthusiastic crowd we have had in the campaign today.

	I want to let you in on a little secret, if I may. The members of the press can report it, but that little secret will be of interest to you. A few months ago--two months ago, as a matter of fact--perhaps three or four weeks before the convention, the Republican convention--a group of political analysts in the campaign sat down and we tried to figure the states we ought to go for, the ones we were going to put emphasis on, and New York was not on the list. We didn't think then that it could be won.

	I want you to know that after our convention, when I met with the leaders of this state--and I have met with them all; I met, of course with Mayor Lindsay, I met with Senator Javits, I met with Governor Rockefeller--and Governor Rockefeller, my friends, told me--he said, "Dick, in 1968 you can carry New York all out."

	That is what we are going to do. We are going to carry New York. I believe he is right. I see it not only on this crowd but I base it on the fact that as he has already indicated, we do have a united party. Differences? Yes, because in any great party in a two-party system, it must have room for people who differ. That is the way that we get the policies that are the best. But I can assure you, whatever our differences are, there is one fundamental fact we all agree on, and that is we have to get rid of the bunch down there and get a new leadership in Washington, D.C.

	I want you to know that as I speak of the reasons we are going to win, there are two that stand out in my mind tonight that I would share with you. First, the fact that all over this nation today, the major leaders of the Republican party, Governor Rockefeller in New York, Governor Shafer in Pennsylvania, Governor Rhodes in Ohio, Governor Romney in Michigan, Senator Dirksen, Senator Percy, Governor-to-be Ogilvie in Illinois, Governor Reagan in California, Senator Tower in Texas, all of these men, these are the big men in American politics today. We have a big team and that is why we are going to win, because we have this big team working together.

	As I refer to Governor Rockefeller, he was very gracious to comment upon the period before the nomination. I want you to know, I know I have been in a fight, too. I want you to know, too, that having had that contest, it is good not only to have one Rocky on my side, but another Rocky, Rocky Graziano.

	Also, can I share with you another experience, and it seems that this is an appropriate time to set the record straight. A lot of mythology grows up after a campaign, who did what and all this and that and the other thing. In the election of 1960, which was a very close one, everybody second-guessed it, who lost it, my makeup man, somebody else--I don't know--but I do know this, I do know that in the state of New York, as I stated when I was here and spoke at a great rally in Buffalo, that Governor Nelson Rockefeller spoke in the state of New York and all over this nation for that ticket. He is going to do it again, and we appreciate that fact because this time it will make a difference.

	If I could also mention a personal note, a personal note that I am sure that you will understand my feeling, as you know, the Governor and I are neighbors in New York. His apartment house is next to ours, and I have been, my wife and I, guests in his apartment, and he has been a guest in my apartment.

	Tonight, my wife and I had the great privilege of being the guests in his house, here in this country. So he is one up on me. The problem is that I don't have a house. My friends, tonight I want you to know with his help and yours, we are going to be able to invite Nelson and Happy Rockefeller to the White House in January.

	I know that I do not need to speak of the great respect I have for your County Executive Ed Michaelian, one of the top county officers in the nation. I know that I do not need to speak, too, of Brownie Reid, who has been a long-time friend running back twenty years, and one who needs, as do all of our Republicans in the House, more there. We need more elected, and that is why we want to see Sam Nakasian down there with Brownie Reid and others, if you can help them do it.

	But tonight I want to give you another feeling that I have sensed in this first week of campaigning since the nominating conventions, a feeling about what is happening. I sense it here in this room tonight. It is not just the spirit of victory. That is here. But it is deeper than that.

	Why? Why would these record crowds come out in Chicago and in San Francisco and in Texas and in Pennsylvania, and now in the state of New York?

	Why? You know what I think is happening? A new voice is being heard in America today. It is a voice that has been silent too long. It is a voice of people who have not taken to the streets before, who have not indulged in violence, who have not broken the law. These are people, they are rich and they are poor. They are white and they are black. They come from all segments of our society. They pay their taxes. They support their schools. They make their contributions to their communities and to their churches. They are good citizens, they are decent people. They are not racists. They know that this country is not going to be a good place for us to live in if it is not a good place for all of us to live in.

	So under these circumstances, these people are what I call the forgotten Americans, and the forgotten Americans are beginning to speak out and are going to speak with a resounding voice on November 5th to get the new leadership that America needs.

	Let me tell you about these forgotten Americans. They are Republicans, they are Democrats, they are Independents. Let me tell you what they want for America. I would say that, first, they recognize a fundamental fact: that in this election in 1968, we have the clearest choice that the American people have had in a century. It is the clearest choice because what they recognize is that two men are running for office. One or the other is going to be elected president of the United States. One honestly stands for one point of view and another for another. One says to the American people that for the past four years he has been part of an administration, he helped to make its policies, he was its most articulate defender, and now he, in effect, is saying to the American people after his nomination by his party, "Come now, Americans, come with me, let's continue for four more years the policies of the past four years." He defends those policies.

	My friends, I want to tell you what I think the great majority of Americans feel on that score, and this is my view. When they see the specter of four more years of the policies of the past four years, this is the answer that is ringing out across the land, it is my answer: They say that when the strongest nation in this world can be tied down in a war in Vietnam for four years with no end in sight; they say that when the richest nation in the whole world cannot manage its own economy; they say that when the nation with the greatest tradition of respect for law, rule of law, is torn apart by unprecedented lawlessness; and they say that when the time comes in the United States of America that the president of the United States cannot travel abroad or to any mayor city at home or even to his own convention without fear of a hostile demonstration, then it is time for new leadership in America.

	That is what they say. My friends, we need new leadership, as Nelson Rockefeller has already indicated, new leadership abroad and new leadership at home.

	Turning to the problem abroad, I noticed, when we came in, a number of signs, and I understand their feeling about the war in which we are currently engaged, and the deep desire on the part of all Americans to find an honorable way to end that war.

	I want you to know that as a candidate for president, I will say nothing during the campaign that might jeopardize the ability of this administration to end it by negotiation before the election. But if they do not end it, then I say that if after four years of all the military power of the United States and the wealth of the United States and the support of the loyal opposition, they have failed to end the war, they have had their chance, they muffed it. Give us a chance and we will bring an honorable end to the war.

	You see, what we need on that great issue, and I go further, on every area of the world we need a new approach. The programs--the institutions of twenty years ago that I supported that Nelson Rockefeller supported when we worked together in the administration--those programs were adequate for that time, but the world has changed. It is a new world. Half the nations in the world were born since World War II. We need new institutions in Europe, in the Mid-East, and in Asia and Latin America, not only for the purpose of ending the war in which we are in but also for the purpose of preventing other Vietnams. It is this kind of leadership that we need. We can't go forward with the men of the past. We can't go forward with the policies of the past. We can't go forward with the ideas of the past. Only by selecting us do you get the new men, the new policies, the new ideas. This is what we offer.

	On that score, I am very proud that--in our party--that I will have the advice and counsel as I have had it this evening of men like Governor Rockefeller, with great distinction in the field of foreign policy; of men like Governor Scranton, who will be traveling later to Europe. In other words, we have got this big team of new ideas. They have been on the side lines and the other team has lost the ball. Let's send in the new team and win the game. That is what we are going to do.

	What we must do if we are going to maintain the peace--we not only need new institutions and new policies and new programs, but we also need to begin by restoring respect for the United States around the world--respect so that the time will never come again in our history when a fourth-rate military power like North Korea will dare to seize a naval vessel of the United States on the high seas. Let's never let that happen again.

	My friends, that brings me to the heart of the American problem today. If we are to establish respect for America again in the world abroad, we must demonstrate to the world that we can handle our problems at home. There is no ground more important than the ground we stand on. If we cannot keep the peace at home, we will not be entrusted with the task of leading in keeping the peace abroad.

	So we turn to America, this great and good land of ours; and we look around it--not just to Westchester County, but into the hearts of our great cities and across the nation--and what we see is something that we know needs to be changed. We see crime in the last eight years going up nine times as fast as population. We see our cities torn apart by racial strife. We see organized crime moving up over the past eight years rather than down. All over America people are concerned.

	Take, for example, the nation's capital of Washington, D.C. Because of the mounting crime rate there--it has gone up 175 percent in the last eight years while it went down 17 percent in the Eisenhower years--we find that some of our young people who used to come to the nation's capital in the spring--now, perhaps, their parents fear to send them. I say to you that as we look at that record, I say that the men and the policies which have been in effect during this period when this has happened, they have failed. We need new men, new policies, and I pledge that kind of leadership to the United States of America.

	I can assure you we can restore respect for law in this country, and we must. We can restore order in this country, and we must. But as I say that, may I balance the equation. I do this particularly with so many young people here who are studying American government. You may think sometimes as you study American government and our great institutions that we either have to have one or the other. You have to have order or you have to have progress. Or you have to have order or you have to have justice. But that is not the American way. 

	The American way has been, and is--and may it always be--we shall have order and progress together, because you cannot have one without the other. Let me tell you this: I know there are those that say, give us more police, have stronger laws, and that will stop all of the problems that we have insofar as order is concerned in the United States. It will not do it because, my friends, when people have no hope, when the light of hope is extinguished as it is in millions of homes tonight in America, they do not care unless you give them some hope. Just having order that suppresses is not enough. What we need is order with the hope of progress, and there it brings me to the exciting choice that we offer the American people, the clearest choice of this campaign.

	How do we have progress for America? How do we get people who have never had that equal chance, that equal chance at the starting line, how do we light the lamp of hope in homes that do not have it today? On one side we have a man who advocates just what we have been doing for the past four years. He goes back further than that. He would go back to the solutions of the 1930s. He says that whether it is jobs or whether it is housing or whether it is anything else, we should have a huge federal government program for government jobs and government housing and government welfare. Despite the fact that we have spent billions of dollars in such programs over the last four years and despite the fact that those programs in instance after instance have failed, his answer is spend more and more and more.

	My answer is that when you are on the wrong road, you do not pour on the gas. You take another road, and we offer another road to the American people. By another road, let me be quite precise. Government has a great role to play. Government must play the primary role in education--and that, of course, is the essence of the solution of any of these problems, to begin with. You all know that. Government must play the primary role in transportation, in so many other areas. Anybody who drove, as I did, from New York City up to Westchester County knows that there is a transportation problem, and we cannot approach that simply through private enterprise. We need government, just such as you have, the imaginative kind of government of the state of New York. We all know the role of government.

	True, government must play a role when it comes to the aged and the helpless and those who cannot help themselves. Let us take great care of them, the best that we possibly can, that this rich nation should be able to afford. 

	But, my friends, I say that while government should provide generously for those who cannot care for themselves, we must remember that when we look to other people we do them no favor; when you provide assistance to people who can help themselves and then perpetuate the dependency which has been their lot. Let us remember this: the war on poverty did not begin in this country five years ago. It began when America began, 190 years ago. It has been the most successful war on poverty ever waged. We have not completed it, but it continues. There is more wealth in America, it is more equally and more evenly distributed among the people of this country, than in any major nation of the world. America is a great country, and never forget it. Never forget how we became great. We became great not because of what government did for people, but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years.

	What we say to the American people today is this. Rather than simply continuing down a road of almost exclusive action on the part of the federal government, let us get the great engine of progress, private enterprise, into this game. We will do it as Brownie Reid and many of his colleagues and Charlie Goodell, your new senator from this state, did it. They have taken the leadership. Tax credits to private enterprise to train the unemployed, tax credits to private enterprise for houses that people can own and buy and have the pride that comes from that. Tax credits and other devices for the purpose of providing for every American a chance not just to be a worker but to be an owner and a manager. Because, my friends, remember this. Government can provide food for a man, it can provide clothing for a man, it can provide shelter for a man; but it cannot provide dignity and self-respect. Let's give all Americans a chance for dignity, pride and self-respect.

	That is why in our new programs for America we do speak of the federal role. It is a very great one. But we say that it is also essential for us to recognize that the federal government cannot do it alone, not even the state governments, although they can play a bigger role; not even the country governments. We must get private enterprise and individuals in their individual capacity into this great, exciting new task of rebuilding the cities of America, providing the opportunity that all Americans want and need.

	That brings me to this county, this great suburban county, so representative of an exciting new development in the great throes of population of America. You hear a lot about involvement in these days. You, living in this county, know what involvement is. I imagine in this room are many who have worked in their PTA's, many others who have worked in volunteer organizations. Many who, as Nelson Rockefeller, served for twenty years with the Westchester County Health Organization and then, after getting his toes in the water, he went all the way and became the governor of this state.

	My friends, what I am saying to you has happened in America is this. As I speak to this audience I recognize that you represent a group of Americans, we can call them forgotten, but forgotten only because you are involved in making your communities a better place in which to live. That is why I have been emphasizing in my speeches, and I will continue to emphasize in this campaign, and I pledge I will carry it out, a new policy recognizing this fact.

	For a period of thirty years, forty years, we have had power flowing from the people and from local government and state government to Washington, D.C. I think it is time for a change. Let us have power flow from Washington back to the states, to the local government and to the people of this country. Rather than having those in Washington impose the projects on this community that people there want, let those projects be responsive to what the people of this community want. Rather than having people in Washington tell you what to do, let Washington cooperate with you in what you are doing. Rather than having more federal rule, let us have more home rule in America. That is what we want.

	My friends, when I speak of local government and home rule, county and state government, I do so not because I do not recognize the role of the federal government, but because the more we can bring government close to people, the more people we can have involved in the action, the better our government is going to be. I would ask everybody in this great audience tonight to pledge not only that he is going to be active in this campaign, but pledge some time out of every week of his life in the business not just of government but of making your communities a better place in which to live.

	My friends, as we look over the communities of this nation we must never forget that the problems have become too big for government. The people are going to have to save this country; and here they are. Give them a chance. Give them a chance to participate. This is what we need to do. I repeat that America is a great country not because of what government has done for people, but because of what people have done for themselves.

	But there is another side to that equation, too. What the American people will be able to do for themselves will depend on what each one of us is able to do for our fellow American citizens. Because, my friends, a president of the United States can call for respect for law. But only if that respect for law comes from the minds and hearts of people who will take the law into their hearts and minds, rather than into their hands, are you going to have it. A president of the United States, the governor of your state, your congressmen can call for reconciliation. But, my friends, only when that deep concern for the other person's problems who is less fortunate than you are, only when you have that in your heart are we going to have it in America. This is the kind of a challenge we have. Not just to work and elect a man, but then to go on for the next four years, for the next eight years, and from then on, to build a new America to deal with the new problems. This is what our challenge is. It is the challenge I accept.

	In asking you to accept it I would leave one final thought, particularly with those who are in such great numbers here, the young people. Most of you who are here are not old enough to vote. You will appreciate, therefore, as far as the young people, that what I say to you now is not said simply for your vote. At least not this time. Seventy-two, okay, but not this time.

	My friends, I believe in the young people in this country. Oh, I know, you hear about everything that is wrong and you hear about those that are causing perhaps some difficulties in this school or that one. But, let me tell you something. I know the young people. We have two in our family and they bring their friends home. There has never been a generation of Americans that knew more about the world, that knew more about what was going on in this country, that were more involved, that cared more, than the young people of America. It is a great asset. Let us lead them. Let us give them a chance.

	Tonight I simply want to say to all of the people in this great audience, and particularly to the young people: some will tell you that this is a terrible time to be alive--a war abroad and no peace at home. I am going to tell you my view. Sure, we have got problems. But, my friends, whenever you think of the United States of America, remember, this is still the place. Travel in the other countries abroad--the traffic is all one way. They are coming this way. They are not going over there to live. They want to come here.

	My friends, I want you to know--and listen carefully, if you will, as I study the whole history of man from the beginning--and as I look at all the nations of the world in which we presently live, and if I were to pick a time and a place in which to live, I would pick the United States of America, 1968. That is the kind of a time in which we live.

	While our problems are great, don't you see the exciting challenge? Whether peace and freedom survive does not depend upon what happens in Europe and the great capitals there, as it did in the first third and second third of this century. For the first time here is where the action is--all of it. What happens here will determine whether peace and freedom survive. We should welcome that challenge because it is a call to greatness.

	As we look at that challenge, let us also remember what great assets we have. Never has a nation been richer, never the possibilities for dealing with problems greater if we provide the leadership. I say to you greatness comes to a people when they participate, when they deal with the great problems of their times and not when they sit on the sidelines and let history be made by others. 

	Here you are participating, here you are contributing. I say to you, my friends, the battle is just beginning. It will be a long one. Eight weeks from today we will know the result. It will be a long one. It will be a hard one. But with this kind of enthusiasm, with this kind of vision, with this kind of real healthy excitement, we are going on to win in November.
CRIME--GENERALEQUAL OPPORTUNITYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESPOVERTYVIETNAM WARYOUTH     :h h  h g g
 g g g g g g g g	  	  	 y 	 a 	 L 	 1 	  	  	  e: