

	World War II was a crusade to defeat the evil, sinister threat of dictatorial domination of homes and lands and thoughts and lives of men and women everywhere.  America poured into that crusade her productive strength, her treasure, and the blood of her young men.  We and our allies won that fight, the greatest ever fought on earth.

	On the field of battle, we won victory against Hitlerism.  With allies who shared our passion for liberty, we broke through into what we dearly hoped would be the world that all men dream of.  The goal of all free people is the same--a world at peace, a prosperous world in which everyone has equal opportunity to make of himself what he can.

	But as the years have passed since the end of that crusade, the lights of our world have been going out again, year after year.

	What happened?

	What caused our victory to fall so far short of what we all hoped and what our fighting men deserved?

	As you already know, I am not much on oratory.  I can't dress up my ideas in witty and pretty talk.  But I can face facts.  And political campaign or no political campaign, I can and do speak the truth as I see it.

	I wasn't raised on ward politics.  I am not a politician in the sense in which that word is commonly used.  I have never been and never will be.

	So I talk to you simply as one citizen to another.  You and I have been through a lot.  We have seen many radical changes in this world of ours.  Many of us were overseas together.  But we probably haven't changed much--at least we still talk the same language.

	I shall try to tell you what I believe has happened since Hitler, at the last desperate inch of time, killed himself in the bunker in Berlin.  Possibly we can determine why we live in a world today full of fears and alarms, and with the terrible burden of this Korean war still bringing a blight to our lives.

	There is one reason which overshadows all others why the American people today are seeking new leadership in their national affairs.

	There exists a definite and self-proclaimed threat to the individual lives, the individual freedom, of each one of us here on this ancient common ground.

	This terrible danger is Godless Communism.  It stalks the world in the ugly garb of war and threat of war and creeps through every unguarded gateway.  It means to swallow up all the land, all the wealth, and all the peoples of this earth.

	Probably some of you read in a recent number of "The Pilot" an interview with J. Edgar Hoover.  He states that Communism today is a greater threat than ever before.  He should know.

	We have had another warning in recent days.  This warning comes from Senator O'Connor, a Democrat of Maryland and head of the Senate's Internal Security Subcommittee.  He demands that our government take action to get rid of Americans of questionable loyalty who are connected with the United Nations.

	Last Thursday night, it was my honor to address the dinner annually held in New York in memory of that great American leader, Alfred E. Smith.  I spoke of the undying hate of Communism for our American way of life.  There is no question that we are marked as Communism's final and greatest victim to be.

	At the Al Smith dinner, I explained in detail my reasons why we must meet and repulse the Soviet menace.  Those reasons were not theoretical.  They were not based just on reading books by Marx and Lenin and Stalin.  They were reinforced by some first-hand experiences with Communism and Communists. And they were not of the Yalta or Potsdam kind, either.

	I told the throng in New York at that dinner that the most deadly challenge of Soviet action in this critical autumn of 1952 was the relentless effort of Moscow to divide the free world.  The Soviets seek to make, not only our allies, but also different groups within our nation--distrust and then hate each other.  They mean to conquer by every treacherous measure short of war.

	We must ever doubt this menace to the free world's unity.  It strikes at the jugular vein of freedom.

	But great as this threat is, and vigilant as we must eternally be to stand together with our friends of the free world, we also know in our hearts that there is no force in this world so vital or so strong, when given corresponding leadership, as the American people.

	Here is one of the crucial factors in this whole matter--leadership.

	We Americans have the courage, the productive capacity, the know-how.  And above all, we have a spiritual strength beyond the enemy's reach or understanding.  It is the strength of people who believe that man is made in the image of God.

	But, if we are to win this deadly struggle with Communism, we must have a leadership that can unite us behind great objectives--a leadership morally and spiritually strong.  The best that is within us Americans will respond to a calling of high purpose.  So it is vital that we can take just pride in those who lead us--in how they talk to the people, in the purposes they support, in their respect for truth and fair dealing, in whether they bear false witness against their neighbors.  If we are proud of our leadership, we can have respect for ourselves.

	A nation that does not respect itself hardly deserves the respect of other nations.  The free world must put its strength and will together, if it is to stand firm against the Communist flood.  America needs allies just as much as our allies need us--allies not only in arms, but also in spirit and in mutual respect.

	This struggle between Communism and freedom is a struggle of ideas.  To win in such a battle, our ideas must be better.  And our idea must come alive through the positive, moral vitality of our leadership.

	We Americans have such an idea in the Declaration of Independence, which tells us that all men are created equal.  No man's race or creed or color should count against him in this economic or civil or any other rights.  Only second-class Americanism tolerates second-class citizenship.  It's time to get rid of what remains of both, and that includes rewriting the unfair provisions of the McCarran Immigration Act.

	The evil of Communism must be fought on many fronts.  Poverty, like social injustice, is a fertile breeding ground for the fears and misery that Communism exploits.  That means we must have a social program which meets the needs of our people so completely that through this door Communism can never gain access in America.  That means we must have a prosperity, not based on the shifting fortunes of war, but on the bedrock of lasting peace.  It means a prosperity of good jobs at high pay, an economy reinforced by measures of social security, unemployment insurance, and a dollar that keeps its buying power.  Our crusade is pledged to such a social program and to that kind of prosperity.

	We can conquer Communism, if we have a leadership of high purpose and moral stamina, a leadership that draws strength from its spiritual faith.

	And it is to seek out these qualities and place them at the nation's helm that my associate and I have embarked upon this second crusade, this "Crusade in America."

	To lead this crusade, we shall call to Washington able men and women from all sections of our country and all walks of life.  These men and women must be incorruptible, dedicated to the mission and not to the job, and inspired by devotion to America.

	A strong America, a well-governed America, an America that is morally and spiritually sound, is the best answer to the evil threat of cynicism and lack of self-respect within, and to the evil threat of Communism without.  If you believe that as I do, will you join our crusade?

	This crusade which I have taken to the American people represents what I, myself, believe.  I have acted and I have spoken from my own deep inner convictions of what is best and right for America.  I have been steadfast to my convictions.  I have made no deals.  I am still a "no deal" man.  And let me tell you just this:  I have lived sixty-two years and one week and I have never been anyone's "captive" yet.  And never will be!

	I am happy to be here with your forward-looking Republican leaders-- Leverett Saltonstall, Cabot Lodge, Chris Herter, and the others with me here today.  These men are the kind that I am proud to join with in this crusade.

	Before coming up here, I got a letter from a Massachusetts man who holds the Congressional Medal of Honor--our nation's highest award.  He wrote me to say that Senator Lodge understood Communism as well as any man in Congress, had worked hard to build strong defense forces, and he wanted to see him reelected.

	Well, my friends, so do I.  Cabot Lodge is the first man since the Civil War to resign from the Senate to fight for his country.  Today, he is a valiant fighter for his country against Communism.  I have for Cabot a special sentiment, because he was among the first of the men in public life who expressed the belief that I would be useful to our country in the highest office in the land.  Then he went to work to put me in that office--although he himself was up for reelection.  He did all these things, in war and in peace, because he believes in his convictions and is a man of action.  Whether on the field of battle or on the floor of the Senate, he is always a man of courage.  That's what we want and need in Washington.  I know you people of Boston and Massachusetts are going to keep him there.

	I've planned to be back here with you on November 3.  I have chosen your city of Boston as the place to end our crusade's appeal to all Americans on the eve of Election Day.  I shall look forward to seeing you then.  Meanwhile, I ask you to join with me and all the others through his great land who are making this crusade for good government and a strong America the sure road to peace. 
RUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)COMMUNISMSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     4'  ' & & &
 & & & & & & & &	 B  $   e: