

	NARRATOR. In each decade of this century, America has faced different challenges. And each time, and with each challenge, whether winning a war or keeping the peace, America has found the people to meet the challenges. 

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. I volunteered on June 12th, 1942. That was my eighteenth birthday. I had to wait because I wanted to be a pilot.

	NARRATOR. What he became was the youngest pilot in the Navy. And, in two years, a winner of the Distinguished Flying Cross for exceptional courage during a bombing run on the island of Chichi-shima.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. And about halfway down, one of these black clusters of anti-aircraft fire must have hit me, because the plane went surging forward. I felt this jolt. I could see the fire all around--anti-aircraft. And then suddenly, my plane was on fire. I saw a lot of smoke in the cockpit. I could finish my mission. I went on down another couple of thousand feet, released my four, five hundred pound bombs, and then pulled out to the ocean. And so, I'm floating around in this raft, paddling. And then, all of a sudden, saw this conning tower come up and saw the submarine surface. This guy standing up in the top of it taking a picture. We still have the picture of it.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. It's part of a team effort--it's hard to describe to kids today, but it was part of being together. I think we can pull together. And one of the reasons I'd like to be president is to get that across, to lead, to try to help solve problems in a good way, in a way of saying, let's pull together.

	MRS. BUSH. His war experience made him more serious, more caring, more against war, more certain that we should never be caught unprepared again.

	NARRATOR. The next uniform George Bush put on was a different kind, but the challenges of the 1950s were simpler: going to work and raising a family. For George Bush it meant heading off for the state of Texas.

	MRS. BUSH. He went the day after he graduated from college, drove down in a little red Studebaker. And he wrote and told me that someone said to him, "Say, Bush, did you go to college?" And he said, "Yes, I went to Yale." The guy said, "Oh, too bad."

	NARRATOR. After fifteen years of meeting payrolls and building a business, George Bush returned to public service and was elected to Congress--just in time for the turbulent sixties.

	MR. [Missing text]. I saw a lot of courage and a lot of strength back then when George Bush refused to worry about threats and stood up to the rights of all Americans to live where they want.

	NARRATOR. In the seventies, the country faced one challenge after another. So did George Bush--heading the Republican party, representing us in the United Nations, restoring the morale of our intelligence service, and serving as one of our first emissaries to mainland China. It was that lifetime of experience that George Bush brought to the Republican ticket in 1980.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. [Swearing in for the vice presidency] I, George Herbert Walker Bush...

	PRESIDENT REAGAN. I picked George Bush to be my vice president because he was strong, principled, and shared my commitment to the preservation of world peace and the expansion of world freedom. The fact that our NATO allies allowed the Pershing missiles into Europe in 1983 gave us the equal footing that we needed to bring the Soviets to a negotiating table. And the man who sold NATO on the plan, against some very tough odds I might add, was Vice President George Bush.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. Well, it's not only experience and knowing foreign leaders; it's the conviction I have about the United States of America. You see, I know from a lot of experience around the world it's only the United States that's credible enough and strong enough to stand up for human rights around the world, to care when the Lech Walesas struggling to bring a little more freedom to workers there in that shipyard in Gdansk or when some freedom fighter someplace is out there struggling to have his country go the democratic way.

	PRESIDENT REAGAN. George Bush is one of the ablest, one of the strongest men I've known in my lifetime. I trust George Bush. America can trust him too.

	MRS. BUSH. I wish people could see him as I see him, as thousands of people see him. You know, I always loved the time someone said to George, "How can you run for president? You don't have any constituency." And George said, "Well, you know, I've got a great big family and thousands of friends." And that's what he has.

	NARRATOR. For more than forty years, George Bush has met every challenge his country and the world have offered up to him. The truth is, the more you learn about George Bush, the more you realize that, perhaps, no one in this century is better prepared to be president of the United States.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH (At Republican Convention). I accept your nomination for president. I mean to run hard, to fight hard, to stand on the issues, and I mean to win. I seek the presidency to build a better America. It's that simple and that big. I'm a man who sees life in terms of missions, missions defined and missions completed. And when I was a torpedo-bomber pilot, they defined a mission for us, and before we took off, we all understood that, no matter what, you tried to reach the target. And there have been other missions for me. Congress and China and the CIA. But I'm here tonight, and I am your candidate because the most important work of my life is to complete the mission that we started in 1980. Eight years ago, eight years ago, I stood here with Ronald Reagan and we promised together to break with the past and return America to her greatness. Eight years later, look at what the American people have produced. The highest level of economic growth in our entire history and lowest level of world tensions in more than 50 years. Inflation was 13 percent when we came in; we got it down to four. Interest rates were more than 21, and we cut them in half. Unemployment, unemployment was up and climbing, and now it's the lowest in fourteen years. We've created seventeen million new jobs the past five years. More than twice as many as Europe and Japan combined, and they're good jobs. And there are millions of young Americans in their twenties who barely remember--who barely remember the days of gas lines and unemployment lines. And now they're marrying and starting careers. And to those young people, I say, you have the opportunity you deserve and I'm not going to let them take it away from you. Our economic life is not the only test of our success. One issue overwhelms all the others. And that's the issue of peace. And look at the world on this bright August night. The spirit of democracy is sweeping the Pacific Rim. China feels the winds of change. New democracies assert themselves in South America. And one by one, the unfree places fall, not to the force of arms, but to the force of an idea--freedom works. And we--we have a new relationship with the Soviet Union. The INF treaty, the beginning of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, the beginning of the end of the Soviet proxy war in Angola and with it the independence of Namibia. Iran and Iraq move toward peace. It happened when we acted on the ancient knowledge that strength and clarity lead to peace. Weakness and ambivalence lead to war. And I respect old-fashioned common sense. I have no great love--and I have no great love for the imaginings of the social planners. You see, I like what's been tested and found to be true. For instance, should public school teachers be required to lead our children in the pledge of allegiance? My opponent says "No," and I say "Yes." And should our children, should our children have the right to say a voluntary prayer or even observe a moment of silence in the schools? My opponent says "No," but I say "Yes." I'm the one who says a drug dealer who is responsible for the death of a policeman should be subject to capital punishment.

	POLICE OFFICER. We the police officers of the city of Springfield proudly support George Bush because George Bush stands firmly on the side of the cop who walks on the beat.

	POLICE OFFICER. On behalf of the Boston Police Patrolmen's Association, I'm extremely proud to stand here today for the purpose of announcing that our union, the largest police union in New England, enthusiastically endorses Vice President George Bush for president of the United States.

	POLICE OFFICER. In the city of New York, PBA, the largest and oldest police union in the United States, is announcing its support for George Bush for president of the United States.

	MR. MATT BYRNE. I would like to present Vice President Bush with my son Eddie's shield, as they remind us of all of the great police officers who have given their lives so that we may live. Thank you and God bless you.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. I think the most moving moment to me is when Matt Byrne, a former lieutenant in the New York Police Department, presented me with the shield, the badge, of his fallen son, Eddie Byrne, gunned down by narcotics criminals. And I'll tell you, when he handed me that badge, it's pretty tough, hard to keep the tears out.

	[SPEECH EXCERPT] I'm the one who believes it is a scandal to give a weekend furlough to a hardened first-degree killer who hasn't even served enough time to be eligible for parole. We moved to West Texas forty years ago, forty years ago this year, and the war was over. And we wanted to get out and make it on our own. And those were exciting days. We lived in a little shotgun house. One room for the three of us. And worked in the oil business and then started my own, and in time we had six children.

	GEORGE BUSH, JR. I'll tell you one of the most unusual things about my dad is that he's probably the most thoughtful person I know. And he's in a tough arena: politics. Yet he always finds time for the other person. He's famous for writing letters. This isn't phony. This is true George Bush. I can remember campaigning in Cooperstown, New York, and the night bellman walked up to me and said, "I've got a memento that I treasure." And it was a letter from my dad saying thank you for getting his suit pressed at an unusual hour. And George Bush is that way.

	JEB BUSH. You know, he can be very nice and friendly, but in a competitive setting, no one's going to outhustle him or outwork him. He is just tenacious--extremely tenacious.

	NEIL BUSH. Once a year, we try, all families, to get together in Maine, and you know, we feed off each other. There's something important in cousins being able to know their cousins and having "Gampy" come out and drive the wedges and build the tent, you know, every year. This is a tradition that's really special.

	DOROTHY BUSH LEBLOND: And the campaign has brought us so much closer together as a family, because we are all out campaigning hard for him, and it's brought us closer together because we're sort of facing the adversities as a team. I was sitting home and I just watched this fiery interview with my dad, and I'll never forget it, because I was on the edge of my seat, and I couldn't believe it. And the phone rang. He said, "It's Dad." And he said--he says, "Doro, I just had to call you. You know, is your car okay? I heard your car broke down." I'm like, "Dad, you just had this horrible interview." But that's typical of my father, because he doesn't think of himself. He thinks of other people. At times when you--you know, he has the most pressing things on his mind, and the whole country was watching this, and crazy over it. And he thought of me.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. I say it, I say it without boast or bravado. I fought for my country. I've served. I've built. And I'll go from the hills to the hollows, from the cities to the suburbs, to the loneliest town on the quietest street to take our message of hope and growth for every American, to every American. I will keep America moving forward, always forward. This is my mission and I will complete it.

	MRS. BUSH. I think the reason he's done so very well is that he's remained stable. He's not a fellow who reacts to things; he acts. He doesn't get upset. He is a quiet man and he does hear people, and then he makes up his own mind. And I think that's what people are seeing. I think they've seen it all through the primaries and all through the general election.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. And Barb and I were sitting there before that Democratic Convention, and we saw the governor and his son on television the night before, and his family, and his mother who was there. And I'm saying to Barbara, "You know, we've always kept family as a bit of an oasis for us." You all know me. And we've held it back a little. But we use that as a role model. The way he took understandable pride in his heritage, what his family means to him. And we've got a strong family and we watched that, and we said, "Hey, we've got to unleash the Bush kids." And so you saw ten grandchildren there jumping all over their grandfather at the Convention.

	MRS. BUSH. It's a wonderful thing to have your husband behave like that. He doesn't get furious or--it's not to say he doesn't get mad or his adrenaline doesn't flow, because his adrenaline flows.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. You know, some people say, "Well, doesn't that tire you out? Doesn't that wear you down?" And I get strength from it. There's an upbeat mood. There's a mood of support and no matter how tired you are, when you shake hands with people, look them in the eye and they cheer you on, or encourage you, or sometimes criticize, it's great. It's wonderful. I don't even mind the people carrying the Dukakis-Bentsen signs. There's no hard feeling. It was nothing but a generous spirit of competition.

	NARRATOR. As good as George Bush is campaigning like this, someone once said that if he could talk about the issues one-on-one with everyone in the country, he'd win in a landslide.

	VOTER: When I worked at Norton Company in Worcester, I had a good friend who went down to work went down to work for you as an executive, and we got pretty good reports back. Now, what I want to know is why did you leave that successful business and go into politics?

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. You know, sometimes in the campaign you get tired, and Barbara and I were over at our house over here across the way and we got--she got back from some literacy trip, and I got back from a long campaign thing, because it is endless. And the surf was slamming in there and the grandchildren had just been there, and she looked at me in the morning when we woke up and she said, "Do you ever wonder why we're doing all of this?" And it's a good question. But, first, service to country--no higher ideal. I mean, we're the greatest, we're the freest, we're the most wonderful country. And service to country is honorable; service to government is honorable. I happen to believe in the honor of it all. And I might say parenthetically, when somebody betrays the public trust, I feel it right here, and I know you do, too. Honor.

	MRS. BUSH. My goals are going to remain the same. My goals are to see that Americans become more literate. Television helps, but it also hurts. And it takes an adult to discipline television. But it isn't something you say, "Go over and sit in the corner and read," it's something you sit down and do together. Whether you read aloud together or you just read side by side together, it's very important. It wouldn't hurt the adult either.

	[Cutting to Mrs. Bush reading to a group of children.]

	MRS. BUSH. The times, the year was 1904, the clothes were...

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH [Talking with his grandchild] Which do you like fishing for, bass or bluefish?

	BUSH GRANDCHILD. Bass.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. Do you?

	BUSH GRANDCHILD. Bass, yes.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. More of them. You know something? I know how to catch bluefish.

	MRS. BUSH. People ask me a lot about the White House, and I really haven't thought about it much. But let me just tell you this, we've lived in seventeen cities, and George has had a lot of jobs, and some of them have been very grand. And we haven't changed. We're going to have family, children, grandchildren around. That's just the way the Bushes are, and it's going to be filled, I hope, with a lot of family love. 

	QUESTION. Has it been tough campaigning with all these grandchildren?

	MRS. BUSH. Well, we've missed seeing them.

	QUESTION: Do you get to travel with them at all or...

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. They're doing great. Oh, yes, once in a while. We've traveled around the country with them, and it makes it fun. It makes it fun.

	QUESTION: A well-known Democrat said that if he sees you one more time with your granddaughter, he may vote for you. So, I think it would be a good idea if you got her back in with you, don't you?

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. Well, we don't leave home without them. Come on, kids.

	MRS. BUSH. Come on, kids. Come on.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. Come on. Jump in here. Come on, Al. Come on, Allie. [MIssing text]--that cookie in your mouth. Hey, Marshall.

	NARRATOR. The Vice President of the United States.

	VICE PRESIDENT BUSH. Tonight brings to a close a long campaign, and as the shouting subsides, I want you to think for a minute about the choice you will make when you pull that curtain closed tomorrow in the voting booth, because the choice before you is very important. We've made historic strides in these last eight years. We took a country that had lost its confidence and put her back on her feet. And now, with our defenses restored, we've been able to negotiate an historic agreement with the Soviet Union, one that will eliminate, for the first time in our lifetimes, an entire generation of nuclear weapons. Tonight, America and indeed the world is at peace. We took an economy that had gone sour and gave it strength. Eight years ago, inflation was roaring along at 13 percent, interest rates were out of control at 21 percent, millions of Americans couldn't find work. And tonight, the inflation rate has been cut to 4 percent, interest rates are half what they were and Americans are working again. More of our workforce is taking home a paycheck than in any time in our history. And tonight, we've tried to give you some idea of how I as president would build on the solid foundation we've laid. I'll keep creating jobs for every American in the cities, in rural America, for young people and old, and yes, for our disabled citizens as well. I'll keep America strong with the hard-eyed realism that has kept American power second to none. I will keep our streets safe from crime, our environment safe from the ravages of reckless pollution, and our schools safe from drugs. Most of all, I will keep America proud, because I do believe that we are, as Lincoln said, the last great hope of man on earth. I respect my opponent. I admire his devotion to family. And I appreciate his decision to enter public service--what Teddy Roosevelt once called "the arena." But I do believe we are guided by fundamentally different philosophies, a great divide, an honest difference of opinion on which approach will lead America into the '90s, stronger and more secure than ever. I believe that the low tax and high opportunity policies we have pursued for the last eight years are working. Americans are better off than they were eight years ago. And if you elect me president, you will be better off four years from now than you are today. I believe in a concept called "Peace through strength." The national security of the United States is the first responsibility of the president and I firmly believe that American strength and American resolve have helped bring about the peace we now enjoy. My opponent has no experience in national security affairs. I don't believe we can take a risk on an issue as important as our national security. America tonight is a strong nation. Our economy is creating jobs, our defenses are solid and our spirit is restored. And what I ask you to think about is "What brought us to this point?" Should we move forward as I pledged to do? Or should we risk retreat? What it all comes down to is which set of values will keep America's future bright and who you trust to stick to those values. I cannot predict all of the challenges America will face in the years ahead. I can tell you what principles will guide me, what values I hold dear, and I can say that I believe I have the experience to be a steady hand guiding our country. Over a hundred years ago, just prior to an election, Lincoln wrote to a friend, and here is what he said. "I know there's a God and I know he hates injustice. I see the storm coming and I know his hand is in it. But he has a place and a part for me, I believe that I'm ready." My fellow Americans, I ask for your support, I ask for your vote. Thank you and God bless you.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--EXPERIENCE/QUALIFICATIONSCONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEECONOMY--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSION     R R R R R
 R R R {R gR eR PR FR	  	 z 	 c 	 B 	 2 	 