

	There are three men up here on the platform with me tonight whom I'm going to ask to stand up once again--Chester Gorski, Dent Lackey, and Anthony Tauriello. You have known these men a long time. I have never had the privilege of meeting them until tonight. But I am going to ask you to vote for them. And I want to tell you why. It's because I have asked some questions about them--and the answers were good.

	There were two things I especially wanted to know. I wanted to know whether these were men of good reputation in their local communities. And I wanted to know whether they were good Democrats.

	The Democratic party is a big party--with a lot of room in it for men with honest differences of opinion.

	You don't have to be a genius to belong to the Democratic party or to represent it as a candidate for office; but in our party the presidential candidate doesn't go around the country endorsing candidates who violate the fundamental decencies and who do not support the Democratic programs for resisting Communism abroad and carrying forward our great Democratic programs here at home.

	As I said, there is room for differences of opinion on just what the details of these programs ought to be--but there isn't room for men who are just plain against--against doing anything, any way, for in our party again, the presidential candidate doesn't go around the country endorsing men regardless of whether they are isolationists and therefore allies of Communism abroad, or regardless of whether they are economic reactionaries and therefore allies of Communism at home, even if they don't know it.

	Now I'm not just talking Democratic theory here. I'm talking Democratic practice. This month, for example, I'm told that in Minnesota they discovered that a man had won a congressional nomination whose political views were diametrically opposed to those of the Democratic platform.

	Now what did they do? Did they make a top-to-bottom endorsement of everyone on that Democratic ticket, whether the candidates were good men or bad, honest men or scoundrels, to maintain party unity?

	No, they did not. The Democratic party repudiated this candidate who had stolen on to our ticket but whose principles were intolerable.

	The trouble with the Republicans is that they have strayed so far from the wisdom of Abraham Lincoln. In 1859 Lincoln said: "Nor do I believe we can ever advance our principles by supporting men who oppose our principles."

	Frankly, I am astonished at some of the endorsements the General has given. For a political party is made up of men and women. If they are good, the party is good. And if they are bad, the party is bad. The General has accepted some curious regimental commanders in his strange crusade, which, by the way, is looking less and less like a crusade and more and more like a raid!

	If the Republicans win, who would be the most powerful men in the Senate? I don't even have to name them for you because you all know who they are.

	They are the men who have opposed almost every great measure to build strength and security in our domestic economy. They are the men who are still carrying the torch for William McKinley. They are the Old Guard of the Republican party--and their numbers seem to be multiplying of late instead of shrinking.

	The main object of our foreign policy in the last few years has been to increase our own safety by helping to make stronger the free nations which lie between us and the Soviet Union. Their strength is a warning to Stalin--and a bulwark for us.

	Do you think that we will be able to continue that policy if the Old Guard gains control of the Senate? Do you think that adequate legislation to build the strength of our allies could get past that Murderer's Row who think the real threat to the United States is internal--is our own government in Washington? And what do you think Stalin wants--to have our allies strong or to have them weak?

	Let me put it bluntly. Stalin is just as eager as any of the Old Guard to have us discontinue prematurely our programs of assistance to build up resistance.

	And why does he? Because he knows that the strength and unity of Western Europe is the greatest threat to his control over Poland and Eastern Germany and the other once independent nations of Central and Eastern Europe.

	I am not talking about a war of liberation. The nation knows now what a cruel hoax the Republican high command tried to perpetuate when it sought to hold out hope of swift release for those enslaved behind the Iron Curtain. It was here in Buffalo a short time ago that the National Committee of Americans of Polish Descent first exposed the cynicism of the Republican program, pointing out that American instigation of revolt in Poland--unless we were prepared to back it up by force--could lead only to mass slaughter.

	One of the great Polish generals of the Second World War is General Bor-Komorowski, the commander of the Polish Home Army, the hero of the siege of Warsaw, the victim of callous and terrible Communist treachery. General Bor is today in exile in London. Someone recently asked him what he thought of the Republican liberation theory. The General replied that he considered it a great mistake. He said it would jeopardize future possibilities of underground work. He said it would sacrifice the young people, who might in time be the strength and heroism of a resistance movement. And he added--and these are General Bor's own words: "The Russians would probably welcome an active underground resistance now, as it would bring to the attention of their agents the best elements of the subjugated peoples and make it easier to destroy them."

	Thus the great Polish anti-Communist leader provides one more witness of the extent to which this proposal plays into the hands of the enemies of a free and independent Poland--not out of design, I am sure, but out of a careless eagerness to win votes.

	When the Republican candidate first made his reckless proposal, the almost universal dismay and shock on two continents resulted in quick denials that his statements and those of his foreign affairs advisor, Mr. Dulles, had been interpreted correctly. I am all the more astonished, therefore, to find the General reiterating those strange liberation promises in advertisements released for use in 300 foreign language newspapers.

	As between General Bor-Komorowski, on the one hand, and General Eisenhower on the other, I think that General Bor has a better idea of what is good for Poland.

	It is awfully easy to urge revolt when you are not yourselves on the firing line--awfully easy, and cynically irresponsible.

	Now, by way of contrast, take a look for a moment at the Old Guard's reaction to a proposal which might be of some real benefit to the men and women behind the Iron Curtain. One of the great threats to humanity today is the crime of genocide--the crime practiced by Nazi Germany and now by the Soviet Union of trying to obliterate whole races of people. In Poland, for example, the Communists have already used the method of wholesale execution, as in the Katyn Massacre. And they have used the perhaps even crueler method of deporting whole populations for slave labor and a slower death.

	The United Nations has been trying to organize the conscience of the world against the crime of genocide. And where do the Republicans stand on this? Senator Bricker of Ohio, one of the bastions of the Old Guard, recently persuaded forty-five of his Senate Republican colleagues to join him in sponsoring a constitutional amendment. And one of the main effects of this amendment would be to make it impossible for the United Nations to sign an international convention against genocide. Do not ask me why they do this. Ask the General--it's his Old Guard!

	But I would say that our hope for peace resides in our capacity to help promote the strength and unity of freedom. Only as the free nations are strong and determined and united in their purposes will the captive states have a chance of slipping their bonds and regaining their freedom.

	And, if anything is clear, it is that the statesmen--a word sometimes used mostly in courtesy--who would control the Senate and the House in a Republican Congress, have proved by their records that they will not support adequate programs to build up our own strength and the strength of our allies. And I say, therefore, that however loud their words may be, their actions are soft on Communism.

	It is the Democratic party--supported, be it said, by some enlightened Republicans--which is the party of strength. It is therefore the Democratic party that alone holds out real hope to the peoples behind the Iron Curtain.

	Turning now to the problems we face here at home--do you think that the great progress of the past twenty years will be carried forward by the Old Guard--the wreckers and "aginners" who have been "agin" so long? And what effect do you think that a period of reaction and withdrawal at home will have on the power and influence of Communism in America?

	Is the Old Guard in favor of legislation to safeguard the hard-won rights of working men and women? Not on your life.

	Are these men in favor of public housing? Or of expanding and improving our social security programs? Or of developing those great natural resources which private industry cannot or will not develop? Or of finding some way to assure the producers of dairy products and fruits and other perishable products of a fair return for their labor? I wouldn't trust them with these programs as far as I could throw an elephant.

	Name it and the Old Guard opposes it. And I think that men who are so good at opposition have earned the right to stay right where they are--in the opposition.

	The only countries in the world where the Communist disease has made any serious headway are those countries where social and economic progress has been slow and want and misery are prevalent. The strongest bulwarks against Communism in country after country have been the free trade unions and the farmers' cooperatives and the churches and the political parties that fight for progress. For where there is progress, there is hope, and where there is hope, no man freely chooses this dreadful tyranny.

	And the Soviet masters have been smart enough to figure that out too--which is why they rejoice whenever reaction comes to power.

	Earlier today I made a speech at Notre Dame University in Indiana. In that speech I discussed the economic programs which have been recommended by the great leaders of the Roman Catholic Church. The Old Guard is still calling the Democratic party Communist or pink or Socialist for backing programs that Leo the Thirteenth recommended 80 years ago.

	And it is an odd and interesting fact that the great leaders in every Christian Church have recognized for years and years that Communism flourishes when men have just grievances against their society--when they are denied equal rights because of racial or religious prejudice--when they need a job and cannot find it--when their children can't have the advantages of education, or a decent home, or even of enough food and clothing.

	And for years the Old Guard has been denouncing the Democratic party for trying to do the things which the leaders of our churches have described as part of the obligations of man to man in a Christian community.

	Above all, if you really want Communists in the United States, the quickest way to breed them is to have another Great Depression. And what group in America can be best relied upon to produce a depression? I don't want to make any dogmatic answers, but the Old Guard of the Republican party has certainly had enough practice!

	n questions of economic policy, they stand regularly for one thing--inaction. If prices are going up, don't do anything about it. If prices are going down, don't do anything about it. Whatever happens, don't let the government act--because that might be Socialism!

	But this do-nothing, care-nothing, know-nothing mumbo-jumbo that has dominated the Old Guard's thought for generations is the surest way to drive a people to the extremes of Socialism, Fascism or Communism. And the sad thing is that nothing in their record in any recent Congress shows that they have learned much. Nothing in their record justifies the hope that they would do anything different this time from what they did when they were last in power--and you remember what happened then.

	It is a tragedy that the Old Guard has succeeded in doing what Hitler's best generals never could do: they have captured General Eisenhower!

	But I guess I have spent enough time giving this free advertising. I am afraid that the GOP--the Grand Old Party--has gotten so old that when you spell it backwards you get POG--the Prehistoric Old Guard.

	In the past two months I have traveled up and down and across this great country. Everywhere I have been met by warm, friendly, courteous audiences like this one here in Buffalo. I haven't seen an audience yet that looked regimented or socialized. If the slaves of Big Government were in evidence, they must have left their chains and manacles at home. Instead, I have seen everywhere strength, confidence, faith, progress--the kind of strength and confidence and faith which twenty years of progress creates and justifies.

	I am talking about the kind of progress one sees right here in this city of Buffalo and the rich countryside around it. For Buffalo seems to me to be one of the most American of all our cities. You have woven together the agricultural and industrial threads of American life to form a well-balanced and strong economy.

	Here too you have gathered together people from many lands--bringing together men and women of widely varying religious and cultural backgrounds who have created a rich and harmonious life. The strength of America is typified by this community--for America draws her strength from the richness and diversity of our origins. Each one of us has invigorated the new life we have been building here.

	I do not recommend a campaign train as the best way to see the country. The last two months have not been easy ones--but they have given me a wonderful sense of the power and majesty and beauty and, yes, the nobility of America. One cannot make this journey without gaining the utmost confidence that America can accomplish the tasks to which she has set her hand--at home and abroad.

	I will leave fears for our future to the opposition. I see a future full of hope and promise--because I have seen America and I know that America has the will, the steadiness, the understanding, and the patience to win through the present perils to the new frontiers that lie ahead of us.

	I earnestly commend to you, because I think it has the truest vision of the promise of these new frontiers, the Democratic party. I hope you will give it the biggest vote ever--and thus answer the Gloomy Old Prophets of the Poor Old Guard with a resounding expression of your desire to march forward, not backward--to regard the future, not with fear but with faith.

	Grover Cleveland, who got his start here, Woodrow Wilson, New York's own Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman--there isn't a backward marcher among all the Democratic presidents since the Civil War. And that is the tradition with which I would like to keep in step. I wouldn't call it a crusade--I would just say--"let's go forward together"--under God and with a fighting faith in freedom and in ourselves, the people, of this heaven favored land.
COMMUNISMDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMGENOCIDEPOLANDSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)UNITED NATIONS     ,> = = = =
 = = = = = = `= V=	 _ 	 V 	 < 	 4 	 . 	  e: