

	Ladies and gentlemen:  Over the past few weeks I have learned something about so-called back platform crowds.  This far surpasses anything I have seen before.  So I want especially to extend my thanks to each person here for the honor he does me in coming out to allow me to give him a word of greeting and to express a few of the thoughts I have on my mind as we go through this political campaign.

	I have another special reason for feeling very kindly toward Oregon.  No American can pay to another a greater compliment than to say to his friend, "I believe you have qualities that we might be able to use in the highest post in the land."  Now in Oregon the Republican Party, through its primaries, sent the largest solid block of delegates down to Chicago to pay me the great compliment I received at that convention.  So I am very deeply grateful to the state and to each of you who is part of it.  As New Hampshire was the first solid block delegation to pay me that compliment, yours was the solid one.

	Now I am on a crusade, a crusade that has as its purpose, as its first objective--not its ultimate but its first objective--the unseating of the shopworn administration in Washington.  In that crusade many millions of people have joined.  We haven't asked and we do not intend to ask what was your party affiliation before this crusade began? Because it is a crusade for honest government, for good government, for a government that will lead us toward peace in the world, solidarity, strength and prosperity at home.  My friends, these two objectives are related, because unless we are spiritually, intellectually, economically and militarily strong at home, we cannot lead the world toward peace.  But we are going to be strong at home only if we have a government in which all of you people--each of you--will take pride and therefore, you will support the basic aims and aspirations of government as we proceed through these troubled times.

	So part of this crusade is an attempt to give you a government in which you can take pride, which you can take real satisfaction in uniting behind, and say, "All right--we believe in this program or that program," never agreeing in detail of course because the discussion and argument about detail are what make our country great, but agreeing with the basic principles that we are trying to reach.  Those basic principles--basic values in government--are honesty, frugality, thrift, efficiency, and above all, plain friendliness and remembering the proper relationship of government to the people--that is, the relationship of servant and friend, and not of master and tyrannical ruler.

	Now, of course, since the war I have had many opportunities to pay my tributes to different industries--different groups of Americans--for the part they have played in helping to win that war.  For a long time I have felt a desire to come to Eugene, known as the center of the lumber industry, here to pay my tribute to what the lumbermen did--the workmen, the management, the processors, everybody who had anything to do with the lumber industry--in World War II, and to say to you, "I bring you my salute for your having done your part in that very great conflict and supporting your brothers, your fathers, and the rest that were overseas in uniform.  I have a special feeling in coming here because of the location of your state university.  I am, myself, of course, a college president on leave; the length of my leave will be determined by you people in a few short weeks.  But the point I want to make is that I have spent my life with young Americans--soldiers, as you know, are normally from the younger part of our population--and I have learned to admire and respect them and believe in them.  More than that, it is from them I have drawn inspiration for every hard job I have tried to do.

	In order to explain to you people something of what a young American means to me, I wonder if you would allow me to tell you a story.  It is a war story, but, you know, we have to give old soldiers the right to reminisce.  Some of you veterans among this crowd, when you go to your American Legion and other conventions, remember how we swapped stories.  But this is a true one.  You will recall in 1944 we invaded northwest Europe and we established what we call a beachhead.  The next problem was to attack the German defenses and to break out of that beachhead.

	On the American side of the line we had country which was called the hedgerow or the bocage country.  This country was cut up by such strong, big hedges that it was impossible as military ground through which you could attack and advance.  Yet the battle had so developed that there was no place else to attack, and what to do?  These hedgerows were so strong that, as we sent our big tanks against them, the tanks would do what the driver or the tank commander called belly-up; it would point its snout into the air and the German could shoot through the under, unprotected side of that tank while our own guns were pointing helplessly squarely at the sky.

	Now what to do?  Along came a little sergeant about 5'2", a young fellow named Sergeant Kuhlen--and the Sergeant said, "Why, I can do something about this."  He belonged to an ordnance maintenance company.  And he came up with a little invention; his invention was a set of knives, fastened in front of our tanks, that made it possible for them to go through these hedgerows on an even keel.  Moreover they carried with them a part of the hedge that they cut off, and the tank had natural camouflage for the next 50 yards or so.  But it could come through with its guns shooting.

	His invention, ladies and gentlemen, certainly saved thousands of American lives.  There are thousands of happy homes tonight in America because Sergeant Kuhlen did that.  He got his quad to help him out on the thing.  Here is the point of my story:  he didn't, as he would have had to do in some dictator's army keep that idea to himself; he took his idea and he went to his captain, his captain took him to the general, the general took him to General Bradley, and General Bradley brought it to the top brass.  And his idea was adopted.  I will never forget when he said, "Well, Sergeant, where are you going to get all this steel," because these knives were great big sharpened things.  He said, "That's easy, General.  Down on the beach the Germans put hundreds and hundreds of tons of steel in obstacles to keep us from coming ashore.  We will just take German steel and do it."

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the point of the whole story is this:  a country such as ours develops that kind of initiative; it develops that kind of confidence, that kind of readiness to come forward and do something.  As long as we have that kind of individual--and America teems with them--we can't be too fearful about America's future.  The only thing that all of us oldsters must be careful about is that we pass on to this coming generation and to the men who even now ought to be taking over--the men and women-- certain truisms, certain axioms of our civilization.  The first is that our form of government is firmly founded in a deeply felt religious faith.  Let me point out as my proof the words of the founding fathers. The men who wrote the Declaration of Independence wanted to explain to the world what this new government was, so they said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights."  Unless they called upon the Creator to justify this new government, it made no sense.

	So one thing we must never forget, as we push ahead to make this country the glorious thing that it can become--and remember, the job of making America will never be finished--is that very, very great dedication of our founding fathers to the moral and spiritual values that are really found in a deeply felt religious faith.

	If our youngsters do that, you have got first the great guidepost, the great sign, that will lend you forward, and then why shouldn't we, the older folks, begin to tell those youngsters about the mistakes we made as well as about our great and glorious accomplishments.  Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in two world wars; we have been waging a Cold War for seven years and we are in a hot war in Korea.  Behind that whole record lies a series of mistakes.  Let us not, for this evening at least, try to fix the blame too markedly on an individual or on a particular group, but let us say this:  there is the record; the mistakes have been made.  Let us honestly try to uncover the mistakes and draw lessons from them.  Let's not try to cover them up.

	As you know, ladies and gentlemen, through his region another campaign train preceded mine some time back.  Form its back platform many red hot salvos were loosed at me.  Now, one of the charges made was that in 1945 I expressed the hope and belief that Russia wanted to establish a workable friendship with us.  I was testifying for increased army strength.  I proposed that we hope for the best and be prepared for the worst.  Now, I think if we had not pursued such a policy at that time, today in view of the chaos in which the world exists, we would be terribly disappointed.  We would be terribly blaming ourselves for not having done our best. Yet from the back platform of a campaign train came the charge that because of that hope and that belief I had done much to destroy the safety of my country.

	And that charge came form the very same man who only three years after, remember, in 1948, came to this town, and I got a telegram today from this town and I am going to read it.  This is what that man said who charged with me with all this effect on our safety:

	"I like old Uncle Joe Stalin.  Joe is a decent fellow.  But the people that run the government won't let him be as decent as he would like to be."

	Now, let me tell you something.  If you are going to try to cover up your mistakes with that kind of charge, we will get nowhere.  All I plead for is honesty, decency, straightforwardness.  So when these youngsters now in the university, in high school or just out of the university and starting their professional lives take over, let them have honesty and candor and real information, real lessons drawn from all this history.  Of course, we have our moments of success.  When we won World War II we thought we were embarked upon a great and peaceful era.  But we did win the war.  We showed what an aroused America, a united America, could do.  Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have our problems of peace.  Let us get a government behind which we can unite, which can arouse the best in us, which will be honest with us, which will not try to conceal mistakes, and which will give us a chance to make America and the world what it can be.  America can be a safe, secure place for us.  It can be a leader toward peace and decency in the world.  And that is exactly what her destiny is, exactly the destiny that her people can achieve.  That is my faith in America, in her young, in her old, in all her citizens.  That is what we now must do.

	Ladies and gentlemen, for the very great honor you have done me, I thank you, and now with your permission I would like to bring out Mrs. Ike for just a second.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSHEROES/HEROISMINVENTION/INNOVATIONMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESTIMBER INDUSTRY/RESOURCESWORLD WAR IIYOUTH     +- , , , ,
 , , , , , , , ,	  	  	 b 	 T 	 @ 	 * 	  	  e: