

	I couldn't but notice, as I walked into this theater that the motion picture playing here now is called, The Lure of the Wilderness. Well, I am delighted to be the star of this attraction for one afternoon--and if we can but lure enough votes to the Democratic ticket in November, I think we will save the country from a Republican wilderness.

	The last time I was in Phoenix I spent my time out somewhere near town in a charming guest ranch, lying in the sun. On this visit I seem to spend my time standing in a spotlight. If you could arrange for me to come back here to lie in the sun again, it will be quite agreeable with me.

	There must be something both therapeutically and also politically valuable about that sun, because when I came here today I met an old and dear friend, sprung from a staunch Republican family in Illinois, who has moved to Arizona and joined the Democratic party!

	It reminded me of the story of the little boy who asked his father what a convert was, and the father--evidently a politically minded father--said: "Well, son, if a Republican becomes a Democrat he is a convert." And what, asked the boy, is a Democrat who becomes a Republican. With a scowl his father said: "Why, he's a traitor, of course."

	My friends, we are now coming near the end of our first campaign swing through the West. It has been a fine trip. I haven't had a better time for years. Franklin Roosevelt used to say, "I'm an old campaigner and I love a good fight." I'm not an old campaigner--at least not yet; but I must say I have enjoyed every minute of it, and I have traveled on everything except an oxcart to get here. I have even had to have my shoes resoled!

	Now, my ideas about campaigning are simple and probably primitive. It seems to me that the American people want to hear about their problems, and that it is the business of the candidates to talk plainly about these issues. As I said in Los Angeles yesterday, I don't think that real issues are either beneath the dignity of political candidates or above the intelligence of the American voters.

	What I had hoped to do was to raise a little debate between the two parties on some of the solemn questions of our national life. Thus far I can't say that I have had very much success. So far as I can see, it is like trying to hold a conversation with a two-headed elephant. One head seems to agree with everything we say, and the other head fumes and curses at everything we say. The best debate of all I suppose, of course, would be between the two elephants.

	I have certain warm sympathies for my very distinguished opponent. It must be hard to try to talk sense on issues when half of your advisers tell you one thing and the other half tell you the exact opposite. As a result the Republican leadership has evidently decided that the best thing to do is to use slogans, catchwords and epithets. I think a campaign for the presidency is worth something better than that, but it begins to look as though the Republicans have decided to file notice of intellectual bankruptcy and to accompany it by a deluge of abuse of their creditors--the people's intelligence.

	In fact, their whole campaign so far reminds me of a phonograph record. It sort of monotonously repeats, "I love you, I love you, I love you" and then it adds, "honey chile"--and finally a rebel yell when it goes down South. Now, when you turn the record over it also has a catchy little tune to waltz time. It goes something like, "time for a change, time for a change, time for a change, time for a change" over and over again.

	I left Springfield exactly two weeks ago on this trip--one week ago--it seems like two years! We have covered a lot of ground in these seven long days. We went first to Denver. You all know the Denver story. It used to be the campaign headquarters of the Republican candidate for president. I really don't know why they abandoned Denver. Maybe the high altitude was too much for weak hearts; or maybe the closeness of Denver to the Great Divide was too much for a divided party. In any case, by the time I got to Denver, the general and his entourage had decided it was time for a change--and had forsaken Colorado for New York City.

	From Denver we went to Kasson, Minnesota, to a plowing contest--or, rather, it started out to be a plowing contest, but after my distinguished opponent had given his speech I began to wonder whether he didn't think it was a plowing under contest. At least he plowed under the Republican platform and adopted ours.

	For my part I didn't have to plow under the Democratic farm platform. I could stand on it. In fact, I am perfectly willing to have the general stand on it too, though I wish he would request permission from the copyright owners once in a while.

	Someone asked me the other day what I thought the main difference was between the Republican and the Democratic platforms. The answer seems to me easy. The Republican presidential candidate always tries to run on a Democratic platform. But you will never find a Democrat running on a Republican platform.

	Now, I had hoped that we might have a debate upon farm policy at that meeting in Minnesota, but the best debate, as usual, was between the Republican parties. One of the Republican parties opposes fixed parity prices at 90 percent. That party wrote the platform at Chicago. The other Republican party supports fixed parity prices--and that one wrote the general's speech.

	But, when the general proposed that we should go up to 100 percent, I think he may have misunderstood his audience. I think the farmers of America have too vivid a memory of the Republicans in the House voting against the 90 percent support law last spring to be impressed by big talk today of 100 percent.

	Moreover, I doubt very much if they like the idea of treating the farm question like an auction in which the farmers' votes would be sold to the highest bidder.

	From Minnesota we went to Wyoming, Idaho, Montana, and from there to Oregon and Washington. And, by the way, I think ours was probably the first party that ever went from Denver to Cheyenne via Minnesota.

	If you don't like to travel you shouldn't run for president. But I do like to travel, especially round this lovely, rich, fruitful land of ours. We have a great natural heritage in our land, our forests and our rivers. You get an exciting sense of the richness and the variety of this heritage when you travel through the West; and you get an urgent sense of the vital importance of developing this heritage in the interests of all the people of the country, and not permitting it to become a private reserve for special groups to make profits for themselves at the expense of the people.

	You here in Arizona well know the importance of our federal policies of conservation and of reclamation. I have been told that the very first reclamation project in the whole country was in this state. I was especially interested to learn that the original pattern of cooperative membership by farmers in an irrigation district was worked out over here in the Salt River Project. Irrigation and reclamation laws nourished the state of Arizona. Since 1940 farm income in Arizona has increased 386 percent. And your total income rose or, rather, it leaped some 23 percent from 1950 to 1951--more than any other state in the Union.

	I don't know how to account for this unless it is all these people who are making so much money in this dreadful Democratic era, who come out here to spend it.

	Your extraordinary yields of long-staple cotton, melons, grapes, alfalfa and all the other crops contribute to the well-being of all of us. We in Illinois are better off because you are better off. And I might say you are better off because we are better off.

	There is another aspect of the conservation problem which was borne in on me both in the Northwest and also down here, and that is the problem of controlling erosion and preventing silt from choking irrigation works and reservoirs. One of the key points in this fight against erosion is overgrazing. I have stated already that I think the public ranges should be used wisely for grazing on a fair and equitable basis, but I am unalterably opposed to turning over control of these lands to private interests. Those lands are public property and they must be managed in the public interest.

	So far as I have been able to penetrate the language of the Republican platform, the Republican leadership is interested in giving these natural resources away. "We favor," the platform says--and I quote--"restoration of the traditional Republican land policy"--and we all know, it seems to me, what the traditional Republican land policy is. I would welcome a battle on this issue. I am for conserving the public wealth--the common property of the people--just as I am for conserving the tax dollar.

	I hope that some day my distinguished opponent will come to see that both of these questions involve the property of all of the people. He is appalled, as I am at those public servants who have given away tax favors, but he is apparently willing enough to give away the land, the oil, and the other property of the people.

	I talked on these matters in Seattle and Portland because little is more important to American survival than assuring the conservation and the wise development of our natural resources.

	Then, from Seattle I flew down the shining Pacific Coast to San Francisco, and there where the Golden Gate looks toward the east I spoke about foreign policy. I said that the question of peace was the most important unfinished business of our generation. I said that our generation can meet the challenge if we but understand the enormity of the threat. I believe peace is possible if we but have the will, the boldness and the patience to conquer it. I believe that we have. I believe this is a time for greatness, and that America has unfathomed resources of greatness.

	Then I had a wonderful day whistle-stopping--my first experience with whistle-stopping. I heard and saw everything but whistles, by the way, whistle-stopping through the great Central Valley of California. Yesterday I spoke twice in Los Angeles, after a half dozen miscellaneous speeches. First I had some things to say about corruption. I said that we must be careful not to abuse indiscriminately all of our public servants, because the vast majority of them are as honest and as conscientious workers as any of you. I said that the thieves and the scoundrels--and there have been thieves and scoundrels who have betrayed their trust--must be identified and they must be punished without mercy. And a good many of them have been detected and exposed, I am happy to say, by Democrats.

	Yesterday evening in Los Angeles I talked about the fact that sometimes we get so mired down in the problems of today that we forget about the possibilities of tomorrow. I have talked a lot about blood, sweat and tears during this campaign, and I propose to continue talking sternly, because I don't believe that this is a safe or a simple world. But I think too that we must never forget that we are on the edge of a new, scientific, technological age-- an age which promises fabulous abundance for a people worthy of it.

	We Democrats are not afraid of the challenge of tomorrow. We are the party of faith--faith in America, faith in democracy, faith, if you please, in freedom. We will let the Republicans continue to deal in moans and groans and lamentations and despair--to say that the American way of life is weak and fragile, tottering on the verge of collapse. That is the party of fear--and this contest between fear and faith will decide the future of our country.

	While I have been moving around I notice that my distinguished opponent has been active too. The other night in Indianapolis the general gave a chalk talk on team play in basketball and politics. In the course of his talk he made the following admission, and I quote him: "The overwhelming majority of federal employees," he said, "are among our most patriotic and efficient citizens." Now, I believe this. In fact, as I have said, I know it, and I think that most of the people of the country believe it. We are highly gratified to have the Republican candidate say it in public.

	But, some Americans evidently don't believe it. And the most conspicuous of those who impugn the motives and attack the integrity of our public servants are on the general's team. In fact, after last Tuesday it looks as though some of them had been promoted to the first team. One player to whom the general gave his Republican letter--the varsity "R"--on last Tuesday, is Senator Jenner of Indiana. And, according to Senator Jenner, the list of unpatriotic Federal employees is not only practically endless but it is headed by the revered name of General George C. Marshall, our great wartime commander, and General Eisenhower's superior officer. General Marshall, Senator Jenner said on the sheltered floor of the United States Senate, was a "living lie" and not only willing but eager "to play the role of front man for traitors."

	Now, I know something about basketball too. I know that you are not likely to get a good team unless the coach and the players are in agreement. And I am dead sure that this is true of team play in government, because I have been governor of one of the biggest states in the Union.

	The only conclusion I can draw, therefore, is either that the general agrees with Senator Jenner--and this I still doubt--or that the Republican team isn't going to win many games this next few weeks. This is the first time I have ever heard of a party going into battle under the slogan, "throw the rascals in."

	What it all gets back to, of course, is the simple and indisputable fact that there is no longer one Republican party. There are two. It is an ancient political vehicle, held together by soft soap and hunger, and with front-seat drivers and back-seat drivers contradicting each other in a bedlam of voices, shouting to "go right" and "go left" at the same time. I don't envy the driver and I don't think the American people will care to ride in his bus very far.

	In recent weeks it appears as though the junior Republican party is about to be swallowed up by its big, bad, bold brother. I no longer hear the voices which sang with sweet reasonableness for the general before the massacre at Chicago. Someone seems to have muzzled them. It may be because they sounded too much like Democrats.

	And now we have the spectacle of the candidate who won the nomination, seeking out his defeated rival and begging for some kind word. I am beginning to wonder who won at Chicago. I am beginning to wonder who our opponent really is. Perhaps there is a six-star general somewhere in the Republican party.

	It occurred to me, flying over here this morning, that the clue to the future of the Republican party may well lie in the fabled Phoenix after which your city was named. The Phoenix, as we all know, set fire to herself after a 500-year decline, and then rose revitalized from her own ashes. Our opponents may be older than they think. I think they are aging, tired, and querulous. Maybe they should build a fire under themselves and rise again into the twentieth century. I think we would all be glad to welcome them here in the twentieth century.

	We Democrats like this century, belong to it and propose to realize its responsibilities to the full. To assure the continuation of progress in the United States, to move toward greater freedom and greater opportunity for our citizens, to fight for peace in the world, there is a broad and proven path, but, of course, as the Democratic candidate, modesty forbids me to tell you which path to follow on November 4th.


AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYRECLAMATION PROJECTSREGIONALISM--WEST     ? > > > >
 > > > > > > > >	  	  	  	 t 	 W 	 8 	 % 	  e: