

	Wheaton College has an enviable reputation for educational excellence as a liberal arts college. And part of that reputation is built upon the fact that Wheaton has sent teachers to all corners of the world. Yours is truly a school not only with a mission, but for the missions.

	This work of educational excellence and missionary work is truly in the tradition of the biblical injunction: "Go ye, therefore, and teach all nations."

	Those words remind me of a central purpose of education we seem to have forgotten in recent years. Education is not simply something that occurs within the walls of a classroom. True education is a sharing of knowledge and wisdom between peoples and nations as well as between individuals.

	During this campaign, I have talked of a community of values that transcends political and regional, ethnic and religious lines. It exists wherever there are those whose lives are guided by the values of family, neighborhood, work, peace and freedom. And at the very heart of that community of values is the belief that education is a primary source of progress for families, communities, our nation, and the world.

	On Labor Day, I stood near the Statue of Liberty and spoke of the millions of immigrants who came here to build a better life. For them, education was not simply another part of American society--it was the key that opened up the golden door. It was the essential element to progress for their families. And it was an indispensable part of the growth of our nation.

	In recent years, that vision of education as an integral part of the progress of families and of society has been obscured by debates over declining standards of education and test scores and illiteracy in the schools. These issues have captured our attention and drained our energies.

	I say it is time we stop talking about the declining educational standards and start doing something about them.

	I say that it is time we restore the traditional American view of education as the process of growing in knowledge and wisdom, for the sake of ourselves, our families, our nation, and the world.

	I say it is time American education regains its place as the cornerstone of freedom and progress in America.

	I say it is time for Americans to once again take to heart the command to "teach all nations."

	Our educational system has produced men and women whose mastery of science and technology has enabled them to help the poor, the needy, the starving and the destitute, all over the world. We must continue this great tradition.

	Our educational system has produced generation after generation with a deep understanding and great love of the democratic process, so that wherever Americans go in the world, a love of freedom goes with them. We must continue this great tradition.

	The revival of the great tradition demands a new spirit of cooperation between citizens and teachers and private institutions and all levels of government.

	American education must become, once again, not only a means by which we teach our children the best our civilization has to offer, but a means by which our children help the needy and the poor in our nation and all over the world.

	Part of that great spirit of idealism was captured by John F. Kennedy in 1960 when he called for creation of the Peace Corps. In 1980, we need a revival of that spirit, because the 1980s will be a decade in which the cause of peace will need the devotion and energy of every American.

	But before we are able to fulfill this great mission of the 1980s, we have to face up to the fact that American education has fallen on hard times.

	I am not going to recite the long and dreary statistics we have heard so often concerning educational problems. You know them. I know them. Parents and children and teachers know them.

	What is important is that we pledge to each other at the beginning of this decade that our efforts and our energies will be devoted to solving our educational problems.

	I believe that the major role in restoring excellence to our schools must be played by parents and classroom teachers, by communities and by states.

	Let me say a few words about the classroom teacher. In recent years, teachers have been forced to deal with negative and often destructive trends originating in the larger society outside the classroom. I admire and respect the professionalism and the dedication with which they have met these challenges. The heart of education is a dedicated, thoroughly professional teacher and a class filled with students ready and eager to learn. Parents and teachers working together have built American education before and they can do it again. Teachers and professors deserve not only praise, but adequate reward for their services to our children and our nation.

	But the president of the United States can and should do all he can, even in a secondary role, in making certain the federal government cooperates with and does not hinder the educational policies developed at the local level.

	I believe my record as governor of California is proof that I am not only willing, but able to do all I can to contribute to educational excellence.

	Let me tell you some of the things we accomplished in California:

	We worked to expand educational opportunities. During the eight years, we increased the number of scholarships by five times, and we expanded state spending for loans and scholarships by more than 900 percent.

	We reduced the growth of overall state spending, but we made sure that essential functions such as education were adequately funded. We increased aid to the state university system and to the college system by more than twice the increase in enrollment, and to the community college system by four times the increase in enrollment. For the critical years of kindergarten through twelfth grade, we boosted spending by more than twenty times as fast as the student population grew.

	We approved legislation expanding career and vocational education in the community colleges.

	And we created a State Advisory Council on Vocational Education to revitalize our technical and vocational education program.

	I learned from this experience that adequate resources are important to providing a good quality education, but alone they are not enough. The other essential element is state and local control. Only if the people closest to the problems of education--teachers, parents, school boards, and boards of governors--are allowed to make the basic educational decisions, will the quality of education improve.

	As I said, the federal government does have an important--if not central--role in our educational system. When there is intentional discrimination on account of race, religion, or national origin, federal authorities have clear responsibility to act. As president, I will vigorously support them in these duties.

	One of the first things I will do as president is to form a task force of distinguished citizens to analyze current federal programs in education. We have a labyrinth of such programs, and we have very little reliable data to show whether a program is working or just existing. We must keep the federal educational programs that are working and get rid of those that are not. The only way we can find out what is working is to study all these programs, and this is what we're going to do.

	As far as the bureaucratic structure of the federal role in education is concerned, my view is that the American people are more concerned with quality education than with bureaucratic structures.

	As I have said throughout my campaign, the American educational system is based on public and non-public educational quality. In the area of non-public schools, I strongly support a system of tuition tax credits to aid parents sending their children to such schools.

	But these are questions of policy. While they are important, another question must be answered: what is it that Americans truly want, for themselves and for their country?

	It isn't power. If we wanted only power, we long ago could have dominated the world.

	It isn't world leadership as an end in itself. We have had world leadership thrust upon us by events. But we have never, never pursued it as an end in itself.

	What is it, then, that we want?

	In my view, what we want is so simple, so elementary, that it is often overlooked.

	All we want is to live in freedom and in peace, to see to it that our nation's legitimate interests are protected and promoted. We want to see our children have at least the opportunities we had for advancement or maybe even better. We want to worship God in our own way, lead our own lives, take care of our families and live in our own style, in our own community, without hurting anyone or anyone hurting us. We want the kind of personal security human beings can reasonably expect in a system of economic freedom and democratic self-government.

	And, yes, we want to bring the blessings of peace and progress and freedom to others.

	I'm talking about the very essence of what it is to be an American. We are different. We have always been different. We have created with God's help and our sweat and pain and work and a little bit of luck something that never before has existed on the face of the earth: a nation where the vast majority of people are free from material want and free to worship and think in their own way. The immigrants I spoke of brought with them twin gifts: a gift of work and a gift of faith. What they produced through work was always there to be used for the charitable and brotherly works of faith.

	I'm reminded of a distinction once made by the famous English writer, C. S. Lewis. He was asked what is the difference between religion and magic. He replied that magic seeks to get everything it can out of God for man and religion tries to get everything it can out of man for God.

	Materialists see this world as a kind of God and try to get all they can out of it. But our philosophy has been different. We have tried to get all the good we can from this world because material goods serve the needs of millions of families who are thereby freed from hunger and poverty, freed to develop their own spiritual and intellectual gifts. That's not materialism. That's Americanism.

	All we have, all we have ever built, all the hopes and dreams we want to come to pass, all of this is dependent on education in freedom. This is the soil in which our progress has grown. This is the sweet air we breathe as we push back the material boundaries that have hemmed in other nations in other times.

	And so, a more basic answer to the question I asked--what is it that America really wants--is: to grow, to learn, to develop our talents in freedom. If we don't realize that freedom is the often unstated, but absolutely necessary fact of our lives as Americans, we have lost something. Freedom is the only truly essential possession Americans have. And education is freedom's guide.

	And so: two concepts, two ideas, two words seemingly fragile, often forgotten, are the foundation upon which all else is built: education and freedom. No nation of materialists or hedonists could ever believe that.

	Only those who have forgotten what education and freedom can do and who have lost hope fear the future. The rest of us should welcome the future and look to it not as a wasteland full of broken hopes but as a new promised land in which we and our children and their children can live and build and prosper and stand proud and free and serve the needs of the forgotten, the lonely, those starved both physically and spiritually.

	The 1980s can be, if we so will it, a decade of deliverance for America--deliverance from the hopelessness and the fears and the follies of the present, deliverance from the ideas of those who would rather have us sit and weep and count on our fingers instead of standing and working for our families, our nation, and the world.

	We should want to seize the future with both hands. If we all feel that way, the world will once again look on in awe, astonished by the miracles of education and freedom, amazed by a rebirth of confidence and hope and progress.

	But when it happens, we will say to the world, "Well, what did you expect? We are, after all, Americans."
EDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSRELIGION AND PHILOSOPHYTEACHING PROFESSION     1 0 0 0 0
 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	 v 	 d 	 * 	  e: