

	Thank you very much Councilman Troy, Mayor Lindsay, Abe Beam, who is just coming into the room, Congressman Rosenthal, Congressman Ed Dodge, Congressman Addabo, and my Queens Democratic friends. 

	I understand we don't have enough seats for everybody to sit down, but if you will give me your close attention for just a few minutes, there are some things that I very much want you to hear that bring me to Queens this afternoon. The first thing I want to say this afternoon is how grateful I am that more than fourteen months ago, right in this same place, Councilman Matt Troy, at a time when the public opinion polls showed me with 4 percent of the vote in my bid for the presidential nomination, came to this place and endorsed me as one of the powerful leaders in this great metropolitan area, and I think that is a tribute not only to his prophetic vision, but of course I think it is a tribute to his good judgment. And I also wish to acknowledge another man who endorsed my candidacy many months ago, and who is also with us here today, and he is the chairman of the McGovern-Shriver campaign in the state of New York, former mayor, Bob Wagner. Here he is right over here.

	We believe the last time I was in Queens was on Thursday afternoon about five-thirty or six o'clock. We stopped at one of the subway stations in Flushing, and the crowd was so exuberant and so enthusiastic that we never did get to the subway. But what the press focused on was a handful of people carrying Nixon signs and chanting "four more years." I just want to say that to these few people who are showing up at our rallies and swallowed up in thousands of Democrats who come to those rallies that we understand the loneliness of those people, we know that their candidate won't come out and meet with the people. We know that he refuses to debate. We know that he refuses to meet with the press, he refuses to talk to the voters, so if you have any last ditch Nixon friends who are still standing firm--tell them that we understand why they come to our rallies. This is as close as they are going to get to this presidential campaign. And we can also tell them when they wave their signs that we would much prefer that the Nixon campaign pay them to wave signs than we would to wiretap our national headquarters in Washington, D.C. 

	But this campaign is moving along very well indeed. I read an article in today's New York Times that is written by a journalist for whom I have a very high regard--and he happens to be a personal friend of mine--and I am sure that this article was written in good faith, and the title of it is "Come home, George McGovern." Now the thesis of the article is that somehow I have wandered away from the great principles on which I stood as a candidate for the nomination. Well I want to say to this journalist and to others who have written similar pieces in recent years that are advising me to come home is to get away from home long enough to hear and find out what the people of this country are saying and doing all across this land. The article says that I am disturbed that I am not getting across to the voters. Nothing could be further from the truth. In city after city after city I have spoken to the largest and most enthusiastic and most dedicated crowds that any presidential candidate has drawn this early in modern memory, and we feel that we come here this afternoon with some good news that we read not in the newspapers, that we read not in the public opinion polls, but that we have read on the faces of millions of people all over this country. And that good news is that we are going to win this election on November 7th. 

	But when I hear this cry coming from the opposition saying "four more years," my answer to that is "no more years." No more years of an unemployment rate that now has five or six million of our workers in this country walking the streets looking for jobs that are not there. No more years of that. I think we ought to commit ourselves as a party to do whatever is necessary, both by stimulating private industry and by direct public service employment to see to it that there is a decent job for every man and woman in this country who wants to work and that is priority number one.

	And secondly, no more years of government by the special interests. If there was ever an administration that was bought lock, stock and barrel by the selfish special interests of this country it is the Nixon-Agnew administration that we have had to put up with for the last four years, and we cannot stand another four more years of an administration that last year gave an $8-l/2 billion tax break to the big corporations at the same time they were freezing the income of the working people of this country. That we don't want. We can't stand four more years of the kind of special interests, under the table deals that characterize the recent Russian grain agreement, that characterize the dairy scandal, that characterize the ITT case, and all of these other arrangements that have gone on behind closed doors. And I want to say to our opposition that if they really want to come clean with the American people, let me ask them to reveal the names of the contributors who are on that $10 million secret slush fund that they are sitting on. We--the American people--not only have a right to know who is on the list, whose bankrolling the campaign of our opposition, they even have a right to know what kind of arrangements were made in return for that kind of special interest favoritism. So I repeat here, no more years of special interest government. Let's put government back in the hands of the ordinary people of this country.

	Two more points--no more years of wasting our substance on excessive, unneeded military waste at a time when our cities are in such desperate need of additional support from the United States government. I am not going to permit any cuts in the military defense of this country that in any way jeopardize our national security, but I don't want us to forget the warning that the late President Eisenhower gave us eleven years ago when he said that if the military takes more than it needs it actually weakens the country by depriving us of resources that we need to strengthen our health and our schools and our housing and those other things that make up the conditions of national security and national strength. 

	Now we need a powerful military force but we also need to remember that the great foundation of this nation is based on the health of our people and the quality of our lives and the unity of our homes and our neighborhoods and our communities. We have got to recognize in the decade of the 1970s that whatever the danger is from Hanoi, or Peking or Moscow, those dangers do not present as immediate a threat to the lives and well-being of our people as do the mounting problems of crime and drug addiction and joblessness and bad housing and pollution and all of those things that are making life almost unlivable here in our own society.

	Just this one final point. On October 9, 1968, when Mr. Nixon was asking for the votes of the American people, he said those who cannot restore peace in four years do not deserve another chance, and I say "Amen" to that. There is not one thing that we can accomplish in a way of a settlement of this war in 1972 that we couldn't have accomplished just as well four years ago when Mr. Nixon first came into office. And this is why my heart goes out to every family in this land who has lost a precious soldier in this senseless war which should have been ended when Mr. Nixon first came into office on a pledge to end it. As we meet here this afternoon we are still spending $250 million a week killing people and destroying the countryside and the villages of Southeast Asia. I say the time has come, without one more day of delay, for us to stop this waste, to stop this killing and then begin investing that $250 million a week in building up our cities, strengthening our housing, strengthening our transportation and doing those things that will put this country back on the path of peace and justice for all of our people.

	These are the things I have been saying since the very outset of the campaign when it was announced more than twenty months ago. I haven't left home in the sense of losing the principles on which I stand. I do call this country home to the great principles with which we started 200 years ago, and if we stand firm on those principles of reverence for liberty, reverence of life and the pursuit of happiness and the dignity of every American woman and child and man, black and white and brown, then once again America will become the kind of great and good land we want it to be. That is my hope and prayer for this country.
BUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALURBAN AFFAIRS/AIDVIETNAM WAR     e# 1# +# '# #
 # # 	# # " " " "	  	 k 	 H 	 1 	  	  e: