

	Judge Bard and my friends at Allentown: I always marvel a little when people will interrupt their luncheon hour to come out to such a meeting as this. I am deeply appreciative of your courtesy, and I am very grateful to you. I am also delighted to see here that there are some Muhlenberg College students who want Stevenson. It is a curious thing--we notice as we travel around the country that wherever you get into the vicinity of a university they seem to be very partial to the Democratic candidate. You know, out home we used to say that the country was solidly Republican until they built some schools. But I am very grateful to you for coming out here at this very inconvenient hour.

	There is important business before our nation. If you were to put those signs down, there wouldn't be so much--and if you could move the flags around to the other side--it has always been hard for me to understand why anybody would want to see me.

	There is very important business before our nation, and it encourages me that you are willing to give it this much attention. It encourages me, too, to realize that there are so many of you who seem to feel that it is important that the conduct of the nation's business continue in Democratic hands. One reason for this, I think, is that it has become so hard for us to tell what the Republican party is, and what it stands for. I think we only know one thing for certain, and that is what the Republicans are against--and they are against Democrats, and that's for sure. We also know where they stand on the matter of a new labor relations law. They stand precisely where they have stood for the past five years, and that is a familiar Republican position.

	When we look at the other major issues we find on one of them after another that we just don't know what the Republican position is. It reminded me of a story I heard of a man who came in and asked a judge for a divorce. He said, "My wife talks so much I just can't stand it any longer." The judge said, "Does she? Well, what does she say?" He said, "Well, judge, she just don't say."

	We don't know what their position is on the issue of civil rights, for example; whether what the Republican candidate really believes is what he says when he is in the South, or what he says when he is in the North. On foreign policy the issues are completely confused--and that may have been what they intended. We haven't the slightest idea whether, if he were president, the Republican candidate would take the position he took as General of the Army, or one of the several positions he has taken as a candidate for office, or the position of your Senator Martin, whom the candidate has endorsed for re-election. He seems to vote regularly with Senator Taft--I mean, Senator Martin seems to vote regularly with Senator Taft unless Senator Taft acts a little too liberal for him once in a while.

	As far as the Democratic program for the future is concerned, I think you know its substance in detail. It is a program upon which we have moved in 20 years from the depths of depression to a position of solid prosperity at home, and of leadership in the family of nations. We Americans have many blessings to count, but we are not just sitting back counting our blessings. We are looking ahead to the problems that we see before us, and they are many, and they demand our utmost attention. We have got to watch the problem of living costs and watch it more closely. A lot of loopholes have been bored in our cost-of-living laws. If we need control laws, then at least we must have good control laws. There is a major job of remodeling to be done on the labor relations law--everybody agrees that the Taft-Hartley law has a lot of bad spots in it. Replacing that act with a new one, designed to the common interests of labor, of management, and of the public is a first order of business. And there are some important improvements to be made in our social security act. We have got to try to find a sound system of price supports for perishable agricultural commodities.

	We've got to find a sound system of price supports for perishable agricultural commodities, and it is high time that we stop treating this question of eliminating racial segregation as a political football and work out a real equality program for all Americans, regardless of their race, their color or their creed.

	And most important of all, my friends, is our continued driving ahead towards the goal of peace on earth, peace without more war. We can count no gains really won until the Korean War is brought to a complete conclusion, that war which has been such a drain on our young manhood, on our patience and our pocketbooks.

	But that is only part of our obligation, both to our sons and to the nations of the free world who look to us for leadership--and to ourselves for that matter. We must press every effort to counteract and to neutralize and to turn back the poison forces of Communism which the men in the Kremlin seek to spread across the whole of our world.

	We believe with all of our hearts that we can make this nation strong, that we can keep good times, and if we can, we shall avoid war abroad, which would inevitably destroy the world and the civilization that we have created through two thousand years of Christian labor. It is towards this effort that we must direct our ceaseless energies, and it is towards this purpose that we have sought companions overseas to join us in this mighty battle for a safer, for a more secure world.

	All of you can help in this cause by voting in November for candidates who are dedicated with all of their hearts to purposes of a peaceful, a strong and a prosperous America. And if I should be given your trust in the great--the appalling responsibilities of the presidency, I shall need the help of some good solid Democrats of like mind in the Congress.

	Our Democratic cause is a just one; it is the people's cause and we know that, and I would invite your attention to the fact that you also have a great Pennsylvanian who knows it too, and that is Judge Guy Bard, our candidate for the United States Senate, to take the place of Senator Martin.

	And you have here in this district a candidate for Congress; his name is Wilson Stevenson, and I like that name; and what's more, I like Wilson Stevenson. I might be living in Washington next year and I could--I don't want to be too lonesome.

	You have been very good to come here. I am deeply grateful to all of you. I suspect that many of you have come here, not to see me, but to see some of the prize exhibitions that we have aboard this train. And I am going to take the liberty of, therefore, introducing to you the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards. And one of the organizations that has done the most to ensure the success of our campaign in this election year has been the Volunteers for Stevenson and Sparkman. And I am happy to say that we also have aboard the national co-chairman of the Volunteers, Mrs. Edison Dick of Chicago. And now, last of all, we have one of the great ladies of your state and of our nation, Mrs. Emma Guffey Miller, the sister of former Senator Guffey.

	You have been very good to come here. It touches me deeply to have had this very warm and cordial reception at this inconvenient hour. I hope and pray that this will not be my last visit to Allentown.

	I knew that you raised a lot of good things around here but I didn't know it included apples. I remember some of the football teams you raised around here.

	VOICE. Hey, Governor, shake hands with the common man.

	With the common man? You know I discovered a common man in Allentown; there are a lot of us.

	You've got a poem?

	You've also got a poet--a common man who doesn't want to be an elephant--at least you don't want a two-headed elephant that is moving backwards, do you?

	VOICE. You read that poem.

	I certainly shall, I am going to eat this apple too. Bye-bye.



COMMUNISMCOST OF LIVINGEQUAL OPPORTUNITYKOREAN WARORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL          
        	 J 	 A 	 3 	 " 	  e: