

	Thank you, Senator Stengel. After all, why wait eleven days to give you the title you'll have--and deserve--after November 6th? It's going to be a great day for Rock Island and for the state of Illinois when Senator Dick Stengel arrives in Washington next January. And I'm planning, with your help, to be there to welcome him.

	I've been doing, recently, a lot of traveling around the country, and a lot of talking. Today seems some way very different. It's a very good feeling to be among old neighbors. It's good to be home again in Illinois and in Rock Island that I know so well.

	Eight years ago today I was running for governor against a Republican administration that had lost the confidence of the people of Illinois--and for good reasons. And, you know, from what's been going on here in Illinois again under another Republican administration. I have a feeling as I stand here today that this is where I came in. I also have the feeling that this is where the Republicans go out--again--and for even better reasons.

	Those years as governor were the most fruitful and satisfying of my life. It's hard to believe that they could have torn down so fast and so shamelessly what the whole state took such a pride in--for it seemed to me we all felt that way about it--in building up. And yet I'm reminded of the old couplet--that what it takes the builders years to do, the wreckers can wreck in a day or two.

	I can only say that we served due notice four years ago. I came across the other day a speech I made during the 1952 state campaign. And because the present Republican candidate seems to have shown a special interest recently in history--which he rewrites with contempt for truth--I'm going to read a paragraph of that October 1952 speech.

	It notes that, after four years of Democratic rule, the job of giving Illinois decent government had been well started, but by no means ended. And then I said that the state government of Illinois could slip right back to where we found it in 1948, that the Republican candidates for governor represented the same misgovernment the people had voted against in 1948--"the same old crowd, using the same old methods and with the same old political designs in their hearts. They have no program or purpose--except to get back in office. Shamelessly careless with the truth, they count upon the voters having short memories, or being too preoccupied with other things to worry about who runs the government in Illinois."

	Well, it doesn't do any good to say "I told you so." There's just one cure for corruption and maladministration--in the good old American phrase "throw the rascals out." That's the cure we administered in 1948--and it's the cure we're going to administer again a week from next Tuesday.

	I think the most revealing headline I ever saw, even in the world's most cynical Republican newspaper, appeared on Chicago's newsstands October 9th. "Hodge" it said "insists all he stole was $600,000."

	If there is political advantage in spectacular decline in the reputation of the state government in Illinois under this Republican administration there is very little comfort in it to one who loves Illinois, whose family have lived here more than a century, who has shared its public life, to hear jokes and ridicule about Illinois everywhere I go. And everywhere people always ask just one question--and it's the key question: "Could anything like that happen," they want to know, "without a lot of other people knowing about it?"

	I think I'm qualified to answer that question--qualified by four years' service as governor of the state, and the answer to that question is no.

	The blunt facts are that this is only one example of a general deterioration throughout the length and breadth of Illinois government that no chief executive could possibly ignore or not know about.

	We have the spectacle of the Republican Superintendent of Public Instruction--a man who occupies a critical post in discharging our state's responsibility to our children--under indictment for trafficking in the funds which the federal government makes available for the school lunch program.

	Even a Republican legislature found it necessary to intervene and to investigate the handling of the toll roads under the Stratton Administration.

	It is evidently common knowledge in the insurance business around the country that, if you do business with the Department of Insurance in Illinois, you better do it through a particular channel.

	Once again politics, patronage, and profit have displaced public service at the heart of government in Illinois. Another newspaper in Chicago summed it up in another headline last week: "Governor Stratton should be defeated." 

	If the present Republican State Administration here is representative of the "New Republican party" we hear so much about, then I think most of us look wistfully back forty years and wish for the "old" Republican party under Frank O. Lowden.

	I think it's interesting that so little notice has been taken, in the public press, of the relationships of the leaders of Illinois Republican with their party leaders in Washington. We have learned in Washington. We have heard almost nothing of how Orville Hodge entertained Leonard Hall, chairman of the Republican National Committee, in his Florida hotel and made heavy contributions--I wonder whose money it was--to the Republican party war chest. Has anyone suggested that this money be repaid to the Illinois taxpayers? On top of all this, I understand that President Eisenhower wrote Mr. Hodge a personal thank-you note for his services to the party.

	I wonder what the press of the country would say if it had been a Democratic National Chairman who took his holiday ease at the expense of a crooked Democratic state auditor.

	But for that matter, there was little comment when this national Republican administration gave President Eisenhower's close friend, the Secretary of the Air Force, a medal after Congress and the press had caught him using the influence of his office to get business for his own company.

	And it is this same Mr. Leonard Hall who is today refusing to testify before a congressional committee about the serious charge that large government contracts were given out only to Republicans and upon the Republican National Chairman's approval.

	And it was this administration that tried to brazen through the infamous Dixon-Yates Deal--the deal which, after the Democrats showed it up, even the Republican Department of Justice confesses was illegal from the start and "contrary to public policy."

	I get pretty disgusted, frankly, with the mantle of self-righteousness that the Republican candidates wrap around themselves in this campaign.

	We need decent government in Springfield--government which is strong, competent, and incorruptible. And you know from two experiences in less than a decade, and the most spectacular advertising Illinois has had for a long time, that you are not going to get that kind of government from the present Republican leadership in Illinois.

	Well, I can assure you that we will get this kind of government from our splendid Democratic candidate for governor, Richard Austin. I knew Dick Austin when he was a fighting state's attorney in Chicago. I knew him when, as special prosecutor, he cleaned up the mess of the Moretti case. He is a good man to clean up a mess. And we never needed a man with those qualifications worse in Springfield.

	And now I'd like to talk with you in the few minutes we have left together about some matters of national concern. Here, too, men... as well as [missing text] are basically important.

	We here in Illinois have the opportunity this year to select a new Senator. And what an opportunity this is. Of the present holder of this office, the Republican candidate, I have little to say except that his convictions, in so far as they can be discerned, are flexible. The record shows that he has taken a firm stand on both sides of virtually every public question.

	I turn eagerly to the other side of this choice. I suppose there isn't very much I can tell his fellow townsmen about this man. And yet perhaps there is, too, for I knew him when I was governor and he was representing you in Springfield. I'm sure that he never cast a vote that he didn't think was right, and in the interest of the people. And that will be just as true of his voting record in the United States Senate as it was in the Illinois House.

	We have a great many fine young Democratic leaders throughout this country. I believe I know most of them. I know none more promising than our candidate for the Senate here in Illinois, a fine human being and a vigorous and effective fighter for what is right--your own Dick Stengel.

	You will be proud--and I, as a citizen of Illinois, will be proud with you--to have Dick Austin in Springfield and Dick Stengel in Washington. With such men as these, the Democratic party can help bring a new atmosphere to America--an atmosphere of decency and integrity, of devotion to the people and devotion to principle.

	And we can start getting things done again, start meeting the problems that we've been putting off for four years now, problems we have too often recently been refusing even to face.

	I spoke last night in Springfield about one of these problems. It was Farm Day there, and we discussed the serious failures of the present administration's agricultural program so far as the America farmer is concerned.

	But this isn't just a farm problem--as you here in the Quad-Cities know so well.

	But this isn't just a farm problem--as you here in the country know so well. 

	One of the worst things the administration has done is to try to cover up its own farm policy failures by setting city people against farmers and farmers against city people.

	They tell city people that farmers are really living high on the hog and that a strong farm program means higher food costs. And they tell farmers that the workingman drives around in a Cadillac, and that because of the wages the farmer must pay higher prices for what he buys.

	They do this because they know that, so long as they can keep labor, the working people in the city, from joining forces with the farmers, the working people in the country, then they can harvest votes from the resentment of each for the other and keep in office--and keep their special clients, and special interest, in the driver's seat.

	But I believe the American people are catching on; I don't believe they will fall for this one again. They know that prosperity in the country and prosperity in the city are interdependent, that bad times on the farms will spread all too quickly to the cities. It happened that way twenty-five years ago, when the Republicans were last in power, and it is happening the same way today.

	And nobody knows this better than you folks here in Rock Island and Moline.

	There is no point in my repeating here the sorry facts you know so well about what has happened to employment in the farm equipment industry here since misfortune struck the farms. I learned last night, coming in on the plane with Dick Stengel, of the plants that are closed now, and of the ten to twelve thousand people here who are today out of work. Unfortunately, there are today all too many areas in which this same situation exists. In the last four years, in the farm equipment industry alone, over 30,000 jobs have simply evaporated under the sun of Republican prosperity.

	Farmers, city workers, businessmen are all in the same boat. When the farmer can't buy a tractor, the implement dealer on the edge of town closes down. Fourteen farm machinery dealers have folded up in one Illinois county alone this year. When that happens, jobs dry up in the farm equipment factories.

	And what happens isn't just statistics, and what it means doesn't show up in all this fancy Republican bookkeeping about the gross national product and all that. What it means is that bills can't be paid. It isn't just that you can't buy a new car; you can't even make the payments on the old one. And it's beginning to hit the construction industry now, and there are a lot of other ugly, ominous things written in stark, human terms.

	But you know how our Republican friends love statistics and figures; if one big man has an income of $50,000 and you have nothing, well, then, the average income of the two of you is $25,000. And isn't that fine.

	I know of efforts you are making to meet these problems, the Agricultural Implement Task Force Committee, which met here in Rock Island last July, combined the best efforts of farm leaders, labor leaders, and the mayors of the cities that have been hard hit.

	The basic problem, of course, is the collapse of farm income. When this Republican administration was elected, the party ratio of basic farm crops stood at 98 percent. Today it is 82 percent. Farm income totaled $15.1 billion in 1952. Today it totals $11.6 billion--down $3 and 1/2 billion. For every $4 the farmers received four years ago, he receives $3 now. The average Illinois dairy farmer and his family earned $6-7000 a year in 1953. Last year the figure had dropped to $3,600--only a little more than half as much.

	The net income of Illinois farms was $784 million in 1952. Last year it was $458 million, down over 40 percent. Those are the facts. There are more. But these are enough to show what has been happening to the farmer.

	And in southern Illinois whole communities have now become what are called "depressed areas," victims not only of the farm depression but of depleted coal mines and other industrial changes. There are all too many other such counties across the country--and I've seen them in West Virginia, in Pennsylvania, in New England, and in other states.

	Yet President Eisenhower said the other day that "over the nation the prosperity we are sharing today is at a new height, a new level, even for the United States." He said that the outlook for the farmer "is much better than it's been in the last ten years." He talked about the happiness of people's faces and said: "I haven't seen so much happiness in a long time."

	I wonder whose faces he looks at. Men who used to have jobs in a farm equipment factory? Housewives who are paying the highest prices in history? Teachers in overcrowded classrooms? I'll bet its the faces of his cabinet, or, perhaps, the Board of Directors of General Motors.

	But it isn't a question of smiles on peoples' faces. Sure, most of us smile. Yes, and most of us are pretty well off, too. But we're talking about the business of government--and one of the questions is what we mean to do about some pretty serious situations that make it mighty hard for some people to smile--for reasons that aren't their fault.

	We Democrats just don't propose to stand by while people suffer in the distressed areas, any more than we propose to stand by while people suffer on the farms. We have a program for the distressed areas, just as we have for the farms. I am proud that a bill calling for an emergency measure to help out these areas was introduced into the last Session of Congress by our own great Illinois senator, Paul Douglas.

	And you can guess what happened to that bill. The Democrats got it through the Senate despite bitter Republican opposition. Then the Republicans succeeded in killing it in the House.

	I wish there were time to talk about some of the other specific issues like this that we face here in America today, even in these comparatively prosperous times. And yet I suspect that the really basic issues in this 1956 election are of a much broader kind.

	We are entering a new age; a new age requires new ideas and new men. It calls for a young party, a party of life and hope, which holds human beings in affection and respect. A party and an administration marked by frigidity of feeling and rigidity of thought cannot hope to guide our nation safely through the turbulent and revolutionary times of the mid-twentieth century.

	Our difficulties and dangers in the world are multiplying every minute--as at Suez--and also our opportunities--as in Poland and Hungary. And so it is here at home. On the on hand, our deficiencies become more apparent--in education, health, housing, Social Security, equal opportunities, etc--and nothing or next to nothing is done. And on the other hand, thanks to our natural blessings and to great technological revolutions of this age, the means are now at hand as never before to give men, all men, an abundance and fullness of life beyond our dream.

	Not just to hold the line, but to meet difficulties, to seize opportunities, for the benefit of all, the people turned the Congress back to the Democratic party in 1954. And that is why they will turn the executive branch back to the Democratic party in 1956.

	It is not to stubbornly insist, as Eisenhower does, that our security lies in the deterrent effect of our lead in nuclear weapons. This is what we were saying ten years ago about our lead in the earlier atomic bombs. And to our surprise the Russians caught up within no time. And they'll do it again in the hydrogen field. Maybe they have already.

	What does Mr. Eisenhower propose then? That we go ahead with the development of the cobalt bomb to try to gain another advantage? A force that can shake the earth's axis.

	But this is madness--this policy of trying to preserve peace by a preponderance of terror. And what is it going to do to mankind in the process--bone cancer, deformed children, sterility. Yesterday four scientists said that in certain areas of the world the radiation hazard has already passed the danger point.

	No, I say the way to peace is not through fear and ever more horrible weapons--it is through faith and confidence and raising standards of living among the have-nots--the millions of people who tremble on the sidelines of this mad arms race in helpless terror and expanding hunger.

	Just because this administration has not been able to make any progress toward safe disarmament or even toward controlling H-bomb development, does not mean that such agreements are forever impossible. No matter which party wins in November, another supreme effort must be undertaken, and if that fails, then another and another--for leaders must lead, else the people perish.

	I say there is yet much to be done. Great work lies ahead. I believe with all my heart and soul that this nation is about to enter a richer age than man has ever known. The question is: shall we use our riches for all the people, or just for some of them? And, can we master the new machines, or must we serve them? And, can we put the atom to our peaceful use, or will it destroy us?

	These are great questions, they require great answers, and those answers can come only from the strength and wisdom of you, the American people. And they will not be drawn forth by leadership that fails [missing text]
AGRICULTURE--GENERALECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSILLINOISMANUFACTURING--PLANT CLOSINGSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)     RK K K K K
 J J J J J J J J	  	  	 q 	 T 	 L 	 / e: