

	I am delighted to be in Kansas City. You grow a lot of good Democrats around here. And your blue-ribbon winner comes from Independence.

	Harry Truman is certainly a man of independence. I think that's the thing I like about him most. In your Missouri language, he won't take anything off anybody. No one knows this better than Joe Stalin. And every Missourian can be proud of the fact that a man from Independence, through a series of heroic and historic decisions, has rallied the free peoples against the mortal threat of Communism and Russian imperialism.

	This is a campaign of great importance, of course. Presidential campaigns always are, especially to the contestants and to the political parties. This one is more important, both nationally and internationally, than most; perhaps I could say than any, in view of the sharp differences in the choice of directions at home and abroad which it presents and which are becoming more and more apparent. And by "important" I mean not just to General Eisenhower and myself as the party politicians, but to people generally whose votes we seek and whose interests we say we will represent.

	You have had seven years of a man from Independence; and now it is proposed--by some--that you turn over the government to a man from Abilene. That might not have been such a bad idea, if the man of Abilene had been, in his way, a man of independence. I know that many Americans thought and hoped he would be. They have been sadly disillusioned.

	The General of the Army has said that party leadership depends on the principle of compromise. There is a good deal to that, of course. But a skilled party leader knows that the fatal mistake is to begin on your principles of compromise--and to end by compromising your principles.

	That famous meeting in New York of Senator Taft and the General--when the Great Crusade became the Great Surrender--reminds me of the old limerick:

	There was a young lady from Niger
	Who smiled as she rode on a tiger
	They came back from the ride
	With the lady inside
	And the smile on the face of the tiger.

	This gloomy recital explains, I think, the curious evolution of the Republican campaign. For a moment, back in August, the Republican leadership had a sheen of liberalism, of progressivism, of--if I may coin the word--forward-lookingness. But the sheen has all rubbed off. And once again those old, familiar features are visible--the Republican Old Guard, which throughout our lifetime has opposed every measure of social progress at home and every measure of international responsibility abroad.

	All this has imposed a burden on the General. In Michigan the other day he claimed to be a Vandenberg Republican--a claim which would have been more impressive if he had not been backing for the Senate in Michigan a man who opposes those basic elements of our foreign policy which Senator Vandenberg worked so hard to advance.

	Then in Ohio the General of the Army became a Bricker Republican--in Illinois a Dirksen Republican--and in Wisconsin he barnstormed around the state with, of all people, Senator Joseph McCarthy, the defamer of his friend and benefactor, General Marshall. It is no wonder that the Chicago Tribune, which a few weeks ago was disowning the General as a New Dealer in disguise, recently wrote an appreciative editorial entitled, with grateful enthusiasm, "The New Eisenhower."

	It may be a new Eisenhower--but, behind him, it is certainly the same old Taft.

	The General of the Army has not spoken out on many of the great issues before the American people. Perhaps, as a General, he thinks he should confine his remarks to generalities. Well, I can tell you that, as a civilian, I have no intention of confining my remarks to civilities.

	When he came recently to Kansas City, for example, the General--the honorary Republican candidate for president--talked about corruption. I've talked about that quite a bit myself, and I've had the satisfaction of doing something about it in Illinois, too. But I'm not going to talk about it here today or dedicate my remarks to an assault on larceny in Republican administrations after the First World War and after the Civil War, situations that were corrected by succeeding Republican presidents, be it said to their credit.

	I have said, again and again, that dishonesty in public office is treason to the public trust, and that it deserves prompt and ruthless punishment. I have also repeated what a great Republican, Charles Evans Hughes, said at the time of the ugly disclosures of grand larceny and petty larceny in the Harding administration, that guilt is personal and knows no party.

	But today I want to talk about some real issues between us--some things we don't agree upon.

	On price supports for agriculture Senator Taft has said, with his usual disarming candor, that he is against firm price supports at 90 percent of parity and favors, instead, a sliding scale. And now the senator has let it be known that the General really favors flexible price supports, too, although at Kasson, Minnesota, a month ago, where the General came closest to taking a position on something, he plowed under the Republican platform and tried to jump on ours.

	Or, take Taft-Hartley, for example. I don't need to tell you where the senator from Ohio stands. And if we are sincerely hoping to find the legislative key to orderly industrial relations in this country, I don't believe you want him to write the labor legislation for the next four years in Washington, whether you are a union man or an employer.

	Let's take the matter of floods for a moment. Senator Taft on flood control is like Senator Taft on inflation or depression or war or foreign policy or defense or anything else. If calamities are fated to happen, he says, let them happen--and nothing can be done about it, especially if it costs money. The old Moslems, when things went wrong, used to say "kismet"--which means "it is fated." The Old Guard might be called the Kismet party--the do-nothing, care-nothing, know-nothing party, which either believes that we can't do anything about our troubles--or does it an hour, a dollar, an idea too late.

	We Democrats have always opposed the Kismet theory. We believe that man, through his own energy and strength, can shape his future. We believe that government can serve the people and contribute to human progress. I am no fan of government spending myself, as anyone can tell you who has gone through the catalogue of appropriation bills I have vetoed in Illinois, passed by a Republican legislature. But I do know, from my experience as an administrator, how often a dollar spent in time will save a thousand dollars later. There are various ways to balance a budget. And one way you can't balance a budget safely is with human misery or failures that demand larger spending later.

	We don't have to lie down before this flood problem and let the waters overpower us--we can do a number of things to fight floods. We learned this in 1933, when we elected a president who believed that the American people could master its own future. You know who I mean--Franklin Roosevelt.

	With President Roosevelt there came a whole new approach to soil conservation and flood control. One part of that approach, for example, is watershed development. If you drive west from here across the plain rising to the rolling hills, you will see, on many a sidehill, the bald white spots that mean the land is gone. You can see farmers driving their wells ever deeper to reach the falling water table. The problem here in Missouri is to keep the water on the land in the northern part of the state and keep the water off the land in the southern part.

	It is obvious that conservation methods can accomplish the most on the upper parts of a watershed--in upland fields and pastures, along the headwaters. Runoff waters can be handled if they are caught by little upstream dams that cost but a fraction of the great downstream works. Water that sinks into the ground in the uplands raises the water table, fills the wells and holds the soil. And this is a job both for the individual farmers and for all levels of government--federal, state and county.

	You know as well as I do that the only party in our time which has had a creative approach to conservation--or even a genuine interest in it--is the Democratic party. The other day, the General, speaking in the northwest, had to go all the way back half a century to Theodore Roosevelt to find a Republican who was a fighting conservationist. And you all know what the Republican party did to Teddy Roosevelt. It kicked him out in 1912.
	
	If you want to have good soil conservation and good flood control, the Republican party is about the last place to look for it. Sending the Old Guard to stop floods would be like sending Typhoid Annie to stop a typhoid epidemic.
	
	The General has been groping hard for an issue. A few weeks back, he thought he had one when he accused the Democratic candidate of having a sense of humor. But the American people laughed this one out of court, and the General dropped it like a red hot poker.

	Now he is trying to attack our good times. He says that our prosperity today is a fake. I guess he means, "Don't pay any attention to your new house, your new car, your new television set--they really aren't there at all. And you should be ashamed to own these because we have war, defense, prosperity, civilian production and Democrats all at the same time--and such a thing contradicts our political rule book."

	If he thinks our prosperity is just a figment of our imaginations, I would undertake to educate him a bit--or, as he would say in the Army, to give him a briefing. In the last twenty years the total annual output of the United States--food and steel, automobiles and radio sets, of all goods and services--has more than doubled.

	We have all shared in this boom--businessmen, farmers, workers, and the consumer. Not every citizen has shared fairly. And many of us today are deeply and properly worried about family budgets. But, for all this, the country has been transformed in the last twenty years. Measured in the real, solid things of life, we are all far, far better off. Just ask yourself the question: Were you better off twenty years ago, or are you better off now?

	The Republicans lament the fate of the hard dollar. By this, they mean that old 1932 dollar which was called hard because it was so hard--to get. I ask you: Which would you rather have today--that empty Republican wallet you had back in 1932 or that pocketful of Democratic dollars you have today?

	There is a very real danger that continued inflation might dissipate your earnings. And it is the Democratic party which has led the fight to hold prices down. It is the Old Guard of the Republican party--not a corporal's guard any longer, but now a General's guard--which has been the best friend inflation has had in the land.

	Recently the General has made another attack on our prosperity. This time he says that it is real, all right, but that it is based on war--that, without rearmament, our good times would disappear. That is a familiar argument these days. And do you know where you will hear it most often?--outside the Republican National Committee, of course, The answer to that is on the Communist radio in Moscow.

	I don't seriously suggest that Arthur Summerfield, the Republican national chairman, is a Communist. We can leave that kind of talk to the Republican campaigners, who think carelessness with accusations and innuendoes of disloyalty pay off in votes. But I do regret the fact that the Republican leadership should feed the evil nonsense spewed out by the Communist propagandists.

	The truth is that our defense effort is, in a sense, holding back prosperity. If we did not have to arm ourselves, we could channel all our energies into peacetime production. If we could solve the problem of war and peace--that overshadowing problem of this era of history--our other problems would be small indeed--and our federal budget and therefore our taxes would be a fraction of what they are.

	Of course, a depression is possible. If you want one, I know just the boys who could produce it for you. Once the laissez-faire Kismet boys start swinging away at the economic defenses we have enacted, once they start knocking out--prop by prop--the measures by which we have brought sense and responsibility into our economic system, then anything could happen.

	These do-nothing, care-nothing, know-nothing people who still think Adam Smith is the economic prophet have no constructive approach to our economic problems. In fact, they don't approach, they ignore. During a period of inflation, all they seem to want--like Senator Capehart--is more inflation. During a period of deflation, all they seem to want--as we can all remember from 1932--is more deflation. To entrust our economic security to these joy-riders is like starting an ocean voyage by throwing away the rudder and the steering wheel.

	The answer is that we can avoid a depression--if we keep in public office the men who have fought for economic sanity and stability. If we put in the weary old disciples of boom and bust, what will happen? Well, I for one would rather not take a chance on their confirming the Soviet doctrine that capitalism will destroy itself.

	Right now--today--the people need better roads, more flood protection, more hospitals, more schools, more housing, more cheap electric power, more soil conservation--more and more of a hundred and one things. How much we can spend and when for any of these things is something that only the primary demands of defense, of war and peace, of fiscal responsibility from year to year, can answer. But on this basic question the question of party philosophy is clear. Democrats are not afraid to invest in America's future. The Democratic party made that investment in Franklin Roosevelt's time--and built an America strong enough to survive the most terrible depression and the most terrible war in human history--and to come out richer and more productive than ever.

	But then the Democratic party has always been the party of faith--of faith in ourselves and in our democracy. And the Republican party has always been the party of fear--the party which has moaned and groaned and griped and growled at every audacious new adventure in our audacious and adventurous history.

	When the General of the Army spoke in Kansas City, he said something which troubled me very much. He said, "Between the Democrat and the Republican parties, there are deep differences. They are irreconcilable differences."

	I would hope that no differences in our great democracy become irreconcilable--because irreconcilable differences lead only to one thing, and that is bitterness and division when unity and strength are the goal. Irreconcilable difference led to the Civil War. And we don't want nor could we afford civil war, bloodless civil war, between our points of view and basic objectives in this country. I have not given up hope of solving our problems through the old democratic ways of discussion and compromise.

	To make discussion and compromise effective, we need the best Congress we can get. As president, I plan to work as closely as I can with the Congress; and I want the most creative and responsible minds in our country there to work with me, to help me, to teach me, if you please, because I have a lot to learn.

	That is why I am so delighted that the people of Missouri are going to send to Washington Stuart Symington. Few people are so qualified by experience and knowledge to serve the people. And you have here in Kansas City, Missouri, two first-class congressmen, Dick Bolling and Leonard Irving. And over in Kansas City, Kansas, you have another fine young Democrat, Claude Rice.

	I want them all beside me for the next four years. And, to get them there, I want you all to register as soon as you can and to vote on election day.

	We are living in stormy times. The rocks and shoals of inflation, depression and war lie ahead. It will require expert helmsmanship to bring the craft through these hazards into the serene and sunny sea beyond.

	Let us now with good heart and high hope and steadfastness of will go forward with our great purpose--to build a strong America, a peaceful world, and a shining future for ourselves and our children.
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSDISASTER RELIEF--GENERALECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSINFLATIONORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALWATER RESOURCES     A A A A A
 A A A A A A "A A	  	  	  	 j 	 M 	 0 	 ' 	  e: