

	Fellow citizens, I think I should like first to address one single word to the many college students present.  On the way in, coming into town just a minute ago, I was called back to what we call the VIP car, and there I was presented with a college-size dictionary.  Well, I didn't know what the hint was, although I, myself, used one big word this morning and I thought maybe they were getting fearful of it.  But when I come to this meeting, I find a new word, "Eisencrat."  So I am sure that is the reason for this dictionary.  I want to tell you I had another enjoyable experience.  I met the fine-looking young man who is your candidate for Congress.  I hope that you send him there.  He strikes me as the kind of man we are going to need in this crusade during the next four years.  

	The first point I want to make with you people is that this crusade in which we are engaged is not merely to win an election.  Winning an election, just that, would be a mere contest.  We are talking about the good of America.  Now, all you servicemen and ex-servicemen in this crowd will understand what I mean when I say November fourth is merely getting a line of departure, and we are going from there.  When I say going from there, I am going to tell you something about what has not been done and then try to put in as few words as possible my idea of a constructive program.  Then you will understand when I say that we need, in positions of leadership in Washington, such men as your senators Saltonstall and Cabot Lodge.  

	We are going to need that fine combination of experience that goes along with energy, wisdom, determination and real purpose and dedication.  You know, you mustn't mistake too often experience for endurance.  Once there was a colonel who thought he ought to be promoted.  He complained bitterly to the commander because he wasn't promoted.  The commander said, "And what do you base your claims on?"  He said, "Why, thirty years' experience as a commander of infantry in your army."  The commander looked around and he saw a mule over there, one of these mules that carry a field artillery piece, a mountain battery piece.  He said, "Do you see that mule over there?  To my certain knowledge he has been in that battery for twenty-four years.  But the point is, he is still a mule."  So you know, experience and endurance mustn't be confused.  

	You have two men of experience.  They know how to combat Communism and they know how to carry forward constructive programs.  Senator Lodge has a program--already approved in the law, although not used--for surveying this great New England area for all its natural resources, to see what we might do to go along with the changing economics of the time, the changing industries, so that we can be prepared in advance.  Now, what I want to show you is that we have not had wise and forward-looking leadership.  We have had leadership, first of all, that has made no progress toward peace.  Think of all the hope that was in our hearts seven years ago.  Those of you who have served in Korea or have served in uniform here at home, young men and women, came back to your homes with great joy.  We were all rushing to get out of the service.  We thought the dawn of peace had come.  We were going to live in prosperity with our loved ones, raise our own families, have a wonderful time.  What has happened?  We had to rush in on an emergency basis into Greece and Turkey--and of course, we had to do it.  We had the Berlin airlift where the courage of our airmen kept us from being completely humiliated.  Then we lost China.  Now we have a war in Korea.  

	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that all of these things could have been prevented.  We have abroad in the world a Godless dictatorship that is intent, by its own words, on destroying our form of government.  You cannot be victorious all the way along the line all the time against such a threat, particularly when it has the power that it has.  But the record is there and it is not an enviable one and we have got to do better.  That means a fresh start.  It means that we have to have a start under a government that can command your respect.  You have got to take pride in your government or, ladies and gentlemen, you are not going to move toward peace.  That is for this reason:  the only thing that can lead the world toward peace today is a strong United States of America.  When I say strong,I mean strong spiritually, morally, intellectually, scientifically, productively, and finally,we have to have a certain amount of wisely constructed military forces.  They have to be so constructed as not to wreck our economy,but to be adequate to the purpose.  That is the kind of balanced strength we must have.  All through that strength there must be the certainty that we are a unit in supporting the program.  If we are not, if we are divided among ourselves because of our lack of pride in our leadership, our lack of confidence, we cannot realize the strength we need and therefore, there will be no peace.  Others will try to take advantage of us; others will not afford to our words the weight that they must have in international counsel.  Along with that program, we must have the kind of thing going on here at home that keeps us solvent and sound, because that is part of our strength.  

	An economic collapse, financial disaster here at home, would be the greatest victory that the Kremlin could seek.  In fact, both Lenin and Stalin have said, "We shall force the United States to spend itself to destruction."  So we must achieve this balance, and that balance is going to be achieved only if you people--all of you and your counterparts throughout this nation--believe essentially in your government; if you have pride in it and believe in the broad objectives that it states for us.  Let us take a look.  We have a government that has seen subversion come into places of government and it has said, "Red Herring!"  It has had evidence piled up of crookedness in various spots of government--actual plain, monetary thievery--and it has said, "Oh, they are just trying to discredit the Democrat party."  

	Ladies and gentlemen, it isn't that certain crime has crept into important places once in a while.  It is the complacence, the arrogance, the complete indifference with which that has been viewed from high places in government.  How are you going to have pride, how are you going to have respect for a government that looks at things that way?  How are you going to have pride in a government that forgets those old-fashioned but still meaningful words--and I don't need the dictionary here--of frugality and thrift and economy, particularly with your money?  Again, I am far from standing here, ladies and gentlemen, to say that we can have perfection in things human.  Of course we can't.  But we can have this much perfection, that we can strive our utmost and we can discover errors when they occur and then we can frankly admit them and strive to correct them.  

	It is absolutely senseless for us to continue this long after the war to be getting two bases for the price of five; to be buying twenty-thousand chairs and say, "But we only paid ten dollars more than the normal market price for each one."  That is not the kind of government that is going to excite our pride and bring you together.  Now, I have told in a negative way something of what this crusade is about.  We must do better than that.  You have seen your money frittered away in its purchasing power.  We talk about greater take-home pay.  What you want is greater take-home pay that will take more things back from the grocery store when you go there.  So all along the line, I give these lists of failures and along with it the knowledge that there has been subversion and crookedness without the most earnest and diligent attempts to dig it out--and we rather hang our heads in shame.  We feel let down, and we have been.  And now this crusade.  It comes and says, first, what is government?   

	Government is the finest men and women that this country affords to fulfill the responsibilities laid down in our particular type of governmental organization to carry out the responsibilities of political leadership in the federal and state and municipal governments.  A government too long in power has gotten careless about this matter.  It has allowed little twenty-two-caliber men to fill forty-five-caliber jobs.  Because it has done that, we have not had the kind of leadership that--by its combined brains, its combined dedication, its combined determination--can lead us toward peace and at home make certain that we go toward peace and that each step in that program will be accompanied by a gradual and comparable shift from an economy based on war an preparation for war or against war, to a peacetime prosperity and one that guarantees full employment, one that is not dependent upon making tanks and rifles, necessarily but makes the radar and jets of peace rather than merely the radar and jets of war.  And all the plastics and precision instruments such as you people make, and your other products--the world demands them.  We haven't got a tenth enough, even in our own country.  And think what the world needs.  And this wise kind of leadership will promote the proper kind of trade abroad so that we get the tungsten and the uranium and the manganese, the tin and all the rest of the things that our industry needs, the cobalt, the platinum--things we don't have--and in turn it will take our surpluses. So all the world will prosper and this peace, therefore, because of our own kind of economy here at home will get another step forward.  Because people everywhere will lose the urge to tend toward Communism or other false promises, because they will begin to prosper.  They will begin to live better.  And we will live better.  

	That is the kind of program that we should look forward to.  Why should we be singing "Don't Let Them Take it Away?"  America isn't halfway to where it is going.  That is what we must remember.  Along with that, confronted with this kind of a program, and you can see a program based upon an expanding economy, a full economy, is one that the poor old worn-out administration--with its miserable record for the past 2 years since the war cannot match.  They have had to resort to fear.  They have tried to sell you a program of fear.  They fear, for example--I see some of my old pals of the services down here--they fear I am going to cut their pay.  Now, they just don't fear any such thing.  They just fear they are going to lose their jobs.  But they add a lot of other fears to that:  that the people associated with me would like to see a depression.  The people that are dedicated to the United States would like to see a depression, would like to see bread lines?  On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, everybody in this crusade is dedicated to the complete rightful use of the federal government, the state government, the municipal government, cooperating with free enterprise to foresee and prevent the arising of any future depression rather than waiting around to try to cure it after it has spread destruction and deprivation in its path.  They know that.  But still they fear, "Oh yes, but these people would take away all of your social security benefits."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, social security programs are just as much a part of a modern economy as is a machine or an automobile instead of a hand grinder and a horse and a mule.  Of course, they are.  Because why?  In this modern economy, this modern industry with its great concentrations of workmen and of factories in particular spots where there are favorable locations for them, we have people who can't possibly help being thrown out of a job once in a while as adjustments come along.  We know that.  So, of course, there have to be social security programs, including this insurance for old age and unemployment insurance, insurance for dependent mothers and children and so on.  

	The point is, we are saying we are not only going to expand it and improve the systems, but we are going to make certain that it retains some value.  We are not going to allow your social security systems to be ruined by this continued inflation.  We are going to make certain that when you take twenty dollars to market to buy the groceries, that it gets twenty dollars worth of groceries as of your present value and that you don't have to take forty dollars to get that amount.  All the way along the line they spread this.  Now, when they can't find any more things they think they can sell to people about the program, then they begin to sell it about individuals.  They tried to sell some about me and fortunately I had some wonderful friends who stepped right into the breach and said, " Well, this just isn't so."  And I think the United States will believe such friends as Cardinal Spellman and Bernie Baruch and Rabbi Silver before they will believe a lot of other people.  Now, I just haven't got time to answer those things very much, people.  I am too busy going out and trying to find out what America thinks and not what a few politicians think.  So the only answer I intend to make to those people is to let you answer it on November 4.  

	Thank you very much. 
ECONOMY--DEPRESSIONECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTESOCIAL SECURITY     5 4 4 4 4
 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4	 l 	 Y 	 < 	  	  e: