

	Yesterday, in Philadelphia, I spoke of the need to restore respect for American leadership in a changing world.

	I spoke about the need to confront new challenges--the new challenges of tough international economic competition, terrorism, and drugs.  And that's not all.  Western Europe is headed for full economic integration in 1992.  Mexico, our neighbor to the south, faces new threats to its economic and political stability that we ignore at our peril.  Strong international efforts are proceeding to end the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, the South African occupation of Namibia, and long, brutal wars in trouble spots around the world.

	But nowhere have the prospects for change been more dramatic; and nowhere are the challenges of change more complex than in our relationship with the Soviet Union.

	It was more than 150 years ago that de Tocqueville foresaw a world dominated by two great and very different continental powers.

	"The conquests of the United States," he said would "be gained by the plowshare; those of the Russians by the sword ... the principle instrument of the former is freedom; of the latter servitude.  Their starting point is different and their courses are not the same; yet each of them seems marked out by the will of Heaven to sway the destinies of half the globe."

	History has done well by de Tocqueville, but even he did not foresee the day when two nuclear superpowers would face each other across the globe; the day when the relationship between the U.S. and Russia would determine not just the kind of future we will have on this planet, but whether we will have a future at all.

	As de Tocqueville predicted, the Soviet Union has often pursued its goals down through the years, not with plowshares, but with swords; respecting the rights neither of other nations, nor of its own people.  The symbols of tragedy and betrayal echo through the decades like the tolling of funeral bells: Berlin.  Hungary.  Prague.  Afghanistan.  Poland.  The Gulag.  And Sakharovs and Sharanskys and Solzhenitsyns by the tens of thousands.

	We have fundamental differences with the Soviet Union.  Differences of culture.  Of history.  Of interests.  And of values.  And these cannot be overlooked even as we think about Ronald Reagan and Mr. Gorbachev walking arm in arm through Red Square.

	All Americans understand that.

	The difference is that some of us do not, and will not, accept the tragedies of the past as a prophecy for the future.

	The difference is that some of us do not, and will not, accept the tactics of our adversaries as an excuse for abandoning our own principles and values.

	The difference is that some of us do not fear change.  We welcome it.  And we want to test it.

	The Republican ticket does not have a strategy for testing the limits of what is called "new thinking" in the Soviet Union; Lloyd Bentsen and I do.  We want to challenge the Soviet leaders, test their intentions, and explore the opportunities that may exist to build for our children a more stable and less dangerous world.

	They are content to leave the initiative on arms control and regional disputes and the spread of advanced weapons systems around the world to Mr. Gorbachev; we are not.

	They want to turn back the clock; to suggest that nothing has changed; to pretend that Soviet leadership today is as tired and as paralyzed and as heavy-handed as it was only a half dozen years ago.  President Reagan understands the dangers of that course; and so do I.

	Just as it would be blind to believe that nothing has changed in the Soviet Union; it is a mistake to suggest that everything has changed.  Mr. Gorbachev is a Leninist.  He has not abandoned Soviet goals, but rather seeks to advance those goals through different means.

	Where his predecessors were ponderous in diplomacy, Mr. Gorbachev is nimble; where they were predictable, he has a facility for surprise; where they were orthodox, he has used the pulpit of our open western press to place before the world an image of a Soviet Union on the verge of far-reaching change at home, and in world affairs.

	To deal successfully with Gorbachev, the next president must be tough, he must be realistic, he must have good judgment, and he must be committed to building a strong defense.

	As president, I will provide that leadership.  George Bush has been around Washington for a long time; but if he couldn't stand up to the Ayatollah or say "no" to Noriega, how will he measure up to Gorbachev?

	And if he truly believes that J. Danforth Quayle is qualified to be one heartbeat away from the presidency, how can we trust his judgment when America's future is on the line?

	Three times since 1945, men who served as Vice President have been called to the Presidency, called to the leadership of the Free World.  In each case, these men have had to engage in tough bargaining with the Soviet leader.

	First Harry Truman at Potsdam, then Lyndon Johnson at Glassboro, then Gerald Ford at Vladivostok.

	Dan Quayle is no Gerald Ford.  He's no Lyndon Johnson.  And he sure ain't Harry Truman.  Can we stake our future on the hope that he is a match for Mikhail Gorbachev?

	Today, Mr. Gorbachev presides over a nation that has seen its rate of economic growth fall in every five year plan since the 1950s.  A nation where alcoholism and poor health care have chopped six years off the life span of the average male; where infant mortality is up and the birth rate is down; and where it takes the average worker four days to earn enough to buy a pair of jeans; and more than a week to buy a pair of shoes.

	Mr. Gorbachev wants to make his country part of the international economic community.  He wants access to western resources and technology.  He wants expanded economic contact with the West and he wants to join international economic institutions.  What is he prepared to do in return?  Will we allow him to pursue that strategy unchallenged, or will we have a strategy of our own to protect American interests and translate Soviet economic weakness into improved Soviet behavior in world affairs.

	The next president must understand the obstacles that exist to an improved relationship with the Soviet Union.  But he must not be put off by them.  We must act, not react, if we are to regain and maintain the initiative in world affairs.  Yes, it would be nave to take Gorbachev at his word; but it would be dangerous to allow his words to go unanswered and untested in the court of public opinion around the globe.

	We must maintain our military strength; increase our economic strength; preserve our alliances; and reaffirm our willingness to respond to force with force in defense of our vital interests around the world.

	But maintaining the status quo is not enough.

	We must challenge Soviet leaders as John Kennedy did twenty-eight years ago; "remembering on both sides that civility is not a sign of weakness, and sincerity is always subject to proof... let both sides explore what problems unite us ... and if a beachhead of cooperation may push back the jungle of suspicion, let both sides join in creating a new endeavor..."

	Let us, in that spirit, meet the challenges of a new generation of Soviet leaders.

	Let us challenge them to join with us to meet the responsibilities that as world leaders we both share--to work together to preserve our environment; combat world hunger; reduce infant mortality; and conquer AIDS.

	Let us challenge them to build on the progress made already by Mr. Reagan and Mr. Gorbachev--to make deep cuts in the number of nuclear arms and reduce the risk of nuclear war.  I supported the President on the INF Treaty.  I hope he will make further progress on arms control between now and next January.

	And let us challenge the Soviet leaders to match their new words of peace with new actions that will advance the cause of peace.

	Let us, in the first months of the next Administration, seize the initiative in the relationship with the Soviet Union; and let us measure the prospects for change by observing the progress towards change--progress towards reduced tensions in Europe and in trouble spots around the world; progress in controlling the spread of dangerous military technologies; progress towards the promise of dignity and respect for all people in all societies in every part of this earth.

	Mr. Gorbachev must understand that if there is to be a fundamental change in the relationship of his country with the western world; there must first be a fundamental change in the balance of forces in central Europe.

	The Soviet leader has called for a "reasonable sufficiency" of forces.  "In the European building" he says, "every apartment is entitled to protect itself against burglars, but only in such a way as not to demolish the next door apartment."

	And yet today, more than half a million Soviet troops are trained, equipped and regularly exercised to conduct a surprise attack on western Europe.  The West does not threaten the East; and yet the threat posed by the massed military forces of the Warsaw Pact threatens not just to destroy the European building, but the planetary neighborhood, as well.

	As president, I and our NATO allies will challenge Mr. Gorbachev to eliminate the Soviet advantage in tanks and artillery, not just by de-mobilizing those weapons, but by destroying them.  We will challenge him to draw his troops back into the Ukraine; and, working together exchange observers at key military bases and transportation points so that we can be confident that Soviet commitments are being matched by Soviet deeds.

	Second, I will challenge Mr. Gorbachev to work with America and other responsible members of the world community to cool, not fuel, regional conflicts.  To heed the plea of President Arias and cease the shipment of arms to the government of Nicaragua.  To stop supporting terrorists in the Middle East.  And to take steps to resolve the greatest and most prolonged regional Conflict in the world today--in Eastern Europe.

	When we think of regional conflicts, we usually think of guerrilla warfare, stinger missiles, jungles, and deserts.  But we must constantly remind the Soviets of the regional conflict they created in Eastern Europe; a conflict that has resulted in totalitarian-rule over six proud nations for more than 40 years.

	We have heard the propaganda, but we know the facts.  The nations of Eastern Europe are police states, not worker states.  They are lands, to borrow Orwell's phrase, "where the fields are plowed by hand and books are written by machine."

	My friends, the people of Eastern Europe want what we want; what all people want.  The right to express their views openly; to choose their leaders freely; to worship their God openly and without fear.  They want to breathe the sweet air of freedom and no Berlin Wall, no censor, no prison warden, no dictator can extinguish that desire from the human heart.

	We know that the Soviet Union cannot ignore the security concerns that history has embedded in the very fiber of their society.  But free trade unions do not endanger security; political parties do not endanger security; free elections do not endanger security; and the right to worship God can be a threat to no civilized power.  There is no reason why the spirit of Nagy and Dubcek and Walesa cannot triumph.  There is no reason why the Soviets cannot admit the tragedy at Katyn.

	Mr. Gorbachev must understand that, in Eastern Europe, it is the status quo that creates instability.  Repression has failed.  Soviet domination of Eastern Europe is depriving its own of the economic and diplomatic benefits that full acceptance in the world community would provide.

	Third, I will challenge Soviet leaders to work with America and with other world powers to prevent the spread of nuclear and chemical weapons and the missiles that carry them.

	The world faces few graver threats than the spread of nuclear arms.  Ending the proliferation of those weapons will be a top priority in my Administration.  I will urge Mr. Gorbachev to join me in making sure that all nations sign and strictly abide by the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.

	Today, our ally Israel is threatened, and stability throughout the Middle East is endangered by the spread of advanced technology that will allow nations as irresponsible and aggressive as Syria, Iraq, and Iran to launch missiles armed with deadly chemical--or even nuclear--weapons.  So far we have heard nothing from Mr. Bush on the subject.

	As president, I will work with our allies to persuade Mr. Gorbachev that if he wants to join the international economic community, he must first get out of the business of exporting these deadly weapons to volatile regions of the world.

	Fourth, I will challenge the Soviet Union to live up to Mr. Gorbachev's stated commitment to "reject terrorism ... and cooperate with other nations in eradicating this evil."

	It's no secret that, despite what Mr. Gorbachev says, the Soviet Union continues to this day to supply arms to Qaddafi, Syria, and the PLO.

	We can't end the deep divisions that separate nation from nation and people from people overnight, but we can resolve--and all civilized nations should resolve--that terrorist acts, committed not to defend a society, but to sow fear among the innocent and suffering among the defenseless, cannot be rationalized, cannot be excused, and cannot be tolerated on this globe.

	The Soviet Union must meet this standard.  And in a Dukakis Administration, bearing in mind the tragic mistakes of the last few years, so will the United States.

	Fifth, I will challenge the Soviet Union to live up to its obligations under the Helsinki Accords--to let Jews and other minorities emigrate if they wish, and let them worship freely and pass on their heritage to their children if they stay.

	It is not enough to say that human rights are an internal matter.  It is not enough to pretend that rights exist when they do not exist.  It is not enough to dole out a few visas and allow the exercise of limited and long delayed freedoms by a few; for human rights are not bargaining chips; they are not pawns in some diplomatic game; they are the very foundation of peace, itself.  For peace can only come through understanding; and understanding cannot come when basic principles of human dignity and opportunity are denied.

	My friends, the challenges we will make to the Soviet Union:  to draw back from confrontation in central Europe; to bring down the walls of repression in Eastern Europe; to control the spread of dangerous weapons systems; to fight terrorism; and to respect human rights; are offered not as hurdles to impede progress towards peace; rather, they are the rungs of a ladder which must be scaled if a true and lasting peace is to be maintained.

	Taken together, these challenges reflect not a set of standards that the Soviet Union alone must meet; they demand a pattern of behavior by which all nations may fairly be judged.

	We, in America, should stand ready to respond to progress with progress; to meet the Soviet Union at the bargaining table instead of the battlefield; to hold out the prospect of better economic ties; to open the door to closer cooperation on the environment; and to end human suffering.

	But we must be ready to meet stubbornness with determination; deception with the truth; and aggression with the full power of a strong and united democratic alliance.

	My friends, I am running for president because I want to lead an America that leads the world; an America that does not settle for second place or second best.

	An America that loves peace, but knows the cost of freedom.  An America that has not wavered from the pledge that another son of Massachusetts made 28 years ago, a pledge to "pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, [and] oppose any foe to assure the survival and success of liberty."

	My friends, this year, 200 years after the election of our first President; let us dedicate ourselves anew to the dream of those who founded our country; firm in our purpose; true to our principles; confident that the best America is not behind us; the best America is yet to come.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESEASTERN EUROPEEMIGRATION--SOVIET JEWSHUMAN RIGHTSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS SALES--SOVIET UNION TO ARAB NATIONSSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)     @ @ @ @ @
 @ @ @ @ @ @ N@ C@	  	  	  	  	  	 K    e: