


	Thank you very much.  Thank you, Senator Warren Magnuson, champion of this great Pacific Northwest; Senator Jackson; Senator Morse.  I have been reminded already that we are standing on Washington territory by the senator from Washington.  Senator Morse has told me that backing me is Oregon.  So I feel very secure.  

	We also have with us today a distinguished senator from the great Southwest, the state of Oklahoma, Senator Fred Harris.  He is one of our supporters for these programs even though he lives in a country of flat lands.  He is supporter of the Pacific Northwest and the development of the Columbia River.

	Senator, why don't you stand?

	Governor Evans and Governor McCall, General Cassady and the officers of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and particularly Colonel Robert Gessen, our thanks to you for your professional competence and your capacity and ability to keep these programs moving ahead.  Mr. Charles Baker, the president of the Inland Empire Waterways Association, we are indebted to you for your hospitality on this dedication today for the John Day Dam.  I couldn't help but notice as I was sitting here at the platform the very charming people who possibly know more about this area of America than any of the rest of us because they and their forebears have been here longer.  And I want to salute in particular the very lovely, attractive young ladies, the first Americans, Indian Americans, but really the first Americans that are here.  It is so nice to see you here. 

	This is a beautiful experience for me.  We are literally in the temple of divine providence as we are here in this valley alongside of this great river.  I said to Senator Magnuson and Senator Morse that this was like a religious experience in the sense that we are all stewards of our natural resources.  These resources were not man made.  They are a gift, a gift from God almighty, from nature, from a supreme being.  And those of us who serve in the government of the United States or the state government or serve as private citizens have a special responsibility to develop these resources and to protect them.  The members of the House of Representatives that are here with us today have understood that, as have the members of Congress.  What we see here today tells really the story that America is yet the unfinished business of the world, that the American Revolution is the unfinished revolution, that the day of conquest and discovery is still with us.

	In a very few days we will be celebrating what we call Columbus Day.  All of us will be told that he discovered America, and he did.  But I believe that others have discovered it as well and I think we are discovering a section of it here today, rediscovering it and redeveloping it in a way that makes us every bit as much the adventurer and every bit as much the discoverer as Leif Erikson, or Christopher Columbus.

	America achieved world leadership as an industrial power at the cost of haphazard and wasteful exploitation of unparalleled natural resources, but it does us little good to moan of the past, but rather only to look at it as a point of efforts.  Virgin forests fell to the ax.  The plow and strip mining tore up our fertile soil.  Rivers and harbors were given over entirely to commerce and the odors of pollution in our air and water were welcomed by most of us as the smell of prosperity.  And only in the 1930s, just a few years past, did we begin truly to develop our resources rather than simply exploiting them.  Only then did the concept of management for sustained yield come into its own.  The former senator from the state of Oregon, Senator McNary, was one of those who had the vision of development as did Senator Norse, as did Franklin Roosevelt, and these contemporary senators and congressmen.  It was in the 1930s that a grand design for the Columbia River was conceived, one which would get the best out of it as has been so magnificently described today by Senators Jackson and Magnuson in terms of material benefits, power, reclamation, and now even navigation. Flood control and urban water supplies.

	This mighty stream has been put to the use of man and it has not been exploited, it has been developed.  The Columbia river system has meant enormous economic development in material progress.  It is vital to the security of this republic.  When one thinks back into those hazardous and difficult days of World War II, we cannot help but remember what it meant to have the Tennessee Valley Authority and the Grand Coulee, the Columbia river system, at least in its beginning stages, vital to civil defense, vital to our prosperity, and this river system today represents the open door for millions of new Americans, those to come to these shores and those yet unborn.

	Possibly as we pause here for a moment, we might think of the fact that within the next twenty-five years, 100 million more Americans will populate this land.  Where are they going to live?  I think we have the portals open to the Pacific Northwest, not just barren lands or wooded hills, but power and navigation and water and conservation and reclamation that has been made possible by the hand of man put to the resources of nature.

	Now, this is a nonpartisan occasion and a refreshing one for me.  I want to point out that the achievement before us today was possible because of many.  I have mentioned some of the early pioneers, and particularly possible because of the representation from the States of Washington and Oregon.  Those states were represented brilliantly in the nation's capitol and some of the most respected and effective statesmen and women of our times are present here on this platform:  Senator Warren Magnuson, Senator Wayne Morse, your own beloved Senator Scoop Jackson, Congresswomen Edith Green, and Julia Hansen, and Catherine May, Congressmen Al Ullman, Tom Foley, Lloyd Meeds, Brock Adams, Floyd Hicks.  These, and there may be others, are all responsible for, in part for what has happened, because as it was noted, it takes time and it takes perseverance.  And I am happy to say that in my 16 years in the Senate, I do not recall a single time that I ever voted against a development project for our rivers.  And I took particular pride in supporting the endeavors of these representatives from Oregon and Washington and the Pacific Northwest as they sought to bring to bear the resources of the federal government to the development of the Columbia System.

	It is a wonderful thing that has happened.  And to those that think that this is a wanton expenditure of money, let me say that I would hate to have you keeping my books.  This is the wisest investment that a nation ever made.  What we do here today should remind us of more that needs to be done.  This nation will never become insolvent by developing its resources.  And your federal budget will never be one that frightens you if its monies and its resources are dedicated to the development of the rivers and the valleys and the lands of this great republic. 

	So let us hear no more of the nonsense that has been all too characteristic of short sighted observers that these investments are costly.  They are the most wise investments that we can make.

	Today, however, as we dedicate the John Day Dam, America is clearly crossing the threshold of a new era in resource use and development.  Our people now demand that progress, this kind of progress, means quality in their total environment, as well as quantity.  Our strictly material and economic needs are still with us and will be, and they will grow enormously in the years ahead, and we must have people of vision who understand these years ahead.

	In the year 2000, which is just around the corner, we will need roughly 30 percent more coal than has ever been mined in the United States, 60 percent more natural gas than we have ever used, and 100 percent more timber, gentlemen and ladies, than we have ever produced, and twice as much water.  We will be consuming more and more of our natural resources faster than ever before, and it tells us a story that we must be prepared to systematically develop those resources.  And if it took from 1950 to 1968, which is 18 years, to come this far with the John Day Dam, don't you think it would be wise for us to be thinking about the year 2000 now as we look at our rivers and as we seek to make plans for their development?

	There can never again be a policy of no new starts.  We need to start new things every day of our life and we surely need to start new programs to develop the resources of America whenever we have the opportunity. 

	There also will be six times as many beer cans lying around, eight times as many junked automobiles, and half again, as I said, as many people.  I would hope that America would be remembered not that its highways were littered with the trash of beer cans and that its highways were dotted with the junk yards of junked automobiles, but rather that we would be known and remembered as people who put science and technology and engineering to work to better the lives of our people.  And in a leisure society, which is the day ahead, outdoor recreation and tourism promise to be the largest single industry in the Pacific Northwest.

	Our new demand, therefore, for environment quality is a good thing.  It may actually prevent our society from suffocating itself or from being buried in a pyramid of debris and junk.  The 1960s have been the inaugural decade of this new era of conservation, and I think you know its standards: the Water Quality Act of 1965.  And the men and women on this platform today helped make it possible.

	Our water resources--shot, polluted, inadequate--thank goodness at last we are doing something about it.  The Clean Water Restoration Act, the Clean Air Act of 1963, the Air Quality Act of 1967, and the Solid Waste Disposal Act of 1965--all of these important items relating to where we are going to live and how we are going to live and under what conditions we are going to live in these last few years.  And for the first time, we are beating the bulldozer to our remaining open spaces.  We are reserving more of the open land for future generations that is being consumed each year by the urban sprawl.  We have begun a new wilderness system, and the senators that are here today made it possible, and a new system of trails so that the children locked into the cities of tomorrow can really see what God intended man to have, providing wholesome recreation, outdoor physical exercise, a chance to see the wonders of nature.  Our National Park System is in a period of unprecedented expansion from Cape Cod in 1962 to the Redwoods and the North Cascades in 1968.  Four new national parks, a necklace of eight new national seashores and lakeshores and a dozen new national recreation areas--a good beginning, but totally inadequate for the times ahead.  When will we learn, my fellow Americans, the waste that comes with inadequate planning?  Never have we built a highway big enough for the traffic; never have we created an airport large enough for the transport plane.  We are always a decade behind because we have so many people who say hold back, rather than people who have the vision of a nation that is just beginning to live.

	This dam, I predict, along with its others in this great system, will only barely begin to provide what is needed for this growing Pacific Northwest.  But how happy I am at least that we have come this far.  My plea to you is think big, think of the greatness of this country.  Remember, we are a young nation.  Remember, we barely scratched the surface of our opportunity.  And those of you who tell you to go slow are really telling you to bury yourself, because to slow the pace of progress is to lose the chance for progress.

	The people of this vast area of America understands it, I believe--the vastness of the open space tells you how much there is yet to be done.  Just within the week, congressional leaders have approved the beginning of a scenic river system.  I am sure that Senator Jackson takes great pride in that, to protect our few remaining free-flowing wild rivers, including portions of the Oregon's Rogue River and Idaho's Salmon River.  Perhaps most important of all, we have achieved a new environmental partnership with federal, state, and local governments and private industry.  The conservation advances of the 1960s have not been federal advances alone.  They have been truly cooperative advances fostered by determined national leadership.

	But despite these impressive gains, we are still not moving fast enough to reverse the degradation of the total environment.  If we are really serious, then, about insuring a living environment for every American, and we can afford to do no less, we need to make clear a declaration of national policy for the American environment.  It is time to declare the right of every American citizen to an environment in which he can live in health, in safety, in decency, in personal fulfillment, privacy and spiritual reward.  Why not?  We have everything to do it with--the space, the tools, the technology.  Environmental quality, then, must now become the top priority objective of the American society or we shall choke ourselves to death in the smog and we shall bring ourselves to a point of disease with pollution.

	It need not be.  Governments at all levels, therefore, must now assume a new positive role as trustees of the environment for all the people.  The passive role of yesterday of a referee between the special interest competitors for natural resources is no longer enough and the conventional cost-benefit economic analysis, which is the phraseology often used in Congress and government, is no longer adequate when the use of our natural resources is being decided.

	How can you estimate the cost-benefit economic analysis of beauty, of relaxation, of getting away from the tension of the city and the traffic and the congestion of metropolitan living?  I know of no way that it can be estimated unless the American Medical Association and the American Psychiatric Association is willing to give us their cost estimates of what a continuation of this tension will mean.  Concern for values that cannot be calibrated with a slide rule must be built in the decision-making machinery of government and industry wherever environmental decisions are to be taken.

	So we can add here to this dam and this project a whole new dimension of value.  The fact that it makes the country livable, not merely economically livable but in terms of the physical and spiritual and mental health of the people--how do we calculate that expenditure cost or benefit?

	To help develop a national environmental policy and get the administrative reforms needed to put it in practice, I believe we can adopt the proposal of a distinguished American conservationist, Mr. Lawrence A. Rockefeller for a Commission on Environmental Policy and Organization.  He said it should consist of key members of Congress, executive officials of government, and leading private citizens.  That kind of a commission would do much better in measuring the benefits that humanity is to receive from our trusteeship of the natural resources of this country than only those who are experts in cost analysis or the cost-benefit analysis.  We are going to have to consolidate and mesh the many new conservation tools that we have created in the last few years to get the most efficient use out of them.

So today, I would like to put before you a specific proposal for a comprehensive effort to get the most in human terms, not just economic terms, out of our most valuable, most neglected, and most available natural resource--the rivers.

	Through most of our early history, rivers were focal points in the lives of most Americans, first as trails through the interior, then as waterways for commerce, and sources of water and power.  And we have turned our back on our rivers.  In most areas of America, we cut ourselves off from them with warehouses and factories, most of which no longer depend upon waterborne transport.

	More recently, we have torn down some of these structures only to have them replaced by noisy highways and airports.  And our rivers, almost to the last one, are polluted.  It is time, therefore, to turn around and face our rivers again, to rediscover them for boating, for swimming, for fishing--yes, for commerce, too--to recapture the kind of recreational opportunities that have been provided for on the shores of this new reservoir.

	Starts are being made now on the Hudson, with the Willamette Greenway in Oregon, with the Potomac National Recreation Area and the Columbia River Conservation Area.  Starts have been made but many a person who feels that everything must be judged from the point of the checking account and the bank account are unable to see the importance of this kind of development.  The men of vision who are undertaking efforts like these, however--flood control, navigation, water supply projects, watershed and soil conservation, outdoor recreation and open space grants, fish and wildlife programs.  And then in addition, there are the state and local development programs and the enormous resources in the private sector.  Add them all up and we ought to be able to renew our rivers, cleanse them, so that your children can swim in them and that the fish can come from them and that you can enjoy an afternoon alongside of them.  And if we successfully use these tools, I think that we can literally rebuild the rivers of today that are polluted and filled with stench into beautiful clean streams of tomorrow.

	We faced a similar proliferation of programs in urban renewal and our answer to the cities was model cities.  Model cities legislation is not a new program; it is a new approach.  It is a catalyst to encourage local leaders to find their own problems, to assemble all available programs and to combine them with resources and to renew old neighborhoods.  Now, the federal government has a means to help provide incentives, to fill in the gaps with additional resources.  Today I propose, therefore, a Heritage Riverways Program, based on a total attack strategy of the model cities program, to begin rescuing and renewing America's rivers before they are totally destroyed and polluted.

	Multiple-purpose development is good, but it is not enough.  All purpose conservation, therefore, must be our standard.  Heritage Riverway Demonstration Project fund would be available on a competitive basis to river basin commissions where they exist.  And may I say to the governors, we need more of them.  They would also be available to single states or to groups of states which wish to enhance a share of river.  The federal role would not be to direct but to provide the incentives for the recovery and the development of river resources which we want now and which we will desperately need in Century twenty-one.

	Mark my words, if we started today, it would still be in the early part of the twenty-first century before a single American river could be rescued from its plight.

	Why do we leave this filthy inheritance to children yet unborn?  Why do we not offer at least the beginnings of a much cleaner inheritance for those that are yet to come?

	Our seashores and our shores of the great lakes call for a similar approach and a similar priority.  I agree with the Oregonians who have rallied to that cry; "beaches are for kids", and have placed a "beaches forever" measure on the November ballot to keep their state's ocean shoreline free and open to everyone.

	That shoreline does not belong to a private citizen, a private life.  It belongs to the people.  Two-thirds of all Americans live within a Sunday drive of the oceans or the Great Lakes.  But opportunities to enjoy these magnificent shorelines are steadily disappearing as they are bulldozed and paved and heaped high with debris and built upon and fenced off with keep-out signs.  And as with our rivers, many state and federal efforts are now underway to reserve portions of our remaining unpaved coastline.  But coastal land costs are skyrocketing and government must help.  Time is running out.  We are seeing the final lockup of these coastal strips.

	I believe, therefore, that we must once again look to the public-private cooperation with federal backup, as in the model cities, to make the mixture work.  And let's call it Save Our Shores Program, just as we would save our rivers.  Incentives to private landowners and other private interests to preserve public values would be the backbone of this program.  We have a race on our hands, a race to determine whether men or uncontrolled technology and an unfulfilled appetite for profit will win out, whether the monument of this civilization will be more polluted lake areas or a living environment that nourishes the human qualities which make men fit company for one another.

	What right does any man or city have to destroy the Great Lakes?  And they are within a decade of destruction as freshwater bodies.  What right does a private industry or a private individual or a government entity have to destroy a beautiful river, and most of or rivers are in that deplorable state.

	I think what is called for is a national policy of redevelopment, of rehabilitation, and of recovery, of the great natural resources of this land.  We of this generation have exploited enough.  It is now that we pay back and rebuild and rehabilitate that which our hand has touched, sometimes not for good.

	This great project represents what can be done.  It will come back to the American people in dividends 100 fold.  It is the wisest investment that a people ever made and more of them can be made.

	Yes, we have begun to make up for the past neglect and we are having to pay for it.  But in so doing, we put an investment in the greatest market in the world: the American market of progress.  We have begun to pay as we go instead of living off our environmental inherited capital.  And if we do not falter now, if we can have the continuing vision to invest and to plan, to develop the rivers and save those that need saving, to protect the seashores and the lakes, to take care of the coastlines before they are destroyed, then Americans of this generation can say that we were wise stewards and trustees of the great resources of this land, the land of the people, that belong to the people.

	Walt Whitman, that great American poet who seemed to understand the heartbeat of America, envisioned the society of tomorrow in these words:  "The new society at last, proportionate to nature, clearing the ground for broad humanity, the true America, heir of the past so grand, to build a grander future."

	America is the future if we let it be.  America is the hope of tomorrow if we will only let it be.  But none of these things happen by accident.  It only happens when we will it to be.

	Let us have the same will, then, for building an environment of quality as we have had the will to build a mighty dam of stability.  I think we can, and to attain this goal, I pledge my efforts as a private citizen, and if permitted to serve this nation in the highest office of this land, I will consider one of my prime responsibilities to be a conservationist, to be a developer, to be one that is dedicated not only to the reconciliation of peoples, but to the rehabilitation of lives and resources.

	What a great opportunity it is for us and how right it is that we should talk of this opportunity and dream of it out here in this beautiful countryside, where the sun shines upon us to remind us that the days of tomorrow can be as clear and meaningful as the hour that is ours right now.

	Thank you very much.

COAST/WETLANDSNATIONAL PARKSNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTURBAN RENEWALWATER POLLUTIONENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONWATER RESOURCES     W^ #^ ^ ^ ^
 ^  ^ ] ] ] ] ] ]	 | 	 n 	 ` 	 C 	 6  '   e: