

	While I feel very much the uncomfortable politician trying to beguile your votes here tonight, I do not feel at all like a stranger in Kentucky.

	My great-great-grandfather and great-great-grandmother were married here in Kentucky. In fact some historians say that their marriage is the first recorded marriage in Kentucky. They built a home near Danville more than 150 years ago which is still standing.

	My Grandfather Stevenson was born here before his parents moved to Illinois 100 years ago this year. He was a student at Centre College where he fell in love with the president's daughter--always a sound policy for a struggling student--and thus I acquired a Kentucky grandmother also.

	So you will forgive me, I hope, if I claim a very close kinship to Kentucky. But if that's not enough, I'll also claim kinship with Alben Barkley--the greatest Kentuckian of them all.

	And I also have Kentucky to thank not only for my ancestors but also for Wilson Wyatt--once the mayor of this great city and now my campaign manager.

	So, my fellow Kentuckians, I want to talk to you tonight about the war in Korea.

	When I entered this campaign, I expressed my hope that Democrats and Republicans alike would regard this election year as a great opportunity to educate and elevate a people whose destiny is leadership. I hoped that both parties would talk sense to the American people.

	But I have been increasingly disturbed about the tone and spirit of the campaign.

	Last Monday the General spoke in Cincinnati about Korea. He said that this was a "solemn subject" and that he was going to state the truth as he knew it, "the truth--plain and unvarnished." If only his speech had measured up to this introduction! And since he has tried, not once but several times, to make a vote-getting issue out of our ordeal in Korea, I shall speak on this subject and address myself to the record.

	We are fighting in Korea, the General declares, because the American government grossly underestimated the Soviet threat; because the government allowed America to become weak; because American weakness compelled us to withdraw our forces from Korea; because we abandoned China to the Communists; and, finally, because we announced to all the world that we had written off most of the Far East.

	That's what he says--now let's look at the record.

	First, the General accuses the government of having underestimated the Soviet threat. But what about the General himself? At the end of the war he was a professional soldier of great influence and prestige, to whom the American people listened with respect. What did he have to say about the Soviet threat? In the years after the war, the General himself saw "no reason"--as he later wrote--why the Russian system of government and Western democracy "could not live side by side in the world." In November 1945, he even told the House Military Affairs Committee: "Nothing guides Russian policy so much as a desire for friendship with the United States."

	I have no wish to blow any trumpets here. But in March 1946, I said: "We must forsake any hope that the Soviet Union is going to lie still and lick her awful wounds. She's not. Peace treaties that reflect her legitimate demands, friendly governments on her frontiers and an effective United Nations Organization should be sufficient security. But evidently they are not and she intends to advance her aims, many of them objectives of the Czars, to the utmost."

	My opponent's next point is the question of demobilization. We know how self-righteous the Republican office seekers are on this question today. But what were they saying at the time? In the 1944 campaign, the Republican candidate of that year accused President Roosevelt of deliberately delaying demobilization and promised that the Republicans would do it quicker. "I believe," he said, "that our members of the armed forces should be transported home and released at the earliest practical moment after victory." Although the General warned against too rapid demobilization, he later said--in September 1946--that: "Frankly, I don't think demobilization was too fast."

	Demobilization did go too far and too fast. But it would have gone farther and faster if the Republicans had been in power--and it is nonsense to pretend otherwise.

	Next, take the question of the withdrawal of American forces from Korea. The General acts as if this were the result of some secret White House decision. I would call his attention to the fact that while he was chief of staff of the United States Army, the chiefs of staff advised that South Korea was of little strategic interest to the United States, and recommended withdrawal of the United States forces from the country.

	Next, my distinguished opponent has recently begun to parrot the charge of some of his recently acquired political tutors that the administration abandoned China to the Communists. He did not talk this way once; but then he has changed in a good many respects of late. Maybe he's competing for the title of Mr. Republican as well as Mr. President. But he still must know in his heart, even if he does not choose to admit it, that in the past six years nothing except the sending of an American expeditionary force to China could have prevented ultimate Communist victory. Did he propose that; did any of the Sunday-morning quarterbacks on the Republican team propose that?

	Distinguished American military men--including at least one
Republican--have testified that the Chinese Nationalists did not lose for want of supplies or American support. Their armies were larger and better equipped than the Communist armies. They had every physical advantage.

	Has my opponent forgotten the wise words of the most responsible Republican of them all, Senator Vandenberg? Here is what Senator Vandenberg said in December 1948 on this subject of China:

	"The vital importance of saving China cannot be exaggerated. But there are limits to our resources and boundaries to our miracles... I am forced to say that the Nationalist government has failed to reform itself in a fashion calculated to deserve continued popular confidence over there or over here... If we made ourselves responsible for the army of the Nationalist government, we would be in the China war for keeps and the responsibility would be ours instead of hers. I am very sure that this would jeopardize our own national security beyond any possibility of justification."

	So spoke Senator Vandenberg and his view was shared by intelligent and responsible men in both parties. Now who talked sense about China: Senator Vandenberg or the General?

	Then there is the question of "writing off" Korea. The General condemns the Secretary of State's excluding Korea from our defense perimeter in 1950. But the General fails to point out that this defense perimeter was a line developed by the military authorities themselves. Surely it is a gross and discreditable distortion to say that the Secretary of State took the lead in this matter. Twice in 1949 General MacArthur, then our top commander in the Pacific, defined our defense perimeter in the terms later used by the Secretary of State. It was on the recommendation of our military authorities that Korea and Formosa and mainland areas were not included in a direct military commitment.

	And I am, frankly, astonished that my great opponent stooped at Cincinnati last week to the practice of lifting remarks out of context. Why did he quote only a part of what the Secretary of State said--why did he skip the Secretary's pledge that, if there should be an attack on these countries, "the initial reliance must be on the people attacked to resist, and then upon the commitments of the entire civilized world under the Charter of the United Nations"? The United States government thus clearly announced its determination to seek United Nations action against aggression. And that's exactly what we did.

	The true significance of the Secretary's remark, therefore, is that the military situation made it necessary for him to do what he could diplomatically to give some assurance of our interest in the security of the Republic of Korea. Why does the General not only skip this but distort the whole meaning of those developments? And how does he honestly square this campaign-time charge of writing off Korea with his own statement in July 1950, that "when our government guaranteed the government of South Korea, there was no recourse but to do what President Truman said and did."

	I deeply regret the necessity for this recital. I was prepared to ignore the political license and false charges of extremists and reactionaries. But I cannot ignore them now when they are uttered by the Republican nominee himself, a man personally identified with and presumed to be intimately informed about the recent course of our foreign affairs.

	Nor do I list these mistakes in judgment and errors of prediction in order to lay any personal blame on the General. I would never have brought these things up had he not pointed the accusing finger. Many Americans of both parties made the same mistakes. Better we refrain from competing in denouncing each other in a scramble for votes, admit our common mistakes--and get on with our business.

	Let's talk sense. Let's admit that mistakes were made. America did demobilize too rapidly and too severely. America did allow the Russians to develop an undue superiority in conventional arms and in ground forces. Perhaps this country should have given a direct military guarantee to the Republic of Korea. And it might well have been wiser if American forces had not crossed the 38th parallel in the fall of 1950.

	There is another curious example of my opponent's uncertainty that is worth noting. 

	At Abilene, Kansas, on June 5th, shortly after his return to this country, he said that: "There has been built up behind the Yalu River a very definite air strength that would make very dangerous any attempt to extend the war at this moment, until we have a bigger build-up of our own."

	Three months later the General says this: "I have always stood behind General MacArthur in bombing those bases on the Yalu from which fighter planes are coming." 

	What kind of straddle is this? On one occasion he is against bombing across the river. And a little later he is for it. I confess I am bewildered.

	This seems to me to be too serious a matter for such wandering opinions.

But enough about the past, and even about the past inconsistencies of my opponent. I have always agreed with Winston Churchill that if the present tries to sit in judgment on the past, it will lose the future. The important thing is to draw the right lessons from the past and to get on with the job.

	One lesson which I had hoped that most of us had learned from the past is an understanding of what the present threat to our freedom really is. I thought that my distinguished opponent, of all Americans, would agree that this threat is the threat of world Communism.

	But it develops that he has now adopted the theory of Senator Taft, who unsmilingly states that the greatest threat to liberty today is the cost of our own federal government!

	It is surely more than the "differences of degree" which, according to Senator Taft's statement following the peace conference on Morningside Heights, are all that separate him from the General on foreign policy matters. It is not a question of degree whether we measure our defense by an arbitrary budget or measure our budget by the needs of survival.

	If we should follow out this theory that the threat is internal, we would undertake the deliberate and systematic weakening of ourselves and our allies. And such a policy of national weakness and international weakness can lead to a single result; that is, to invite the expansion of Soviet power.

	By adopting this theory, the Republican candidate has reversed the advice of Theodore Roosevelt to speak softly and carry a big stick. The new advice is to talk tough and carry a twig. 

	You saw this policy proposed a year ago for Asia when some Republicans wanted at one and the same time to cut the defense budget and expand the war. Now you see it proposed again for Europe by those isolationists who would reduce our aid to our allies and our own defense appropriations and simultaneously speak with "cold finality" to the Soviet Union. This is the policy of tougher words backed up with smaller armies.

	I wonder if the General realizes the full implications of the agreed statement issued by Senator Taft. Senator Taft has evidently reassured him by saying that their differences in foreign policy are just differences in degree. Differences of degree, indeed!

	Is it a difference of degree to be for or against the North Atlantic Treaty?

	Is it a difference of degree to blame the Korean War on Stalin or on our own president?

	Is it a difference of degree to be for or against the strengthening of our allies?

	Such differences of degree may well turn out to be the difference between success and disaster--between peace and war.

	Tough talk about Communism will not deter the Soviet Union from new adventures. The thing which will save the world from war is American strength, and real strength need not be loud or belligerent. Nor is it just a matter of our national strength alone. It is equally the strength of the free world--the strength of the nations which stand between us and the Soviet Union.

	Strength is the road to peace. Weakness is the road to war. This is the simple truth of peace and war in our times. The Democratic party has been consistently the party of strength--and thus the party of peace. With equal consistency, the opposition has been the party of weakness--the party which persists in the dreary obsession that we must fear above all, not the Kremlin, but our own government. And as the part of weakness, it gives evidence of pursuing, once in power, a policy of weakness which would demoralize the free world, embolden the Soviet Union to new military adventures, and, in the end, pull down the world into the rubble and chaos of a third world war.

	Let's talk sense to the American people. Peace is far more important than who wins this election. Whichever party wins, the American people must be sure to win. Let us not place victory in a political campaign ahead of national interest.

	And let's talk sense about what we have gained by our determination, our expenditures, and our valor in Korea.

	We have not merely said, we have proven, that Communism can go no further unless it is willing to risk world war.

	We have proven to all the peoples of the Far East that Communism is not the wave of the future, that it can be stopped.

We have helped to save the peoples of Indochina from Communist conquest.

	We have smashed the threat to Japan through Korea and so have strengthened this friend and ally.

	We have discouraged the Chinese Communists from striking at Formosa.

	We have mightily strengthened our defenses and all our defensive positions around the world.

	We have trained and equipped a large army of South Koreans, who can assume a growing share of the defense of their country.

	We have blocked the road to Communist domination of the Far East and frustrated the creation of a position of power which would have threatened the whole world.

	We have asserted, and we shall maintain it, that whenever Communist soldiers choose freedom after falling into our hands, they are free.

	We have kept faith with our solemn obligations.

	These are the values won by the fidelity and prowess and the sacrifices of young men and women who serve their country. We have lost many of our beloved sons. All Americans share in the bereavement of so many mothers, and fathers, of wives and sweethearts. The burden lies heavily on us all. We pray God that the sacrifices and the sorrows will soon end.

	I would say one thing more about the great debate over our foreign policy. My opponents say the threat to our liberty comes from within.

	I say that the threat comes from without--and I offer the fate of the enslaved peoples of the world as my evidence.

	My opponents say America cannot afford to be strong. I say that America cannot afford to be weak.

	I promise no easy solutions, no relief from burdens and anxieties, for to do this would be not only dishonest; it would be to attack the foundations of our greatness.

	I can offer something infinitely better: an opportunity to work and sacrifice that freedom may flourish. For, as William James truly said, "When we touch our own upper limit and live in our own highest center of energy, we may call ourselves saved."

	I call upon America to reject the new isolationism and to surpass her own glorious achievements. Then we may, with God's help, deserve to call ourselves the sons of our fathers.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINASOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)KOREAN WAR     B B B B B
 B B B B B B sB hB	 m 	 ] 	 ? 	 %  
 e: