

	I don't know why it is that an American, no matter where he was born or where he lives, has a feeling in New England of coming home. Perhaps it is because this country of yours looks so homelike; perhaps it is because the people and their welcome are always so friendly; perhaps it is because so much of what we are as Americans came out of these valleys and these hills--our habit, for example, of making up our own minds in our own way, and saying what we think--our habit of respect for each other, and for ourselves--our habit, if you please, of freedom.

	At all events, I have felt very much at home today in Massachusetts, and yesterday traveling through Connecticut. I hope I feel equally at home up here after November 4th. Maybe I feel particularly at home in Springfield because I, too, live in Springfield, albeit some two hundred years younger than your Springfield, but equally famous.

	Now, my friends, I have thought that the proper way to conduct a campaign was to discuss the issues, and by that I mean the choices that people have to make between alternative courses of conduct. It has been a little hard for me to get a discussion of the issues in this campaign. Our Republican friends, to be sure, are in favor of throwing the rascals out, but they are also in favor of throwing the rascals in. While approving everything that has been done for the past twenty years by the Democrats, they say that the country is headed for perdition and they call us all dreadful names.

	Indeed, to keep this campaign on the highest possible level worthy of its significance, I have been tempted to make a proposal to our Republican friends: that if they would stop telling lies about us, we would stop telling the truth about them. Which reminds me that about the only place where they have really taken issue with us seems to be on the subject of humor. The Republicans are against it. And those of us who have found a certain friendly amusement in the antics of the two-headed elephant have been rebuked--and elephant, we are given to understand, is no laughing matter. Well, for myself, I can't think it a hideous offense to believe that the American people have a sense of humor. We used to call Al Smith the "Happy Warrior."

	In fact, he was given this name by another happy warrior, Franklin Roosevelt, who got his title the "Great Humanitarian," by the way, in this city of Springfield, Massachusetts. In the midst of the terrible years of the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln--and the Republican party still claims him, at least at election time--said of humor:

	"If it were not for this occasional vent, I should die."

	It is a far cry from Lincoln to these solemn individuals who want to banish it from American public life. I have about concluded that what GOP really means is "grouchy old pessimists."

	Maybe this feeling about a little humor to enliven our lives goes far to explain the General's remark last week about Oliver Cromwell. I found myself somewhat puzzled when he announced that Cromwell was going to be the model of the Great Crusade. Why should he have chosen Oliver Cromwell? Obviously it could not be because Cromwell sent his Roundheads on a bloody crusade against the people of Ireland with religious persecution, starvation and the sword as his weapons. It could not be because Cromwell led his army into the House of Commons to seize control by force of the Parliament of England. But now I think I know why the General admired Oliver Cromwell. Whatever else you may say about Cromwell, you can never accuse him of having cracked a joke.

	I suppose we must not be too critical. To be surrounded by the Republican Old Guard night and day would be a melancholy fate for anyone and I can understand why it is no laughing matter for the General. In fact, Senator Taft seems to be getting most of the amusement. When he walked out of the General's house in New York with the surrender in writing I have never seen such a contented smile since the cat swallowed the canary.

	I have been wondering sometimes what that brutal battle in Chicago last July was all about.

	I am glad to note that not all of the crusaders who marched into battle against Senator Taft so gallantly are prepared to follow their leader in his inglorious retreat.

	Let me say to the good Republicans of New England: there is always a light in the Democratic window and a warm welcome awaiting you in the Democratic party. We know how to make people feel at home, and that's why we win elections.

	Let me further say that if I should be elected president in November, I will be president, and I will not be honorary head of a regency.

	Now my friends, you all know how this country has been transformed in the last twenty years. The Democratic party took over when the nation was almost in a state of receivership in 1933. Fortunately, we had a great and revered leader--Franklin Roosevelt. Under his leadership the Democratic party dedicated itself to improving opportunity and security for all of our citizens. In the last twenty years we have restored and reconstructed the nation. Where there was once poverty, there is now prosperity. Where there was once anxiety, there is now security. Were there was once discrimination, we now have opportunity. Democratic administrations have produced the great social reforms of our era. We will defend these reforms against all of those humorless people who haven't been happy since the days of William McKinley. And, we will defend these reforms and this free society of ours--we will defend them against those on the extreme left, the admirers of Lenin and Stalin, who would bind all of us to the service of an omnipotent and all-powerful state.

	It is the Democratic administration in Washington, assisted by many good Republicans, who followed in the train of Arthur Vandenberg, which has rallied the free world against Communism in the last seven years. Indeed, if it had not been for the wisdom and the courage of our national leaders, Europe might have by now fallen to the Communists. If it had not been for the wisdom and the courage of our national leadership, Communist aggressors would by now have swallowed Korea and swarmed over all of Asia.

	The fight for freedom and for security takes place on many fronts. You of New England, by the way, have been waging your own battle in recent years--a battle to maintain the economic health and the vitality of this region.

	A few days ago in a report to the president by the Council of Economic Advisers, I found this comment about New England--I think many of you are familiar with it. It said: "Its people are noted for their independence and self-reliance. They seem to look less to the federal government for help than do the people of any other region."

	Now, if I were a New Englander, I would be mighty proud of this compliment.

	I want to say to you here in New England what I have said elsewhere. I believe the federal government must not hesitate to do those things that are necessary for the country's welfare, which the people of the states and the localities cannot do for themselves. Decisions on federal expenditures must not be made simply in response to local or regional pressures, or the demands of particular pressure groups. Such decisions would reward those who bring the most pressure, and at the expense of those who bring the least. We must see that modesty is never penalized.

	I am also conscious of the things that disturb New England--the textile mills and the shoe factories that have been closing or moving south; the unemployment in some mill towns when jobs elsewhere have been plentiful; and the fact that any drop in business hits New England with special severity. The relatively slight recession, even of 1949, was keenly felt in many New England communities.

	Now the federal government must never seek to impede the growth of one part of the country to help another. Nor have I ever heard any New Englander suggest that the salvation of New England lies in blocking the advance of the South or of the Midwest. But government can work toward fair standards of competition between regions. We know that Massachusetts pioneered not alone in manufacturing, but in a decent and dignified life for the men and women who work in industry. Your standards of unemployment compensation, of accident compensation, protection for women and children, have always been high. Unions in New England are strong and alert to the interests of their members.

	Competition which derives its advantage from lower wage standards, less protection for workers or lower living standards, is not always healthy competition.

	We must have, it seems to me, reasonably uniform wage and hour standards. We must have reasonably uniform standards of social security throughout our country. That has been the policy of the Democratic party, as I understand it, during these past twenty years. New England's greatest resource is in its people, its unparalleled supply of skilled labor, its experienced and thrifty management, its knowledge of how to produce to the highest standards of workmanship. Any region with such a resource is assured of a great future. In the next twenty years we shall have in the United States an increase in population of over thirty million persons. New England is certain to be called upon to supply many of the needs--from fine textiles to grinding wheels--of this expanding population. Of that there can be no doubt.

	The success of New England in meeting this challenge of a growing population with a rising standard of living will depend in the future, as it has in the past, on New England brains, initiative and leadership. You haven't been waiting here in this section of the country for Washington to tell you how--and there is no danger that you will.

	There are some ways, however, in which the federal government can help. Some of them are immediate. Your new industries--and many of your old ones--produce things that are vital to our national security. The small New England manufacturer and the firm that is new in its business must get a fair break on government orders. Orders must be guided to communities where men and plants are idle. It is poor economy indeed to pay unemployment compensation and provide public assistance in one place while defense orders go where labor is scarce.

	There is also here the problem of power. I am told that the power rates in New England are nearly twice as high as for the country as a whole. This means higher production costs in factories, higher costs and smaller use in homes and on the farms.

	You still have an important resource in water power that awaits development. The decision both on our power development and on flood control on your streams is a decision that belongs to the people of New England. And the federal government, my friends, should stand ready here, as in other parts of the country, to help local people develop resources which they cannot develop themselves.

	In many parts of the country, New England has resources that are better known than its factories. The farms of the Connecticut Valley looked good even to a man from Illinois, and that is saying something. Also you take care of our insurance out in this part of the country. You educate a lot of our children and you seem to do them much good. I can testify to that because I was educated here myself and so have all of my boys learned something about the rigors of New England climate, and also its classrooms! You are the custodians of some of the greatest monuments to our past and of some of the finest scenery in our land. The day will surely come when every American, at least once in his lifetime, will come up the Connecticut Valley, will go over to visit Lexington and Concord, will go on to Boston, and then go on for a vacation somewhere in the Green Mountains or the White Mountains or the coast of Maine. I wish I was up there myself!

	I am sure that New England has a brilliant future--a future to match its brilliant past. Men and women who trace their ancestry to Ireland, to Italy, to France, to Poland, and a dozen other lands have joined their traditions and energies with those who first landed here in New England to build the New England way of life.

	I have said many times during this campaign that we have hard, heartbreaking tasks ahead of us. I don't minimize them, but I say to you that we will win through, and we will win through, my friends, with the Democratic party--I hope!

HISTORY--ENGLANDHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESMANUFACTURINGREGIONALISM--NEW ENGLAND     1 1 1 1 1
 1 1 1 1 1 1 z1 o1	  	 w 	 N 	 % 	  e: