

	We've got ten days to go, and we've got to get this message across.  We've got to know what's going on here.

	The other day, the president said that Kennedy's ideas reminded him of the ideas of Karl Marx and Adolf Hitler.  That tells you the difference between the two candidates.

	It's his theory that whenever government, whenever a president, tries to help people, we move America down the road toward dictatorship.  My theory is--the theory of the Democratic Party is--that whenever a democratic president leads this nation toward more justice, we are stronger and freer and more resistant to any possibility of a dictatorship.

	No wonder he's fought Social Security and Medicare.  He sees it as a step toward dictatorship.  I disagree.  I support Social Security and Medicare because it's a duty we owe to our parents and it makes us stronger.

	No wonder he slashed student assistance.  He believes when you help students, you make America weaker.  I believe when we help students, we help all America and we become stronger.

	No wonder he turned his back on unemployed workers and called unemployment insurance a paid vacation for freeloaders.  I believe when we help the unemployed to have some dignity and some security and bring them back to work, we're strengthening this nation and not weakening it.

	No wonder he turned his back on civil rights and women's rights.  He thinks that's a step toward bondage.  I think when we open doors toward liberty, we are a stronger, fairer, more decent society, and that's what makes us America.

	My fellow Americans, we have ten days to go.  You have a choice as to where you want this country to go.  You have a choice as to whether we move down the path toward growth and decency and justice and peace or whether we pursue this path that we're on today.

	The Republicans are telling you the election's over.  The Republicans are telling you the polls say it's behind us.  I say the polls don't vote.  People vote.  The people will decide this election.

	I have a vision of America.  First, I want an economy that grows.  I want to get this debt down and these interest rates down so that Americans can have a chance to get jobs that grow.  I want the jobs here in America.  I understand that a president's duty is to stand up for American workers, American farmers and American businesses.  I want the future here in our country for our people.

	I want an America where our kids come first.  I want us to invest in the human mind.  I want every young American to have the same chance to go on to college and vocational school as the kids in my generation did.  I want every American child to have a chance for the fullness of American life.

	[MISSING TEXT]

	He quotes in part from the most famous sermon in American history--the famous sermon on the Arabella in which Reverend Winthrop said we should be a city on the hill--but he failed to quote what Reverend Winthrop said.

	He said,

	"To be a city on the hill, we must strengthen, defend, preserve, and comfort one another.  We must bear one another's burdens.  We must look not only on our own things, but on the things of our brethren.  We must rejoice together, mourn together, and suffer together.  We must be knit together by a bond of love."

	My fellow Americans, the greatness of America is to be found in our sense of community.  We have never honored the selfish.  We have honored those like Kennedy who have asked us to come together and care for one another.

	Let us build this nation again with leadership that understands that when we're together, when we care, when we build, when we see, when we have values, when we trust our instincts and our beliefs, nothing can stop us.

	Let's win this election.

	Thank you very much.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
NEWS COMMENTS ON THE WAY TO FLINT RALLY

	Q:  Mr. Mondale, would you comment on a story in the Boston Globe this morning that James Johnson presented polling information to you that made it look as though the situation is hopeless?

	MONDALE:  For some reason, I thought you'd ask me about that.  We did have a meeting.  Jim pointed out that it's tough, and we all know that, but the meeting was principally for the purpose of shaping our strategy for the remaining twelve days.  We think that these polls are dead wrong.  I think we've got an excellent chance of winning.  The crowds are enormous.  They're engaged.  They're enthusiastic because the issues are deep and profound.

	This is not about public opinion polls.  This is about the future of our country, about arms control.  We're here in Michigan with still 15 percent unemployment with an administration that doesn't care.  We're going to win this election.

	Q:  Mr. Mondale, did Jim suggest to you that your strategy emphasizing the issues in the second debate simply wasn't cutting, and it was necessary for you to go back to basics?

	MONDALE:  No.  As a matter of fact, the surveys indicate the issues of arms control, public opposition to the Star Wars, is very strong.

	Q:  Did Mr. Johnson say, in effect, that you were not going to win the election?

	MONDALE:  No.  It's tough.  I know that.  I've never doubted it.  But I think we're doing very well.  I think the public now sees the importance of these issues.  They see the distinctions.  The meeting was for the purpose of shaping a strategy.

	Q:  To follow that up, did he not say that the trend appeared to be adverse, that Mr. Reagan [missing text] moving up and you moving down?

	MONDALE:  No.  He said it was tough, and it is tough.

	Q:  Not insurmountable, then?

	Q:  How do you account for the difference of what you're seeing on the road and what is being reported as [missing text]?

	MONDALE:  It's the difference between reality and the lack of it.

	Q:  Could you expand on that?

	MONDALE:  Whenever politics and political analysis becomes detached from what's actually going on with people and their problems, it becomes unreal.  This country--the American people--know we've got problems.  We need solutions to those problems.

	We went through the rural part of America the other day.  It's suffering the worst year since the depression.  I'm here in one of our great industrial centers, 15 percent unemployment.

	The American people see that.  We're going to win this election.

	Q:  Sir, if you did not think it was winnable, would you tell us?

	MONDALE:  I would.  You bet.  But let me just say this.  This election is serious.  It's not fun and games. It's not about polls.  It's about real, living issues.  It's about putting people back to work.  It's about educating our children.  It's about protecting the environment.  It's about being decent toward Americans who are suffering.  It's about a foreign policy with values.  It's about using our strength to keep the peace.

	There are a lot of deep issues that make this fight worthwhile.  We are ten days away from that election.  The American people have a right to hear this case.  They have a right to know what the differences are, and then they'll make up their minds.

	I'm giving this campaign everything I've got because this is America's future that's at stake.  I don't care what the polls say.  I know that the American people are going to make up their minds based on what's best for this country.  Americans don't trifle with the future of our country, and they're not going to.  We're going to win this election.

	Q:  What you're saying, in effect, is that you're not following a "lose-with-honor" strategy then?

	MONDALE:  I'm going to win because we're right and because these issues are deep and basic.

	Just this past week, this administration abstained in a UN resolution condemning what South Africa had done brutally to its own citizens.

	Now, if we stand for something as a nation, if American values mean something, how can we justify this sort of thing?

	In the debate, he said the issue in the Philippines was tyrants or communism.  He was so dead wrong, both on principle and on knowledge.  America cannot have this kind of leadership and build our future.  That's what this campaign is about.

	Q:  In what sense is your strategy going to be different in the next ten days?

	MONDALE:  I'm going to talk the issues and tell people what the differences are.  What you see is pretty much what you're going to see, but the issues will vary.

	For example, this morning I'm going to talk about the way this administration tried to forget Lebanon this week and rejoice over Grenada.  What kind of leadership is that?

CIVIL RIGHTSEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDPUBLIC OPINION/POLLSUNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION/INSURANCE     " M" G" C" ;"
 0" +" &" !" " " ! !	 c 	 W 	 7 	 # e: