

	As I have traveled around this country during a two-year campaign, I have again and again witnessed sights that have heartened me. In New Hampshire, in Wisconsin, in Michigan--in state after state--I have gone into neighborhoods and met marvelous families.

	At the center of many of these neighborhoods--and at the center of the attention of the parents--was, not infrequently, a church or a synagogue and a religious school.

	Most Americans, of course, send their children to public schools. Our public schools deserve our thanks and they desperately need our help.

	That is why I have pledged aggressive leadership to bring more financial aid to public schools than they have ever received before.

	And that is why I have pledged to release $15 billion in federal funds for property tax relief to local neighborhoods. These funds came from local neighborhoods. They should go back to local neighborhoods.

	Nine out of ten American students are in public schools. There's simply no question that that's where our highest priority lies.

	But neither can we neglect the other one out of ten students who are not in public schools--but who are also citizens and children of America. In defending majorities, we cannot neglect minorities.

	The importance of this minority number of children becomes strikingly visible when we recall that 83 percent of them are concentrated in key metropolitan areas.

	In the twenty largest cities of this nation, two out of every five children are enrolled in parochial or religious-oriented schools.

	In Chicago, there are 410 elementary schools and seventy-eight high schools in the parochial system, serving over 260,000 students or 27 percent of all students in Chicago. The total investment in the Chicago parochial school system approaches $100 million annually.

	One out of every four students in New York City is in a Catholic school. In some cities in New York State, 50 percent of all students are in parochial schools. In Philadelphia and Buffalo the figure is 33 percent. In Boston, Cincinnati, and New Orleans, it is 27 percent.

	We cannot abandon the children in these schools. We cannot allow the inflation caused by the present administration's mismanagement of the economy to become a coercive force, depriving parents of a constitutional right.

	If the cost of sending children to these schools goes up exorbitantly, as it has been going up, parents are in effect coerced into withdrawing them-- coerced indirectly into sending their children to public schools.

	I believe deeply in the values of diversity in American life, especially in education. For education is not merely a matter of skills in reading and computation--not merely a matter of technical skills.

	Education is a matter of moral vision. Education forms the character, the imagination, the sensibility. And in these things, America desperately needs diversity.

	Moral vision is not acquired in the classroom merely. It is acquired in the home, from one's relatives, from one's friends, from one's neighbors.

	Moral vision springs from a whole culture--it is embedded, even, in a language. That is why Polish schools sacrificed for so long to keep Polish alive. That is why Spanish-speaking families are demanding, quite properly, that part of the education of their children be in Spanish. That is why Jewish day schools teach not only Jewish traditions but the ancient, beautiful language of Israel.

	Parochial schools are chiefly cultural agencies. They are thoroughly American--but they are especially American in keeping alive America's diversity. They help to supply the pluribus in our nation's motto, "E Pluribus Unum,"--"out of many, one."

	That is why, in many towns and cities of America, sometimes even in small communities like Glen Cove, Long Island, there is not one Catholic school but two or three: one Italian Catholic, one Polish Catholic, one Irish Catholic.

	As David Riesman and Christopher Janecks write in "The Academic Revolution," the contribution of these diverse Catholic schools in nourishing generations of immigrants, of many tongues and many cultures--and at the same time forging from this rich diversity a truly astonishing American unity--is an achievement not yet fully studied or praised.

	Nor have our official histories of education appreciated fully yet the growing contribution of Jewish day schools around this nation; nor the contribution of the Lutheran grammar schools, high schools and colleges, especially in the Middle West--or the colleges of the Methodist, Presbyterians, Congregationalists or others--or the splendid Episcopal schools in many cities.

	Only in reflecting on the cultural richness of the full range of such schools do we come to realize what would be lost in losing them.

	But there is more to this issue. In many of our cities, church or synagogue with adjacent school are centers of cultural continuity for entire neighborhoods. Often, gathered around their house of worship and proud of their local schools, American citizens of varied cultures establish their own identity and nourish the values dear to them. They live, quite voluntarily, in the midst of relatives and friends. They resist the flight to the suburbs. Their parochial schools are, with the nearby public schools, vital sources of stability, continuity and civic loyalty.

	Moreover, the Catholic schools in particular have an impressive record in serving the needy children of our metropolitan areas.

	In Chicago, the Archdiocese spends from $3-4 million annually subsidizing children in schools that are not self-supporting. The Archdiocese provides scholarships to 150,000 high school students.

	The parochial schools in Chicago also serve 25,000 black and 10,000 Spanish surnamed children. And the Archdiocese, under federal contract, administers the largest privately run Head Start program in the country, as well as a Neighborhood Youth Corps program for needy youngsters.

	In New York City, there are 300,000 children in parochial schools. Eighty-seven percent of the parents of these children earn less than $10,000 per year. One third of these earn less than $5,000. One in ten of these parents lives below the poverty level.

	More than 60 percent of the parochial elementary school students in Manhattan are Black or Spanish-speaking; in the Bronx, the number is 30 percent.

	As Terence Cardinal Cooke has recently pointed out, the Catholic schools are not "exclusive private schools." He added: "It is not now, and never will be, the policy of the Catholic schools of America to create havens for segregation of any kind and our adherence to the civil rights requirements stems from the conviction of moral principles and not just from legal necessity."

	The record of Catholic schools, in the North and in the South, has been, in respect to integration and civil rights, most impressive. In Alabama, the Catholic Church has been sued for refusing admission to white students where there was cause to believe the reason for admission was flight from integration.

	The Civil Rights Commission, ably chaired by the Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, has been vigilant in monitoring the integration of non-public schools. In 1967, the Civil Rights Commission developed criteria for distinguishing genuinely religious non-public schools from spurious "segregated academies."
	
	The courts, particular in Green v. Connally and Green v. Kennedy, have followed these criteria. The Internal Revenue Service has the clear authority and duty to reject the claims of "segregated academies" to tax-exempt status.

	Sadly, the Nixon administration has been deficient in enforcing these clear laws and precedents, and has thereby injured the otherwise solid record of the vast majority of parochial and bona fide non-public schools.

	To my mind, the enforcement of these laws and precedents is of maximum importance. This must be clear: I support aid to parochial and other bona fide private schools. I will never support the use of federal aid to advance segregation or any other affront to civil rights, through schools or otherwise.

	As president, I would demand that the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, as well as the Internal Revenue Service, use their powers to the full to ensure that no "segregated academy," South or North, receives any form of federal assistance.

	Parochial school enrollments are concentrated in eight states--New York, Pennsylvania, Illinois, California, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan and Massachusetts --and within those states enrollments are especially heavy in major cities. These are states and cities where both the general treasuries and the individual taxpayers are being taxed to the limit.

	It is essential to good government and justice that tax relief be brought in a constitutional way to both the general treasuries and the parents of children in parochial and other bona fide private schools.

	As we are moving to strengthen the nation's public school system, we can and must move to assist parents and children participating in parochial and other bona fide non-public schools which have historically complemented the public system. I firmly believe we move to strengthen both without weakening one or the other--that we can afford to help all our children without sacrificing the needs of any of our children.

	We can especially afford to do this in the context of a healthy and vital economy, operating at the full employment level, and producing increased revenues through a fair and equitable system of taxation.

	I have said previously that I was exploring the means by which the federal government can help achieve the goal of further aiding the parents and children participating in parochial and other bona fide non-public schools either directly or through the tax structure. I have also said that I was convinced that a way should be found to provide such aid within the framework of the Constitution.

	The Supreme Court, in finding that parochial and other bona fide non-public school students are entitled to the use of public school textbooks, stated: "Private education has played and is playing a significant and valuable role in raising national levels of knowledge, competence, and experience... Considering this attitude, the continued willingness to rely on private school systems strongly suggests that wide segment of informed opinion, legislative and otherwise, has found that these schools do an acceptable job of providing secular education to their students."

	I share this position of the Court. And there is reason to believe that further aid to the parents and children participating in parochial and other bona fide non-public schools will be upheld by the Court.

	On that basis, I am today announcing my support of the tax credit approach to aid the parents and children attending parochial and other bona fide non-public schools.

I am writing Wilbur Mills, Chairman of the House Committee Ways and Means, that I fully endorse the principle of tax credits which is currently being considered before his committee, and that I hope the committee will find it possible to report legislation to the floor of the House for consideration before this session of Congress ends.

	I am also informing Senator Russell Long, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, of my support for tax credit legislation and requesting that he call finance Committee hearings on such proposals at the earliest possible moment.

	Tax credits of the magnitude proposed by Congressman Mills and other Democrats, including Congressmen Pucinski and Rostenkowski, can provide significant financial relief to hard-pressed parents but by no means cover the full cost of the education of a child in parochial and other bona fide non-public schools.

	And, that is as it should be. For the parents and the educators of children in parochial and other bona fide non-public schools are not seeking a total federal subsidy. They are only asking for a fair shake, for the chance to continue providing this kind of education for the children at a personal cost they can afford.

	Tax credits, of course, will only directly assist parents who are taxpayers. They do not directly assist parents with children in other than public schools who do not pay taxes.

	For those parents, I believe tax credits will provide an important form of indirect assistance by permitting the parochial and other private schools to continue to provide, and perhaps even increase, the substantial subsidies that are now provided to children whose parents cannot afford to pay for the cost of their education.

	Additionally, I believe further assistance to those children can be provided through such legislation as has been offered in the Senate by Senators Mondale and Stevenson to broaden and improve the provision of services, materials, equipment and facilities through the Elementary-Secondary Education Act.

	The need for improved services to poor children in inner-city public schools has long been urgent. The need of equally poor children in inner-city parochial schools is equally urgent.

	Major federal benefits to parochial and other bona fide non-public schools flow from Titles I, II, and III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, and the National School Lunch Program.

	ESEA was the first significant federal program for elementary and secondary education, including parochial schools. It was designed and passed by a Democratic Congress under the leadership of a Democratic administration.

	The other major program assisting parochial and other bona fide private schools is the National School Lunch Program. As Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs, I was personally involved, along with Congressman Pucinski, in passing amendments to the School Lunch Act in 1970 permitting parochial schools to increase their participation in this vital nutrition program.

A major school lunch program in parochial schools operating this legislation is in Chicago under the personal leadership of Cardinal John Patrick Cody and Superintendent of Parochial Schools, Father Robert Clark. Last year, 15,000 youngsters received lunches in Chicago parochial schools; this year the number will rise to 30,000 and, eventually 65,000.

	In recent years, however, federal benefits have not kept pace with the needs of parochial and other bona fide private schools. The record under the current administration has been to reduce the level of services by these programs.

	Administration budgets for the past four years have kept the funding at the previous year's level, which actually results, because of inflationary pressures, in reduced services. The President actually vetoed, along with other educational funds, Title II of ESEA, which provides the most equitable benefits, in the form of library services to parochial schools. He also attempted to eliminate funding for the program when the legislation was repassed, but under vigorous pressure from the Catholic community and Democrats in Congress, finally agreed to funding the program at a 50 percent level.

	Fifty percent, a half-hearted effort, isn't good enough for education in America. A McGovern-Shriver administration will do better than that.

	If we can now move, as one nation, to meet the educational needs of all our children, in public, parochial and other bona fide private schools, then we will have taken another step in the direction of fulfilling the genuine hopes of the framers of our Constitution in their desire to encourage the diversity of intellectual, cultural and religious belief which has contributed so much to America's greatness.
CATHOLICISMEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONNUTRITIONPROPERTY TAXSUPREME COURTEDUCATION, PRIMARYEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSEDUCATION, SECONDARY     > > }> y> q>
 e> `> [> T> L> J> = =	  	  	  	 y 	 m  `  N   e: