

	For most Americans, the economic policies of the Nixon administration have been a bewildering and tragic sequence. A President who ran four years ago on a platform of fiscal conservatism has put us under the largest budget deficits in American history. A politician who claimed he was totally opposed to wage and price controls suddenly imposed them and with blatant inequities.

	Along with the ironies, there has been human tragedy. A President of the United States carried out a deliberate policy of putting people out of work in the name of combating inflation. And still rising prices cut deeply into earnings, savings and retirement income.

	We have endured all that under Mr. Nixon. We thought we had seen it all until we heard about Mr. Nixon's spending ceiling.

	A week and a half ago, Mr. Nixon told a nationwide radio audience that the main economic issue in this election is federal spending and the prospect of higher taxes. He said that a $250 billion spending ceiling was required to control the federal budget. And he claimed that those who opposed this ceiling may be responsible for higher taxes next year.

	Let me tell you today why I think Mr. Nixon's spending ceiling is bad economic policy and, more important, why it is a harsh and inhumane public policy. It is a cynical device to draw public attention away from the pain and cost of the mismanagement our economy has suffered for four long years.

	There could be no greater irony than for this administration to talk about a spending ceiling. 

	Two years ago, Mr. Nixon projected a $1.5 billion budget surplus. He ended that year with a $23 billion deficit. The next year, he said we'd have "only" an $11 billion deficit. But the budget went into the red again by $23 billion. This year, we will have an enormous deficit of about $35 billion. That means that the national debt will have increased more during the four years of the Nixon administration than under Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson all taken together over sixteen years.

	The Nixon increase in the national debt is almost one quarter of the entire debt since the start of the Republic. And the interest on this new debt will cost every American family over $100 a year.

	So when Mr. Nixon reported this fall that the budget was out of control, he knew what he was talking about. But what he neglected to tell us is why: because federal revenues have been strangled by the Nixon recession which cost $175 billion over the last three and a half years in lost goods and services; because Mr. Nixon has launched another burst in military spending, to buy still more overkill, and to spend as much as $100 billion a year by 1977; and because in 1971 Mr. Nixon gave a permanent $8 billion yearly tax gift to big business.

	The Nixon budget ceiling would be one more disaster to add to that list. The human cost of the ceiling would be enormous. It would break the historic bipartisan commitment to full employment. Full employment has been our national policy since World War II. The principle was approved by Congress and signed into law by President Truman over twenty years ago. 

	Mr. Nixon himself has embraced it--"a job for every American who wants to work" as he put it in his acceptance speech at the last Republican Convention.

	And yet, now, when every economist tells us unemployment will hang at or above 5 percent through most of 1973, Mr. Nixon wants to slow down the economic expansion that will bring jobs. It's all right, we're told, to let interest rates soar. That's a "normal" feature of recovery. But jobs and people are different. They're expendable. So now we have the Nixon spending ceiling that sacrifices jobs and people to the mistaken Republican notion of how the battle against inflation should be fought.

	With wise management of the economy at the national level, including wage and price restraints that work, I am convinced that we can have both full employment and far more stable prices than we have now.

	And I flatly disagree with John Connolly's assertion that the 4 percent unemployment goal is a "myth"... that "it never happened... save in wartime." The truth is that we have reached 4 percent unemployment in four of the five economic expansions just since World War II.

	But the spending ceiling is worse than bad economics. I wish it were only some abstract mistake. It would also be a fearful new burden on the American people, as workers, consumers and taxpayers.

	It's not surprising that Mr. Nixon and company would so readily press that burden on us. I think the Republicans have always seen economic policy as a false choice between efficient economic management and the welfare of people.

	And in that choice... as in so many other areas... they have invariably chosen to disregard people.

	Naturally, the first casualty has been jobs: two million people have been added to the unemployment rolls since January, 1969; 1.7 million exhausted their unemployment benefits last year; legislation to put 250,000 unemployed people to work in public service jobs was vetoed twice; and 300,000 young veterans have returned from the nightmare of Vietnam only to know the haunting helplessness of an unemployment line.

	These are not just statistics. They are lives and hopes and dreams broken. They are scars on America's spirit.

	And when the jobless rolls had reached a recession high, Mr. Nixon's top domestic aide, John Ehrlichman, dismissed the unemployed as "teenage blacks, welfare mothers and folks of that kind, people who can't hold jobs."

	That shameful statement was a transparent fraud. The truth is that the largest increase in unemployment under Mr. Nixon has been for adult men, for people who can not only hold jobs, but who want desperately to work. The same is true of many in the other groups he maligned.

	So again, we see the broader truth exposed as this administration responds on reflex against ordinary people. It is exposed as well in the programs Mr. Nixon would cut under this spending ceiling. He has not told us openly where his cuts will come. But the outlines are all too clear.

	A bloated military budget is not to be touched. General Thieu will get every dime he wants.

	The slashing will come in education, health care, jobs and training programs and thus will cut into the security and future of a majority of Americans.

	There would be sharp reductions in grants to state and local governments. We would have the absurdity of an administration pushing revenue-sharing with one hand and taking back funds from state and local governments with the other.

	I propose a different course, and a different order of concerns.

	As president, I would attack unemployment directly.

	A temporary $10 billion fiscal stimulus would help cut the unemployment rate to 4 percent by 1974, and set the stage for the realization of balanced budgets in a balanced economy. Most of this money would go to reverse premature cutbacks of job-creating programs. A second part would be spent in contracts with private industry for new and rehabilitated housing, for public transportation systems, and anti-pollution facilities. And finally, some of these funds would be channeled to state and local governments to help fund priority local projects.

	An expansive monetary policy would provide ample funds for business investment and home construction. Already, there is evidence that interest rates are turning up. This tendency should be reversed.

	The inflation would be checked by a wage-price policy that really works, not a policy that pretends to control the whole economy and controls nothing effectively, but a program that focuses on those sectors where controls are needed and can make a difference. This means primarily the big corporations and the concentrated industries.

	The present controls program has succeeded in holding down the wages of hard-pressed workers, while prices continue to climb. As a result, the growth of purchasing power has been held back, and so has the growth of the economy.

	A fair wage-price policy would establish profit guidelines based on actual costs and encourage cost reductions rather than cost increases. It would provide the President with the power to reverse price and wage decisions in violation of the established guidelines. And I would not hesitate to exercise that power.

	An attack would be launched on the areas where unemployment is chronic by creating as many as one million public service jobs and by revitalizing our manpower programs.

	Six weeks ago, I proposed a program of one million public service jobs for those on welfare and other heads of poor families. No one who has walked through one of our large cities can doubt that there is useful work to be done in cleaning our cities and in rebuilding them. And no one who has watched the rapid growth of welfare dependency can doubt that a paycheck even from the government is better than a dole.

	A McGovern administration would reduce the fat and the overkill in our military budget, while preserving the muscle needed for our national security. Following the advice of outstanding experts on national defense, it would hold military spending for 1975 to $30 billion below the sharply rising levels advocated by Mr. Nixon.

	Finally, my program would raise an additional $22 billion a year by closing tax loopholes. All taxpayers would be treated alike no matter how they earn their incomes. Money made by money would be taxed the same as money made by men. Not one extra penny would be taken from the vast majority of American families who receive their incomes from wages, salaries, interest, and pensions income that does not receive favored treatment at the present time.

	With these new revenues, we will begin to meet our most urgent needs at home. We can devote $50 billion a year to our nation's most precious resource--its people--and still balance our checkbook. We can invest: $15 billion a year would go to aid our local school systems, thereby ensuring property tax relief and better education; $14 billion to replace the current welfare disgrace with a system of national income insurance that would replace welfare with work. This program would reverse the 70 percent increase in the welfare rolls that has occurred under the Nixon administration; $20 to $25 billion to support a vital set of productive investments in people, ranging from health research to benefits for Vietnam veterans.

	So the choice presented to us by the spending ceiling is between Mr. Nixon's large increases in military spending accompanied by substantial cutbacks in education, health care, and the like, and the McGovern program to move in the opposite direction--to cut defense spending, close tax loopholes, and use precious public funds to meet or needs here at home.

	We can bring the unemployment rate down to 4 percent in 1974. We can make it possible for millions of Americans to bring home paychecks instead of welfare checks--and for millions more to move up career ladders to better and more productive jobs.

	We can choose that, or we can go on enduring a weak economy and bemoan sagging productivity, waning business initiative, rising welfare rolls, and the like, and blame innocent people for the mistakes of their government.

	John Kennedy once said: "A rising tide lifts all boats." The tide of the American economy has been ebbing since 1969, just as it has too often under Republican administrations. And a Democratic administration, as so often before, will turn that tide.

	I won't pretend that we have all the answers to the puzzles of our modern economy. We will make mistakes. But I can promise that we will put people first. And that is the soundest economics, the soundest public policy ever devised.

	Franklin Roosevelt put it this way: "Better the occasional faults of a government living in the spirit of charity than the consistent omissions of a government frozen in the ice of its own indifference."
DEBT, NATIONALMILITARY PREPAREDNESSTAX REFORMWAGE AND PRICE POLICYWELFAREBUDGET CEILINGSBUDGET DEFICITUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     / / / / /
 / / / / x/ v/ S/ I/	 { 	 m 	 X 	 N 	 9  2  #   e: