

	My fellow citizens:  It is truly a great honor that you people of Dayton do me this morning, to take this time out of your busy day to come out and allow me to greet you and give you two or three of the thoughts that are on my mind concerning this great political campaign in which we are engaged.  I have long wanted to come to Dayton and this morning I have a reminder of how years begin to pass rapidly as one piles them on his shoulders as he goes along through life.  At the beginning of the war there was an eleven year-old girl here who adopted me as her pen pal, and this morning I have the privilege of meeting her for the first time, but now it turns out she is a beautiful, twenty-one year-old girl.

	Then I have wanted to come to pay tribute to the population that produced those great people, Orville and Wilbur Wright, and I think it is probably no accident therefore that this city has shown the imagination and the daring and the industrial capacity to be the home and become the home of such great industrial organizations as you have here, nationally known almost all of them.

	Finally, I wanted to come to the home of Congressman Schenck because, they tell me, in the past seven presidential election years we have not had a Republican congressman to Washington.  This time I have come to ask you to break that record and ask you to elect Congressman Schenck.

	I have been meeting crowds like this all over this great Middle West as far west as Minnesota, west into Nebraska and back this way.  This part of the political campaigning is the most pleasant part, the opportunity to meet informally with great groups of your fellow Americans, to see them face to face, to give them something of what is in your heart and mind and that they have a right to know as long as I am standing for political office, and then to get their reactions by telegram, by letter, by notes, sometimes just by yelling their sentiments back at me.  To get those reactions it gives great food for thought.  I am going to tell you something of what I think I have learned from these people during those past weeks that I have been traveling up and down the land into the south, into southern California, into New York, all over.

	First, our people are vastly disturbed by the failure of this administration to lead us more surely and soundly toward peace in the world, and our people understand that that failure has a very definite influence, indeed, casts a very dark shadow over all of our domestic problems.  The great material expenses, the great cost we are paying in the blood of our youth as we wage this war, cold and hot, all of these things have a depressing effect upon our morale.  They creep into our hearts, they create fear and on top of that they cause us to spend our substance.  Remember Lenin once said, recognizing that the great of Communist Russia would eventually be the United States, "But we shall force the United States to spend itself into destruction."  This threat that we have in the world and which seems to reach no better conclusion than it has to date is having its effect upon us.  Our money goes down and down in purchasing value.  Our expenses go up and up.  We live beyond our means and there is no plan given us whereby we are going to live within our means.

	We have inflation given us as a correction, as an excuse, as a cover-up, as a curtain behind which an administration can hide its hideous mistakes.  That is the kind of thing we cannot stand and we have this inflation, we have these deficits in our budget at the very time we are told we are in the most prosperous condition we have ever been in the time of peace.

	Yet this same government, ladies and gentlemen, told us about two weeks ago that the average city family spent in 1950 $400 more than that family could earn--$400 for food, shelter, clothing and the other necessaries and comforts of life.  Is that prosperity?  If you can get rich on that kind of a financial diet, you are wizards. 

	Finally, we come down to the source of trouble, the source of all this trouble, and the American people in my opinion are convinced, have reached a basis conviction that most of these troubles were avoidable, that we have been led down a garden path by an administration composed of men who were too little for their jobs, who did not have the intellectual capacity, the courage, the comprehension to come before the American people to admit a mistake and get to work to correct it, but they come before you with some new alibi for pretending the mistake never occurred.  They even call the great war in Korea a police action.

	Ladies and gentlemen, this all adds up to one simple thing--we have got to have a change and I am not expressing here just my individual opinion.  I am bringing to you what I believe I have seen in the faces and I know I have seen in the telegrams and the notes and the letters and the telephone calls of thousands of Americans.  We can no longer put up with that kind of leadership, a leadership that does not bring us closer to peace in the world and they well know that we can have no peace in the world as long as we have a government that cannot excite your pride.  Until it can excite your pride it is not going to earn the respect abroad that it must have if it is going to lead the world toward peace.  In my mind, that is the basic conclusion of American today.  Not only do we need a change, but we are going to have one.

	I want to take this latter point for just one second and remind you people of this, the great and priceless privilege of American citizenship, the rights and freedoms and liberties that we enjoy are going to be preserved to us likewise by individual action. Individual liberty must be balanced by individual responsibility.  In the latest elections of which we have records, in Australia 93% of the eligible voters went to the polls and registered their opinions and convictions.  In our country 4 years ago, and this gives an explanation of why we have this so-called Fair Deal, 51% of the people voted.  Tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, I understand you have your last opportunity to register.  If we are sick and tired of the things that have happened to us, if what I have told you this morning is representative, and I firmly believe it is, of the mass opinion of all the thousands, hundreds of thousands of Americans I have been meeting, then you can do your part only by voting.  Vote your conscience:  what is in your mind; what are your convictions, but you must vote.  And I tell you this; there is no loyal American in public office anywhere or aspiring to public office, who will not take the mass opinion of American people not only loyally and obey it, but they will take it happily because there is nobody, certainly in the Republican party, who has any other desire than to serve your will, nor to try to destroy or seduce your will.  We want only to serve you.  That goes in the Senate, in the Congress and for every single American of great prestige who could be called into the executive department.  

	So you must do your part.  If this is your government, please give your orders.  That is one request I make of you and the pledge I give you is this:  if you decide that the Republicans ought to take over the guidance of this country to lead it closer and more surely toward peace, to lead it back into solvency, to preserve the value of your money, to get rid of crookedness, arrogance and complacency in government, then those Republicans of all varieties in all echelons of government will make you this one pledge; they will try to make their decisions, form their policies in terms of this one thing--what is good for the United States of America--not one group, not one class, not one section--what is good for 155 million loyal Americans.

	Before I turn this microphone over to the distinguished Ohioans who are accompanying me this morning, will you allow me to present to this great group my wife.  She would like to meet you.

INFLATIONKOREAN WARVOTER TURNOUT         
        }	   	  	  e: