

	Today I am grateful to the NRECA for permitting me to come before you and to talk about what I think ought to be the central issues in the 1984 campaign, because it bears fundamentally on the future, the health, the prosperity of our country.  And I'm talking about that much-needed debate about rural America and the policies and the approach we need to restore prosperity throughout America.  I have been looking for an opportunity to speak to this issue, and I thank you for offering this chance.  I come from rural America.  My dad was a farmer before he was a preacher. I worked on a farm all during my young years and was pleased to serve as a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee for years and to work with this association and with others who believe in a strong rural America.

	I am, and always will be, a strong supporter of the rural electrification program.  I have seen in my lifetime the difference that this program has meant in the lives of thousands and thousands of rural dwellers who once led lonely, isolated lives, undergoing backbreaking labor.  My dad told me what it was like as a rural minister when suddenly the lights went on in rural America.  He said it really changed the spirit and the hope of rural America.  I am part of a proud tradition of Democrats who created this program, fought for this program, and want to see it improved to serve modern rural America.  These Democrats, these pioneers brought us our REA, and we've been its protectors ever since.  And over the years the REA has meant not just electricity but telephones, advanced communications, and decent lives for millions of Americans. I'm proud to be a part of that tradition.  I've always been a strong supporter.  As senator, I helped to write the basic financing legislation.  And as president, I will work with you to strengthen the REA program, and to strengthen the rural telephone program.  And to an organization that's used to hearing promises, I think twenty-five years of devotion to this program tells you that I will do what I promised once I'm president of the United States.

	Now in 1980, a Republican president came to you and made pretty much the same promise.  He said he endorsed your program, and he said that "every new proposal would be made with the advice and the counsel of the rural electric leadership."  He immediately broke that promise.  In each of these past four years this administration has proposed deep cuts in the REA program.  And there were no consultations at all.

	But my friends here today, not from rural America, I ought to take just minute to say why this program is important to rural America and to our nation.  The economics of electricity in rural America are much different from the economics of electricity in urban areas because of density.  If you want rural dwellers and farmers to have the electricity they need at costs they can afford and at costs that permit a healthy rural America, there must be a write-down in the cost-bed of electricity; otherwise, the program fails and rural America is in deep trouble.  While times change, the fact of it is that the rural electrification program is just as much needed today as it's ever been in the nearly 50 year history of this program.  And as president of the United States, I understand that reality, and I will implement these policies as your president.  With your help, when you celebrate your fifieth anniversary, let's hold it in the White House.

	On Sunday, Mr. Reagan and I will meet and debate on national television.  It will be our first.  And I hope that the health of rural America will be a major issue in that debate.  Some people don't know it, but agriculture is America's biggest industry. It is much larger than General Motors, much larger than any other industry in America.  Rural America represents the bedrock of our nation's values.  In my opinion, no one should be elected president without a plan to strengthen family farming in rural America.

	On Sunday night, I predict that President Reagan will tell you that you're better off than you've ever been before.  And you know better.  I wish he would come with me to the Iowa State Fair, where farmers I talked to had tears in their eyes because they were losing their farms.  I wish he'd join me in Alabama, where parents watch their children leave the land because there's no future in it.  As a matter of fact, I wish he'd come with me almost anywhere in rural America and he would see what I am talking about.  Decent, hard-working, previously successful farmers, through no fault of their own, losing their farms or losing their prosperity, and dashing their hopes.

	And the reasons are there for all to see.  Under this administration, net farm income has dropped in half--I think more than any other area of the American economy.  Farm exports have sunk like a stone.  Debt has soared.  Last year, net interest payments exceeded farm income.  Farmers are squeezed between monthly payments, falling crop prices, and plunging land values.  Delinquencies, foreclosures, and for-sales have tripled in the last four years.  Here in Arkansas, cash receipts are down across the board.  The poultry and the rice industries are losing markets to overseas competitors.  Your land values in Arkansas have dropped an average of 10percent in each of the last four years.  And each year since then an average of a thousand Arkansas families--farm families--have lost their farms each year.

	I do not doubt Mr. Reagan's goodwill toward rural America.  But there's a difference between goodwill and good deeds, and the difference is presidential leadership.  I do not doubt Mr. Reagan's high hopes for the future of family farming.  But there's a gulf between hoping and acting, and the difference is presidential leadership.

	Mr. Reagan's optimism about America does not belong to him alone.  All Americans rejoice in this nation.  We believe in the strength of our country, and the greatness of our future.  But optimism will not cut that deficit.  Happy talk does not boost exports.  Balloons will not lift farm income.  Photo opportunities will not solve the credit crises.  Only leadership will.

	And as everyone knows here today, the issue is not just farmers, it's rural America.  It is not just rural America, it's the health of the American economy.  A strong, prosperous America depends upon a healthy America.  Rural America needs a president who leads, who's in touch with your problems, who's in charge of your government, and who understands what must be done to shape the policies we need.  And today I want to talk briefly about the approach that a Mondale administration would take to rural America.

	We must build our future.  There must be a change.  The first thing we need is a policy to unify rural America.  That may sound like a simple point, but I think it's very basic.  When farmers of different regions producing different commodities are divided, there's an impotence that sets in that paralyzes progress for everything that rural America needs.  But when farmers from every region, of every commodity, stand together, there is strength that underlies what we must do to make progress.  That's the way it was when I was a senator, and vice president, and as president I'm going to reach out to bring American agriculture back together.

	This administration, as you well know, has done exactly the opposite.  Early on, Mr. Stockman spilled the beans when he said, and I quote, "My plan is to come in with a farm bill that's unacceptable to the farm guys so that the whole thing begins to splinter."  That idea is to divide and conquer, and that's exactly what they did.  That's what produced the '81 farm bill, the worst in my lifetime.  That is what has given us four years of disaster, roller-coaster farm programs with no predictability.

	So the first thing is to unify rural America.  The second thing is, we simply must reduce these deficits dramatically.  There cannot be, there just will not be, a healthy America or an America that can sustain long term economic growth with deficits of $200, $250, and $300 billion a year, soaking up 50, 60, 70 percent of the life savings of America.  These deficits, this debt of now over $600 billion, works as a dagger in the heart of rural America.  It drives up interest rates, and farming is credit intensive.  They distort the value of the dollar and destroy exports.

	For thirteen consecutive years farm exports rose every year.  That's strengthened farm income and reduced farm program costs, and farm exports have fallen off by 20 percent.  It's not the farmers' fault.  They are as efficient as ever.  But what happens is, it acts as though you tacked an invisible tax of 45 percent on everything produced by an American farmer, an invisible subsidy of 35 percent on everything produced by our foreign competitors.  And it has driven America both in rural, but in urban and industrial goods as well, in full international rout.

	These deficits are nothing less than the most massive, self-imposed embargo on American farm exports in the history of our country.  Now, Mr. Reagan may say, "No problem," but he's dead wrong.  And that's why I have stood before the American people, despite the advice of politicians, to tell you what I'm going to do and how I'd do it.

	I will cut these deficits by two-thirds.  And I will do it in a way that's fair, in a way that builds our future, in a way that permits rural America to get going again with lower interest rates and expanded exports.  He may not like my plan.  That's his privilege.  But on this, the most important issue in domestic America, this huge stone roadblock, doesn't anybody who wants to be your president have a duty before the election to tell you what he's going to do so that you can compare both of us and decide what you want?

	Since I challenged him to tell us, twenty-three days have passed.  This administration has borrowed eleven-and-a-half billion dollars since that challenge, and still--no answers.  If we're to build a strong America and a strong rural America, those deficits must come down.

	Third, we need a president who understands farm programs, is committed to their wise management, and uses those programs to strengthen farm incomes.  I don't know whether they understand that if you keep supply in relationship to demand, farm program costs become manageable, farm income will firm, farming will be profitable, and farmers will have the stability and the predictability that they need, and rural America will prosper.

	In 1981 and '82, they made these programs so unattractive that farmers didn't participate.  And everyone in rural America could predict exactly what was going to happen:  huge surpluses accumulated, commodity prices fell, farm program costs went up, and farming was in a crisis.  In '83, they gave you a costly Band-Aid, but now they're back to their old tricks.  The latest feed grain proposals just made are useless:  no paid diversion, frozen target prices and loan levels, no incentives to balance supply with demand.  The administration concedes that feed-grain prices will fall, but they won't tell you that under this program we may add two billion bushels of feed-grain stocks to our reserves, and that program costs will soar.

	It doesn't have to be this way.  Those programs, wisely managed, work.  I've spent a lot of my life working with these programs.  And I'm here today to tell you as president I will use the paid diversion program, the loan level, the target price mechanisms, export support policies, to firm up farm income, because while we've got a credit problem, fundamentally we've got a price problem, and if we don't solve that, nothing else will work.  And mine will make the difference.

	Fourth, we need to step up to the farm credit crisis.  All across our country decent, hard-working families are being forced off the land.  For nearly four years this administration has done nothing.  I've seen some of the correspondence from Bill Alexander and others that pleaded with them in '82 and '83 to act.  They refused.

	My program, which I've announced, is this:  First, I will declare a six-month moratorium on foreclosures of Farmers' Home Administration loans to give us a breather.  Second, we will establish local committees to study the credit worthiness of farmers in trouble and come up with individual refinancing plans.  For Farmers' Home loans, interest rates will come down as much as 5 percent.  For private loans, banks and the federal government will form a new partnership to write down interest rates and share the cost of giving good farmers the chance to make it.

	This plan is urgently needed.  A lot of these farmers I've talked to don't have more than a couple of months.  It's carefully targeted.  It's affordable.  I've worked it out with some of the best experts in our country.  It steps up to the private credit crisis as well as the public farm credit crisis.  And it will help good farmers who deserve a little help to get by this rough patch and get back on their feet while we build farm income.

	A few days after I offered my farm plan, the fog finally cleared at the White House.  And Mr. Reagan hurried off to Iowa to release his own.  But if you study it carefully, it won't help rural America survive his policies.  And there are several reasons why.

	First, his plan has no breathing space for hard-pressed farmers.  Thousands would be driven off the land before help arrives.  

	Secondly, by forcing rural banks to write down their equity in return for federal guarantees, it will weaken many small, rural banks who are already in trouble and restrict their ability to make future loans to rural communities.

	Finally--and this is probably its most important limitation--by limiting those guarantees that have been announced for private loans, his plan will deal with only a tiny fraction of the farm credit crisis.  Don't forget that 90 percent of agricultural credit is purely private.  Only about 10 percent of it is Farmers' Home.  An estimated $10 billion of credit crisis exists for good farmers who are in danger of going into bankruptcy now.

	The president's program would only reach, at the most, 6percent of those farmers that are in need.  Thus, it is only a minuscule attack on a fundamental crisis.  Mine deals with all of those problems.

	There's another problem that bothers me.  We should be emphasizing a credit approach that gets credit into the hands of those good farmers who need a little help to get by this patch in the road.  And while that has not been forthcoming, we've noticed that friends of the secretary have been able to get $400,000 loans at 5 percent interest for speculation.  I think we ought to have a program that stops the speculators and puts those resources back on the family farm, where real farmers need it for themselves and their future.

	And, of course, the most fundamental thing that's missing is that while they deal with some of the credit crisis temporarily--a modest portion of it--that's not going to do any good unless we improve farm income.  As a matter of fact, unless you improve farm income, the worst thing you can do is keep adding more credit to a desperate situation.  It makes things worse.  I will stand for improved farm income through sound management of the farm programs.  They have not.  I don't think they will.  And that is also a big difference.

	Fifth, rural America needs a president who will get tough and realistic on trade.  What's happening more and more is that the American farmer, who used to outperform the world--and that's why these farm exports were rising--has lost that advantage because of the distortion of the dollar, but also has lost that advantage because a growing number of our trading partners are using the government--government subsidies, quotas, and other kinds of techniques--to get an unfair advantage for their farmers.  We can expect American farmers to compete with foreign farmers on a level table.  That's your job, and I have no doubt how it will come out.  But increasingly, American farmers are being asked to compete with foreign governments.  And that's too much.

	And that's why you need a president who says we're going to cut that stuff out, and we're going to have true, private competition, farmer to farmer, and we'll take our chances, and we'll win.  But you need strong trade policies to get it done.

	I will demand fairness for our farmers.  I will support expanded exports.  I will oppose embargoes, as I have all my life--they are unfair to farmers and do not help our country.

	There are many, many other things we can talk about.  The Soil Conservation Service--we have a tremendous topsoil problem in this country, and a water problem.  I will work with you in every one of these areas and I think you know of my commitment.  But there's another aspect of agriculture that has been missing recently.  We are in a world where millions of people are starving.  Just read the story of what's gone on in Africa--millions of our fellow human beings dying from hunger.  We are in a country where, because of our family farm system, agricultural abundance is one of the miracles of any society on earth.  Don't we have the wisdom to take the miracle of American agricultural abundance, and match it with the human need around the world?

	I've talked to many farmers in my life.  Most of them would rather be paid a decent price to do what they're good at--production--than to be paid not to produce in order to simply firm up farm income.  If we could once again, maybe, once again sell fewer guns and start selling a little more agriculture and a little more food, I think we would strengthen ourselves more than a lot of people understand.

	Finally, like all Americans, rural Americans want a president who will lead us on the crucial issue of war and peace.  To lead, a president must have clear, steady beliefs that he understands, and that we understand.  In the last few days we've heard of some Soviet talks from the president on foreign policy, and we welcome them.  But we can't help but notice that for four years he sounded like Ronald Reagan, and now he's trying to sound like Walter Mondale.  There's a question of which Reagan we're to believe.  The new Reagan meets with Gromyko; the old Reagan is the first president since Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart. 

The new Reagan favors arms control; the old Reagan opposed every arms control agreement reached by every president of both political parties since the bomb went off.  This presidential sea change raises a crucial question:  Which Reagan would be president if he's re-elected?  As president, I'll keep us strong, and I'll work for peace from the first day that I'm in office, and not from the first day of my campaign for re-election.

	The second thing a president must do is to be in touch and in charge.  I do not doubt at all Mr. Reagan's desire for peace, but that's not enough.  A president must master, command, and learn if he is to lead.  This administration has failed to achieve a single significant foreign policy success.  Today in Central America, there are no talks.  In the Middle East, there's no policy.  And in Lebanon, there is no protection.  And on earth, there is no arms control.  When the fate of the earth is at stake--and if those bombs go off, nothing else will matter--it takes more than good intentions.  You need a president who learns, who knows, who's in charge, who masters, and who leads this strong nation to stop those weapons, before they destroy us all.

	Finally, a president must be responsible and accountable.  Three times in the last seventeen months, Americans have been attacked and killed in Lebanon.  The first time, it could have happened to anyone.  The second time, when over 200 Marines were killed in those barracks, the Joint Chiefs had warned the president not to put our Marines there because they were unprotected.  But this time, it's inexcusable.  The terrorists' threats were known.  A week before this last attack they were on the radio saying, "Here we come."  The State Department, the Defense Intelligence Agency, all recommended security measures and warned that that embassy was in danger.  Those precautions were not implemented.  Instead, now that it's happened, Mr. Reagan is hiding behind alibis.  First he said, "We did everything possible," and we know he didn't.  Then he said, "This is kind of like remodeling a kitchen--it doesn't always get done as fast as you want it."  But we all know that when you deal with bloody terrorists, you're dealing with an entirely different problem, and a sense of urgency.  Then he tried to blame the previous administration for weakening our intelligence capabilities, but even his own vice president and CIA director admitted that this wasn't true.  Fourth, he blamed the press, but even Gerald Ford told him to take the responsibility on his own.  One of my heroes is Harry Truman.  And he had a sign on his desk that said, "The buck stops here."  And that's a very important thing.  Because if a president won't take responsibility, nobody else will.  It begins on that desk, with that president.  This president should put on a sign that says, "The buck stops everywhere but here."  And there's a big difference.

	Over these next thirty-five days you, the American people, will make the most solemn of all choices as citizens:  who should be the next president of the United States.  How much do you trust in that person?  You trust him to keep us strong.  You trust him through wisdom to keep the peace.  You trust him to manage our economy, so that there's growth, and jobs, and prosperity.  You trust him to build our future, with education and science and learning and the other things that are necessary as we push out to meet those challenges.  And you trust him to protect the American values of fairness; of opening doors; of eliminating discrimination; of reaching out to lighten the burden on our grandparents, the handicapped and others--the unemployed--who are overwhelmed by problems beyond their capacity to deal with.  In that one person, you entrust so much of yourself, so much of your future, and so much of your dreams.  It's the most important decision in civic affairs that you ever make, and you know it.

	Judge us both.  Ask who will lead.  The president says that we should rejoice in what we've done as a country, and we ought to.  This is a marvelous country--there's nothing like it on earth.  This nation, I think, for many, many reasons, as far as I am concerned is clearly the best nation on earth.  But the question is not just what we've done; it's what we must do.  It's not just congratulations, it's also challenge.  There's a difference between a quarterback and a cheerleader.  And what we need is what Kennedy would have said.  He said, "America is great, but we can become greater," with leaders who rejoice in our strengths, who see the virtues of this magnificent society, but who also see our problems and our challenges, and because of it build our strength into the future.  That's the kind of leadership that really makes this nation all that it can be.  

	Thank you very much.

AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--FARM FORECLOSURESAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESBANKING/LOANS/CREDITBUDGET DEFICITELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALHUNGER (WORLD)LEBANONRURAL DEVELOPMENTTERRORISMAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     \ \ \ \ x\
 m\ h\ c\ X\ P\ N\ I\ >\	 *	 	  	  	  	  	  	 q 	 Y 	 C 	 5 	 . 	    e: