

	My fellow Americans: First, I should like to remark, I never saw a theater before with so many balconies, and I hope up there in that top heaven you can hear me.  I want, first of all, to thank each of you who has taken the time from his busy day to come out here to allow me to bring him a word of friendly greeting, and to express to him a few of the thoughts that I have in my heart and on my mind as we enter these last hectic days of a very hectic campaign.  I am going to talk to you about a few simple matters.

	The first is this: When we entered this campaign, we were assured, by the opposition--in smoothly flowing words--that we would conduct a campaign--at least that he would--to educate and elevate the American people.  Now, if you are going to educate the American people, you have to have a textbook.  In this case, the textbook was the seven-year record of the Fair Deal in Washington.  Now, very quickly the opposition found there was no help of selling the American people anything out of the record of the last seven years. Let us take, for just a moment, their record in the foreign field. We came out of the World War the most powerful nation on the globe. It would have appeared that we were in a position then, if ever, to have our influence felt very firmly throughout the world and we could have secured a peace that was at least roughly in keeping
with the statements made as we entered that war, namely, in the Atlantic Charter.

	Now I am sure our chairman, Mr. Dolezal, will not object to my referring to his own national heritage. I want to do so because I had many friends here then.  Mr. Benech was my friend.  Mr. Mazaryk was my very good friend.  I used to talk to them about the future of that country.  Its disappearance from the ranks of the free nations is one of the tragedies of our time.  Not only its
manufacturing capacity and its natural resources have passed into the hands of the Communists, but a great spirit, a great soul--national spirit and national soul--are repressed and cannot express themselves in the world and cannot stand up to be counted with the free nations.  That tragedy is repeated in more or less similar fashion all though that North-South strip that relies on Soviet
Russia and what is left in free Europe.

	Over in Asia, the story is repeated.  This is the best yardstick I know by which to measure success or failure of the foreign policies of this administration during the past seven years.  In that period, the average loss of human souls from the ranks of the free countries--and absorbed by Communist dictatorship is one-hundred million per year.  Not very long can we go on at that rate and have any free world left.

	The one great struggle of our time is to retain the institutions under which we have lived--which allow a meeting like this today, which has built this great factory, produced the great marvels of science and agriculture and the professions that we see all around us.

	Then at home, what have we done?  We have an expenditure program of such a size that it is impossible to comprehend it when we just say eighty billion dollars or eighty-five billion dollars, whatever it is.  But we do know we cannot pay for it.  In spite of the highest taxes we have ever had, in spite of the greatest national income we just stated in dollars, we cannot pay for that expenditure program.  And what does that mean to you?  It means this: Your money goes down and down, which means prices go up and up.  And today when the housewife walks over to the corner grocery to get a bag of groceries identical with what she paid ten dollars for in 1939, she now pays twenty-four dollars and fifty cents for.

	Then we go to subversion and disloyalty in government.  Their answer to Red agents was "Red Herrings".  We go to chicanery, thievery in government, and they say there is always bound to be a little bit of it.  In spite of the expressed indignation of the American people about this crookedness, what did we find in yesterday morning's headlines?  The biggest five-percenter of all time has shown up, and he was a prominent official in the opposition party in Washington.  He himself said that the very evidence on which they fired him, when the rest of us found out about it, was in their hands when they hired him.  Now, that was his statement in the newspapers.

	Ladies and gentlemen, with that kind of government that they had to defend there was no hope of education.  So we had a campaign which descended into vilification, into accusations, into selling a program of fear to the United States of America--the biggest mistake the opposition has made, because America doesn't seem to buy fear very well.

	One of the things they fear is that I would reduce the pay of soldiers, that I would increase the rigors of their service, that I would increase the length of their service and abolish rotation systems.  That one, fortunately, I never felt I really had to answer.  There are thousands right here in this audience who have served with me, and I don't believe you can find many who have any evidence to show that I would ever be unfair or unfriendly to a serviceman or an ex-serviceman.

	Then, they came along and said I was anti-Catholic, anti-Negro, anti-Semitic, and anti every kind of minority group.  Well, again I didn't have to answer.  There they overreached themselves very badly because I had a bunch of good friends who jumped in, and by the time they got done working over the perpetrator of that charge, he hasn't repeated it, I assure you.

	The next thing they fear is that the Republicans, and all of the enlightened Democrats and Independents who are now associated with the Republicans will bring on a depression.  Now, my friends, this crusade is dedicated to the cause of peace.  The first need for peace is a strong America, and a strong America doesn't mean merely ships and planes and guns and regiments.  It means, above all things, an economically strong America.  What does that mean?  Men and women working at good jobs at high levels of employment and at good pay.  If we don't have that, there is no hope for America.  I don't think they have got the nerve to challenge the statement that we are dedicated to America.

	Every single member in this crusade is pledged to this idea: That at the first sign of any approaching depression, the full power of private industry, of local and state government, and all resources of federal government will be mobilized to see that never again will we have mass unemployment.  We are committed to the expansion and improvement of social security programs, particularly to saving what is left of our dollars so that your insurance policies, your old age insurance, your unemployment insurance and the rest of it
don't run out of your pocket through that big hole they call inflation.  Unless we stop that, there is no hope.

	What do they say about stopping it?  Well, it is just one of those things, they say.  The Kremlin dictates our financial policies. Pure bunk!  One hundred and fifty five million Americans dictate their own politics, and that is exactly what you have got a chance to do on November 4. Make up your mind where you believe you are going to get a government formed of men and women dedicated to American interests--not to special interests--men and women who will uproot subversion and disloyalty, who will get rid of crookedness, who will have some experience in dealing with these great foreign problems.  That is the decision you are going to make.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not come before you to indulge in any contest of political promises.  The opposition have used them up many years ago.  They are pretty shopworn and pretty well worn out. I just pledge this: The millions of men and women who are associated in determining to give the United States good government instead of bad, when they go to Washington, are going to bring there people who will be just, who will be fair, who will be friendly, and who will be honest.  That is the pledge we make.

	To each of you, again, my thanks for coming out today.  It has been a great honor to be in Cicero with you, to be associated with these distinguished men on this platform.  Don't forget this crusade is not a one-man job.  I need all these people in state government and in national government if we are really to serve the United States of America.  

	Thank you a lot.

COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--BIGOTRYECONOMY--DEPRESSIONGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMILITARY PERSONNEL     ! ! ! ! !
 ! ! ! z! r! p! Z! P!	 c 	 Z 	 B 	 / 	  e: