

	I've been trying in this campaign to talk about all the public questions that affect your welfare as Americans, sanely, sensibly, and forthrightly. I hear it said, now and then, that I am talking over the heads of the people. 

	Well, if it is a mistake to appeal to intelligence and reason instead of emotion and prejudice, then I plead guilty to the charge. 

	Besides that, I would rather be charged with talking over your heads than behind your backs. 

	People are smarter than some may think--"There's still a God's plenty left in people of the little red schoolhouse and the tall white steeple." 

	So you'll just have to forgive me if I go on trusting your intelligence. 

	I want to talk to you tonight about a disease. It is a disease which may have killed more people in this world in the last several years than cancer, than tuberculosis, than heart disease--more than all of these combined. 

	It has certainly killed more minds, more souls, more decent human hopes and ambitions, than any corruption--including the darkest days of Hitler. 

	I want to discuss with you the ways that Communism has attacked this nation--and the ways in which this attack has been met. 

	This subject is swathed in fog and confusion. Most of this has been created by the Communists themselves, seeking under confusion's cover to advance their evil purposes. But some of it has been created by political demagogues, who are hunting for votes much more than for Communists. 

	I propose tonight to do what I can to penetrate this fog and dispel this confusion. I propose to make precisely clear the record and the position of the two political parties on this problem. Unhappily facts sometimes get smothered in falsehoods. 

	These are the facts: 

	Twenty years ago the most serious threat of Communism this country ever faced--a threat arising from poverty and despair, following, as it happens, twelve years of Republican administrations--was stopped by a Democratic administration. 

	For twenty years my party has helped the people of America to build that economic strength and that faith in freedom which make Communism impossible--and every step we have taken has been opposed, ridiculed and sabotaged by the Republican Old Guard. 

	For years your government in Washington has been desperately rallying and strengthening the free peoples of the world against Communism, and leading the way in building the collective strength which is the only bulwark against Communist expansion--and this, too, over the bitter protest and unrelenting opposition of the Republican Old Guard. 

	Again, Democratic leadership has built an elaborate internal security system to protect this nation against Communist subversion--a system which has put the leaders of the Communist party in this country where they belong--behind bars. 

	Let's look at the record a moment. 

	Agents of Soviet Communism first began making headway in this country in the 1920s. The administration, you will recall, was Republican at that time. A month ago the junior Senator from Wisconsin quoted what he said was a Department of Justice document to prove the existence of Communists in the State Department. It is true that he found the quotation in a Department of Justice document to prove the existence of Communists in the State Department. It is true that he found the quotation in a Department of Justice document. But he neglected to say that it described the situation in 1928, and that what it proved was the existence of a Communist plot under the presidency of--Calvin Coolidge. 

	But, as I have said, the great Communist conspiracy had its first real chance when the Republicans fumbled and bungled this nation into the Great Depression--"fumbled and bungled" is not mine but one of their favorite oratorical epithets for everything the Democrats have done for twenty years. You remember the bitter winters of 1930 and 1931. Farmers in Arkansas--conservative, law-abiding farmers--organized to march on towns and loot the stores. Children left home to spare their parents another mouth to feed; so many of them left that the railroads put on special open boxcars to keep the kids from breaking into the closed ones. Millions of American men and women waited in the breadlines. An army of ragged veterans actually marched on our national capital. 

	It is little wonder that across the land men and women--and especially the young--began to drift toward the terrible conclusion that free government had reached the end of its rope. Reaching out for a solution--any solution--the Communist agents found ready converts among the unemployed, the farmers, the workers. It was then that some persons like Alger Hiss and Elizabeth Bentley, witnessing the devastation of capitalism and the menacing rise of Hitler, became entangled in the Communist conspiracy. 

	In the election of 1932, almost one million Americans voted against the capitalist system. If the paralysis had continued in Washington, the one million votes cast against capitalism in 1932 might have swelled to ten million in 1936. 

	But in 1933 the Democratic party brought to this nation a great leader--Franklin Roosevelt. 

	From that day onward, the swelling menace of discontent and Communism in this country began to wane. President Roosevelt brought to us a new spirit, a new hope. The government acted swiftly and decisively to give the farmer a market, to give the worker a job, to give the unemployed a means of saving their self- respect, to give youth opportunity and hope. America's faith in itself was restored. Under his leadership the American people unlocked from within themselves the strength to drive out Communism. 

	This country was saved from depression and despair. Communism in the United States was turned back and as long as we hold fast to the progressive spirit of human welfare that inspired that leadership we need never fear a Communist revolution in this country--and every honest man knows that is true. 

	And where were the Republican leaders during this fight? They cannot conceal the record. They tried to block, to trim, to obstruct, to prevent the collective-bargaining laws that mean security to the worker, the price-support laws that mean security to the farmer, the social-insurance laws that mean security to the aged and the infirm. 

	The plain truth is that the Democratic administrations saved this country from depression and from Communism or fascism over the opposition of the Republican leadership, because these near-sighted gentlemen have never understood that the way to make this country secure is to work for the security of all of the people in it. These men still control the Republican party. That is why thoughtful people of this country are apprehensive that a Republican victory this November would be an Old Guard victory and the forerunner of another Great Depression. We must prevent another economic disaster, for that would open up the greatest opportunity the Kremlin could hope for to take over the free world, not by arms but by invitation. 

	We licked the Communist hope for a revolution in the thirties. But the years of misery, Republican years, had left a heritage of fanatics and agents in our midst. Communism was finished as a political threat; it survived as an instrument of subversion and espionage. Soviet secret agents and their dupes burrowed like moles in the ground, trying to undermine the foundations of this and every other government in the world. 

	They penetrated the Nazi government in Germany. 

	They penetrated the government of Imperial Japan--so successfully that they learned in advance about the Japanese plot against Pearl Harbor. 

	They penetrated the anti-Communist government of Chiang Kai-shek in China--despite the long experience of his secret police in dealing with them. 

	They penetrated the governments of a dozen European countries--no matter how anti-Communist their policies or pretensions. 

	No government in the world has been immune from their penetration. Nor has ours. Nor will any government be safe from espionage and the secret Communist attack so long as the Soviet Union pursues its goal of world dominion. 

	We must never forget the dedication, tenacity and fanaticism of this inscrutable, ruthless, restless conspiracy. As General Bedell Smith, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, warned us last week, we cannot let our guard drop even for a moment. The only safe assumption is that no place is safe. 

	We must, to protect our government from infiltration, combine vigilance with vigor. This is a long and continuous struggle--no singe action can win the campaign. 

	And the Democratic administration has been conducting this fight for a long time. In 1939 the Roosevelt Administration made it unlawful for Communists to work for the federal government. 

	In 1940 there was passed the Smith Act, under which the Department of Justice in President Truman's administration subsequently convicted the thirty-one leaders of the American Communist party. 

	During the war, the Civil Service Commission and the FBI conducted a continuous screening of federal employees. Nearly 1,500 men and women were denied federal employment because of doubtful loyalty. 

	In 1947 President Truman set up a new and tighter federal loyalty-control program. Many people have thought it was too tight, fearing an invasion of our ancient principle that a man is innocent until proved guilty. In the same year the Attorney General established a list of subversive organizations. In 1948 and 1949 the Department of Justice indicted and convicted the Communist leaders. 

	The list of subversives uncovered in these years has been long. By hard, patient, silent work these men were exposed, be it noted, in the years before 1950--before the junior senator from Wisconsin suddenly appeared on the scene and began his wild and reckless campaign against the integrity of our government itself. Some people have been impressed by his loud talk. But the record is clear on this, too. For all his bragging and fear-mongering the junior senator from Wisconsin has yet to produce evidence leading to the conviction of one single Communist agent, either in or out of government.

	The reason for this is clear. Catching real Communist agents, like killing poisonous snakes or tigers, is not a job for amateurs or children, especially noisy ones. It is a job for professionals who know their business and their adversaries. 

	The professionals of the Federal Bureau of Investigation make up a magnificent instrument for the protection of our government. For years, the FBI has been quietly and remorselessly uncovering the Communist plot against America. It has exposed one conspirator after another. It provided the evidence that sent the thirty-one leaders to prison. 

	I have often wondered what the Republicans think they would do to improve the situation if they were elected. The General has joined loudly in the clamor about the Communist menace in Washington. First he said the Communists in government were the result of incompetent, loose security policies. More recently, I'm sorry to say, he implies that the federal government is deliberately concealing Communists. But he has offered only thundering silence about a cure. What would he do? Would he fire J. Edgar Hoover? Would he fire General Bedell Smith, head of the Central Intelligence Agency and his own former Chief of Staff? Would he discharge General Smith's deputy, Allen Dulles, the brother of his own chief adviser on foreign affairs? Would he discharge the experienced men who now protect our nation's security? 

	I think we are entitled to ask, is the Republican candidate seriously interested in trying to root Communists out of the government, or is he only interested in scaring the American people to get the Old Guard into the government? 

	For my own part, I will tell you straight out, I believe the FBI has been doing a superb job. I think J. Edgar Hoover and General Bedell Smith are excellent, experienced, devoted and trustworthy men in these posts of great responsibility. I would back them to the hilt. 

	And let me say one more thing, so there will be no shadow of a doubt. If I find in Washington any disloyal government servant, I will throw him out ruthlessly, regardless of place, position or party. I expect to review thoroughly the present loyalty system and if it can be strengthened or improved in any way, it will be done. 

	As far as I'm concerned this fight will be continued until the Communist conspiracy in our land is smashed beyond repair. And I think my record is the best evidence that this fight will be conducted with full respect for our system of justice, and for the Bill of Rights of the United States. 

	Let us never forget that tension breeds fear, fear, repression, and repression, injustice and tyranny. Our police work is aimed at a conspiracy, and not at ideas or opinion. Our country was built on unpopular ideas, on unorthodox opinion. My definition of a free society is a society where it is safe to be unpopular. 

	I want to keep our America that way. 

	I agree with the Roman Catholic bishops in their pronouncement last November. "Dishonesty, slander, detraction and defamation of character," the Catholic bishops said, "are as truly transgressions of God's Commandments when resorted to by men in political life as they are for all other men." 

	We of the Democratic party have fought Communism in America for twenty years--in the government, in the union halls, in the farm grange halls, in the schools and in our homes. We have met and destroyed this disease as it has not been met or destroyed in any other country in the world. And we have done it without false accusation, without the assassination of honest characters, without destroying the principles of freedom upon which this society is based. Carelessness about our security is dangerous; carelessness about our freedom is also dangerous. 

	And let me say another thing that needs saying. I have not said and I do not think for a moment that a single responsible Republican leader in those days of boom and bust in the twenties and early thirties when Communism sank its roots in this country was deliberately plotting the downfall of capitalism or covertly encouraging Communism. And we will make a lot more progress in solving this problem when we stop capitalizing on Communism for political advantage and think more of the welfare of the republic than of how we can spread fear and smear and mistrust. 

	But if the Republican leaders insist on talking incessantly about softness toward Communism, I must point out that the record shows that even today the Republican party opposes those cost-of-living controls which the Democratic party supports in order to prevent another boom and bust--another period when the beckoning finger of Communism's false light would grow stronger in America. 

	The record shows the Republican party has steadily tried to block and hobble our worldwide fight against Communism time and time again; the Republican majority in Congress has voted to slash economic and military aid to our allies. 

	But there is no cheap answer to Communism, to world peace, to anything worth having. 

	The Democratic party rejects this policy of loud words and soft deeds. We stand for a foreign policy of strength, for that is the only policy that can lead to peace. 

	We will protect ourselves from Communism, and, at the same time, we will protect our liberties, too--those liberties which, above all, distinguish the United States from the police state.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI)GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEESGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESCOMMUNISM     @> > > > =
 = = = = = = = =	  	 e 	 Q 	 2  	 e: