

	The election will be upon us sooner than we perhaps imagine--barely a month from now--and that simply gives a greater urgency to the task I have set myself in this campaign--to spell out the fundamental differences between me and my opponent on almost every major issue of public policy.

	Those differences run from issues such as school prayer, which I favor and he opposes, to economics and the importance of holding the line on taxes, to my heartfelt conviction that it is only a strong, committed America that can lead the world to freedom and peace.

	But perhaps on no other issue is the dividing line so clear, on no other issue is the gulf so great between my opponent's philosophy and mine, as on the issue of crime.

	I have spoken before, and I intend to speak in the future, on what I believe to be my opponent's misconceived notions about crime. Today I want to focus on my philosophy, my view of crime, and tell you about my program--what I call a commonsense approach--to fight it.

	The fact is, crime is a plague that strikes across all sectors of society, and nobody is exempt. It includes in its victims the rich, the middle class, and the poor--especially the poor. It steals their schools, their communities; most tragic of all, it steals their hope for a better life.

	I'm not one who believes we can--like some sort of technocrat or clinician--separate crime from broader questions about society and society's values. For me, the starting point in any anti-crime program is the values that form your view of criminals and society.

	In my opinion, some of the so-called reforms we have witnessed in the last couple of decades have taken the mistaken path of pretending that crime is some disease that can be completely cured--whether through rehabilitation, or by transforming the home life of criminals.

	I do believe that rehabilitation is possible in some circumstances--especially in the case of first-time offenders. But let's face it, some criminals are just plain bad. They're not going to be rehabilitated. They're not going to reform. The first priority of our law enforcement system--and I think this is something that is too often forgotten by some of the reformers--the first priority must be to protect the safety of our neighborhoods and the well-being of ordinary, law-abiding citizens.

	It's no doubt true, as well, that many criminals are smarter than the liberal theorists give them credit for. They know that our criminal justice system is a crapshoot. The threat of punishment, or of penalties for criminal behavior is, to say the least, unconvincing.

	First, there are the myriad technicalities, any one of which may trip the system up and let an obviously guilty criminal go free. I have said before that there is something very wrong when the modern-day equivalent of a jailbreak is crawling through a legal loophole.

	Next, there are the overworked prosecutors who may be too ready to cut a deal or plea bargain down to a lesser offense. Then the judges, who may decide that the prisons are too crowded already.

	Finally, even if the criminal does end up in prison, there is early parole, commutations of sentences and--we have learned to our unpleasant surprise--that a governor may decide that even first-degree murderers who are not even eligible for parole should be eligible for a weekend pass.

	I believe strongly that swift and sure punishment is a deterrent. Criminals need to know that they will pay a price--and victims, and their families, have a perfect right to want them to pay.

	Let me take a moment here to say as well that there should be no special rules for high-society crime. I expect more, not less, from those who have been raised with advantages. White-collar criminals undermine the very foundations of our private and public institutions--the core of our free society--and society can have only one proper response--we should throw the book at them.

	I think that most Americans would agree that it is time for a return to common sense about crime. That is why I want to lay out for you today what I call my five-part commonsense program to fight crime. I don't claim it to be a panacea. I do claim that it will move us back in the right direction, toward making city streets and neighborhoods safer--because it is based on the basic wisdom that the best way to stop crime is to prevent criminals from committing it.

	Part one of my commonsense program: Busting street gangs. Street gangs are one of the most serious crime problems in our country today. These are not the gangs out of "West Side Story." They are increasingly sophisticated, national and even international crime organizations, selling drugs and guns and sowing terror in city neighborhoods across America.

	Gangs that started in one city are now expanding into new cities, opening criminal "branch offices," fostering contacts with terrorists in Libya and with drug lords in the Caribbean and South America. It's time to gang up on the gangs. I am proposing, among other incentives:

	Creation of a new Gang Unit within the Criminal Division of the Justice Department;

	New mandatory sentences for illegal gang activity;

	Finally: it makes no sense--common or otherwise--to put drugged-out criminals back on the streets to commit more crimes. We should make sure that no one makes bail, is given probation, gets out on parole--or stays out on parole--unless they can pass a drug test. Until they have passed a drug test. You don't go free until you're drug free.

	I think we can all agree that you're not going to solve the crime problem, as some would, by talking tough, while pursuing the same failed policies of liberal leniency. Tough talk on crime has to be backed up by tough action. And that brings us to part two of our program.

	I believe that it is long past time that the federal death penalty be put back in use. Some crimes are so brutal, so heinous, that those who commit them should pay the ultimate sanction.

	On this issue, there couldn't be a wider gulf between me and my opponent. He opposes capital punishment in all cases, no matter how brutal the offense, and he appointed to his state's supreme court two justices who have consistently thrown out death penalty statutes--passed by the legislature--with overwhelming popular support.

	I will appoint judges who do what they're supposed to do--interpret the law, not legislate from the bench.

	Common sense tells us that the death penalty is a deterrent--but not my opponent's liberal sense. He says that the death penalty doesn't work.

	He also has said that a furlough program is "an important part of any modern and any effective correctional system." One thousand nine hundred and five times he gave free, unsupervised "weekend" passes to first-degree murderers, many sentenced to life without parole. Fifty-nine criminals convicted of violent crimes never came back from the governor's generous vacation program.

	I say that our society can simply not afford any more liberal experimentation with crime. It's time to get serious about serious crime.

	That brings us to the third part of my program--certainty in sentencing. Punishment for felonies should be swift and sure. Even for a first-time offender, a twenty-four or forty-eight hour stay in jail will give them an idea that we mean business.

	Certainty of sentencing is often more important than severity. It does little good to have tough sentences on the books, if those books stay closed when it comes time for sentencing.

	We need tough prosecutors and judges who will punish criminals to the full extent of the law, and who will give at least as much consideration to victims' rights as to prey upon innocent people.

	We need new federal sentencing guidelines that mandate consistent tougher sentences, and we need to codify the good-faith exception to the exclusionary rule.

	Part four: we need to target the career criminal--the few who commit a disproportionate number of serious crimes. One study estimates that only 100 offenders may have committed 490 armed robberies, 720 burglaries, and 4,000 other serious crimes. It's time to put the career criminals out of business with mandatory minimum sentences without parole. And we must deny bail and parole to anyone who fails to stay drug-free after arrest and release. These one-person crime waves must be stopped.

	Part five is increasing technical and financial assistance to local law enforcement. Federal drug enforcement spending has tripled, and federal asset sharing provided $190 million to state and local governments from 1986 to 1988.

	Also urgently needed--reform of our nation's prison system. We know that overcrowded prisons spur violence and harden convicts still further--but here again, common sense diverges from liberal sense. The answer is not to release criminals back into communities but to increase our efforts at rehabilitation and prison construction.

	I have proposed doubling the current federal prison budget over the next four years; converting certain unneeded military bases into state and federal prisons, and helping to finance the construction of more prisons with the confiscated assets of the drug traffickers and racketeers. We are going to make the criminals help pay the rent on their prison stays.

	Finally, we must attack two of the root causes of the culture of crime--illiteracy and drugs. We must help the first-time offender escape the culture of crime, before society loses him for good.

	Some commonsense approaches: separate the first-time offender from the career criminal and remove youth offenders from adult facilities--prisons shouldn't become colleges of crime. Also, expand drug treatment programs, and teach inmates to read, along with basic job skills.

	In future speeches I will be talking of the role of neighborhoods and communities in fighting crime, and the all-important, and too long neglected issue of victims' rights. But my central message, my central theme, is that a Bush administration will strive to substitute common sense for the liberal sense that has so tangled and distorted the administration of criminal justice over the last few decades.

	The eight years that we have been in office, we have battled to return common sense to the administration of criminal justice--and we have been winning some of those battles. Crime is down under our leadership. After skyrocketing by over a million crimes from 1977 to 1981, it fell by over seven million in 1986.

	In 1981, 30 percent of all households were touched by crime. By 1987, this declined to almost 24 percent. Two and a half as many drug offenders were charged, convicted, and imprisoned in 1987, as compared to 1980.

	We have turned around the permissive philosophy of the '70s, which made it too easy for some to slip into a life of drug abuse and crime.

	Some of the young people in college today probably don't believe this, but people used to talk like those movies of the sixties. They thought drug use was "cool" and advised you to "do your own thing." Well, if someone said that to you today, you'd probably think they got lost in a time warp during one of the original runs of Star Trek. The permissiveness and "do your own thing" of the sixties have been replaced in the eighties with "zero tolerance" and--you know the phrase--"just say no to drugs."

	And it is that new confidence of the American people--to speak the common wisdom and plain home truths about drugs and crime--that is the foundation on which we will build a safer America.

	Sometimes, people make fun of what they call the "Norman Rockwell" vision of America--the vision of kids and dogs and apple pie and flags on parade. Well, American society is changing, dramatically, and much of it is no longer like the small-town life in those Rockwell paintings, but I confess that I am still an unabashed believer in that vision and what it symbolizes about America.

	Whether they live in small towns or urban areas, on wide-open farmland or busy city streets, I want a country of safe communities, where playgrounds aren't battlegrounds, and where the greatest danger a child faces in school is a black eye from the neighborhood bully. Where families rest at night, after a long day's work, secure in their homes, or stroll, after dinner, safely down the street. I want a country in which all the prosperity that our nation has worked so hard to achieve can be enjoyed in peace and tranquillity.

	That is my vision, the dream of America I hold in my heart. It is one I believe I share with the American people. It is the vision of America, I am convinced, that is meant to be.

	With your help, with your support, I want to bring America closer to that dream. 

	Thank you all very much and God bless you.

CRIME--REPEAT OFFENDERSCRIME, GANG-RELATEDCRIMINAL JUSTICE--CLASS ISSUESCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALCRIMINAL SENTENCINGDEATH PENALTYDRUG ABUSE--GENERALPRISONS--RELEASE PROGRAMSPRISONS/PRISONERSCRIME--GENERAL     G3 3 3 	3 2
 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2	  	  	  	  	 k 	 X 	 K 	 8 	    e: