

	During the course of this campaign, I have discussed many issues with the American people. Tonight, I would like to talk with you about a subject often debated by scholars and the public, but seldom dealt with directly in a presidential campaign: the nature of the presidency itself.

	What kind of leadership should a president give? Is the office too strong, or not strong enough? How can it be made more responsive? What are the priorities for presidential attention, and the range of presidential responsibilities?

	Perhaps the best way to begin my own answer is with another question, one I am often asked as I travel around the country: "Why do you seek the office? With all the troubles that we have, why would anyone want to be president today?"

	The answer is not one of glory, or fame; today the burdens of the office outweigh its privileges. It's not because the presidency offers a chance to be somebody, but because it offers a chance to do something. Today, it offers a greater opportunity to help shape the future than ever before and if America is to meet its challenges, the next president must seize that opportunity.

	We stand at a great turning point--when the nation is groping for a new direction, unsure of its purposes, caught in a tumult of change. And for the first time, we face serious, simultaneous threats to the peace both at home and abroad.

	In this watershed year of 1968, therefore, America needs presidential leadership that can establish a firm focus, and offer a way out of a time of towering uncertainties. Only the president can provide the direction and thrust that are needed if America's purposes are to be clarified and its energies marshaled; only the president can hold out a vision of the future and rally the people behind it.

	The next president must unite America. He must calm its angers, ease its terrible frictions, and bring its people together once again in peace and mutual respect. He has to take hold of America before he can move it forward.	This requires leadership that believes in law, and has the courage to enforce it; leadership that believes in justice, and is determined to promote it; leadership that believes in progress, and knows how to inspire it.

	The days of a passive presidency belong to a simpler past. Let me be very clear about this: the next president must take an activist view of his office. He must articulate the nation's values, define its goals and marshal its will. Under a Nixon administration, the presidency will be deeply involved in the entire sweep of America's public concerns.

	The first responsibility of leadership is to gain mastery over events, and to shape the future in the image of our hopes.

	The President today cannot stand aside from crisis, he cannot ignore division, he cannot simply paper over disunity. He must lead. But he must bear in mind the distinction between forceful leadership and stubborn willfulness. And he should not delude himself into thinking that he can do everything himself, or even make all the decisions himself. America today cannot afford vest-pocket government, no matter who wears the vest.

	In considering the kind of leadership the next president should give, let us first consider the special trust that should exist between president and people. The president is trusted, not to follow the fluctuations of the public opinion polls, but to bring his own best judgment to bear on the best ideas his administration can muster.

	There are occasions on which a president must take unpopular measures. But his responsibility does not stop there. The president has a duty to decide, but the people have a right to know why. The president has a responsibility to tell them--to lay out all the facts, and to explain not only why he chose as he did, but also what it means for the future. Only through an open, candid dialogue with the people can a president maintain his trust and his leadership.

	Its time we once again had an open administration--open to ideas from the people, and open in its communication with the people--an administration of open doors, open eyes and open minds.

	When we debate American commitments abroad, for example, if we expect a decent hearing from those who now take to the streets in protest, we must recognize that neither the Department of State nor of Defense has a monopoly on all wisdom. We should bring dissenters into policy discussions, not freeze them out; we should invite constructive criticism, not only because the critics have a right to be heard, but also because they often have something worth hearing.

	And this brings me to another, related point: the president cannot isolate himself from the great intellectual ferments of his time. On the contrary, he must consciously and deliberately place himself at their center. The lamps of enlightenment are lit by the spark of controversy; their flame can be snuffed out by the blanket of consensus.

	This is one reason why I don't want a government of yes-men. It's why I do want a government drawn from the broadest possible base--an administration made up of Republicans, Democrats and Independents, and drawn from politics, from career government service, from universities, from business, from the professions--one including not only executives and administrators, but scholars and thinkers.

	While the president is a leader of thought, he is also a user of thought, and he must be a catalyst of thought. The thinking that he draws upon must be the best in America and not only in government. What's happening today in America and the world is happening not only in politics and diplomacy, but in science, education, the arts--and in all areas, a president needs a constant exposure to ideas that stretch the mind.

	Only if we have an administration broadly enough based to ensure a true ferment of ideas, and to invite an interplay of the best minds in America, can we be sure of getting the best and most penetrating ideas. And nothing less will do. We cannot content ourselves with comfortable complacency, with an attitude that because something worked once before, it must be good enough for us now. The world is changing, America is changing, and so much our ideas and our policies change--and our pursuit of the new must be an unremitting pursuit of excellence.

	When we think of leadership, we commonly think of persuasion. But the coin of leadership has another side. In order to lead, a president today must listen. And in this time of searching and uncertainty, government must learn to listen in new ways. A president has to hear not only the clamorous voices of the organized, but also the quiet voices, the inner voices--the voices that speak through the silences, and that speak from the heart and the conscience.

These are the voices that carry the real meaning and the real message of America. He's got to articulate these voices, so that they can be heard, rather than being lost in the wail and bellow of what too often passes today for public discourse. He must be, in the words of Woodrow Wilson, "the spokesman from the real sentiment and purpose of the country."

	The president is the one official who represents every American--rich and poor, privileged and underprivileged. He represents those who misfortunes stand in dramatic focus, and also the great, quiet forgotten majority--the non-shouters and the non-demonstrators, the millions who ask principally to go their own way in decency and dignity, and to have their own rights accorded the same respect they accord the rights of others. Only if he listens to the quiet voices can he be true to this trust.

	This I pledge: that in a Nixon administration, America's citizens will not have to break the law to be heard, they will not have to shout or resort to violence. We can restore peace only if we make government attentive to the quiet as well as the strident, and this I intend to do.

	But what of the burdens of the presidency? Have they, as some maintain, grown beyond the capacity of any one man? The presidency has been called an impossible office. If I thought it were, I would not be seeking it. But its functions have become cluttered, the president's time drained away in trivia, the channels of authority confused.

	When questions of human survival may turn on the judgments of one man, he must have time to concentrate on those great decisions that only he can make. One means of achieving this is by expanding the role of the vice president--which I will do. I also plan a reorganized and strengthened Cabinet, and a stronger White House staff than any yet put together.

	The people are served not only by a president, but by an administration; and not only an administration, but by a government. The president's chief function is to lead, not to administer; it is not to oversee every detail, but to put the right people in charge, to provide them with basic guidance and direction, and to let them do the job. As Theodore Roosevelt once put it, "The best executive is the one who has enough sense to pick good men to do what he wants done, and self-restraint enough to keep from meddling with them while they do it."

	This requires surrounding the president with men of stature, including young men, and giving them responsibilities commensurate with that stature. It requires a Cabinet made up of the ablest men in America, leaders in their own right and not merely by virtue of appointment--men who will command the public's respect and the president's attention by the power of their intellect and the force of their ideas.

	Such men are not attracted to an administration in which all credit is gathered to the White House and blame parceled out to scapegoats, or in which high officials are asked to dance like puppets on a presidential string. I believe in a system in which the appropriate Cabinet officer gets credit for what goes right, and the president takes the blame for what goes wrong. Officials of a new administration will not have to check their consciences at the door, or leave their powers of independent judgment at home.

	For years now, the trend has been to sweep more and more authority toward Washington. Too many of the decisions that would better have been made in Seattle or St. Louis have wound up on the president's desk. I plan a streamlined federal system, with a return to the states, cities and communities of decision-making powers rightfully theirs. The purpose of this is not only to make government more effective and responsive, but also to concentrate federal attention on those functions that can only be handled on the federal level.

The presidency is a place where priorities are set, and goals determined. We need a new attention to priorities, and a new realism about goals. We are living today in a time of great promise--but also of too many promises. A president must tell the people what cannot be done immediately, as well as what can. Hope is fragile and too easily shattered by the disappointment that follows inevitably on promises unkept and unkeepable. America needs charts of the possible, not excursions into the impossible.

	Our cause today is not a nation, but a planet--for never have the fates of all the peoples of the earth been so bound up together. The tasks confronting the next president abroad are among the most complex and difficult ever faced. And, as Professor Clinton Rossiter has observed, "Leadership in foreign affairs flows today from the president--or it does not flow at all."

	The whole structure of power in the world has been undergoing far-reaching changes. While these pose what may be our period of greatest danger, they open what also may be our greatest opportunity. This is a time when miscalculation could prove fatal. But it also is a time when leaders both east and west are developing a new, sobering awareness of the terrible potential of their destructive power and the need to restrain it.

	History can bestow no honor greater than the title of peacemaker. It is this honor--this destiny--that beckons America; the chance to lead the world at least out of turmoil and onto the plateau of peace man has dreamed of since the dawn of time. This is our summons to greatness. If we answer the call, generations yet unborn will say that we truly mastered our moment; that we at last made the world safe for mankind.

	The president cannot stand alone. Today, more than ever in modern times, he must reach out and draw upon the strength of the people.

	Theodore Roosevelt called the presidency "a bully pulpit;" Franklin Roosevelt called it preeminently "a place of moral leadership." And surely one of a president's greatest resources is the moral authority of his office. It's time we restored that authority--and time we used it once again, to its fullest potential, to rally the people, to define those moral imperatives which are the cement of a civilized society to point the ways in which the energies of the people can be enlisted to serve the ideals of the people.

	What has to be done, has to be done by president and people together, or it won't be done at all. In asking you to join this great effort, I am asking not that you give something to your country, but that you do something with your country; I am asking not for your gifts, but for your hands. Together, we can hardly fail; for there is no force on earth to match the will and the spirit of the people of America, if that will and that spirit are mobilized in the service of a common aim.

	Let me add a personal note. I made a point of conducting my campaign for the nomination in a way that would make it possible to unite the party after the convention. That was successful. I intend now to conduct my election campaign in a way that will make it possible to unite the nation after November. It is not my intention to preside over the disintegration of America or the dissolution of America's force for good in the world. Rather, I want the presidency to be a force for pulling our people back together once again, and for making our nation whole by making our people one. We have had enough of discord and division, and what we need now is a time of healing, of renewal, and of realistic hope.

	No one who has been close to the presidency would approach its powers lightly, or indifferently, or without a profound sense of the awesome responsibility these powers carry. Nor should the American people approach this time of challenge without a sense of the majesty of the moment.

Greatness comes from stepping up to events, not from sitting on the sidelines while history is made by others. History will be made in these years just ahead--history that can change the world for generations to come. So let us seize the moment, and accept the challenge--not as a burden, and not in fear--but in the full confidence that no people has ever had such resources to meet its challenge. Ours is the chance to see the American Dream fulfilled at last in the destiny of man. This is the role that history offers; this is the hope that summons us; this is our generation's call to greatness as a nation. This, today, is America's opportunity.
CABINET APPOINTMENTSPRESIDENTIAL POWER     ; ; ; ; ;
 ; ; ; ; l; j; j; `;	 &   e: