
	Senator Bennett, Governor Romney, all of the distinguished guests on the platform and all of the members of this great audience: I am sure you know what a very moving experience it is for me to return here after eight years to such a warm reception. And I want you to know, too, that I learned something from the two speeches that have gone before me.

	When I was invited again to speak in this Tabernacle and when I was preparing my remarks, I asked several of my advance men, "Well, now, can this be a political speech or should it be rather nonpolitical in tone?"

	I think I got the message. And while today, I will not be speaking to you in terms of personalities, I do know that you are here to hear a direct and frank discussion of some of the great issues confronting the American people, and I shall try to fill that responsibility as best I can.

	But before doing so, I would like for you to permit me to reminisce a bit with regard to the men who have spoken so graciously and eloquently about me, and also with regard to my recollections about this place in which I have stood many, many years before, long before I had imagined I would stand in this place, exalted place, that I am today.

	First, I want to say to my friend George Romney that in 1952 we carried Utah, in 1956 we carried Utah, in 1960 we carried Utah, and in every one of those campaigns we had Romneys on our side, and believe me, I am glad all the Romneys are on our side this time, because it means a lot to me.

	He was a gallant warrior, I know, and having been one who has won some elections and lost some elections, winning is a lot more fun. I know that, too. And I respect a man who has fought the good fight and then gets in and recognizes that we must get together for the greater cause that is bigger than differences between us as partisans.

	So my salute goes to him and also to a very gallant lady.

	There is one thing that George Romney and I have in common. I remember General Eisenhower, after he had had his first meeting with the legislative leaders when he became inaugurated as president in 1953, called me into his office to discuss a matter, and he talked a bit about his evaluation of politics in general. He was just becoming acquainted with that art, if we can call it that, and as he was talking about politicians in general, he told us how different they were. He said some were good speakers and some were not, and some talked fast and some were slow, but he said, "You know, there is only one thing, Dick," with that famous smile of his, "that I find politicians, successful ones, seem to have in common, and that is the ability to marry above themselves."

	And George Romney has said some nice things about my campaigning ability and I certainly respect his, but, believe me, the two best campaigners in the United States are Lenore Romney and Pat Nixon, in my opinion.

	And too, while I will be discussing the national issues tonight, I am glad to share the platform with our candidate for governor, Carl Buehner. I am glad to share the platform also with Wallace Bennett, with Larry Burton, with Sherman Lloyd.

	As I have often said, when you determine that you are going to vote for a man for president of the United States, remember that in order to do that job, you must give him the team that will support him. And looking, for example, in the Senate of the United States, there is no man, no senator, in whom you can have greater confidence as a strong, vigorous representative of Utah and the nation than Wallace Bennett, the man that introduced me a few moments ago.

	I can say the same about Larry Burton and Sherman Lloyd. I only wish you had more congressmen from this particular state, because we need more like them in the Congress of the United States, and we need them back, I can assure you.

	And then as I stand here my memory goes back many, many years to the first days of radio. Very few in this audience remember those days, but I remember very well when my mother and father bought our first radio station--radio set, and we had had a crystal set before that, and we got a Gildfil--I don't think they make them any more. But I remember that there was one program we always tuned in then on Sunday. It was from KSL in Salt Lake City. They had a strong signal, and you could hear it out in Whittier, California. And we heard this magnificent Tabernacle Choir. It was great then, and I often wondered if I would ever see it and hear it in person. And I can tell you that hearing it eight years ago and hearing it tonight, this is really one of the mountain top experiences of a campaign. Let's give them a great hand, what they really deserve.

	And that observation comes from a fellow who went out for glee club in college, and he couldn't sing well enough and they made him master of ceremonies for the club.

	I can also assure you that as I stand here I am aware of the great stakes that are involved in this election campaign and I am aware, too, that you are thinking not only of what is happening in Utah, but what is happening in the nation. But let us look first at what is happening here tonight.

	Before coming into this hall, I was listening to a radio report, and I learned how many were in the hall, in the adjacent hall, which is filled to overflowing, and how many thousands were standing outside. I think you will be interested in the number. There are 14,000 people who are out at this meeting tonight, one of the biggest meetings in the history of the Tabernacle. And for those who have to listen to me on radio rather than see me, many people tell me that I sound better than I look, so you are probably lucky.

	And now I want to give you a report, if I can, on the progress of this campaign, and I begin with a day yesterday in California--California, my home state, the state in which I was born. The day before yesterday I went out to my hometown, to the house in which I was born. I can't say that I was born in a log cabin, but my father was a carpenter. He built the house I was born in, and I saw that house again. And when I saw it there and saw the hundreds of school children who were there, I realized what that ground meant, because my dad used to say that, that lemon grove we had didn't grow, wasn't any good for growing lemons, and we never discovered oil on the place, but they finally built a schoolhouse on it and they named the school for me. They call it the Richard Nixon Elementary School.

	Now, that's a very great honor, but the difficulty with that, once you get that much, you want more. And you know what I want--I want them to name a college for me this year. I was thinking maybe the Electoral College, if you don't mind.

	But I can't do that. You can. You can and thousands like you across this country, not just Republicans but Democrats and Independents as well.

	And I want to tell you that I think something is happening across this country. I see it in this great crowd here this evening, not only in the size of the crowd, but in its enthusiasm, and I have seen it all over this nation.

	Let me tell you a journey that I have taken, a journey over the past two weeks that has been the most exciting political journey that I have ever had in twenty-one years of campaigning.

	It began in Chicago a week after the Democratic convention, and there as we rode into that town in a motorcade, many people thought it was a dangerous thing and a risky thing to do. The crowd was estimated at 600,000--the biggest political crowd in thirty years. Something is happening. I think we are going to carry Illinois this year and carry it big. And so it goes around the country. Three hundred thousand on the streets of San Francisco the next day. Thirty thousand in Santa Clara, a university stadium that night, and then 45,000 in Houston in the City Stadium the following night. Ten thousand at the airport in Pittsburgh the next day. Then in Westchester County, a week ago, Governor Rockefeller introduced me, and what he said was the biggest and most enthusiastic rally ever held in his home county of Westchester. I think we are going to carry New York this year. I think that's how far we are going, and so it is the same pattern repeated. Huge crowds in Indianapolis and in Des Moines, and then on out to Santa Barbara, California, and then again in Orange County a couple of days ago, and now here tonight in Utah.

	Now, naturally what you hear from a candidate--all of this optimism, we are going to carry this state, and we are going to carry that state and we are going to carry that state, I suppose you have to take it with a grain of salt and you should.

	Because after all, the decision is made by the people and many things can happen between now and Election Day.

	But what I do know is this, that there is a spirit in the air, a sense in the air that is different. The reason that I think that these crowds are turning out, turning out in September, the October type crowds that we usually expect only in October, this is the reason: it is because people, the American people, are beginning to wake up. It's because many Americans who have not been talking, many Americans who haven't been cheering and shouting are now beginning to talk, and they are beginning to shout. It's because across this land today the forgotten Americans, the silent, quiet Americans, are waking up and speaking out.

	Let me tell you who they are. They are not Republicans or Democrats or Independent. They are all Americans. They are Americans that come from all segments of our life. They are people that do not break the laws, they are people that do not resort to violence, they pay their taxes, they support their churches and their schools, they are good people, they are decent people, they care.	They know that this country isn't going to be a good place for any of us to live in if it isn't a good place for all of us to live in. And they are people who are not haters, they are people who recognize that what is happening in America is something that needs to be changed. If they are mad about anything, angry about anything, it's what has happened to America that discourages them and outrages them. And they look over these last four years, and this is what they see.

	In these past four years they see the strongest nation in the world tied down in a war in Vietnam with no end in sight. In these last four years they see the richest nation in the world unable to manage its own economy. In this last four years they see the United States of America, which has the greatest tradition for the rule of law and respect for law, torn apart by unprecedented lawlessness and civil strife. They see the value of the dollar going down. They see crime going up.

	And when they see all these things, the American people cry out from within themselves and they say, "Why? Can't we do something about it?" And I say we can. I say that we need a change, not just a change of face, not just a new name, not just a new accent. We need a new leadership from top to bottom, and that's what I pledge to America in this year 1968.

	I do not question the fact that the other man, the nominee of the other party who seeks the office that I seek, also pledges new leadership. But I do point out the fact that he helped to make the policies of the past four years. He has advocated them. He has defended them. He has not indicated any one of them he disagrees with, and I say that when you are in trouble, you don't turn to one who helped to get you in trouble to get you out of trouble. It's as simple as that in the United States of America.

	But so much has been said about the problems of America, let me tell you something about the promise. Let me tell you what can be done with new leadership. Let us look at the directions that a new administration, a new administration that is bigger than whether we are Republicans or Democrats, but that speaks for America and brings the best of America to Washington to serve it. Let's tell you what a new administration, the kind of leadership it can and shall bring to this nation.

	And first we shall bring new leadership with a new foreign policy. There are many areas I could discuss this evening. The areas that I could discuss are too numerous in one speech to cover. But I would suggest to you that as you consider Vietnam you don't have to stop there.

	Look clear around this great wide world of ours. Go home tonight, put a map of the world up on the wall. Stand back ten paces, five paces, throw darts at it. I do not think you will be able to hit a place in the world where we aren't worse off than we were eight years ago when our administration left Washington, D.C. Whether it's in Latin America, whether it's in Europe, whether it's in Asia, we find that American foreign policy has not met the challenge of our times. It no longer speaks to our times. And so we need a new policy.

	Let me give you the directions of that policy. First, with regard to Vietnam. We look at that war, that terribly difficult war. It's gone on for four years, and I can only summarize my criticisms of the conduct of that war by saying that never has so much military and economic and political and diplomatic power been used so ineffectively as by this administration in conducting the war in Vietnam.

	And now we are at a period, however, when negotiations are going on, negotiations in which every American has an interest. We hope they succeed. That's why I have made it very clear to the President, to the Secretary of State, that I will make no statement in the course of the campaign that will prejudice their chance to negotiate a peaceful end to this conflict if possible before this election.

	And if it does end, we will all be thankful. But, my friends, if it does not end, if they do not succeed, then I say on November 5th the American people will have to make a judgment. And I say that on November 5th, if after four years of all that power and all of that sacrifice and all of that wealth we still do not have an end to this war in sight, then they have had their chance. Give us a chance and we will bring the war to an honorable end. That's what we can do and that's what we ask for the American people.

	But our foreign policy initiatives must not stop there. As I look over this great hall and outside earlier, I saw boys fourteen, fifteen--who are thinking not simply about what will happen in Vietnam, but what would happen five or six or seven years from now if we do not avoid more Vietnams. And I say that all of American foreign policy commitments must be reevaluated and reappraised around the world. That's why I have advocated it and that's why we will do it.

	And looking over what has happened to the United States in the field of foreign policy, let's see why we need now a change, not simply new men carrying on the old policies, what we need is a new policy as well as new men.

	Over the past twenty years the world has changed and our policies have not changed with it. Twenty years ago the rest of the world was weak and the rest of the world needed assistance, and the United States came to its assistance.

	But now for twenty years, the United States of America has poured out its wealth, $150 billion in foreign aid to nations abroad. For twenty years we have poured out our men and our arms. We have furnished most of the lives as well as the wealth and as well as the arms, first in Korea and then in Vietnam, to help those countries defend themselves against communist aggression.

	Now, my friends, we are a rich country and we are a strong country, and we are a populous country. But there are 200 million Americans, and there are two billion people that live in the free world. And I think that it's time that other nations in the free world assumed more of their share of the burden of defending freedom around the world, and we will have that kind of a foreign policy.

	And as far as any future foreign aid programs are concerned, let us help our friends who help themselves, but let us not help any who help our enemies. That's the kind of program we shall have.

	The road to peace is not an easy one, and it is one certainly which I can pledge we will devote all of our best efforts to, but I can assure you that if we are to meet the challenge which is ours, we must also remember that we must start with that word "respect" that has been used by both of the two previous speakers on this platform tonight. A nation that's not respected in the world cannot lead. A nation that cannot keep the peace at home will not be entrusted with the task of keeping the peace abroad.

And so now we look at America, this great land of ours, and I say to you tonight, as important as all of these foreign policy problems are, there is no ground that is more important than the ground we stand on. What we have to do is to see to it that America is worthy of the challenge that is ours, the challenge that comes only to a great people, the challenge to keep peace and freedom not only for ourselves but for the world in the last third of this century.

And as we look at America we find many things. We find a great people. We find a rich country, but we also find many, many disturbing factors that have already been alluded to by previous speakers, and I refer to them first in the order in which they have already been alluded to.

	As we look across this country, we do have, and all of you know of this, this great tradition of respect for law. It came from our founders and it is the reason that we have come as far as we have. The fact that we have recognized, in order to have progress you must have order and that one cannot come without the other.

	And yet look what has happened to order in the United States. Look what has happened in terms of that phrase "law and order," and let me meet that issue very frontally. I hear it said that we must not use the words "law and order" in our speeches, that that's a code word for racism. I couldn't disagree more. My friends, every American has an interest in seeing that the first civil right of every American is protected, and that's the right to be free from domestic violence, and let's protect that right in the United States of America.

	Here in this field I have some very precise views. I speak somewhat as an expert. I am a lawyer. I have argued a case before the Supreme Court of the United States on two occasions. I respect that court and all our courts. But, my friends, as I look over the decisions of that and other courts in recent years, I have reached the conclusion that some of our courts have gone too far in their decisions in weakening the peace forces as against the criminal forces in this country, and we must restore that balance. And with the right kind of legislation we can restore that balance, restore it without jeopardizing the rights of the innocent, and I pledge myself to that task.

	Also, as we look over the United States today, we must remember that not only do we have the problem, the technical problems of having adequate police forces with the tools to do the job. We have to have the respect for law, the respect for law which must come in the hearts and minds of people if it is really to be meaningful in this country. And here it occurred to me as I was reading some notes preparing for this appearance today that one of the Articles of Faith of this church is very pertinent, and I will read it to you. It calls for obeying, honoring and sustaining the law. Let me tell you what I think those things mean in America today, what they mean to me, how I interpret them.

	Obeying the law: this means obeying both the laws we agree with and the laws we disagree with. I do not go along with those who say that if you don't like a law, you have a right to disobey it. Let us remember that our Founding Fathers had the judgment to set up a system that provides a peaceful means to change those laws we do not like, and when you have that kind of a system, there is no cause that justifies breaking the law and engaging in violence in the United States of America.

	And then the second precept of that great document, honoring the law: this is what this means to me. That means respect for the men who properly carry out their functions as law enforcement officers, and let's understand one thing very clearly. If laws are to be respected, they must deserve respect, and that means that they must be fairly enforced. We must have justice if we are to have law and order in this country, and this starts with the patrolman on the beat and extends further.

	And here I want to make a comment that I hope everybody in this audience, and I am sure they will, will agree with. I have some disagreements with the President of the United States, as I have already indicated in the conduct of policy and with the Vice President of the United States. But as I see what has happened to both of them over these past few years, as I have seen the reviled and cursed, as I have seen the hostile crowds across this land, I disagree more with those who will not give them the opportunity to speak out.

	Let me say this. The President of the United States and the office that he holds and the Vice President of the United States and the office he holds, they deserve respect wherever they go, and I know they should get that respect wherever they go. Let us learn to express our disagreements, express them candidly and strongly, as I am hoping I am doing today, but we certainly do no service to the cause of freedom when we drown out other voices, when we will not let other voices be heard. This certainly is one of the great precepts of a kind of a government that we want in this country.

	Finally, sustaining the law. Here we come to another point deeper, one which everybody in this great audience will understand. If we are going to sustain the law, this means that we have got to restore a climate of public and private morality under our entire system of laws. And when sharp practices and unethical conduct of a businessman or a working man go unrestrained, when hard core pornography is permitted to corrupt the minds of children, and when violence is condoned and amnesty is given to the unlawful acts of avowed revolutionaries, then the time has come for new moral leadership to make itself felt in America.

	This brings me to the key point: where is the responsibility for that leadership? It can come, yes, from a president of the United States, it can come from a United States Senator, it can come from a governor, it can come also from a Congressman--any leader can stand before the people as I stand before them and urge that they respect our laws and our institutions. But it must primarily come from the family. It must come from the church. It must come from the schools of America.

	And let us remember that unless we do restore respect for our flag and respect for our laws in this country, the United States is not going to be able to meet the great challenge of our time. I think it can be done, but it means that government alone can't do it. The American people, acting in their volunteer capacities, in the great tradition of this country, can do it. And there is no organization than this church that has done more to create that kind of leadership, and I congratulate you for it and I hope you continue it, because we need that kind of thinking in America today.

	We speak then if America is to lead in the necessity for restoring respect for law, freedom from fear. But that alone is only part of the equation. We must also restore in this country across this land the hope that comes only if every person in this land believes that he has an equal chance at the starting line to go as high as his talents will take him. And that means that we need programs, programs of concern, programs of involvement, programs in which we deeply believe, in which those who have not had that chance are given that chance. Those who are behind are brought up to that starting line, and on that score we have a difference of opinion again between the two major candidates for the presidency of the United States--an honest difference of opinion.

	What do we do, for example, to train the unemployed? How do we rebuild our cities? How do we get the new housing that we need to replace the old that should be put out, that should be destroyed? How can America build the new America? What's the best way to progress in America?

	There are two roads: the road we have been on and the new road that I call for in the year 1968. The road we have been on is this. Their answer is whenever there is a problem, turn to government. Government jobs, government housing, government welfare. And the present candidate of the other party says, "What I will do," he says to the American people, "is to spend even more billions for government jobs and government housing and government welfare."

	My friends, government has a great role to play; a great role in education, a great role in taking care of those who are in need, a great role in taking care of the aged, in all of those areas where private individuals and private enterprise cannot do the job.

	But let us remember one great lesson of our history. America is a great country, and let us never forget how we became great. The war on poverty in the United States didn't start five years ago. It started when this country began. It started 190 years ago and it's been the most successful war on poverty ever waged in the history of man.

	How have we become great? How are we the richest nation in the world with our wealth more equally shared than in any nation in the world? I will tell you how. America is a great nation today not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves. That's the great lesson for America.

	So, my friends, this is my message to you. The new road to progress is one in which your government in Washington will play a great role, in which it will move into those areas in an activist way in which people and private enterprise cannot or will not do the job.

	But, my friends, we will also institute those new programs in which we will enlist that great engine of private enterprise, in training the unemployed, in building the housing, in rebuilding the cities of America. That's the way to do it and that's the area in which we will move.

	Finally, beyond that, not only must we enlist private enterprise, but we must enlist in this great task of reconciliation in America, of restoring respect for our law and our institutions, we must enlist the American people. And I get back to my earlier theme. That will come through our churches, through our schools, through our families in America. And I know that each of you in this room understands that perhaps better than most audiences would understand it.

	But I want you to know that among the great leaders on the American political scene who understands that is the Governor of the state of Michigan. He recognizes the role of government, and government has played a great role in his state in dealing with problems. But he also recognizes that when you can get that extra reach that comes from a volunteer organization undertaking a task, then you really have it made.

	And so I say let's reach out and involve all of the American people in this exciting task of building a new America. That is the way to great progress for the future. That's the exciting challenge that we ask you to join in this campaign.

	I have one final thought that I would leave with the many young people that are in this audience, in this hall, outside and others who maybe listening on radio or television. During this political campaign you are necessarily going to hear from the candidates, all the candidates, many things that are wrong about America, both from the candidates and as you see flashed on the television screens those particular problems that we do have in this nation and our cities and in other areas, never lose faith in our country. And, remember this. I have often heard young people of late say sadly, "With the war in Vietnam and with all the problems at home, this must be the worst time that anybody could live."

	I couldn't disagree more. Let me tell you what I think. I have studied the history of man from the beginning. I have traveled to most of the countries of the world, and if I were to pick a time in which to live and a place in which to live, I'd pick the United States of America in 1968. This is the time and the place to live, I can assure you.

	And the reason that I pick this time and place is not because we do not have problems but because we do. And also because we have the power in our hands to solve those problems.

	Do you know what exciting thing has occurred in my lifetime? In the last third of this century, for the first time in the history of the world, in the history of America, the decisions that are made in the United States of America alone will determine whether peace and freedom survive in this world. That wasn't true in the first third of the century, it wasn't true in the second third of the century. Then what happened in London and Paris and Berlin and Tokyo made that determination. But now--not by our choice, but because of what has happened in terms of the balance of power and the wealth of nations--as far as the free world is concerned, here's where the action is. What America does, how we fulfill our role of leadership will determine the future of our children and the future of peace and freedom in the world.

	What a great time to be alive, what a great challenge for a people and what I say to the young people here is this. Remember, greatness, true greatness for an individual or a nation, comes from stepping up to great events and not sitting on the sidelines while history is made by others.

	And I say to you, to the young people of America, I have faith in you. I know that we hear these days about what's wrong with our young people, but I have never seen so many young people at political meetings, and I can tell you that the younger generation today knows more about the world, the younger generation is better educated, than we were in ours, than any generation in our history. I have faith in them and I say to you, and to those who are your parents as well, this is a time for greatness in America's history.

	Let's all play a role in that great challenge. Let's step up to this great event. There is nothing wrong with America that the American people are not going to be able to cure with the new leadership and the support you are going to give that leadership after we elect it.

	Thank you.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALVIETNAM WAR     Fy y y y x
 x x x x x x x x s	  	  	 z 	 a 	 M 	 8 	 " 	  e: