

	In Connecticut the other day, I asked what may be the central question in this election: "Are you better off today than you were eight years ago?"

	There is one simple answer for the overwhelming majority of Americans, a resounding "yes."

	But today let's examine an equally important, and perhaps more fundamental set of questions: "How did we get here?" and more importantly, "Where should we, as a nation, be headed?"

	In the last six years, the American economy has grown, in real terms, by an astounding 26 percent. That's an annual average of 4.3 percent, after you adjust for inflation.

	That is the longest period of sustained peacetime economic expansion in the history of the United States.

	Put this record of growth in context: it is greater than West Germany, France, Italy, or the United Kingdom. And it is equal to the vaunted Japan.

	And who fueled that growth? I think you know the answer.

	The overwhelming majority of new jobs created in this expansion have been created by small businesses. Some credit small business as the source of all the net new jobs. And women are leading the way, starting up new firms at a rate fifty percent faster than men.

	This is one trend that we want to see continue. In fact, President Reagan has just signed a bill--the Women's Business Ownership Act of 1988--which will help. The bill improves access to credit for women entrepreneurs and helps them work through the procurement maze.

	Overall, of the 18 million new jobs we've created in this Reagan-Bush boom, two-thirds have been filled by women. In fact, the unemployment rate for women used to be about 25 percent higher than that for men in the late 1970s, but it is now virtually equal to that for men. And real earnings for women working full-time are growing twice as fast as those for men.

	I've said over and over again in this campaign that American working people--and especially working women--have new economic power; and I'm not going to let anyone take it away from you.

	Now, for years, we've heard from various liberal Democrats and some economists that misery is just around the corner. "We may be in a recession already," one prominent economist proclaimed in December of 1985. Since then--in less than three years--the American economy has generated another eight million new jobs, and the unemployment rate has touched a fourteen-year low.

	But even now, the voices of doom persist. We can't afford another four years of Reaganomics, our opponents have said. They have called record-low unemployment, record-high family income, and record-long job growth "economic violence."

	Just the other day, my opponent gave a speech devoted to, as he put it, "making America number one again." And last week on television, he said he wasn't satisfied with being second or fifth or seventh.

	Well, I don't know which of those he thinks we are, but let me recite a few facts:

	America ranks first among the major industrialized nations of the world in output per person. America's productivity has increased sharply under this Administration; and yes, Japan's productivity is less than three-quarters of our productivity.

	In the last six years, America has created new jobs at a rate fourteen times as fast as West Germany, eight times as fast as Italy, three times as fast as the United Kingdom, and more than twice as fast as Japan. In total, we've created twice as many jobs as the other six summit countries--the major industrialized leaders of the West--combined. And their population is 50 percent larger than ours.

	America produces more beef, more corn, more computer software, more computer hardware, more commercial aircraft, more telecommunications equipment, more outstanding universities, more good ideas, and more freedom than any nation on this planet.

	America, in short, is the richest, strongest, and most generous nation on earth.

	So let's get beyond the rhetoric. Let's cut through the demagoguery. America is number one. The question is how to keep it that way.

	The twentieth century is the American century. The question is how to make sure that the twenty-first century will be the American century as well.

	Perhaps the history of Michigan itself is instructive. Michigan prospered first from furs, then lumber, then iron and copper ore, and of course, in this century, the name Michigan is synonymous with automobiles.

	But how did those automobile companies get started? The early entrepreneurs--men like Henry Ford, W. C. Durant, and R. E. Olds--didn't get their early financing from the big banks in Chicago. They got it from venture capitalists in Detroit.

	Now I don't have to tell this crowd that the automobile industry faced some hard times not long ago. But the industry has bounced back. From Paris to Peoria, people are buying American cars because they're made well.

	And Michigan reached back and found a more diverse strength. Look at the results. Unemployment here has dropped by over ten percentage points since the depths of those hard times. 700,000 new jobs have been created.

	Look around Michigan today. What's the source of most of the new jobs? Small businesses--making everything from snowplows and coat hangers in the Upper Peninsula to electronic components for the automakers here in the Detroit area.

	And what has fueled the auto industry's comeback? Investment in new technologies. Smart management. Attention to quality. Greater productivity.

	The example you've provided here contains a lesson for the rest of America. America is not losing jobs overseas. We've added over 400,000 manufacturing jobs in the last year alone. But we will have to compete for those jobs. And here are the seeds of America's future competitiveness: increased investment; a skilled work force; and low tax rates.

	Let's take those issues one at a time. How can we increase investment?

	Well, anyone who's ever tried to raise money for a business can tell you that, for a given level of risk, a rational investor is going to look at after-tax return in choosing where to put his or her money.

	That's why I've come up with a plan to increase equity investments in the growing companies that create new jobs. It's a simple plan; and it's been tried, tested, and found effective. Over the years, it's been endorsed by everyone from John F. Kennedy, to Lloyd Bentsen, to my running mate Dan Quayle, to Ronald Reagan and George Bush.

	It's called cutting the capital gains tax--creating a differential between income tax rates and capital gains tax rates. It will create jobs.

	Unfortunately, my opponent's only experience with business is regulating it and taxing it. He's never run a business. He's never started a business. He's never met a payroll. He doesn't understand how when you're starting out, you need people to join you in taking a risk. So he paints my proposal as an effort to help the rich.

	Wrong. The majority of capital gains recipients earn less than $50,000--and the cut will create jobs--and that helps everyone.

	In the book "Future Shock," Alvin Toffler points out that one out of three young executives is now doing a job that never existed before.

	That means we've got to invest in skills. We've got to invest in education. We've got to invest in what the experts call "human capital"--and the rest of us call "people." Yes, invest in our kids.

	That investment should start at the earliest ages--so I would expand a wonderful program that helps disadvantaged preschool children, Head Start.

	Excellence in our schools must be rewarded. So we should: establish a National Merit School Award, create more magnet schools, expand the fund to finance innovative experiments in education reform.

	Michigan is home to some of the world's renowned universities, and many excellent small liberal arts colleges. To help families save for college, last year I proposed a plan to create tax-free college savings bonds. Both houses of Congress have now passed such a plan--and it will shortly become a reality.

	In this world of highly mobile technology, and highly mobile financing, it is the skills of the people that give a nation its competitive edge.

	I saved perhaps the most important determinant of economic growth for last--and that is low tax rates.

	All over the world, low tax rates are helping to unleash a new flood of economic growth. Look at the experience of Great Britain under Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. For over twenty years prior to her election in 1979, Great Britain almost always had slower economic growth than its neighbor, France.

	Then along came Mrs. Thatcher with a program of less government interference in the economy, privatization of state-run agencies, and lower tax rates. The result is impressive: for the last five years, Britain's growth rate has exceeded that of France.

	And to his great credit, President Mitterrand of France, who came into office with a program of nationalizing key industries, has now moved with success to privatize a number of major industries.

	Less government interference. Privatization. Lower tax rates. From Israel to West Africa to South Korea, this is the rage that is literally sweeping the world. The model for this sweeping change is none other than the United States of America.

	Look at our own experience. Since 1981, we have cut personal income tax rates by an average of 27 percent. The results in terms of jobs and economic growth have been staggering.

	But the point is often lost on our critics that even with our tax cuts, government revenues have increased by some $255 billion since 1981--24 percent in the last three years alone.

	I believe, in short, that the link between low tax rates and economic growth is undeniable. But despite the certifiable success of our tax cuts in unleashing this longest recovery in our history, my opponent thinks they were a disaster.

	You may not remember this, but in a debate with Congressman Dick Gephardt back in the primaries, he was asked point blank whether he would repeal our 1981 tax cuts. He shrugged his shoulders. Then he went on to call the tax cut bill "one of the worst bills that Congress ever could have passed" and "a government-made disaster." Those sound to me like the words of someone who is just itching to repeal one of the most successful economic policies in our history. I know why. He has proposed mandated new spending--both by government and by business--that will cost, as Carl Sagan might say, "billions and billions and billions."

	My approach is very different. I will not use higher tax rates to feed wild increases in congressional spending. If elected I will work with Congress--telling them the American people, in electing me, voted against a tax increase. Now let's sit down together, honor the people's decision, and hold spending increases to the rate of inflation. And I'll say "give me the line-item veto" and with that tool a president can make some of the tough calls Congress is simply unable to make.

	You know, I've said in this campaign that ideology does matter--it's not just, as my opponent said in Atlanta, about "competence."

	But I don't hold to my belief in low taxes and less government interference in the economy out of blind adherence to ideology.

	I believe in these policies because they work. They produce the greatest good for the greatest number of people.

	And that's critical, because for all our success, some Americans have not been touched by the recovery. Those still in the shadows of our society have the most to lose if we turn back, the most to lose in a recession, because an end to economic growth means an end to hope for them. Our policies work because they play to the best in human nature. Low tax rates give people an incentive to work--for the simple reason that they get to keep more of what they earn. It's common sense--if you want less of something, you tax it.

	So why were we taxing work at such high marginal rates? It didn't make sense. We cut taxes, and income rose--for everyone from the bottom fifth of the population to the top fifth.

	We forget that the tax bill took some six million people, the lowest earners, off the tax rolls completely. What better way to help fight poverty than letting those people keep more of what they earn.

	These policies work because they place their faith in the people; in the ingenuity and wisdom of individuals. Healthy and relatively unencumbered markets give people a wider choice of jobs, of goods and services, of schools, of opportunities generally. They celebrate America's diversity--and give people the choice to lead the kind of lives they want to lead. That's what freedom is all about.

	The role of government, in this vision, is to help give them the tools they need to do the job, to make sure that opportunity is open to all--because we do not all start from the same starting line--and to provide the kind of environment in which the free exchange of ideas and goods and services can prosper.

	Free markets democratize opportunity. Markets don't reward people for reason of birth or school or bureaucratic favoritism. They are the vehicle for all people to do better for themselves and their children.

	The American people are basically fair. They proffer an impartial judge like the marketplace to central controls or the directives of a technocrat in Washington. Our revolutionary forefathers knew economic and political liberty were inseparable. That's why, throughout their history, Americans have rebelled against heavy regulation and overbearing taxation.

	Perhaps Ronald Reagan said it best. "We believe," he said, "that growth, prosperity, and ultimately human fulfillment are created from bottom up, not from government down."

	That's a creed I'm proud to stand on today. Give people the freedom and the incentive to do what they do best. With all of us, working in our own way as well as together, to achieve a better life, the result will be inevitable: a better America. Because freedom works. It is the model, the example to which the world aspires.

	An earlier president, in a famous speech at the frontier of freedom in Berlin, pointed out that "freedom has many difficulties and democracy is not perfect, but we have never had to put up a wall to keep our people in, to prevent them from leaving us."

	John F. Kennedy also used to like to quote Lincoln, who said that the Declaration of Independence "gave liberty not alone to the people of this country, but hope to the world."

	Today, in 1988, we remain the "last, best hope" of the world. We are the engine for its economic growth, the guarantor of its freedom, the inspiration for the dreams of millions of its people.

	Those who say there is not much at stake in this election have missed this fundamental point. What's at stake is not just the direction of America, but of free people everywhere.

	In less than two weeks, you'll have a choice to make. I ask that you choose the direction I've spoken of today.

	Thank you and God bless you.

BUSINESS--WOMENBUSINESS, SMALLCAPITAL GAINS TAXEDUCATION--GENERALEMPLOYMENT--WOMENFREE MARKET ECONOMIESGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINCOME TAXINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESJOB GROWTH/CREATIONPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALPRODUCTIVITYWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME--WOMENECONOMY--GENERAL     e< 1< +< '< <
 < < < < ; ; ; ;	 	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	 } 	 c 	 P 	 9 	 -   e: