

	Got a question for you: Are we going to carry Ohio? Are we going to win this election?

	There's something going on in this country. Today we had the largest crowd of the year in New York, far larger than anything Reagan has had, and the largest Garment District rally in the history of New York--thousands and thousands of people.

	It was not just the size of the crowd, but they had the same look in their eyes that you have tonight. You've got something in mind, don't you? You've got something in mind.

	What the American people are saying, and it's happening all over, is that look, they read the polls, they read these slick magazines that are trying to tell you that the election is over--that they have made the decision for you. One of the big magazines had Reagan's picture on it. They've already picked him. A Republican slick paper, that's right.

	But what they're going to find out is what they've found out before. This country belongs to the American people. They will reserve the right to cast their own vote. Polls don't vote. People vote. And they're going to vote on November 6 for a people's president.

	You can tell they're in trouble, because they've been doing political grave robbing all year. All you have to do to be honored in this life is to be a strong Democrat and die. Then they'll remember you.

	They honored old Franklin Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt and Harry Truman. They even tried to honor my old friend Hubert Humphrey. And this president went all over the country saying, "What a good friend I am of John Kennedy. He really brought out springtime for this country."

	But it turns out I was chairman of Minnesotans for Kennedy, and he was chairman of a thing called Democrats for Nixon. That's bad enough. Then someone gave me a letter that he wrote in 1960 that said that Kennedy's ideas were drawn from Karl Marx and Adolf Hitler. If he's a friend of Kennedy, I'd sure hate to be an enemy of his.

	So he got caught, and now all he's mentioning is Harry Truman. But of course, we remember. The first day that Mr. Reagan took office, he went into the White House, and he took Harry Truman's portrait off the wall and put Calvin Coolidge's up in its place. We should have known we were in trouble right there.

	So I'm here tonight with all my Baptist friends to tell you this: On the first day in office, I'm going to go right through the front door of that White House, and I'm going to take Calvin Coolidge down. Then I'm going to put Harry Truman up there where he belongs.

	Tonight I want to talk for a few moments about the people, many of whom are not here tonight; many of whom are despairing, disappointed, and heartbroken; many of whom do not believe there is much hope for them for a good life in this country. You don't see those people and their lives on the Reagan commercials, do you?

	Their commercials call it the new morning in America. It's all picket fences and puppy dogs. No one's hurting, no one's old, no one's hungry, no one's unemployed. Everybody's happy.

	The first challenge of a president, it seems to me, is to know what's going on. How can you lead if you don't? As I said in that first debate, he reminds me of what Will Rogers said about Hoover: It's not what you don't know that bothers me, Mr. President, it's what you know for sure that just ain't so.

	These poor people can't hire any lobbyists. They can't pay for any ads. They don't have fancy newsletters. They're not a power bloc. They're not fashionable. Their voices aren't counted as votes.

	But in the real sense, their hopes and the hope for a just society depend on the election of a president who knows that he must be with them and help them to get on their feet and to have a decent life.

	That's the hope for the poor and the powerless in this country. If we want to be a decent society--and we all do--we must measure it not by how generous we are to the powerful, but how just we are to the powerless.

	By that measurement, this administration flunks flat out. Many of you worked for years with my beloved mentor, Hubert Humphrey, one of the most decent men ever to come along in American life. He said something that I want to repeat tonight. He said, "The moral test of government is how it treats those in the dawn of life: our children; those in the twilight of life: the elderly; and those in the shadows of life--the sick, the handicapped and the unemployed."

	You don't hear these words from this president. You don't hear words like decency and compassion and justice. When is the last time you heard him use those words? Never.

	[Responding to something from audience]--You get a lot of help. The other day, I was quoting from a sermon that was three hundred years old, and I said, "I wonder if Reagan knows what's in it?" and someone said, "He was there!"

	Let's clean up our act and move on here tonight. Instead, what words do you hear? Bootstraps and self-reliance. Well, let's be clear about something. We all stand for independence. I've never had anybody ask me for a handout. I've had people ask for a chance for a decent job, so they could stand on their own two feet and care for themselves and their families.

	No one's asking for dependence. But people want education and training so that they can stand on their own feet. No one wants government to take the place of individual efforts, but people do want government to get rid of discrimination. That's what you're asking for: a chance for dignity, employment, justice, so that it is possible for every American to have that indispensable dignity.

	I'm amongst friends tonight, and I want to talk frankly. When this crowd talks about independence, you know what they're saying. It's code for forgetting you. When they talk about bootstraps, it's code for budget cuts. When they talk about the free market, it's code for discrimination. When they talk about work, it's code for saying that you're lazy.

	I have a message for Mr. Reagan: when we talk about Social Security, it's code for getting a new president on November 6.

	They say this is all wrong and they've done a lot. The president said recently that he had a perception problem. He does. He can't see you at all, and you can see right through him. And that's a perception problem.

	We have a way of measuring people. The Bible says, "By their fruits ye shall know them." The fruits of this administration have been the grapes of wrath. This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals. It's about their policies that one paper called "official cruelty."

	During his presidency, 6 million Americans have slipped below poverty, half of them children. Today, the poverty levels are the highest in twenty years. He threw nearly 4 million children off the school lunch program and tried to eliminate nutrition help for 750,000 women and children. Today the infant mortality rate is on the rise again. Mr. Reagan cut a half a million people off the disability rolls.

	Those numbers just flow trippingly from the tongue. But of all the mean-spirited, inexcusable, cruel steps by this administration, that takes the cake. Who are these people? They are the mentally ill; they are the handicapped; they are the broken, the sad, the dispirited, the helpless. They are the bag ladies who walk the streets tragically. They are the people who sleep over grates. They are the twisted, broken people living in twilight, wholly unable to help themselves.

	If there were ever a test of decency, surely giving them some minimal help would be that test. Yet they took a computer, and they terminated five-hundred-thousand of our fellow human beings in the United States, not just once, but over four years. The courts repeatedly ruled that it was illegal. Governors screamed for mercy. The Congress held hearings. It was one of the saddest moments in this decent nation's history.

	They did nothing. They ran. They closed their ears and their eyes, and only at the last minute did they finally sign a bill that was forced on them by the Congress to prevent them from doing what they're doing. People like that shouldn't be in that White House.

	They trashed the Civil Rights Commission. For thirty years, under Republicans and Democrats alike, that commission was bipartisan and a conscience for our country. They turned it into a trained pup for the White House that barks on orders. Not even Nixon did that.

	I've got a two-part program for them: Number one, I'm going to fire everybody they hired; number two, I'm going to hire everybody they fired. We're going to go out and get to work.

	They don't understand what we mean when we fight discrimination. That isn't something that "we" do for "them." The history of civil rights has been that every time we open doors, we're all stronger.

	This summer in the Olympics, when the president rejoiced with all of us when our kids won all the gold, did he stop to think why we were the best? I'll tell you why. No thanks to him, for 25 years, we enforced those civil rights laws, and no thanks to him, for ten years, we prohibited discrimination against women in athletic programs in this country.

	As a result, if he had looked a minute, we had white kids and black kids and yellow kids and Hispanic kids. We had all measures of kids. We had young men and we had young women. We had the best in America, and we cleaned the clock of every other country on earth. That's why we did it.

	We don't have time to talk about all these issues. You know about them. I want to talk about taxes. I won't tonight, but I'll tell you this. When somebody disclosed that the vice president of the United States pays a lower percentage of taxes than the janitor who cleans up his office, something's rotten. We've got to change that.

	This crowd's record is an insult to American decency. One paper called it "repugnant to American values." They're trying to turn heartlessness into a policy, callousness into a virtue. Mr. Reagan likes to say that Uncle Sam is a kindly man with a spine of steel.

	I've got two things to say about that. If he keeps up, we're going to have to import that spine from Korea. The second thing is, he misses something. We want him to be kindly with a spine of steel, but we want Uncle Sam to have a mind and a heart and a soul and a conscience. A complete person. That's what Uncle Sam should be.

	We can't afford to do all we might like, and thus a president must make tough choices. If you look at how we make them, it defines our differences.

	Mr. Reagan chooses to close public health clinics. I will seek to close tax loopholes for big corporations instead.

	Mr. Reagan chooses to invest in poison nerve gas. I choose to invest in Head Start and school lunches instead.

	Mr. Reagan chooses to fight the illegal war in Nicaragua. I choose to fight discrimination right here in the United States.

	This week, to save money, Mr. Reagan vetoed a modest program to hire young people to do work. To save money, I'd veto Mr. Reagan's one-trillion-dollar Star Wars program and put those kids to work right here on earth.

	They don't understand the importance of these values to us or to the world. This election is not about whether we are doing well. It's also about whether we're doing good. It's not whether our hearts are filled with love for our country--because they are--but whether they are filled with love for our fellow countrymen and countrywomen.

	Today I challenge the American people to wrestle with your heart and to vote with your conscience. Let's let America be itself again. Let's have that conscience up there where it should be. Let America be seen in the world as that true shining city on the hill.

	Today as we meet, there are millions of our fellow human beings dying of hunger and malnutrition in Africa and Ethiopia. Wouldn't it be in our interests, and wouldn't we be expressing America in a way that the world would be thrilled, if, instead of that illegal, dirty war in Nicaragua, we would take that money and that might and, tomorrow, airlift and sea-lift our agricultural abundance and let the world see that America cares and America saved the lives of millions of our fellow human beings?

	That's not what's going on. Two weeks ago, when six people tried to get asylum in the United States, away from the oppression of the South African government, this country refused asylum.

	Last week, when the United Nations Security Council was about to unanimously condemn South African oppression of her own people, the United States was the only nation to abstain.

	That isn't what Americans want of this nation. We ought to be the nation that stands for justice. We ought to be the nation that leads the world in human rights. We ought to be that shining city on the hill. I understand that. I know that, and so do you.

	Tonight we're here within five days of that election. This is one we better win, not lose. The Supreme Court, a lot more than a lot of us recognize, for forty-five years has been an underpinning of justice. Even in bad times, when there was a bad political fever running in this country, that Court would protect us. You could always go there and plead for justice.

	Now, four or five of the best judges are at the age at which they probably won't be there much longer: Thurgood Marshall, Justice Brennan, and others. If Mr. Reagan gets four more years, Jerry Falwell may get five more justices of the Supreme Court.

	What that means to justice in America for the rest of this century is something that's just dreadful to contemplate. Let's not let it happen.

	Finally, let me make this point. I'm not worried about Mr. Reagan getting votes in this community. If I were him, I wouldn't come in here and even ask for votes. What I'd do is send people in here to tell you that nobody's any good, they're all rotten; don't vote, it just encourages them. Then I'd go somewhere else and try to get the vote out.

	Because they will try to play on despair and heartache and the cynicism and the hopelessness that these policies have visited on your community.

	Wouldn't it be the final irony if the people who created so much suffering were able to tap that despair to produce their own re-election?

	There's a principle here and a lesson that must be taught. The lesson that I want taught to this president and for the rest of our history, which I hope will be forever, is that when a president ignores human needs, when a president forgets justice, when a president can't hear the cries of hungry children and the pleas of the isolated elderly or the young and the others who need work, then he's removed from office at the next election and replaced by somebody who can.

	Thank you very much.
CIVIL RIGHTSFOREIGN AID--AFRICAHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHUMAN RIGHTSHUNGER (WORLD)OLYMPIC GAMESPOVERTYPUBLIC ASSISTANCESOUTH AFRICASUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTS     : : : : |:
 q: m: h: _: [: Y: T: I:	  	  	  	  	 e 	 Y 	 K 	 > 	 7 	 & 	 