

	First of all, I want to thank you, my good friends everywhere, for all that you have done for me, during so many weeks and months--for having helped me find the means and the heart to fight hard for all that we of the Democratic party hold vital in this crucial election.

	As Jack Kennedy has told you, this night marks the end of a long and thrilling journey. For four years now I have gone up and down the airways and rail lines and roads of this astonishing country of ours, and what rewards I have had!

	I have traveled, too, all around the world: to Asia and the Middle East and Africa and Europe, and I think I have seen with open eyes the realities of this wonderful, precarious earth.

	I have needed the strength of many men to get through these travels and this hard fight for what I believe--and I have drawn deeply on hidden sources of strength. I have seen millions of American faces as I have traveled. I have spoken with Americans of all conditions of life, of all ages and kinds, and I have been deeply moved and sustained by the warmth, reliance, the confidence, the affection that they--that you--have so generously given me.

	I think of the young people, boys with banners and girls with notebooks, college students and teenagers too young to vote who wanted to participate in the exciting process of our democracy.

	And so many of you have come forward to tell me that you have gone into politics in the last four years. Volunteers, precinct captains, young women who have held coffee hours to raise money. Some of you are running for office--and you've told me this was all because of things you heard me say in the '52 campaign.

	And then I've been moved by the simple, kindly phrases spoken by humble people who reach out form the crowd to say, "God bless you," "I hope you win," "Don't get too tired," "We need you."

	I have known--and really this knowledge has given me the greatest strength of all--that these simple, moving words that I've heard so many times were spoken not so much to me personally, but because I was the Democratic candidate for President of the United States--and they trust the Democratic party which has fought the people's battle so long. And so this simple trust and confidence was a gift to me, in a way, of their faith in themselves.

	And what has given me strength has been my faith in them--in you. We are surely a good and strong people, of that I am sure. We are a people who combine generosity and idealism with a practical, down-to-earth realism that we learned the hard way, as we pushed back the harsh frontiers of nature and science and politics. Ours have been the legendary broad shoulders of Paul Bunyan and the restless seeking mind of Thomas Edison and the great heart of Abraham Lincoln. We Americans are Tom Sawyer and Justice Holmes and Jackie Robinson; in our best dreams we are carefree wanderers and noble thinkers, and men who can drive in runs when they're needed.

	We in the Democratic party think there is nothing we cannot do if we want to do it. The Democratic party believes we have not yet finished making our country, that we still have important work to do.

	We of the Democratic party think of "the people" as living human beings, one by one, individuals with differing ways and talents and hopes, each worth in himself the whole weight of government.

	We Democrats see in "the people" the strong young man at the loom or the press or the drill in the clatter of earning a wage, and we want for that young man fair work laws and a steady job and pride in what he does.

	Or we see the grandmother with a broken hip or a heart attack or cancer, sitting in the sun on the porch in the thin workless evening of life, and for her we want security and medical care and some kind of bulwark against loneliness.

	Or we see the mother pushing a wire cart in the grocery store, anxious whether she can buy enough for her children yet not too much for the family budget, and for this mother we want prices within reach and a good life of her own and high hopes for her kids.

	We Democrats see the slum dweller, the workman living in the shadow of automation, the teenager trying to find a moral footing--and we look for ways to help them all.

	Now I want you to listen as some of my colleagues in the Democratic party tell you very briefly about a few of the real issues of this campaign. When they have finished, I want to come back and add a final word about the most important reason of all for casting your vote tomorrow for the Democratic ticket.

	In the years of this Republican administration we have made little progress on the home front. All the things my friends have talked about are urgent--your child's health, your income, your child's school and teacher--how your child learns to live in this magical, dangerous world.

	I have thought of that much this afternoon, here in Boston, where I've come to see my first grandchild--which I modestly confess must be the world's finest, fattest morsel! But I've thought even more about what kind of world this baby will live to see.

	For there is no use talking about a new and better America, if we can't keep the peace, and also the freedoms we cherish even above peace.

	Yet today, America's foreign policy, our policy for peace, is in disarray in all parts of the world. Our alliances are unraveling, NATO is disintegrating, neutralism is spreading, we are helpless in Hungary's agony.

	Our policy in Asia is rigid, militaristic, and unresponsive to the great revolution where hunger is spreading and hope is rising. 

	Our policy in the Middle East is in ruins, and has furthered the Soviet design to penetrate this strategic area, to the great damage of the cause of freedom.

	Israel, surrounded by enemies growing stronger with Russian arms, has lashed out in desperation, and worst of all, Britain and France are going in one direction and we are going in another--in the same direction as the Communists.

	And tonight we have seen the ironic culmination of the disastrous Eisenhower foreign policy in the Middle East--with the Communists now urging us to go to war with them against Britain.

	We regret what our friends have done. We do not condone the use of force. And, as I wired the President last Wednesday, there is no reason for the involvement of America's military forces in this area. But the need for some positive American leadership is desperate everywhere.

	I see no hope that the Republican party can retrieve the tragic situation abroad. It is split internally--as it has been since the fight over the League of Nations, and a divided party cannot regain the confidence of our allies or rebuild the coalition on which our strength and security depend.

	Worst of all, this Republican administration has not taken the American people into its confidence. Either it hasn't known what is going on, which seems incredible, or it has misled us time and again, step by step, from President Eisenhower's early statement about unleashing Chiang Kai-shek to recapture China, to his statement a few days ago that he had good news from Suez and that there was no trouble with our allies.

	And now we have seen in this campaign a refusal on the part of the Republican candidates even to talk seriously about the great problems of the world. Constructive proposals have been dismissed with scorn and epithet. So it has been when I proposed that we take the lead to tame the hydrogen bomb that releases poisons, war or no war, which can permanently injure your child and destroy the whole balance of life on earth. And so it has been when I saw our economic aid system is still so tied to defense policies that it appears to Asia to be little more than a bribe to take sides.

	And now one other matter. Your choice tomorrow will not be of a president for tomorrow. It will be of the man--or men--who will serve you as president for the next four years. 

	And distasteful as this matter is, I must say bluntly that every piece of scientific evidence we have, every lesson of history and experience, indicates that a Republican victory tomorrow would mean that Richard M. Nixon would probably be president of this country within the next four years. I say frankly, as a citizen more than a candidate, that I recoil at the prospect of Mr. Nixon as custodian of this nation's future, as guardian of the hydrogen bomb, as representative of America in the world, as Commander-in-Chief of the United States Armed Forces.

	Distasteful as it is, this is the truth, the central truth, about the most fateful decision the American people have to make tomorrow. I have full confidence in that decision.

	After tomorrow, in the months and years to come, we have great work to do together--to improve the lot of all Americans--in the home, the office, the factory--on the farm. I said earlier there is nothing we cannot do if we decide we want to do it. Man always can see farther than he can reach, but let us never stop reaching. He dreams more than he can achieve, but let us never lay to rest our dreams.

	I was in church yesterday, and there I read this responsive reading:

		Methought I saw a nation arise in the world
		And the strength thereof was the strength of right.
		Her bulwarks were noble spirits and ready arms.
		All factions and parties were turned to one cause;
		The transformation of evil to good.
		Bitter words, the utterance of hate and despair, 
		And envy and conceit were no more heard in the land.
		To the supreme good all the people were devoted.

	Let this be our vision for America.

	Good night. God bless you. 

FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     E& & & & %
 % % % % % % % %	 6 	  e: