

	Your stirring welcome brings to my mind another view I had of Madison Square Garden.  That was in February.  I wasn't here.  I was in Europe in a darkened room looking at some movies.  They took me right here into the Garden to something which was called "Rally for Eisenhower."

	It is completely impossible to describe my feelings when I saw those movies.  Just imagine how you would feel if you saw and heard thousands of people in a group demanding that you become a candidate for president of the United States.

	It was a moving experience.

	You know what I mean, I'm sure, when I say it made me both proud and very humble.

	It was one of the things which made me feel it was my duty to come home.

	That was only a short time ago.  But how much things have changed since then!  Do you remember how some of those, who now most bitterly assail me, only four years before, were ardent in wanting me to accept the nomination of another party--their party?

	Do you for one moment doubt that if I had accepted that suggestion, they would be, today, singing my praises with as much fervor as they are now [missing text].

	But, today, they are saying, "Poor old Ike.  He has been taken into camp.  He has changed."  They say they were mistaken about me. 

	They surely were!

	They thought I might be the man to defend governmental corruption, excuse their coddling of Communists, and [missing text] they that I would apologize for their vacillating policies which have caught us in inflation at home and a war abroad.

	How could they dare think I was their man?

	You bet it was.

	A few months, ago the American people were almost unanimous on those propositions.  There were three simple reasons I became a candidate for the presidency of the United States.

	First, many millions of Americans--both my trusted friends and others I had never met--without regard to their party affiliation, wanted me to run.

	Does anyone doubt that?

	Second, like any other American who has had to live through the hell of war, I want to work for peace in that post where most can be done.  And I'm sure in [missing text] don't doubt that?

	And third, it was and it remains my conviction that neither the present administrator or any candidate committed to it can do the job either at home or abroad that America will be called upon to do in the next four years.

	Does anyone doubt that?

	But they haven't talked about those things in this campaign.  They have talked about how disappointed they are in me; how unfair I have been to criticize their words; how cruel I am to mention their sins and their shortcomings!

	I am no different today than I was in those days when they wanted me to head their ticket.  They miscalculated if they thought that by offering me their party's support I would never call upon them to answer the American people for their failures, their futility, and their lack of faith.

	This campaign has worked changes, all right--but not in me.

	It has not weakened my faith in America.  I believe that our beloved country, under God, can do whatever its people set their hearts and minds to.  I believe it can lead the free world to a sound system of [missing text] fulfill its promise of equality of opportunity for all--regardless of creed, color, or national origin.  I believe it can protect the rights of the individual from being oppressed or regimented by government.  And I believe it will never accept the guilt and condemnation of men and women without a full hearing and a fair trial.

	No, I have not changed.

	It is they who have changed.  Because they could not exploit me, they are determined to destroy me--to destroy my life-long friendships, such reputation as I may have, my spirit.

	But, ladies and gentlemen, I have been through real bombardments and I assure you that I am unscathed by their fusillade of blanks and blankety-blanks.

	But that charge was made by the senior member of the partnership running against me.

	Surely, my reckless and desperate opponents cannot expect the American people to have forgotten how my professional life came to its climax.  It was in the defeat of Hitler--the destruction of Nazi and Fascist hordes, and of governments which propagated doctrines of racism, persecuted minorities, and denied the brotherhood of man.

	No, I have not changed.

	And I believe deeply, firmly--with all my being that the American people have not changed.  They want exactly what they wanted only a few months ago.  They want a brand new administration in Washington.

	In that [missing text] they want men and women who are not prisoners of past mistakes--men and women who are free to work for and seek a solid and an honorable peace--free of the crushing handicap of having to justify Yalta and Potsdam and the loss of China--they want men and women free of the shame of diplomatic defeats and political bankruptcies.

	That is what the American people want now.

	They want a final, conclusive, complete end of corruption in government.

	They want to be rid of boodling, bribery, and influence-peddling; they want every closet opened, every dark corner lit, every scandal aired.

	They want wrongdoers driven out of office and punished for their betrayal of the people's trust.

	And they know it can be done only by men and women whose hands are clean, who have no obligation to protect a single scoundrel no matter how highly placed he may be.

	That is what the American people want now.

	They want this nation, its policies and its secrets, safeguarded against traitors and spies.  They don't want to be told any longer that Red agents are "Red Herrings".  They want to say goodbye to all that and get on with the job of getting loyal men and women working for the government--lest the anxiety about disloyalty encourage witch-hunting.

	That is what the American people want now.

	They want to end the inflationary policies of this administration which bring hardships to millions of families in the midst of plenty.  

	They want lower taxes, not because they want to end necessary governmental services, but because they know well that waste and inefficiency are the highest priced items their tax money buys.

	They want farmers to be prosperous and city workers to earn high wages because they understand the economic interdependence of all the groups and segments which make up our nation.  And among the city workers there is that great and neglected group known, the white-collar workers.  Along with the aged, they are always among the first to be caught in the squeeze between high taxes and high prices.

	They want an end of demagogic appeals to race and creed and class which have served only to divide and separate our people.  In their place they want, at long last, some real progress in dealing with our problems of race relations, providing equal job opportunities for all of our citizens, and getting a stable foundation for union-management relationships.

	That is what the American people want now.

	They want to be absolutely sure that everything is being done for American boys under fire in Korea.  And they want, above all else, to know that the best minds in America are doing everything possible to bring an honorable end to the war.

	These are the things the American people want now.  And these are the things they have every right to demand.

	I have traveled back and forth across this land in the last three months. I have been on our coasts washed by the seas over which there came men and women from every continent.  I have been in the prairie cities and the towns on the plains.  I have been in the deep valleys in our mountain states.  I have been in crossroads settlements underneath the broiling sun and in football stadiums under the night sky.  I have been back and forth across America and felt its strength.  And I have seen the faces of our people and come to [missing text].

	They will not be turned aside by little men and puny politics.

	What our people strive for, what they hope for, what they pray for, will guide them to and at the polls next Tuesday.

	When I was honored with my party's nomination, every single man and woman who had worked for my nomination told me one thing: That my first job must be to unite the Republican Party.  That was the first step in uniting the American people.  I agreed with them.  And not one single one of those advisers of mine thought it necessary to tell me that unity must never be bought at the cost of principle.

	I am proud that they knew me well enough to know that I wasn't resigning command of the armies of freedom in Europe to come home and make compromises with principle.

	So I devoted myself to the job of unifying my party and drawing into that unity all--all--of our people [missing text] I could reach with my message.  I already had some experience in such an enterprise.  To win the war against Hitler, it was necessary to unify elements and views far more diverse than those which could be found here.

	And that job was done without my becoming a captive of anybody.

	This work of unifying my party has been particularly infuriating to our opponents.  They could beat us if we were divided.  They can't beat us if we are united.

	We are now united in our determination to use American leadership in the council of nations for peace--to keep America from being isolated or becoming isolationist in the world community. 

	We are united in our pledge to enlist all the resources of private industry and to mobilize all the resources of government to see that mass unemployment never returns to our land.

	We are united in will and purpose to build American prosperity on something less hazardous than war and less dangerous than international tension.

	United, strong, and sure of our direction, we can say to Democrats, today, and to Independents, join with us in our common cause.

	To keep us from achieving this, our opponents have been doing everything possible to split our ranks.  But they have not succeeded.

	And when their failure became evident, that was when they turned on me.  Now, I'm not sufficiently egotistical to consider myself above criticism.  Really, I don't think of myself as a national monument.

	As a matter of fact, ladies and gentlemen, Herr Goebbels and Julius Streicher had done quite a job on me for a number of years.  Ilya Ehrenburg and the poison-pen artists on Pravda have been working out on me for quite a spell.

	I have been worked over by experts.

	But until our success in this campaign drove our opponents to desperation, no one had ever engaged in such unrestrained slander as to charge I would trim my principles to run for office.

	Will the American people believe that?  I have made no deals in this campaign.  No one has a claim on me.  No one has a promise from me.  No one has captured me.  I am my own man.

	I remain what I have tried to be all my life: Humble in the sight
of God, strong in the knowledge of the greatness of America, firm in a belief in honor and principle, and secure in a conscience which has not been compromised in this campaign. 

	I love this land.  It has been good to me and to my family.  You--my friends, my fellow Americans--have conferred upon me high honors, many that I have not deserved.  You entrusted to me the command of your sons and daughters in war.  You called me back two years ago to serve our country, Europe and the free world in the cause of peace.

	Tonight, I want to say this to you here in this great hall and to the families of America in their homes:  If there remains any service to our beloved land that I can yet perform, I am yours to command.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYRACE RELATIONS     . X. R. N. D.
 6. 1. ,. $. . 