

	Thank you very much.

	It's great to be up here with all these high-ranking officers. I was a second lieutenant, so--I finally got to be a captain. And Jim, I appreciate very much that introduction. I hadn't seen the video--I enjoyed that very much. It showed Elizabeth a lot, which is bound to help me. In fact, she is so talented Eleanor Roosevelt is trying to reach her. That's the difference.

	And I'm honored that one of my very, very senior advisers, Jeanne Kirkpatrick is here. Jeanne, thank you very much for coming. I appreciate it very much.

	And I want to thank General Rieger. We've been friends for a long time and we're from the same part of Kansas, out in the rural areas, and we have, we've been there with disasters and we've been there at other times, and it's a pleasure to be here again.

	I had such a great time in Boston two years ago, I said, what can I do to be invited again? They said, well, you could run for president. So that's why I am here today. I didn't really plan on it.

	I didn't want to miss the 360th anniversary. Senator Thurmond was there for the first one and I wanted to be there for this one.

	As you know, I left the United States Senate on June 11th, and one of my assistants there was a young man named Darrin Dick, who has worked with the Guard, and I am very proud that he handled all the National Guard issues for me. And I know that you're going to be honoring Darrin at this conference with the Patrick Henry Award, and I think Darrin could not be here because he's in school--he's in law school. So I want to say thank you on behalf of Darrin Dick, who is a fine young man, and certainly understood some of the problems, some of the issues, and worked very tirelessly with your staff.

	I would also say, as I indicated, two years ago, I became the proud recipient of the Harry Truman Award, and I especially appreciate that because I've always thought that Harry Truman and I share a lot in common.

	You know, they used to say, "Give 'em hell, Harry," and he said, "Just tell them the truth and they'd think it's hell." That's one thing I kind of share with him. And both of us from the Midwest, both of us served in the military, both of us served in the United States Senate, both of us were known for being sort of plain-spoken men who like to tell it like it is.

	And come November I will share one more thing in common with Harry Truman.
Both of us will have come from behind to win the presidency. That's what I had in mind.

	But I'll have to admit that Truman is wrong about one thing. He said: "if you wanted a friend in Washington, you had to buy a dog." As everyone in the National Guard knows, and as everyone who has worn an American military uniform knows, if you want a friend in Washington, all you need to do is call Sonny Montgomery.

	And I know that this conference is dedicated to Sonny, who will be leaving the Congress at the end of this term, really next January, after thirty years of service on Capitol Hill. And I am confident, however, that Sonny Montgomery is not a soldier who will simply fade away. I know he'll remain here; he always has been on the frontlines of democracy, speaking up for those who serve our country.

	And if I am the commander in chief, and I will give Sonny an order, and that's to come to work for a Dole administration, and I'll be looking forward to him helping me in that area.

	And perhaps it's fitting that you honor our good friend Sonny Montgomery today, because it was just fifty-seven years ago today when Germany invaded Poland, as war erupted across Europe. Within a week after this invasion President Roosevelt declared a national emergency and authorized an increase in the size of the National Guard, and drills were increased to sixty per year, and field training was increased to twenty-one days as the Guard began preparing for what was certain to come. And as you all know, eventually 300,000 members of the Guard contributed to the Allied victory in World War II.

	And World War II has taught us many lessons we must never forget. These lessons include that peace is best assured by maintaining a military big enough and strong enough to dissuade potential aggressors or defeat any enemy. That's the bottom line.

	And includes the lesson, that I think everyone understands, that the National Guard is indispensable--indispensable to our national security, no question about it in my mind.

	Throughout the past fifty years, wherever you've found America's armed forces, you've also found the National Guard. You were there risking your life for your country and for our freedom. You were there during the long Cold War, and make no mistake about it, Communism just didn't fall, it was pushed and the National Guard was there pushing every inch of the way.

	And it's very fitting that many of you who answered your country's call will soon be wearing the "M" device on your armed forces reserve medal, and I congratulate you and I am very pleased that President Clinton signed an executive order authorizing the award, which was established back in 1993.

	And here at home, of course, the National Guard is also worthy of medals for your courage and service in times of crisis. My wife, Elizabeth, has traveled to scenes of many natural disasters these past five years--that doesn't include my campaign, of course--and she tells me that when she arrives she knows she'll find the Red Cross volunteers and members of the National Guard working side by side to help those in need, and I can't think of anything more gratifying than that.

	And earlier this year I had the privilege of outlining my vision for the National Guard's future in the National Guard Magazine. In this article, which I understand has been distributed to you, I expressed my disappointment with the fact that the Clinton administration's national security strategy fails to even mention reserve components, let alone acknowledges their crucial contribution to the total force.

	And I also expressed my belief that cuts proposed by the Clinton administration would have jeopardized the Guard's ability to fight alongside your active duty counterparts, and that these cuts have also put in question America's long-term military superiority. And let me underscore my commitment to the total force concept. The National Guard has had a combat mission for 360 years and it will always have a combat mission.

	And efforts to undermine your combat organization of eight divisions and fifteen enhanced brigades were ill-conceived and I oppose them, and will oppose them, and will not let it happen starting in January of 1997.

	Something else that was ill-conceived was the administration's acquiescence of relaxing sanctions on the sale of Iraqi oil. In fact, in the last few months Saddam Hussein has been testing American leadership and finding it lacking. In May, as I said, the UN moved to ease sanctions on Iraqi oil sales for the acquiescence of the Clinton administration over my strong objections and objections from Democrats and Republicans alike. Since June, Saddam has been obstructing the efforts of UN inspectors to uncover his nuclear and biological weapons, and the United States has done nothing but join in weak statements by the UN Security Council.

	The very fact that the Kurdish factions in northern Iraq are fighting when four years ago they came together is of itself a failure of American leadership. And for the last few weeks the threat of the Iraqi invasion in the north has been building, yet the administration has delegated the problem to low-level officials hoping that verbal warning to Iraq would suffice.

	It should be no surprise that the Iraqis have ignored those barely audible warnings. And we have learned over the past forty-eight hours that thirty to forty thousand of Saddam's Republican Guard troops have moved into northern Iraq for the first time since the initiation of Operation Provide Comfort about five years ago. They have captured the town of Irbil, shelling civilians and almost certainly rounding up opponents of Saddam's regime. Yet the Vice President of the United States says that the situation requires careful analysis and careful observation. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't need to analyze Saddam's actions, we need to condemn Saddam's actions and do it very strongly. We know his record--we know his record. We know he supports international terrorism and threatens its use. We know he continues to hold onto nuclear and biological weapons. We know he continues to slaughter his own people and we know what he's capable of. And we know he is not going to change.

	So Saddam's latest brutality against the Kurds further demonstrates that America's friends and allies in the region will never truly be safe as long as this bloody dictator remains in power, and as long as the United States fails to lead. We understand it, we know it, and let's don't give him any benefit of any doubt. There isn't any doubt in the minds of most Americans and most people around the world.

	And so I want to talk about that, but I also want to talk about something else. I could spend all day detailing my differences and concerns with the national security policies of the Administration. Today, I'm going to let the article speak that appeared in the magazine, because I want to spend just a few moments to outline a proposal that I announced eight days ago in Chicago, a proposal to further utilize the expertise and the courage of the men and women of the National Guard in the war against drugs. And make no mistake about it--and make no mistake about it; it's a war that we've been losing.

	And I am certain you were as shocked as I was by the study of teenage drug use--these are kids between 12 and 17 released just about ten days ago by the Administration. Drug use has more than doubled, skyrocketing by 105 percent over the past four years. And it's not just marijuana use, which has increased by 141 percent; it is also the hard stuff. LSD use has nearly tripled, and cocaine use has increased by an appalling 166 percent from 1994 to 1995 alone. It wasn't long ago when we had a decrease in drug use instead of increase, and again I would say and try not to be partisan, but these are facts--these are facts outlining the study.

	Under the leadership of President Reagan and President Bush we were winning the war on drugs. We were winning it because we were sending a clear and unmistakable message--a message that drugs are wrong. "Don't start, or if you start it, stop." A message that those who deal in drugs will be punished and caught and punished. It was a message that was delivered with great effectiveness by the men and women of the National Guard. And under President Bush funding for the National Guard's counter-drug efforts rose from 40 million to 230 million.

	The amount of currency seized with National Guard assistance increased by 700 percent. Marijuana seizures increased by twenty-six times. And the total street value of drugs which the National Guard helped to seize increased from 51 billion to more than $84 billion. That's a tremendous record, and it's worth noting that the largest seizure of cocaine in history with a street value of about $3 billion, that $3 billion was credited to a member of the California Air Guard.

	And let me just say as an aside here, I say to the mothers, the grandmothers, the fathers, the grandfathers, the kids themselves: drugs will kill you. They are devastating.

	I remember when Mrs. Reagan used to say "Just say no," and she was ridiculed by some of the liberals and some of the liberals in the media, but it worked, because they understood the message was coming from someone who understood. She had learned about the dangers of drugs--she had learned what happened; she had met with children and their families and their mothers and their fathers. She had seen the destruction and she had seen the problems that increase of drugs will cause--whether it's crime or teenage pregnancy or homelessness or whatever. And it worked.

	And all this success was more than just a coincidence. As far as the Guard is concerned, the result of unique training--an asset the Guard brought with it to the war on drugs. We had all these efforts going on and it was working. And it was working.

	And now we read about 12-to-17-year-olds, babies in effect--12 and even younger--eight, nine, and ten-year-olds, marijuana and some even the hard stuff. So I want to preface what I'm about to say by indicating--I know of no important mission--if somebody sends a missile into America, we don't have a national missile defense system, we couldn't shoot it down. But if they're sending missiles in the way of marijuana or cocaine or LSD or something that's smoked or somebody can inject it, and it's killing our children, we've got a crisis on our hands, and it's getting worse and worse and worse. And when does it stop and who stops it?

	Oh, treatment's important. Why don't we prevent it, then we don't have to worry about the treatment? Cut off the supply, interdict the supply, stop it at its borders, and that's where the Guard comes in, because you have assets like radar to track drug-smuggling aircraft. You have night-vision equipment on our Southwest border, aircraft and helicopters specially equipped for drug interdiction, and thermal imaging to detect indoor marijuana growing and aerial photography. Assets like the National Interagency Counter Drug Institute, which is the only organization specializing in military police community team building, and the Regional Counter Drug Training Academy, which by all rights should have been named probably the Sonny Montgomery Institute.

	We had a victory in the war on drugs within our grasps; we could almost feel it. A new message was sent from the White House beginning in 1993. We saw the so-called drug czar's office, the Office of National Drug Control, slashed by 83 percent. We saw efforts to scale back interdiction, which would have stopped drugs before they reached our shores or crossed the borders.

	We had proposals eliminating hundreds of drug enforcement positions. Drug prosecutions have been down in this government by 10 to 12 percent.

	And the loudest voice coming from the administration on the subject of drugs was that of the Surgeon General, who suggested a time or two maybe we ought to legalize drugs. And with all that the President insisted that that National Guard should retreat from its efforts to smash the drug menace. The National Guard's counter-drug effort has been cut from $230 million to $158 million over the past four years, and as a result, the adjutant general of one of our largest states reports that he can satisfy only 20 percent of law enforcement's requests to the National Guard. That's pretty sad when you consider the law enforcement officials have rated National Guard support as excellent--excellent in 99 percent of over 13,000 reports filed. That's not bad for the National Guard--99 percent of the time.

	And the situation is only getting worse. On the budget for next year the Guard will be forced to turn down 60 percent of requests, cancel the C-26 Aircraft Program, defund the California border fence project, and curtail reconnaissance and aerial interdiction detachments. And let me state it as clearly as I can. If I am elected president of the United States, then on January 20th, 1997, America will once again set about the business of fighting and winning the war on drugs, with your help.

	And I will get the Guard back where it belongs, in the forefront, where the communities who proudly support you want you to be. I will fund the National Guard counter-drug effort at the 1993 level, and I will consider annual funding thereafter according to its success. And I happen to believe it's all a matter of priorities. And in a $266 billion dollar defense budget, surely we can find the money to make the counter-drug efforts a priority.

	It was reported the other day in the Washington Post that we spend one-third of 1 percent of our military budget fighting drugs. We can do better. And I will implement the first-ever comprehensive National Guard drug plan from the top down. I will ask the governors and the adjutant generals in the fifty-four states and territories to develop a comprehensive plan to maximize the efficiency of our Guard personnel and assets.

	Where necessary we will adjust missions, procedures, and budgets to reestablish control of our borders and shores and combat drug smuggling. Today there's not even an integrated campaign plan for the entire Southwest border. There will be within ninety days of the date I take office.

	And I will direct our intelligence community to make drugs a top priority. Assets developed during the Cold War such as satellite photography and infrared imaging can certainly be used in the war on drugs. But we also need to get back into the human intelligence business to penetrate drug networks, thereby allowing our law enforcement and National Guard support to pounce at the right places at the right times.

	And in accordance with our comprehensive plan and our Southwest border campaign plan, I will designate a Southwest border counter-drug task force trained, equipped, and ready for counter-drug action. And other such designated task forces will be created as necessary.

	Moreover, we will create other dedicated counter-drug units which will optimize the skills, languages, computers, banking, and more our citizen-soldiers offer. Such units could clear up the translation and intelligence analysis backlogs and use their skills to follow drug money in the American and international finance systems, to go after front businesses and dummy corporations and every kind of money laundering.

	One thing I know for certain is this: the men and women of the National Guard are smarter than the narco crooks. And I will use them effectively and we'll make it work, and we'll make it happen, and we'll follow the money.

	And I will make whatever regulatory changes or seek whatever legislation necessary to authorize the National Guard to use the chemical defense technique that is practiced for war to clear up hazardous materials and methamphetamine laboratories.

	The fact is that meth labs not only produce poison for human consumption but also toxic, flammable, and carcinogenic by-products. And local law enforcement should know that if they bust a meth lab, the Guard will be there to help them clean up the mess.

	Now let me make very clear that the National Guard is one of the very important facets of a comprehensive national drug policy. Another facet is to establish a foreign policy that reflects the seriousness of the drug problem. And as president I will do whatever is necessary to stop the production of drugs. I will insist on concluding within twelve months agreements with drug-producing countries to intensify efforts and eradication of illegal crops, drug production facilities, and trafficking organizations.

	The United States will increase our assistance to those countries which indicate they need help in addressing this problem and step up our collaboration with close allies who are also suffering from the escalation of drug trafficking. Now I am giving notice right now to any country that might refuse to cooperate in our counter-narcotics effort. U.S. aid, military and technical cooperation, and trade are at stake. If your government--if your government refuses to cooperate and intensely supports drug production and trafficking, we will halt all assistance and cooperation and we will impose comprehensive sanctions. No ifs--no ands--no buts. We're going to stop the drug supply internationally.

	And I'm also putting drug traffickers and corrupt foreign government officials on notice. You are not welcome in the United States--you're not welcome in the United States. We will do what it takes to follow you, to track you down, your money, and we'll freeze your assets and we'll arrest you. And if this message is still not clear, I suggest you talk to General Noriega. He could tell you how clear it should be.

	And finally, let me say that if all these things aren't enough to turn the tide in the war on drugs, then I am prepared--and I know this will be a departure--but I am prepared to take a long, hard look at giving the U.S. military lead responsibility for stopping the flow of illegal drugs across our borders. That would be a step--that would be a break from the past.

	Let me again indicate, you work with disasters all the time. Our active forces are in humanitarian efforts all around the world, Somalia, now Bosnia, who knows where next, and who knows where you may go next? We're there because some people are in need.

	Drugs have become an international problem; it's not just a domestic problem. These are our children, these are our grandchildren--and they are being poisoned, and they are addicted, and they are picking up the habit, and they're dying from crack and cocaine, and they're failing in school, and they turn to crime because of their habit. And I certainly see a disaster or a crisis. We want to prevent it. And with your help we will prevent it. The Guard will help us prevent it. And I truly believe that the National Guard is ideally suited for the mission I discussed today.

	You're well-trained, you're disciplined, you're state-controlled and uniquely equipped and very talented citizen-soldiers. And you can rejoin America's war on drugs while still remaining in a few of the other missions.

	And perhaps most important, as everybody here knows, the National Guard is based in 3,700 communities--3,700 communities. You can be the link between our national counter-drug program and every home, school, business, and street in America. Whether it's demolishing crack houses in Texas, mentoring at-risk youth in Oklahoma, or helping out local schools with science and education, the National Guard already participates in 3,000 community-based demand reduction programs across America. And these 3,000 programs all have one thing in common: they are sponsored by the kind of men and women every young person in America should want to become.

	So I would just say, before I conclude, I'm honored to be here today, as I was in Boston a couple of years ago. I want to say to all those in the audience--the men and the women, the young, the middle-aged, and maybe a few seniors here--this is a great organization. You've been at the forefront, you understand the problems. You understand freedom. You understand liberty. You understand we're the greatest nation on the face of the earth--make no mistake about it, we are the greatest nation on the face of the earth, and I think we even have better years ahead.

	And one thing I recall, as I said, the Berlin Wall didn't collapse, Communism didn't collapse; it was pushed. When all these free people came to America after seventy years--in some cases not a right to vote, not a right to worship, not a right to do anything, not a right to travel, not a right to telephone, they all came to America. And some of the cynics said, "Oh, they're coming for foreign aid."

	And as the Republican leader I had the privilege of meeting with many of them. They were men, and they were women, they were young and they were old, and some had been put in jail for standing up here as I am today, finding fault with an administration. They had been locked up for weeks and months and years. And almost without exception, as they left my office, they didn't ask for foreign aid; they knew we didn't have any. What did they want? What did they want to find out? And they said it with tears streaming down their cheeks. They just wanted to be like America. They said, "We want to be like America. We want the freedoms. We want the right to travel." They had a right to travel for the first time.

	 these things we take for granted, the right to vote, basic freedoms that you've helped protect not just here but around the world for a long, long time. That's the history, that's the legacy of the National Guard as I understand it, and that's what it's all about. It's all about liberty. It's all about freedom. It's all about leadership. It's all about direction. It's all about commitment. It's all about values. It's all about family. It's all about children.

	In the final analysis the people here are going to make the difference. And I know that in every community in which you're involved you make a difference, a positive difference.

	So I would just salute everyone here, and I would like to make a small presentation.

	Shortly before I left the Senate this last Memorial Day I had four or five flags flown over the United States Capitol, and one was in honor of the National Guard Association of the United States. So it's my privilege to present that flag to you, and it's my hope that as it flies above your national headquarters it will fly above a nation that is once again on the road to victory in the war on drugs. 

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
AWARDS AND COMMEMORATIONSDRUG ABUSE--GENERALDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONEMBARGOES/SANCTIONS (OIL)--AGAINST IRAQIRAQMILITARY PREPAREDNESSDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTNATIONAL GUARD     c ic cc _c Uc
 Mc Hc Cc 9c %c #c 	c b	  	  	  	  	  	 n 	 G 	 C  .   e: