

	Brooklyn has meant good fortune for Franklin Roosevelt and good fortune for Harry Truman. In fact, it seems to have meant good fortune for practically everybody, except the Dodgers.

	I will never forget the time during the war when I was driving through Brooklyn from the navy yard with the Secretary of the Navy behind a motorcycle escort; we slowed down at a crowded corner, and I overheard somebody in the curious crowd say, "It must be dem bums." I was never more flattered in my life.

	Now, as usual, my friends, the preelection thunder comes from the Republicans. They have most of the nation's newspapers and magazines. They have the slickest slogans and the shiniest posters. They win most of the preelection polls, and sometimes they win them in a "Gallup." It is not a very good pun but it is the best I could do.

	Then--then the people will vote on Tuesday. I understand that on Wednesday the newspapers plan to publish a Five-Star Final.

	Many thousands of our votes will come from rank-and-file Republicans who will vote with us. No doubt some Democrats will vote for the Republican candidates. We have already, for example, traded a couple of southern governors for the senator from Oregon and the vice chairman of the National Young Republicans. And I regard this as a profitable exchange for us. I would be happy to throw in a second baseman--but not Jackie Robinson.

	But let's not speak of the approaching Republican sorrow without compassion. You in Brooklyn, of all places, know how melancholy is the sound of the words, "wait till next year."

	The choice next Tuesday is a fateful one. It is a choice of parties, between the party whose affirmative leadership for many years is written in the strength and the prosperity of our nation and in the widening opportunity and security of our lives, and the party whose only consistent record is one of opposition, obstruction and stubborn negation. It is also a choice of leadership. My opponent has been making a great effort--here in the East anyway, and especially in New York--to persuade the people to forget the last three months. His friends are suggesting that what he said in Champaign, Illinois, doesn't count; that those words in Milwaukee really weren't uttered, that none of his Midwestern tour expressed the real Eisenhower. But those words were spoken, those speeches were made; the visits with Senator Jenner and Senator McCarthy were all too real. The general may forget, but those Senators won't, and if they should be returned to the Senate and the general sent to the White House, they won't forget and they won't let the general forget either.

	A man who has the confidence of the public has a public trust not to abuse that confidence for any ends, let alone his own.

	In the field of foreign policy the obligation is even stronger. The issues are the relations of our country with our allies and our enemies, the issues of peace or war.

	Deception cannot be condoned as campaign oratory. I thought for a time that the issues of foreign policy and of our future could be freely and honestly debated between us on a level worthy of the American people. But the Republicans have concentrated not on discussing, but on systematically disparaging the policies which, with all their defects, have brought the United States to a peak of world prestige and power and responsibility never before dreamed of. Confronted with the great achievements and potentialities of the Marshall Plan, the Truman Doctrine, the North Atlantic Pact, Point Four, the Trade Agreements Program, the Good Neighbor Policy, they have fallen back upon the parrot-like repetition of a monotonous charge. The Democratic foreign policy, they say, does not promise quick solutions; the answers are not to be found in the back of the book.

	As a result, they have now got their own candidates into a trap. For, they feel, unless he can come up with the big answer, unless he can promise a quick and easy road to peace and world leadership, the American people will begin to find out how good our foreign policy really has been. The general's advisers seem to have assured him that the American people will buy any merchandise so long as you package it gaudily enough. But the public has rejected the general's merchandise, piece by piece as secondhand and deceptive.

	Now, let us, if you will, review this dreary history because it is important in these last hours of this fateful campaign.

	The general's experience in Europe and in working with Europeans should have made him unusually sensitive to the importance of guarding and strengthening our European alliances. Yet in his first major policy speech last August, what did he do? He said, speak "with cold finality," to the Soviet Union and prepare to roll back Soviet power and liberate the satellite states. How we were to accomplish this, he did not say; but these words, spoken on the general's eminent authority, raised momentary hopes among those Americans whose friends or relatives were trapped behind the Iron Curtain.

	As the idea sank in, however, the effect was greatly different. It became apparent that the general's proposal would lead not to the liberation of the captive peoples, but to their obliteration--not to release, but to war.

	Caught out in this manner, the general explained that he didn't mean what he had said. Yet the damage in Europe had already been done--damage not only to the general himself--which you and I have all regretted--but, far more important, to that funded capital of confidence in American stability and judgment which we have so carefully built up in the post-war years.

	And this was only the beginning.

	I was surprised that the general should have recklessly gambled with the confidence of our European allies in view of his experience as the head of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. I was even more surprised when he showed a willingness to undermine that organization itself. In May of 1952, the general had told the Congress that a cut of more than one billion dollars in the foreign aid program would endanger the proposed military buildup which he said he considered essential in the interests of United States security.

	As soon as he took off his uniform, however, he changed his tune.

	What this country needed, he said, was a $40 billion budget cut and a major tax reduction. Pressed by his own astonished colleagues, he qualified this claim. He did not propose, he said, to cut the budget immediately by forty billion, but to work toward a reduction of that amount over a period of five years.

	It was at this point that Senator Taft took the general firmly by the hand. The $40 billion figure he apparently dismissed as a typographical error. In his Morningside Heights Manifesto he pledged the general to a mere $10 billion cut next year, and a $25 billion cut the following year.

	Again false hopes were raised--hopes that we could quickly reduce our taxes and still not reduce our safety. And once again the hopes were doomed to disappointment.

	Before the Chicago Convention the general appeared willing to keep Korea out of the campaign. Last June, at Abilene, he denied that there was, and I quote him, "any clear-cut answer" to the Korean problem. He said he did not think it would be possible for our forces to carry through a decisive attack; he ruled out the alternative of retreat; and he ended with this candid conclusion: "We have got to stand firm and take every possible step we can to reduce our losses and stand right there and try to get a decent armistice."

	But a few weeks as a political candidate began to alter his opinion. Where once he had sought to unite public sentiment behind our stand in Korea, he now sought out the possibilities of division and of mistrust, echoing the views of his Republican advisers who had even called this first, great, historic case of collective security under arms a "useless war" and "Truman's war."

	He first began to speak of what he called the truly terrible blunders that led up to the Korean War, including the very decision to withdraw our troops from Korea, in which he had participated as Chief of Staff of the Army.

	Then he reversed his position on the all-important question of bombing the Manchurian bases across the Yalu and expanding the war--a question which the nation had pondered through the weeks of the MacArthur hearings and had decided in the negative. On June 5th, at Abilene, the general declared that he was against bombing bases in Chinese territory on the other side of the Yalu. Yet in September, he could say that he had always stood behind MacArthur on bombing those bases.

	And now, as this political campaign has grown in intensity, and as each day sees the increase in Democratic strength, the general is indulging in something far more insidious than self-contradiction. He is seeking one easy solution after another for the Korean War.

	Early this month in Illinois, the general propounded the startling theory that the American forces could soon be withdrawn and replaced by South Korean troops. "If there must be a war there," he said, "let it be Asians against Asians."

	Now, there are several things wrong with this proposal. In the first place, the general put it forward as though it were a brand new idea, although he knew that it has been our policy since the start of the Korean conflict to arm and train South Korean forces as fast as possible. In the second place, he suggested that it would be relatively easy to replace our American boys with Koreans; yet our commander on the spot immediately stated that no matter how much training and equipment we supplied, it would be impossible for the South Koreans to take over the entire front.

	Apart from these military questions, however, the general's statement displayed an alarming disdain for the sensibilities of our allies both in Europe and in Asia. The general talked as if we had entered Korea to fight Asians; yet he must know that we entered Korea to resist Communist aggression, and that in such a fight there can be no color line. And, as the former head of NATO, how could the general be unaware that such talk would undermine the confidence of all our allies in the sincerity of our world leadership?

	"Let Asians fight Asians" is the authentic voice of a resurgent isolationist. In 1939 the Republican Old Guard, faced with the menace of the Nazi world, was content to say, "Let Europeans fight Europeans," ignoring completely the fact that the menace of Nazism was a menace to Americans as much as to Frenchmen and Englishmen. What a curious remark for a man who led the crusade against a Nazi tyranny!

	Again the general raised false hopes of a quick solution, and again the false hopes were doomed to disappointment. Confronted with scathing comment for this proposal, even from members of his own party, such as Senator Smith of Maine, the general has now put forth a new proposal--a proposal suggested not by an experienced diplomat, or even by an experienced soldier, but rather by one of the general's new ghostwriters, recruited from the staff of a slick magazine.

	This new proposal is simplicity itself. Elect me president, the general says, and you can forget about Korea; I will go there personally. I don't think for a moment that the American people are taken in by a promise without a program. It is not enough to say, "I will fix it for you." The principle of blind leadership is alien to our tradition. And, unfortunately, the ghost-writer who provided the proposal failed to give it content. The general was to go to Korea, but nobody indicated what he should do when he got there. The American people were quick to realize also that the conduct of a military campaign is the task of a field commander, whereas the making of peace requires negotiation with the central adversary--and in this case the central adversary is in Moscow, not in Korea.

	And so, once again having raised the hopes of American families, he has been forced to beat a retreat from his first proposals. In a series of statements in the last two days he has abandoned his promise of making peace. At Kew Gardens he said that he was going out only to--and I quote him--"improve our plans." At Mineola he referred to his duty to go to Korea to see what our problems were and--I quote him--"how we can bring that situation under better control."

	In the Bronx, on Wednesday, he referred to his Korean trip as an opportunity, "to see how we stand in organizing the forces of the Republic of Korea in order to prepare the Koreans to defend their own line."

	And in New York City on the same day he again talked in terms of increasing the contribution of the Republic of Korea.

	Now, these are admirable objectives, and such a trip would be informative. But the label on the bottle was different, and the contents are misbranded.

	If we are to bring about an honorable peace in Korea--which is what the general talked about in his Detroit speech--we must face the facts. There are only four possible courses open to us: Get out, or enlarge the war, or purchase a truce through the abandonment of our moral position, or continue the negotiations with all of the resource and self-discipline at our command.

	Last summer the general excluded the alternatives of extending the war or retreating from it. I don't know what his position is now. Retreat can only mean the loss of the whole Far East to Communism. And extending the war to China would tie up the bulk of our armed strength in Asia while the Red Army was left free for new adventures in the industrial heart of Europe.

	But if he would neither enlarge the war nor abandon it, what would he do? Would he make new concessions in the truce negotiations, or has he forgotten the nature of the problem which has caused the deadlock?

	Negotiations with Communists are never easy, always exasperating, but not necessarily hopeless.

	At the time we instituted the Berlin airlift many impatient Americans said that we were undertaking a hopeless task; but we regained access to Berlin and our prestige in Europe was greater than ever.

	The Korean truce negotiations have dragged on through many months, but they have not been without result. Most of the problems which first confronted us in reaching an agreement have now, one by one, been eliminated. Only one major issue remains, and this is not a military but a moral issue.

	It is whether we and the other United Nations fighting in Korea should force thousands of Chinese and North Korean prisoners to return to Communist territory and almost certain death.

	We sent our troops into Korea two and one-half years ago because we knew that mobsters who get away with one crime are only encouraged to start on another. Korea was a crucial test in the struggle between the free world and Communism.

	The question of the forcible return of prisoners of war is an essential part of that test. Fifty thousand prisoners have stated that they would rather kill themselves than return to their homeland. Many of those prisoners surrendered in response to our own appeals. They surrendered to escape the Communist world. They surrendered because in their eyes the United States stood for freedom from slavery. So far the United States has stood for freedom--and this is our greatest asset in our struggle against Communism. How many of you suppose that we could retain that asset if we sent these men back to their death at the point of a bayonet?

	This is the sole question remaining unresolved in the truce negotiations. Is this the question General Eisenhower intends to settle by going to Korea? I do not ask this idly. Quite recently at Richmond, Senator Capehart, one of the Republican Old Guard whom General Eisenhower has embraced, accused President Truman of prolonging the war by refusing to force these prisoners to return. The senator's position with respect to these prisoners is identical with that of the Communists. It is a position which no government in the world has taken except the Soviet Union and its satellites.

	And I think it is worth noting that this was the same Senator Capehart who said on October 12th, "In another two weeks, General Eisenhower will be thinking and talking on foreign policy just like Senator Taft."

	Now I think the general should answer one question. In embracing the Republican Old Guard has he embraced their contention that we should give up our moral position? And in asking the general this question, let me state my own views.

	I have the profoundest sympathy for every mother and father in the United States who is affected by this tragic war. No one is more determined than I to see that it is brought to a conclusion. But that conclusion must be honorable, for if we do not maintain our moral position we have lost everything--our young men will have died in vain. If we give up on this point, if we send these 50,000 prisoners to their death, we will no longer lead the coalition of the free world. Today we stand in that position of leadership not merely because we are physically strong but because our cause is just. Once we commit a gross injustice, our allies will fall away like the leaves in autumn.

	With patience and restraint and with the building up of our strength the Communists will be compelled to yield, even as they yielded on the Berlin airlift.

	As of the moment we have a stalemate, and stalemates are abhorrent to Americans. But let us not deceive ourselves. A stalemate is better than surrender--and it is better than atomic war. And let us not forget that a stalemate exists for the enemy as well as for ourselves.

	There is no greater cruelty, in my judgment, than the raising of false hopes--no greater arrogance than playing politics with peace and war. Rather than exploit human hopes and fears, rather than provide glib solutions and false assurances, I would gladly lose this presidential election.

	There is strength in freedom--strength far greater than we know. I have no fear that our present ordeal is without end. Working together, united in respect for human beings, and united in respect for ourselves, the free peoples can stop the Communist conquest, save the peace, and move together to build a new and spacious and friendly world.

	If we have the courage and the fortitude to walk through the valley of the shadow boldly and mercifully and justly, we shall yet emerge in the blazing dawn of a glorious new day.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMEASTERN EUROPEFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALISOLATIONISMPOWS/MIASSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)KOREAN WAR     =I 	I I H H
 H H H H H H H H	 y 	 i 	 ` 	 R 	 : 	 . 	 %  
 e: