

	I am especially happy to be here among farm and rural people once again. For most of my life, I have lived in rural America and worked alongside farm families. I think they will be the foundation for our victory in November.

	The future of rural America and the fate of independent farming is, in my view, one of the central issues of this campaign. The choice is very clear: between four more years of an administration that is hostile to working farmers or four years of commitment to the proposition that no one can prosper for long unless the farmer prospers.

	In a sense, we have already had two terms of the Nixon administration: The first three years of turning their backs on the farmer and the last year of embracing him. But farmers can't afford to have a friendly President only one year out of four.

	They need a full-time President, and I intend to be one.

	Not since Ezra Taft Benson occupied an overstuffed chair in the Department of Agriculture has there been an administration that is as closely aligned with the interests of big agribusiness and so fundamentally antagonistic to the interest of working farmers as the present administration. That is no coincidence. The men who run the Department of Agriculture now are the same men who ran it then.

	If a modern Rip Van Winkle awoke today after twenty years sleep and--for some reason--found himself walking the corridors of the Department of Agriculture, he would never know that he had ever been asleep. The "new" faces of the Nixon administration are the old faces of the Benson administration. They have returned to complete the job they so efficiently started twenty years ago: to preside over the extinction of the independent farmer in America. Unfortunately, they are dong a pretty good job of it.

	Four years ago, candidate Nixon said that the existing 74 percent of parity was--in his words--"intolerable." "Farmers are entitled to better," he said as he asked for the farmers' vote. Two years after he had taken office, parity was at 67 percent. During his four years, it has averaged 72 percent. Today it is only 75 percent.
	
	My friends, at that rate it will take only seven more terms of the Nixon administration for farmers to get the income that they are entitled to. There aren't many farmers I know who can wait that long. To say that parity is 75 percent today is to say that farmers are still missing $1 of every $4 of their rightful income. That was intolerable in 1968, and it is intolerable today.

	During the last four years, 250,000 more farms have been forced to shut down. One million more people have left rural America. Those are not people who want to leave. I have never seen a smiling farmer boarding up his barns.

	Richard Nixon's Department of Agriculture watched over this continued demise of independent farming and rural America without lifting a finger. "It is inevitable," his Secretary of Agriculture tells us. I have never accepted that proposition, and I never will.

	During the last four years, the farmer's costs have soared while his income has stagnated. The cold fact is that farmers earn less today for a bushel of corn than they did a generation ago. The cost of farm machinery and the cost of money are getting out of reach for most farmers. The cost-price squeeze is still the painful reality of today's agriculture.

	President Kennedy once said: "The farmer is the only man in our economy who buys everything retail, sells everything wholesale, and pays the freight both ways." That is no less true today. And he could have added that the farmer is the only man in our economy who is penalized for his efficiency.

	When Richard Nixon took office four years ago, a corn grower needed 197 bushels of corn to pay the real estate taxes on 100 acres of farmland. Today he needs 252 bushels to pay the taxes on the same land, an increase of 28 percent. And this administration still hasn't come up with a property tax reform proposal. The one they claim is on the drawing board they plan to finance with a national sales tax that will hit hardest on the farmer.

	Judging by the last four years, I don't think the American farmer can afford four more years of Richard Nixon.

	I am reminded of something a farmer who had voted for Richard Nixon in 1968 told me during one of the primaries. "If a man asks me once for a loan and I give it to him, and he never repays me," he said, "well, then I've made an honest mistake. But if he asks me a second time for a loan and I give it to him again, then I'm a fool."

	Ladies and gentlemen, think carefully before you give Richard Nixon another vote.


	It is the Nixon administration that fought tooth and nail to eliminate any parity price support in the 1970 Agricultural Act. I am proud to have been one of the senators and congressmen who successfully fought to preserve at least a measure of parity support for corn and wheat and other major commodities.

	It is the Nixon administration that last year--when corn prices were at Depression levels--defeated a bill I co-sponsored to raise price support loans by 25 percent. That defeat alone cost farmers $1 billion in lost income, and cost Minnesota farmers $100 million.

	It is the Nixon administration that has repeatedly cut back and held up millions of dollars for farm supports, credit loans, conservation programs, and rural environment programs.

	It is the Nixon administration that tried to dismantle the Department of Agriculture and disperse its functions to urban-oriented agencies.

	It is the Nixon administration that has tried to replace a farm program with a public relations program. First, they found a new way to increase parity. Just change the definition. Today's 75 percent parity appears on the administration's books as 101 percent parity. Unfortunately, the farmers of America can't use that sort of "new math" to pay off their creditors.
But that's not all. Now, farms which sell less than $5,000 worth of products annually--more than half the total number of farms--are not to be counted as farms at all. That's certainly a quick way to raise average farm sales. I expect that the administration will soon eliminate unemployment the same way, by assuming that people without jobs are not people.

	Now we learn that Secretary Butz, who has been electioneering with the boast of having raised net farm income, has been knowingly using figures that greatly overstate farm income--by at least $1 billion and perhaps by as much as $5 billion. The cost of contracting out for various "custom farming" services, for example, is not included in USDA's calculations of costs. That amount represents nearly $1 billion. And what is worse, all the income from the integrated broiler and egg and turkey industries is credited to farmers, even though most of that income goes to the giant conglomerates that now control those industries. The farmer, who has become little more than an employee in these industries, receives only 3 to 5 cents for every bird, but he is credited on the books of the USDA with 35 to 45 cents. It must make the struggling broiler growers very happy to know how rich they are.

	These outdated recording techniques have been used for many years, but never before has the discrepancy been so great or the figures so actively used for political purposes. Secretary Butz knows the figures he is using are wrong. His chief economist told him so. But the Secretary apparently would rather wait until after the election to change them.

	Finally, it is the Nixon administration that has turned the Department of Agriculture into a springboard to agribusiness. I am told that the administration first considered buying a shuttle bus to go from the USDA to the big agribusiness companies. They apparently decided it would be cheaper if they just moved in together.

	First we saw Hardin and Butz exchange places at Ralston-Purina. Then during the past several months, we have seen a frantic movement of personnel between the giant grain companies and the department. Secretary Butz tells us that there has been no impropriety, but actions speak louder than words.

	The recent grain deal with the Russians has the bad odor of blatant favoritism.

	Let me tell you the story of Paul Whitmer, a family wheat farmer in Kansas. Mr. Whitmer produced 9,000 bushels of wheat this year. He had read everything he could find on the Russian purchases being negotiated by the grain companies. But he had no idea how large they were and how much wheat they involved. Paul Whitmer sold this wheat in July at prices between $1.30 and $1.38. Not until August, when he saw prices rising sharply to $1.60 and beyond, did he realize that he had sold too early. Paul Whitmer lost about $2,500 this year because he did not know what the grain companies knew.

	The grain companies knew the status of these negotiations at every stage because they were the ones negotiating with the Russians. Cargill, one of the big grain companies participating in this deal, has now admitted that they knew the Russians were interested in buying wheat as early as July 12th. Paul Whitmer didn't know that information, nor did thousands of other farmers like him. But the big grain buyers with their inside information moved into the markets to buy low and sell high.

	The Department of Agriculture moved to protect the profits of the big grain companies. On August 25th, they increased the export subsidy from 38 to 47 cents, retroactive for two days, so that the grain companies would not be hurt by rising domestic prices. If the department were half as protective toward farmers as they were toward the grain companies, perhaps Paul Whitmer would not have been so badly cheated. And while the Russian grain deal was being planned, key Department of Agriculture officials were quietly resigning to take advantage of the deal as new vice presidents of the grain companies.

	The whole thing smells. And I intend to pursue it until all the troubling questions are answered. Certainly, we need to expand our exports. But we can do it without shortchanging farmers, robbing consumers, billing taxpayers, and coddling the big grain companies.

	I think it's time we had a president who turned the power of the Department of Agriculture over to farmers and appointed a working farmer as Secretary. I think it's time we had a president who really feels the sorrow of seeing your sons and daughters leave rural America on the first train after high school graduation. I think it's time we had a president who will act boldly and decisively to save independent farming and to restore the vitality to rural America.

	That is the kind of president I intend to be.

	First, I will move to inject farm income with a long overdue boost, using the tools already available to assure the farmers a fair return. The Department of Agriculture has the authority to raise farm income to 90 percent of parity. I intend to use that authority.

	Next year, our basic farm legislation comes up again for review. The choice for farmers is clear. Do you want that legislation written by a man who tried to scrap parity support in 1970, whose own study conducted last year proposes a phasing out of all price support programs and forecasts a decline to 600,000 in the number of farms? Or do you want that legislation drafted by an administration that is firmly committed to a support program based on the parity concept and dedicated to the proposition that the people who produce our food and fiber have an unquestioned right to economic equality with those who consume it? I think the choice is clear.

	I will propose legislation consistent with the tradition of Roosevelt and Kennedy and Johnson, not with the tradition of Benson and Butz and Nixon. And that legislation will be based on the principle that farmers are entitled to a stable income as well as a decent one, not the boom-and-bust cycles we have had under this administration.

Second, I will act immediately to provide tax relief to the already overburdened farmer. It is a scandal that farmers today pay 18 percent of their income for property taxes. I have no "secret" plan for property tax reforms. I have an open and public plan. It is to reduce property taxes drastically by having the federal government assume one-third the costs of our schools and all of the costs that are presently borne by our bankrupt welfare system.

Third, I will move to stop the takeover of American agriculture by absentee corporations and Fifth Avenue farmers. Unless we act quickly, the names on the mailboxes of rural America in 1980 will no longer be Smith and Jones. They will be Tenneco and Ralston-Purina and Dow Chemical.

	This administration has thrown in the towel in the battle to save independent farming. They have nothing left for the small and medium-sized farmer except lip service. But the exodus from the farm is not a natural phenomenon. It is not like the rising and the setting of the sun. It was made by man and it can be stopped by man.

	Change may be inevitable, but it is not uncontrollable. We can stop the threshers of agribusiness and the bulldozers of suburban developers from plowing under the family farm. We must pass legislation similar to the Farm Family Act of 1972, supported by great agricultural champions like Humphrey and Mondale of Minnesota, Nelson and Proxmire of Wisconsin, Mansfield and Metcalf of Montana, and Burdick and Young of North Dakota. That act will prohibit giant non-farm corporations from engaging in farming, directly or indirectly. We must eliminate the tax advantages that encourage non-farm interests to go into agriculture: their ability to deduct farm losses from non-farm income and the carrot of favored capital gain treatment when they sell off their farmland to suburban developers. We must provide to the independent farmer the same access to credit that the giant corporations now have. And we must clamp an enforceable $20,000 payment limitation on our support programs so that the giant producers no longer wait for their giant checks in the mail with more anticipation than they wait for the harvest.

	We can break the grip of "agribusiness" and we can puncture the myth of "agribigness." Study after study has clearly shown that a well-operated, one- or two-man farm has all the efficiencies of production of the larger units. No longer need we sacrifice our family farms on the altar of a false efficiency.

	Fourth, we must provide farm producers with the tools necessary for them to bargain effectively with their giant suppliers and their big purchasers. For too long, farmers have been pawns in the hands of the giant concentrations of power with which they deal. It is time they had control over their own economic destinies.

	Finally, we must act now to preserve one of our irreplaceable and unique natural resources--the richness of rural life. By neglecting rural America, we have permitted to arise imposing barriers to rural existence: inadequate health facilities; schools that are too often poorly equipped; fewer job opportunities. It is one of the great ironies of today that at the same time our cities are buckling under the strain of overcrowding, many of our rural areas are plagued by underpopulation and loss of human as well as economic resources.

	If we provide a healthy and productive life in rural America, man's search for a more fulfilling life will restore a better balance in the distribution of our population. We must restore a basic equity to urban and rural life. Accessible and adequate health services, improved rural schools, and modern rural public services. We must plan today for a rural America of growing villages and prosperous agricultural regions, each with its own medical center, modern schools, cultural and recreational facilities.

One of my boyhood heroes in South Dakota was a splendid corn/hog farmer by the name of Art Kendall. I spent time as a youth on his farm, following him around, exploring and pheasant hunting.

	But one day in the fall of 1932, when I was 11 years old, my father and I returned from hunting and we found him sitting on the step, holding a letter, with his head bowed down. When he looked up, I saw that there were tears in his eyes.

	The letter was from a trucker who had just taken his hogs to Sioux City. It told him that the check for his hogs--for his year's work--would just barely cover the cost of trucking.

	I resolved then that there was something terribly wrong with a system that would do a thing like that to a strong, decent man like Art Kendall. I resolved that if I ever had the chance, I would throw myself into the fight to change that system with all the force and fury I could muster.

	That is a resolution I have kept as a congressman, as President Kennedy's Director of Food for Peace, and as a senator.

	It is a resolution I intend to keep as president of the United States.

	Thank you and God bless you.
AGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHPROPERTY TAXRURAL DEVELOPMENTAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     C UC OC KC CC
 7C 3C .C !C C C B B	  	  	 t 	 O 	 1 	 %   e: