

	Thank you very much, thank you.  Well now, that sounds better.  For a while I thought this was Nixon weather.  But it is turning out to be Democratic Humphrey weather.

	Thank you very much, Senator Gilligan--United States Senator John Gilligan.  Is that right?  And Congressman Ocasek. 

	My good friends, might I first thank Bob Blakemore, the chairman here of Summit County.  I want to thank the University of Akron band.  And I want to thank all my friends from Kent State that are here.  I want you to tell Bob Pickett over there hello for me.  He has been doing a lot of work for me this past year.

	My friends, it is just great to be here in Akron.  I sent the best member of the Humphrey family here sometime ago.  Mrs. Humphrey was out here.  I have had one of my sons out here.  So we have sort of taken up residence.  And I hope that you will be good to us come election day.

	This is the rubber capital of the world.  This is what it is known for.  And I hope that you will stretch out enough votes here to really snap Mr. Nixon right out of the picture. 

	You know, Peter O'Grady told me that--he said that you are going to have to work hard up here, Mr. Vice President.  He said, "After all, your Republican opponent said a couple of weeks ago that he was going to throw on the coal and put in some extra effort."  Now you know what Mr. Nixon meant by that extra effort: he meant that he was going to spend some more money to buy some more TV time, to float some more balloons, to have some more confetti, to put on some staged television shows.

	Now, here is what we are going to do.  We don't have that money.  But we got you.  And we are going to ask you to go to work for us now. 

	We have got just another week to go, and have we ever caused some commotion.  You remember when we used to talk about Mr. Nixon.  He was the cool, the confident, the poised candidate.  Everything was running so smoothly.  You remember he never appeared on a single national television show--for two years.  But you know what we did?  We smoked him out at long last. 

	Of course, he won't debate me.  But he has been debating himself.  He has made--he has had so many different positions on the issues that it has become quite interesting to hear what he is going to say next.  It is sort of like going into a supermarket.  Take you choice.  The trouble is there is no truth-in-packaging or truth-in-labeling on any of the Nixon commodities. 

	Now, dear friends, the question before the country in the next few days is a serious one.  And we can get right down to business.

	With all of the issues, the fundamental issue is this.  Who can you trust to lead this country.  

	VOICES:  Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, be sure you tell your friends and neighbors that.

	Who can you trust to win this peace, to win the peace that we need to have, to cut back the great arms race that is underway?  Who can you trust to hold this country together?

	You know, a presidential candidate makes two great tests.  The first decision he makes is on his running mate.  And I will leave it up to this audience.  Who do you think made the best decision when he chose a vice presidential candidate?  

	VOICES:  Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  How do you like Ed Muskie? 

	Don't you think that ticket of Humphrey and Muskie would sell good up here around Akron, Ohio?  Well, I will be watching for the votes on election night.  And I want to be sure that Summit County, Akron, Ohio, comes through with a great victory for every one of these Democrats right from the top of the list to the bottom of the list, from the courthouse to the White House.

	Now you know I am hopeful that Mr. Nixon will really start to talk on some of the issues.  I know why he hasn't wanted to debate me, because he didn't want me to ask him some questions.  He didn't want me to ask him why he fought against social security, why he fought against federal aid to education, why he opposed Medicare, why he opposed minimum wage expansion.  You just name it.  And I will tell you one thing you can be sure of: Richard Milhous Nixon was against it--he was against it.

	So let me ask the people here.  What did Nixon ever do for you?  

	VOICES:  Nothing?

	What are you going to do for Nixon?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Sounds fair to me.  

	Now, take a look at the other record.  Every gain that this country has had that relates to the elderly people, to our young people, to our workers, every one of those gains has come under a Democratic administration.  The Democratic administration has one characteristic.  It may make mistakes.  No one can claim perfection.  But the one thing that the Democratic party can claim is that it does care, it cares about people.  And I want you to care about it.

	But you know, I think I have to really quote the record here today.  I notice that Mr. Nixon now says he is for federal aid to education.  Let me remind you of some very immortal words of scripture:  "Ye shall judge them by their deeds, not by their words," and particularly not a week before the election. 

	I know why Mr. Nixon is standing up now saying he is for all of these good things.  I know why: because he is going to see what is going to happen to him.  He is going to be defeated.  And he knows it. 

	You know, I wonder what all these magazines--I wonder what all these magazines are going to do.  You remember those stories--why, I remember two weeks ago I read one of them that said it is all over, Nixon has won it, Humphrey won't carry four states.  I hope to goodness they give that magazine and all that is left over to the Salvation Amy so they can trade it in.  All of these hotshots that had this campaign all wrapped up.  Mr. Nixon and his Madison Avenue public relations that were sure that they could take the people for granted, that were sure that all they needed was a big advertising budget, that were sure all they needed to do was to scare you.  Well, it isn't working.  We are going to give them the worst defeat that they have ever had since Harry Truman. 

	And I will tell you why.  Because people here in this city remember.  Mr. Nixon says that he wants a little more of the same when he gets to be president, like they had under those Republican days.  Well, I was in Akron in 1958.  I was in Akron back in those days.  And may I say to my friends in the Rubber Workers, you had a lot of unemployment around this town, plenty of it.  And I will tell you what the Republican medicine is.  It is small doses of political economic arsenic, that is what it adds up to. 

	Let me look at this audience out here.  Mr. Nixon's top adviser said only a week ago--and he said Mr. Nixon agreed to it--he said that what this country needed in order to get price stability was a little more unemployment.  He thought maybe up to 5.5 million.  Well, ladies and gentlemen, what this country doesn't need is unemployment.  Whose job is he talking about?

	Now, I got one suggestion for unemployment.  Nixon is the one. 

	But let me tell you, we don't  need any unemployment in Akron.  And we don't need it in any family.  I want to call the attention of every mother in this audience.  Your children depend on that wage check.  Your home depends on it.  And let me just remind this audience that we had eight years of Republicanism, and you had three job-killing, profit-killing recessions.  You had 7 percent of your work force unemployed.  This country was in trouble.  And then came John Kennedy, and we got this country moving again. 

	And now, my dear friends, Ohio didn't carry for John Kennedy.  I stood along side of John Kennedy.  I worked for him after those primaries.  I campaigned throughout this country for him.  And I will tell you, we can even the score now, in 1968.  We can carry Ohio for the Democratic ticket, and we will mark it up all the way from Kennedy right on up through 1968. 

	And now, friends, we have had in these last eight years ninety-two months of uninterrupted economic growth.  We have had ten million new workers added to jobs.  There have been 12 million people come out of poverty. And here I notice last night, Mr. Nixon on the TV.  You know, that was some experience to see him on there.  He was a little uncomfortable.  He hasn't been on for two years.  I have been on Meet the Press eighteen times, facing the reporters, the tough ones.  Mr. Nixon faced them once in two years, last night.

	That is all.

	But let me tell you something.  Any guy that can't face the reporters can't face the voters.  And you know it. 

	What did he say last night?  He said, well one of the things he wanted to do was to eliminate the Job Corps.  Now, the Job Corps, that has helped more young people that never had a chance than Mr. Nixon can count.  It has helped 135,000 young men that were school dropouts, kids that never had a break.  Many of them that couldn't even read and write.  One of those Job Corps boys was George Foreman who won the Olympic medal for the heavyweight--the heavyweight class.  And you know what George Foreman said?  He said when he received his medal, at the very time that Dick Nixon was talking on Face the Nation, George Foreman is receiving his gold medal on behalf of the United States for his great victory in the Olympics.  He said he got his chance in the Job Corps.  And Nixon says let's do away with it.  I say, let's do away with the Nixon candidacy.    

	And then what did he do last week?  This fellow is really swinging wild now.  You know, I told you, I made one prediction.  I said the real Nixon would come out before this campaign is over.  That veneer they had on him, that nice polish job, that new Nixon that you get every four years, yes--well, I will tell you, it is scratched up a little bit now.  And he hasn't seen anything yet.  We have got a week to go.  Just wait.

	And then what did he do?  What did he do?  He started talking about the security of this country.  And he said what we have had under the Kennedy and Johnson administrations a security gap which will result in a survival gap, to frighten you.  And when we brought out the figures, and pinned him down, and showed him that he was wrong, that he was misleading this country, misrepresenting the facts, when we told him that, and he was challenged on the TV, he had nothing to say at all, except he said he thought he got it out of some report.

	Ladies and gentlemen, that is dangerous business.  You cannot vote for a man that plays politics with national security, and I think it is time to tell Mr. Nixon to stay to the truth, and not to stay to his Republican fiction. 

	Well, friends, you had another man speak here not long ago--George the Loud--yes, he was here.  He spoke, I understand, right from these same steps.  I am glad the courthouse is still here.  

	And he spoke about law and order.  That is the favorite topic.  He has got a great system for law and order.  If you lie down in front of his car, he says he will run over you.  If he doesn't like the judge, he defies him.  If he doesn't like certain laws, he refuses to obey them.  If he doesn't like certain court order, he defies those.  If he doesn't believe somebody ought to go to school, he stands in front of the door.

	Ladies and gentlemen, we don't need that kind of law and order in America, and we are not going to have it.

	And here is a man who talks law and order, that has the highest murder rate of any state in the union.  Just think of that.  Here is a man who when he was governor had the second-highest aggravated assault rate of any state in the union.  And he wants to bring that kind of law and order to Washington.  I say, keep it in Alabama.  They don't even want it there. 

	Now, the way you get law and order is to put enough resources behind your police, behind your courts.  Put some funds and moneys into rehabilitation.  Do something about the injustices in this country.  Do something about the despair and the inequities in this country.  Then you can have people who respect the law, on the one hand, and police who know how to enforce the law.  That is the way you get it.  You don't get it with bumper stickers, and you don't get it with somebody making a speech.  You have to pay for it, and you have to work for it, and you have to work for law enforcement, and you have to work for social justice.  And I call upon this city to back that kind of a program, and particularly the young people.  We do not want a police state in America.  We want a state of law and order that is fair and just and decent. 

	Well, friends, it is cold.  I thought I would warm you up a little bit.  Now let me tell you something.  Did I warm you up a little bit?

	Now let me ask you a couple of questions.  Are you planning to vote for George?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You know what I call them.  The Bombsey Twins.

	So let's get it clear.  I want to hear.  Are you planning on voting for Wallace?  

	VOICES:  No!

	Did you hear anybody say he was going to vote for Nixon?  

	VOICES:  No!

	How would you go for the Humphrey-Muskie ticket? 

	All right, friends.  If you believe that, then help us.  Will you make it your business the next few days, and particularly you young people?  Will you help us now?  I want you to go on out and call on every door, call on the neighbors, get them out to vote.  And just remember this: when you call on an elderly couple, remind them he voted only once in his life for social security.  Remind them he never helped you in federal aid to education.  Remind the working family what it means to have a Republican administration: you work as you have never worked.

	Somebody said we didn't have enough materials.  Well, I guess that is right.  But we have enough people if we put them to work.  We are short on money, but we are strong on people.  We have people power. 

	So listen, I feel great.  I tell you we are going to give the biggest political upset this country has ever seen.  And I want you to be a part. 

	You think we are going to win?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Do you want to win?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Are you going to help me win?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Will you do it this week?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  All right, let's give it to him.  Sock it to him. 

CRIME--GENERALJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     