

	I appreciate your cordial welcome here today. I am particularly glad to speak to this audience of New York businessmen, for it permits me to say something about the relation of the Democratic party to business which I have been wanting to say for a long time.

	The Republican party has a well-established reputation as the party of business. I understand that the Democratic party does not have quite this reputation. In fact, some businessmen are even said to regard it as antibusiness!

	I suggest to you that both the reputation of the Republican party and the reputation of the Democratic party are undeserved.

	I would go further. I believe that the Democratic party is the best friend American business has; and I should like to tell you why I think so. 

	Certainly, if we Democrats don't like business, we exhibit our dislike in a curious way. When the Democrats came into office in 1933, after a dozen years of Republican rule, the American business system was flat on its back. When the Democrats left office in 1953, the American business system was in more robust health than ever before in history.

	America has been a country which has grown phenomenally from its moment of birth. But never in the entire history of our rapidly expanding nation has there been such a twenty-year period of sustained economic growth. In these twenty years, the gross national product of our country--the total of all the goods and services our nation produced--rose nearly 700 percent. Everyone--business, workers, farmers, professional people--benefited.

	I have heard the achievement of the New Deal defined in a number of ways. But I think that two things can be said about that era of national renovation which are especially relevant today.

	One is that the New Deal made America safe for capitalism.

	The other is that it made capitalism safe for America--and safe especially for the responsible businessman.

	What was ruining capitalism--and precipitated deep national misgivings--was the irresponsible minority in the business community, those people who supposed that anything was justified so long as it put another fast buck into their own pockets. It was these men who established sweatshops--and forced their competitors to compete in terms of cutting wages of labor rather than in terms of improving quality for customers. It was these men who palmed off phony securities on a gullible public--and forced their competitors to compete in terms of extravagant promotion rather than in terms of useful investment. For a long time such men as these degraded and disgraced the standards which were gradually evolving in the responsible business community.

	For the sake of the decent employers of the country, it was necessary to establish ground rules so that the responsible businessman would no longer be penalized because he would not cheat those who bought from him or those who worked for him.

	The great adventure of the thirties was this establishment of ground rules in our economy--and certainly a great hero of that adventure was one of the best friends American businessmen ever had, and, paradoxically, a man cordially disliked by many businessmen, Franklin Roosevelt.

	During those years, a Democratic administration abolished the sweatshop. It abolished child labor. It ended the savagery of competition among employers as to which could work labor the hardest and pay it the least.

	A Democratic administration similarly brought decency and stability into the securities market. It outlawed falsehood and deception in the investment world. It established new rules for the issuance of stocks and bonds. It liberated the responsible promoter and the responsible broker from the competition of the charlatan and the cheat.

	What the Democrats did was to show that the methods of aspirations of business could still produce profits in a society which recognized the obligations a modern state has to its citizens. And the success of the New Deal in advancing the cause of free enterprise is shown by the payoff--by the vast growth of business and the vast increase in national abundance in the years of Democratic rule.

	This, of course, is all in the past. But it bears upon the present and the future. For government and business will continue to be mixed up together in the common task of keeping the American economy strong and growing. Indeed, the whole history of American progress has been a history of constant government-business interaction--at its best, a creative interaction which has advanced the welfare of the whole nation.

	I believe that the need for this interaction--for this balanced and reciprocal cooperation--has never been greater than it is today. For our society is in a state of transition. We have moved out of the bleak past, when our problem was scarcity and our task the hard one of distributing too few goods among too many people. We are finally entering that age of abundance, of which we have dreamed so long.

	Our national output is already reaching heights which would stagger the most starry-eyed prophets of a generation back. On the horizon are a number of new developments which all multiply our future productive capacity even more: the whole process of automation, harnessing to production the fantastic developments of modern electronics; the miracle of atomic power; the striking new advances in industrial and agricultural chemistry; and so much else, some of it still in the minds of our inventors, our scientists, and our business leaders.

	In the end, we will accomplish a second Industrial Revolution which will add far more to the productive power of the world than the original Industrial Revolution. And let us not deceive ourselves: just as an era of scarcity created one set of values and institutions, so an era of abundance will create new values and new institutions. Too much of our present controversy is conducted in an idiom which is rapidly becoming obsolete. We must rethink our economic policy in terms of the technological revolution--just as we have to rethink our defense policy in terms of the weapons revolution.

	The task ahead is to take full advantage of the technological revolution, while still preserving those sources of the creativity of American life--the free individual, making his own way in life; the family farm; the family firm; the small town; the small college; the small enterprise of any sort. This task will require imagination and ideas in the field of social policy to match the imagination and ideas in our business offices and our research laboratories. It will call on the cooperation of all elements in our society--the business community, labor, agriculture, the consumer, and the government.

	Now I do not believe that the Eisenhower administration can meet the challenge of this new age.

	One reason it cannot do so is that it does not represent--and cannot command the confidence--of all the groups in our diverse society. For this job, we require a balanced government--and our government is badly out of balance today. The American tradition must be against government by any single interest, whether business or labor or agriculture. In particular, government in which big business has disproportionate representation cannot be expected to do what is necessary to control the march of bigness in America.

	Another reason why the Eisenhower Administration cannot meet the challenge of the New America is that it lacks imagination and recoils from new ideas. Neither in foreign nor in domestic policy has it had any new ideas. In both fields, it has lived on its somewhat garbled memory of what previous Democratic administrations had thought and done.

	It has been well said that a new Republican idea is a Democratic idea at its twenty-fifth reunion. Indeed, we are given to understand that the Republican achievement in finally accepting the main outlines of the New Deal should be taken as a great intellectual and philosophical triumph. Well, maybe it should be at that. But this is not enough for the problems which lie ahead. I can only say that an administration which has no ideas--which exudes self-satisfaction and complacency with things as they are, which distrusts change and fears leadership--is not perhaps the best administration to deal with the problems of a turbulent and rapidly changing world.

	There is one more reason why the Eisenhower administration can't meet the challenge of America's economic future. That is because its sights are too narrow: its concern is directed only at those activities which pay off in the cash ledger.

	The Republicans don't like to spend money in such fields as education, health, welfare, and the conservation of natural resources. They drag their feet on every proposal to improve our school system, our system of medical care, our system of social insurance, our public domain, and so on.

	But I say that money spent to improve the education, health, and welfare of American citizens and to develop the natural resources of the country is not money for which there is no return; it is not money wasted. It is money invested in the improvement of America--money which will repay itself many times in developing a population which can produce more, purchase more, and plan more for new expansion in the future. It is no accident that the unprecedented economic gains of the last generation took place in a period of unprecedented enlargement in the government's social services. Everything our society can do to improve the intelligence and energy of its members contributes to the wealth of the nation and the productivity of the economy.

	Our Republican friends recoil from this challenge of the future, even as they recoiled from the challenges of the past from which they have profited so handsomely. The proof lies in the failure to attack our deficiencies in school, health, care for older citizens, slums, distressed areas, etc. It lies in the troubled condition of so many small businesses. It lies in the exposure of our natural resources to private exploitation and waste. When progress has been made it has been grudging and late, mostly in response to the approach of an election and to Democratic prodding.

	And, if I may say so to this audience, it lies especially in the precarious state of small business--squeezed by the growing giants, buffeted by the merger movement, strangled by high interest rates and the difficulty of getting capital and credit. Under the Republicans, the rate of small business failures has reached its highest level in fifteen years. American business--and America itself--cannot afford to lose this unique source of inventiveness and enterprise.

	We Democrats conceive of America as the land of opportunity. When opportunity vanishes, America will suffer a fundamental change. And opportunity means opportunity for all. We reject the idea of an America in which everyone is on the payroll of a few giant corporations.

	The fact is that the Republicans, taking over the country at a high point of economic activity, have done nothing for such vital groups in the population as small businessmen and farmers--and have done less than nothing to prepare for the difficult problems of the future. The Eisenhower administration seems to have confused genuine friendship for business with snuggling intimacy toward a few of its giants. And meanwhile the big have gotten bigger and the small are disappearing.

I would ask businessmen to consider soberly whether the Democratic party has not served the true interests of business far better this century than the weary and rigid stand-pattism of the Republicans--and whether Democratic foresight and energy are not likely to be better for business in the long run.

	I have spoken often in this campaign of a New America. That New America must rest on the efforts of businessmen and workingmen and farmers, working shoulder to shoulder with government to achieve a greater abundance for all Americans.

	It is the Democratic purpose to use our individual and social intelligence to keep opportunity alive for every American. Because we believe this--because our record for a century and a half has shown our devotion to this ideal--is I believe the reason why you American businessmen are here today--why you think the Democratic party is entitled to your support in this fateful election.

BUSINESS, CORPORATEFREE MARKET ECONOMIESGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--ECONOMICSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESPRODUCTIVITYSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     1 1 1 1 1
 {1 v1 q1 i1 a1 _1 N1 D1	  	  	  	  	  	 \ 	 P 	 : 	 # e: