

	I'm blessed with a beautiful family.  They're the most precious things in the world to me, as I know your families are to you.

	And I'm very pleased that my daughter Andrea is with us, and I want you to meet her--Y habla espanol tambien, mi hija.  Un verano en Madrid...  She spent some time in Madrid studying.

	And so we work hard with you and with communities all over the country, and she and Kitty and John and Kara have been campaigning all over this country along with my dear mother and Kitty's Dad.

	And as we come down to the last eight days, I want to tell you that if there's one thing I hope I can do with you, for the members of the Congress, and for the American people, it's to create a sense of community and family throughout this country, among all of us.  To be here at this community college, and that's what it is, isn't it?  A community college.

	I, the son of immigrants, here as the Governor of an important state, the nominee of my party for the presidency of the United States.  I hope that's a symbol to young people all over this country of what you can do, of what this country can do, the kind of opportunity we offer, the kind of opportunity that is offered at a college like this.

	And, with your help, we're going to make that symbol real for young people all over the United States of America.

	Eight days to go.  Eight days in this long marathon.  Eight of the most important days in the history of this country.

	You know, a couple of weeks ago, the Republicans were doing a little celebrating.  They were popping those champagne corks in their penthouses.  Well, I want to tell them something for you and for me.  We're the ones that are going to be doing the celebrating on the 8th of November.  And we're going to be celebrating with a little California champagne, aren't we?

	Mr. Bush is coasting.  We're fighting.

	He's reading the polls.  We're taking our case directly to the American people.

	He thinks he can inherit the White House.  I think you have to earn the right to be president of the United States.

	Because there's a fundamental difference between me and George Bush.

	I want to build a future that creates opportunity for every citizen of this country, no matter who they are or where they come from, or what the color of their skin.

	His one new idea for the economic future of America is a five-year, 40 billion dollar tax cut for the wealthy.  And those of you who make $200,000 a year should be happy, because you're going to get a gift of $30,000.

	And you remember when I called him on it.

	He said, "Well, I've got a plan for the rest of you:  A new savings plan that will help you start a business.  It will help you put a down payment on a new home.  It will help you pay your tuition to college."

	And what was it worth, to the average American family?  Twenty bucks.  That won't pay the application fee, let alone the tuition.

	You know, this Republican campaign has been one of the most cynical and one of the most hypocritical we've had in the history of American politics.

	They've been sending a lot of garbage to you in your mailboxes.  Now, you're going to be seeing new ads.  Ads about Boston Harbor.  Folks, I didn't pollute Boston Harbor, I'm the Governor who's cleaning it up.

	You're going to be seeing more ads about offshore drilling.  Let me tell you why I've fought that on my side of the Continent, and we're going to make sure that the California coast is preserved and kept beautiful for generations to come.

	And you're going to see ads about crime again.  It's trick or treat time, isn't it?  I've signed legislation imposing mandatory sentences on drug pushers, and we've put five times as many drug pushers in jail in my state as we did in the previous administration.  I'm proud of that record, and I hope the American people are, too.

	You see, there's a fundamental difference, between George Bush and me.  He wants to help the people that already have it made.  I want to help every American family make it in this country.

	He wants to help the people on Easy Street.  Lloyd Bentsen and I want to help the people on Main Street.  Those are the people we care about.  Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen are on your side.

	On your side!  And we're going to work for you.

	Now why are they running this kind of campaign?  You know, and I know why, they want you to forget the trillions in red ink.

	They want you to forget a trade deficit that has turned this nation from the largest lending nation in the world to the largest borrowing nation, and cost us five million jobs.

	They want you to forget that annual assault on Pell grants and loans, that has made it so difficult for young people to go to college in this country.

	They want you to forget their failure in the war against drugs.  Three times as much cocaine coming into the country today as in 1981.  About the only thing that's cheaper today than it was in 1981 is cocaine.  And now, having failed in the war against drugs, who does Mr. Bush want to put in charge?  J. Danforth Quayle.  There's something else they want you to forget.

	They've been on the wrong side of every issue that is of special importance to the women of America.

	If you think women should make more than 65 cents for every dollar a man makes in this country, if you believe in paycheck justice, then we're on your side.

	If you believe that the minimum wage ought to be a living wage, not a poverty wage, then we're on your side.

	If you believe that every job in this country should come with basic health insurance, we're on your side.

	If you think it's time that we began to develop opportunities for quality childcare so that parents don't have to choose between the job they need and the children they love, then we're on your side.

	If you believe that working parents ought to be able to take a few days off to care for a sick child, under a decent, national, parental leave policy, then we're on your side.

	And if you think that we can do better than a Robert Bork on the Supreme Court of the United States, then we're on your side.

	Now, Mr. Bush tells us that he wants the government to make one of the most personal choices a woman can make.  And last week, Dan Quayle told a 12 year old girl that even if she were raped by her father and became pregnant, the government has a right to force her to bear that child.

	Now, this is a difficult subject, it's a sensitive issue.  It's one that we all have to wrestle with, and I respect the right of those who disagree with me to do so.

	But I believe a choice that personal must be made by the woman in the exercise of her own conscience and religious beliefs.  And that's one of the reasons why we don't want George Bush and Dan Quayle appointing new Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States.

	You know, a couple of days ago, Mr. Bush said that I wanted to divide America.  If we can roll up our sleeves and go to work, all of us together, and create a future for this country, of full employment, and good jobs at good wages for all of the people of this country, doesn't that unite us?

	If we can work hard, to create good schools and drug free schools for the young people of this country, doesn't that unite us?

	If we can open up that door of college opportunity to every young person in this country who's qualified to do college work, doesn't that unite us?

	If we can go to work together, as I know we can, and create decent and affordable housing for the homeless of this country, for young families; give young families a chance to buy their own home and have that little piece of the American Dream, doesn't that unite us?

	And if we can build a future of clean air and clean water and clean coasts and a clean government in Washington, D.C., we can build that kind of government and that kind of future.  Doesn't that bring us together and unite us as one nation, one community, one family?

	You know, I said yesterday that I was proud to stand in the tradition of some great presidents.  The liberal tradition of great presidents like Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman and John Kennedy.

	You know, I was in Independence, Missouri a few days ago, the hometown of Harry Truman.  Can you believe it that Republicans were suggesting out there in Missouri that if Harry Truman were alive today, he'd vote for George Bush and Dan Quayle?

	They don't understand this tradition.

	A tradition of being on the side of working families in this country, a tradition of expanding the circle of opportunity through all of our citizens.

	The tradition of a decent retirement income for senior citizens.

	The tradition of making every American a full shareholder in the American Dream.

	That's what that tradition is all about.

	And these presidents, these presidents were also innovators.  They looked to the future.

	They saw the challenges.

	They worked hard to meet them.  And we too, we too, have great challenges ahead and new frontiers to conquer, and we have to take charge of our economic future in this country, and we will.

	Twenty-eight years ago tomorrow, here in the Los Angeles area, John Kennedy made a special appeal to young voters, and this is what he said.  He said, "You have to decide as young voters, as young voters who have the longest stake in this great Republic, who are most concerned with a search for truth."

	And how important the truth is, isn't it, in political campaigns.

	He said, "You who have the least ties to the present, and the most ties to the future, you have to decide which candidate reflects your judgment of our country, its needs, and its future."

	And he said this, he said, "I want to make it clear that this country has to move again, that we have to get off dead center, that we want to build in this country, the kind of society, which will ornament the cause of freedom.  A society which no longer rests, but picks itself up and starts to move ahead."

	Great words in 1960, weren't they?  Just as great, for us, in 1988.

	And I want to say to you, especially to those of you who are students and young people, that I hope in some important ways [as] your president, that I can have the same impact on you that John Kennedy did on my generation.

	I hope I can reach out to you as he did, and say to you, "You have a responsibility to your country.  A responsibility to give something back to the country which has given much to you."  I hope that I'm looking at future teachers, am I?  Future nurses, and social workers, and political and community leaders, because this country needs you as never before.

	If we're going to build the kind of future we want for ourselves and our children and grandchildren, we want to say, "yes" to the future.

"Yes" to an America of unlimited ambition and boundless opportunity, not just for some, but for all of our people.  That's the kind of nation we want.

	Because we're confident, as we face the future, that the best America is not behind us.

	The best America is yet to come.

	Thank you all very, very much.  Thank you.

ABORTIONCRIMINAL SENTENCING--DRUG DEALERSDRUG TRADE--GENERALENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHOME OWNERSHIPWOMEN'S ISSUES/RIGHTS     m, 9, 3, /, ',
 , , , , , + + +	  	  	 p 	 ] 	 E 	 # 	  e: