

	We saw some things we didn't even know we were doing and as a result of that community self-survey, we raised money privately through the community activity.  I led the effort.  We had a series of meetings and panels for a year in my city, not just a survey, you know, where you file it away, but we went to work on it.  We found, for example, in some of our hospitals that if you were black and you were a doctor, you couldn't practice.  I found that in some of our hospitals if you were Catholic and a doctor, you couldn't practice.  We found that not a single department store in our city hired a clerk, a saleslady or a salesman, except unless they were white.  And we found a lot of those.

	You know what we did?  We did something about it.  We went to work and did something about it.  Not all I wanted to do, but we made the beginnings.  We passed the first fair employment practice ordinance in the United States with legal enforcement powers.

	Now, I have been on this trail of human rights and human decency all of my life and I think I am on the right track, to be honest with you about it, and I will tell you why.  We have been denying ourselves in this country an awful lot of talents out of bad habits and bad practices.

	I was in Los Angeles today. I have a good friend there.  He is a young fellow that does a lot of good basketball playing.  He is a man I have known a long time, Elgin Baylor.  He puts a few baskets through the hoops.  If I could get as many votes as he gets baskets, we both would be happy.

	Why do I mention him?  And there are many others that we could mention.  My friend, Jackie Robinson, was here the other day, really one of Mr. Rockefeller's friends, but he has been a friend of mine and he came back and offered voluntarily to be of help to me.  And he is just one man.

	I believe you will see that some of the people that even opposed me in this election will be very active today for our candidate and I know--for their own reasons and good and justifiable reasons--have a different point of view on matters relating to the Democratic Convention.  I don't think we ever really disagreed on what we ought to do but we had some problems.

	Now, there is so much talent in this country that goes unused because we close the door on them.  There is so much opportunity in this country that is unexplored because we have lived in the patterns of segregation and discrimination and deprivation for so many people so long, and it isn't even good economics, much less good morals.

	We are beginning to find out that black entrepreneurship, black capitalism, is as good as white.  We are beginning to find out that people can do any job without regard to race.   We are beginning to find out that some of the finest artists that we have, some of the greatest men and women in the field of literature, some of the outstanding professors, some of our greatest scientists, surely, and many of our greatest athletes, some of our finest architects are people who only a few years ago were the sons and daughters of the poorest of the poor, black or white.

	We are beginning to find out that there is a tremendous resource here that has been unused, undeveloped, untapped.

	o, I entered into the field of civil rights simply because I was brought up to believe that people were people and I was brought up--somebody asked me once, he said, when did you get the spirit to be a civil rights man, so to speak, and I had somebody once ask me,  "What was it at the university that made you feel that you ought to be involved in civil rights?"

	I said the University didn't have anything to do with it at all.  I was so blamed hard up and broke at the university I didn't have time to think about civil rights.  I had two jobs.  I was married.  We had a baby and I was self starved.  I mean, I didn't have time to be thinking about civil rights at that time.  I was thinking about whether I could stay in school, but I had a father and a mother that brought me up to believe that there was a oneness of humanity, that people were people, and that while everyone should have pride in their race, in their families, in their culture, that there was basically a oneness of humanity.  And I believe that, and that is why I have been a worker in this field of human rights.

	Now, we have got a whole body of civil rights law now.  We have passed a lot of civil rights law.  Our problem is not more law.  It is the application of the law.  That is number one.

	The second thing is the practice of human respect for a human being.

	I believe that a president can do an awful lot to set the example, just as a mayor of a city can, the governor of a state can, and any of us that are in leading public positions.  We are the educators in many ways.  We are the people that mold public opinion, at least we should, and we can set the standard.  I think you people know here in this audience that I have worked diligently through my public life, in the Congress and as vice president, to forward every aspect of a meeting of human rights and civil rights--every aspect.

	We are going to do better.  It doesn't do much good to say what I have said unless we can do something about the problems of deprivation, the alienation of people, the bitterness and frustration that comes from being pushed aside and quite candidly, our young people today are not going to take it.

	And the answer to it is not to suppress them.  The answer is to try and find ways to work together.  And that simply means that we have to get at these areas of slumism, and slumism, I have said, is worse than a slum because a slum represents broken-down buildings, physical buildings, but slumism represents people, as well as buildings, that have been broken down, that have become despairing, that feel unneeded, unwanted, bitter, frustrated.

	We have got to do something about it, and we can.  The way we do something about it is to do what I want done for me.  Somebody once said, well, what do you think we ought to do?  I said, give the other guy the same chance I got.  It is just that simple.  I had my chance.  I was accepted.  I wasn't discriminated against because my name was Horatio, the middle name.  That is bad enough to have that.  They accepted that.

	I met a fellow tonight that had a second name, Hubert, I was going to say to him how would like to have the first name.

	But I didn't have that.  I didn't have to face that.  I didn't have to face in a society that is essentially white, the color discrimination.  I know that.

	So, I think that not only should I see that the other fellow gets a chance as good as mine but I think he ought to get a little better chance because he had to wait so long.

	You know, we talk a lot about equal opportunities and I talk about it a great deal.  Now, the fact of the matter is for our kids--let's talk about them and then I am going to yield this floor--sometimes when we get along in our age, kind of hard to change habits.  You know that.  But, I surely think that whatever we do we ought to be thinking about young people that are coming along and yet unborn and everything that we do as we plan a city, think of an industry, plan a program of education, not necessarily to have it how it meets our needs at your age and my age, how is it going to meet the needs of that child, that four-year-old, that six-year-old, that ten-year-old.  What kind of life are they going to have?

	And, therefore, when we say we want to give everybody an equal opportunity in education, that isn't enough for some people because some people have had it unequal for so long that in order to make it equal, you have got to give it a little more than equal for some time.

	Now, let me give you an example.  If a person is the victim of chronic malnutrition, I mean, your body, that you have had a bad diet or little or no food, and you are the victim of malnutrition, starvation, physical starvation, there isn't a doctor in the country that says, "Well, now what we ought to do is that I eat hamburgers--let him eat hamburgers".  That isn't what they do.  They put you into a hospital and say, "Now, look, we have got to get this body up to a point where that body can consume or can digest the same kind of good that I get".  In other words, special treatment.  Chemicals, vitamins, nutritional food, until the balance is restored.

	That is what we have got to do.

	This is why we need the best teachers where we have the most serious problems of education.  And isn't it kind of ridiculous how we build things upside down?  In many areas of our country, and I speak, of course, without any reference to a particular area, we have the oldest schools, the poorest schools in the poorest areas where the need is the greatest, and we have the newest schools, the best schools, in the area where the people are the wealthiest, where many of their children can be sent to private schools, and where the need is the least.  It is just upside down.

	Now, somebody is going to say, well, there he is.  He is promising a lot of things and it is going to cost so terribly much.

	Let me tell you what costs: doing nothing.  It costs a whole lot more to get sick than it does to stay well.  Crime, delinquency, welfare-ism, unemployment, frustration, bitterness, those are the most expensive, the most expensive developments in human society, and we had better start measuring and weighing and adding up those costs.

	Job training doesn't cost nearly as much as keeping a family on welfare.  A day care center so that a mother that wants to work and doesn't want to have to rely on just Aid to Dependent Children, a day care center is a lot better for that mother than it is just to have a welfare check.

	A health center in a neighborhood that can give some outpatient care and prenatal care and just general health care is a lot cheaper than disease and an increase in the rate of infant mortality, et cetera.  I have gone across the length and breadth of this country pointing out what we face, and let me tell you, it is not right.  It is a fact that a black boy doesn't have the same chance and you know it. It is a fact that the mother in a black family runs the risk, a greater risk of ill health and of losing her baby than a white mother.  It is a fact, because poverty knows no race, that there are more poor whites than there are poor blacks, but after having said that, all I can say is we ought to try to have fewer of both and get on with the job of doing something about it.

	We have made some wonderful beginnings and we really have and don't be discouraged.  Listen, things have really happened in this country in the last ten years, believe me they have happened, but some people say, well if there is so much that has been done, why is there so much that people are unhappy about?

	Well, there was an old French philosopher who once visited America, whose name was de Tocqueville, and he said something like this: that those conditions of poverty which seem inevitable, which seem intolerable, sometimes become inevitable.  But once that you find that you can do something about things, then the condition of poverty are intolerable, and they have to do something about them.

	In other words, when you see light at the end of the tunnel you want to run faster to get there, but if you don't see any light there, what is the use of running?  You may never get any place.

	Hopelessness leads to despair and despair just leads to the living dead.

	By the way, there are many ways to kill a man.  You can break his spirit and break his heart.  You can deny him a chance to even be a man and that leaves him for all practical purposes dead.

	Our job is to see that people live in this country.  This country started out with the proposition that there are certain God-given inalienable rights and one of these is life--not just survival, life.  A lot of difference between surviving and living.  Living means life that is meaningful, and those God-given rights, inalienable they call them, are life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  It didn't say you were guaranteed happiness but you had a right to pursue it.

	I think we can do something about these things and this is why I come to you to ask your help and above all I seek your counsel.

	I am sure that none of us know all the answers.  I know you are going to read an awful lot of things that we have done that are wrong.  I have been listening to some of the opposition already.  They are telling us all the mistakes we have made in the poverty program. I think that is right.  But the greatest mistake is that we have let poverty linger with us so long.  That is an incredible mistake, an intolerable mistake.

	I read about how much it costs to train a young boy or a young girl in a Job Corps center.  I don't read about how much it costs to let him stand idle on the street corner. I only read that when he gets in trouble, they are on him. They are on him.

	We have taken thousands and thousands and you have taken thousands and thousands of young men and women off these street corners and they have gotten jobs, and they have become self-sustaining citizens, and we have got--we just scratched the surface.

	I read about, for example, the mistakes that we made in the OEO, in the War on Poverty, the money that has been wasted, and I suppose that is right.  I am not going to deny it.

	But I want to tell you something:  poverty has been with us longer than cancer and people have been trying to find a cure for cancer as long as there is modern medicine and we still haven't found it, but we don't go around condemning the doctors.  We say give them a little more.  Let them have some more time.  Give them some more research money.  Let them seek new ways of trying to find that cure for cancer.  We don't write them up as failures and boondogglers.  We say they are scientists.  Look, they might get a breakthrough.  Somebody thinks he has found something that may work.  It may work on a few patients and we thank the Lord that it will.

	The same thing I trust on this War on Poverty.  We are experimenting still.  We don't know all the answers by a long shot.  We are experimenting.  We are finding some things that do work for a few people and we need to build on that, stand on it.  We find that you can do job training.  We find that it is hard training a hard-core unemployed, a man that has never had a job, that ha never known work discipline, that has never had a factory experience, that has never been trusted, that has never been given a chance.  You can't expect just to offer him a job and that he will be a success.  You have go to condition him.  You have go to help him.  You have got to help him until he gains his sense of confidence, until he gains his self-respect.  That is what it is all about.

	I don't know all the answers but I will tell you what I do know.  I know that we can find them.  Any country that can put a man on the moon ought to be able to help put a man on the street to work.

	Have you got a question or two?  We are ready for your questions.

	Mr. Hayes:  Mr. Vice President --

	Yes, sir.

	Mr. Hayes:  My name is R. L. Hayes and I am an elected representative of the poor.

	Yes, sir.

	Mr. Hayes:  And most of the people you see here tonight, Mr. Vice President, represent the black middle class of this community.  Very few of the poor are represented here.  I would appreciate it very much if you would expand upon what you said downstairs in regards to the young and the poor of this community and all over this nation.  And when the time comes in November, that we need the young and the poor to get out and work because they mean votes.

	Yes, they do.  What I tried to say, I didn't have any prepared remarks particularly on that, but what I tried to say was, first of all, that I need in my campaign, number one, the idealism, the enthusiasm, the commitment of the young.  I have associated my whole life with young people, in my office, in my work, as a youth leader.

	Might I just add that I have walked in as many ghettos of this country as any public man has with few exceptions.  Maybe one other man walked in as many or more and that is the late Senator Robert Kennedy.

	I said I wanted to see not only that these young men and women had a chance to participate but that I could receive their counsel, that the door of the White House, their White House, not mine, would be open to them, not only for their views and for their expressions of concern but for their advice.

	You know, our young people today are really well-informed young people.  They are older young people by the experiences of life than some of us were when we were very young.

	I have young people in my family.  I know a little bit about that.  They have had a better break than most kids have had.

	I want to see the poor have something to say about the decisions made about this poverty program, and you know I do.

	I want to see the Model Cities program to include in its planning--and in those that do plan it--that the resident of the area where the Model Cities program is to be applied, may have something to say about that program before it is applied.

	Now, let me tell you, I can tell you right now what people are going to say.  Let's say that everything works out as I hope it will and then we try to do some of these things.  We are going to make some mistakes and you are going to find somebody that is representing the poor that just louses things up, but I want to tell you, some of the folks that represent the rich louse it up, too.

	And it will be written up that they made mistakes, that their judgments were bad, that they didn't spend the money right.

	Ladies and gentlemen, everything requires experience, and when people have had no opportunity for decision making, no opportunity for planning, no opportunity for making their own decisions, they are going to make some mistakes.

	Most of us learn through making our mistakes and I am prepared as president of this country to publicly state that I know that we will be making some mistakes but I would rather make the mistakes of the mind rather than the mistakes of the heart.

	So, we are going to have to take those chances and anybody that comes to you and says, well, look, you just follow me, it is all just going to work out great, he is just fooling.

	I don't know if it is all going to work out great.  But I do know this, unless we try, nothing is going to happen, and I know we have rising expectations in the United States just like we have got them in Africa and Asia and we have got a better chance of meeting them, and very frankly, friends, my fellow Americans, if we don't do something about poverty and inequities and poverty and justice here in America, what makes you think we can do anything in Africa and Asia?

	Voice:  Mr. Vice President, downstairs, sir, you talked about the politics of contact and confrontation.

	Yes, sir.

	Question:  Now, in regards to young alienated black people, what do you plan to do to further this philosophy with special efforts on riot control?

	Well, I talk with them.  I meet with them.  I have never turned a man away from my door.  I never cared whether he liked me or didn't.  As a matter of fact, some of the folks that like me the most tell me the least truth and I really just open my door to them, wherever I can, if I have the time and the chance, trying to make the chance.  I sit down with groups of people.  I frequently am told you ought not to do it.  They are going to embarrass you, Mr. Vice President.  They are going to attack you.  I have been attacked so many times it has almost become a pattern of life.

	I think we must be willing to listen. I think we must be willing to let people know that we care, and as I have said to many of the young men and women that I have met with, particularly in the black community that have been very embittered, alienated is the word, I have said to them after they got all through with it, I said, what you have told me I do not deny but please do not doubt my sincerity.  You may doubt my capacity but don't doubt my sincerely.

	I have entered public life and for one reason: for human benefit.  And when I talk about human betterment, I talk about your betterment and my betterment.  I talk about it for everyone and I not only talk about it, I am willing to work for it and I have had a record of working for it.

	This gentleman right here.

	VOICE:  (Question inaudible)

	Well, it isn't the same with me, my good man.

	VOICE:  (Question inaudible)

	VOICES:  We can't hear.

	The gentleman said that there has been a great deal of emphasis upon what was called law and order and he said that he wondered why there hadn't been--I think I paraphrase you right--why hadn't there been an equal emphasis upon justice.  In other words, the alleviation of the inequities where black folks are and where other folks are, too.

	Now, I have made that emphasis.  I addressed the National Press Club in Washington--that is the press corps in the nation's Capitol--on the subject of civil order and civil justice, one and inseparable, two sides of the same coin.  I spoke to several thousand, about eight or nine thousand middle income, higher income, professional and middle and blue collar workers today in California and I spoke on the theme of the just society, the elimination of the inequities, the breeding grounds of crime, the festering grounds of violence.

	I happen to believe that building codes ought to be enforced just like other codes of law should be enforced.

	I believe in law and order.  I personally believe that violence is not going to settle our problems.  But I also believe that the same public official that took the responsibility to enforce the law also took the responsibility to see to it that the laws are just and that the inequities which exist in this society to the best of his ability shall be removed.

	I have many ideas about law and order, the improvement of our police departments, the professionalization, their knowledge in human relations.

	When I was mayor of my city, the first thing I did with my police department was to send the officers to a training school in the field of race relations, the first thing I did.

	I had law and order in my community but I did not want the city of Minneapolis to be remembered for its police department alone.  I wanted it to be remembered for its human relations, for its jobs, for its schools, for its housing and for many other things.

	We had the first War on Poverty around there, if you will permit me to brag just a little bit.  We looked at our welfare rolls.  I was a young man when I came in.  I was thirty-three years of age as mayor of the city, unafraid, let it go, you know, with the barbell, and I looked at the welfare rolls and I said many of these people on these rolls could work.  Those that can't work should have better income and better protection.  Those that can should have jobs.

	This was 1947, and we started a program of vocational rehabilitation through our training schools, through our institutes, through our employment service, job placement, through our chambers of commerce, our labor movement, through our churches, and we were able to remove from the welfare rolls to productive, well paying jobs that improved income double or treble what they got on relief over 80 percent of the welfare clients of my city.  And, the others got better care.

	I happen to believe in compassion but I believe that what most people want is a chance.  I think most people would like a chance to earn their way and those that can't would like to have at least some dignity, some semblance of dignity through some income maintenance which I am going to see that they get if I am president of the United States.

	This question was very apropro, my friends, and I am not going to demagogue the question of law and order in this country. I believe in law and order but I also believe in social justice and if I am president of the United States, you will get both.

	Voice:  The hour is late, it is almost midnight, and the Vice President will have time for just one more question.  Now, just before we do that, before we do that, I want to introduce some distinguished guests who accompanied the Vice President on his trips who came on to Houston with him.  Mr. Ofield Duke, who is on the Vice President's staff.  Will you stand up and be recognized?

	Seated on the platform is Mr. Louis Markham, who is vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee and has just been appointed by the Vice President.

	And now, one last question.

	Voice:  What position exactly do you take as far as law and order is concerned?  I want to know where exactly do you stand for law and order?

	Let me be very frank with you.  Your question is right to the point.  I don't want to have any misunderstanding.  I want you to know what kind of a fellow you are going to get.

	I never believed in a riot.  I don't think it helps anything.  I want to start right with that.

	I think there are many ways of riot control.  You don't need police brutality.  Many ways we have learned particularly through leadership of people within the ghetto itself as we call it, people that have the respect and have the attention of the inhabitants of the poorer sections.

	Now, I am not one of those kind of persons that says just because a man or a group stirs up trouble that the way we will handle him is to punish him by no programs of social justice and social advancement.  To the contrary.  Just as I said that we cannot condone the violence--and by the way, the first victims of the violence are the poor themselves--(Applause)--just as we can't condone that, we have got to make up our minds that even though the violence may take place and even though we are compelled to put it down, that we proceed with these programs of housing, jobs and education, but basically, of respect.

	What you want from me more than anything--,you don't want me to be going around pampering you.  You want me to respect you as a man.  That is what I do.

	We can have both.  We can have that respect but we can argue about it, man to man, toe to toe, disagree as American citizens in the peaceful processes of this democracy which sometimes gets a little rugged, and then we can go ahead and start developing programs and doing something about them, but what I am going to need is your help.

	This country--let's assume that the blessing that we all pray for comes, that this war is over, that we can divert the resources that we used in this struggle for social purposes.  I warn you as I did downstairs to a much larger audience, I warn you that unless we get out and do our job of convincing the public, those social dividends, those peace dividends, will never go to the ghettos and never go to the poor.  They will come in tax reductions, they will come in this and they will come in that, when you and I know if we are going to have a free society in this country we are going to have to rebuild vast areas of our cities.  We are going to have to do things along this line.

	I was in the Congress of Korea.  Don't tell me.  I was there.  I remember.  We didn't   [missing text]...of peace and I don't know where it went, but it sure didn't go to the poor.  We didn't have any Federal Aid to Education.  We didn't have any War on Poverty.  We didn't have any massive slum clearance.  We didn't have any Model Cities program.  We didn't have any Medicare.  We didn't have a lot of things.

	I don't know what happened to all of it.  All I know is that the people that were looking for the chance that they had waited a hundred years for, never got it.

	I can tell you that even with the war, more has been done in the last five or six years than any comparable period in history, and give us peace and give yourself a man in the White House that cares deeply, whose very life has been wrapped up in your life, your life and my life, gives us a chance and we will do something in this country that is worthwhile.

AFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL DISORDERCIVIL RIGHTSEMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGPOVERTYRACE RELATIONS     o n n n n
 n n n n n n n n	  	 p 	 b 	 V 	 = 	 ,     e: