

	My fellow Americans:  There are many reasons why I have a special feeling of gratification in coming here to Lancaster this morning.  First, let me thank each one of you who has taken an hour from his busy day to come out here to allow me to greet him face to face and to listen to a few of the thoughts I have on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.  

	I have a definite feeling of honor and distinction to share this platform with the people who have been introduced to you, among them old friends:  your Governor Fine, Senator Martin, Senator Duff, and, of course, to be introduced by your own State Senator Dean.  But I have even closer relationships with this region.  The Eisenhower tribe seemed in the early days to be one that was always on the move.  I understand they moved from Germany because they were driven out, and there is no better reason that I know of.  They went into Switzerland and from there they went to Holland.  Then they came to Lancaster County.  Of course, Lancaster County then also included Lebanon, so today I believe their first home was not in this county, but it was very cheering and heartwarming as I got off the train this morning to have two good-looking young ladies come up and announce that they were my third cousins.  So in a very definite sense any Eisenhower coming back to Pennsylvania--and particularly to this heart land of the Pennsylvania Dutch to which we belong--feels like he is coming home.

	But of course I didn't come here to reminisce.  I did come here to talk a little bit more specifically about the great decision that you people are going to make a week from tomorrow.

	Incidentally, I might remark that I am glad it is no longer off than that.

	These ancestors, yours and mine, who came into this region established a kind of government they wanted.  They gradually molded--both in the pioneering days and then in the Revolutionary days and thereafter--that kind of an organism of government that had its roots in a deeply-felt religious faith because it insisted that man was made in the image of his God, and they developed that basic idea into specific rights, freedoms and privileges that the individual has.  In doing so, they discovered that the keynote to making free government work among men is the word cooperation.  There are many problems in life that are too big for any one individual to solve alone. Consequently, in certain regions, the answer to this particular problem is found through dictatorship.  A group--an oligarchy or a small body--takes power in central hands and they accomplish all those group problems through what we call regimentation, through order.

	Free government insists that free men and women will, because of their great love for the individual freedoms and rights, solve those problems through cooperation.  When we talk, therefore, about our fear of overcentralization of power in Washington, my friends, we are not talking about something academic.  We are talking about another manifestation of a struggle that has been going on since man first began to walk upright.  It is the struggle between his right to govern himself and to be governed by someone else.

	As we bring, as one of our times in the bill of particulars against the administration in power the charge that they are too fond of centralized power, that they are seeking to increase the power of government at the expense of the individual, we are charging them with reaction.  We are saying they are trying to go back gradually to the days of the king, when the king was right and people were his servants.

	There are many ways through which they have been extending this idea.  One of them that many of you will be familiar with is the Brannan Plan in agriculture.  But in numerous ways, through the Department of the Interior, reclamation projects and all others, they seek to increase federal power at the expense of the individual, the locality and the state.

	This is not to give a lecture on states' rights.  It is merely to say if we love our freedom, let's watch with a jaundiced eye any group who says they want to take away our individual responsibilities, because with responsibility goes freedom, which means authority over our own lives.

	Another thing in our bill of particulars against this administration is that they have fumbled badly with the problem of peace.   They have not, in the last seven years, brought to us tranquillity of mind.  They have not used our strength, our assets, the position with which we came out of World War II to produce peace.  On the contrary, we have had emergency after emergency, fear after fear.  We lost China and finally we have gone into Korea.  Some of you may know that only a couple of nights ago I devoted a full television talk to this problem of Korea.  I would be the last to come before you and tell you, my friends, that there is any easy answer as of now.  I gave out in that speech the warnings that had been issued by enlightened men against the possibility of Korea, some of them expressing the opinion that Korea would be a certainty if we undertook some of the misguided actions then contemplated by the administration.  The job is to find at least a partial solution as early as possible.

	The United States has not undertaken to build a Roman wall around the world, around all areas in which we have a vital interest--from which we draw our raw materials, which take in turn our surpluses and our manufactured goods to keep us prosperous and strong and healthy in our economy.  We can't do that.  But what we can do is to help these people defend themselves in all these areas, and then standing as a great mobile, strong reserve, we can confront Communism with the certainty that it cannot attack anywhere successfully.  And in Korea, my friends, we can push programs to do just exactly that.

	The Korean people deserve the honor, an honor which they covet, of defending their own front lines.  The United Nations, and specifically the great preponderance of the American forces, do not belong in the front lines whenever there are Koreans willing and anxious and if we can make them ready to hold their front lines.

	And now as we do these things abroad trying to bring about peace, to minimize those casualty lists at the earliest possible moment, we have got terrific problems at home.  We know that much of our economic activity today is directed toward the production of war materials.  But we know also that this great country, with its 155 million people, the skills of its working men and women, the skills of our management, our boundless resources, our productivity--that we can have a prosperity based on peace.  When we take all of these great sums that are going now into the sterile, negative business of producing military forces, and with those funds we begin to have schools and better hospitals and better roads and all of the other things that this country needs, why should we have any fear that we cannot have a prosperity based on peace, because under those peaceful conditions we will build up trade abroad.  There will be more people anxious and able to buy our products and we will get from them more of the things we need to keep our economy going. 

	That is the kind of future that this crusade, of which I have the honor to be the leader, is trying to bring to America.  It is going to work unceasingly to do those things.  And within that America, an America of prosperity, there will be proper, sound and stable social security programs.  We will not have them washed out from under you by the constant rise in cost of every article that you buy.  They will be expanded exactly as the Republican platform says and they will be improved, and the same applies to all of those platforms that we are engaged in building under the individual in our country so as to give him a security equal to that the nation enjoys from attack from without.  Because in most instances, these programs are directed against the kind of disaster that the individual cannot help.

	If we build, therefore, a floor over that pit, then we can expect in the future, as in the past, the pioneering spirit of Americans to lead us forward into newer eras of prosperity and advancement than we have ever dreamed of.  Are we going to stop today with the song of, "Don't Let Them Take It Away," or "You Never Had It So Good" when the future of the United States is so bright and so great compared to what we have?  That is the kind of thing this crusade is engaged in bringing about.  It can do it only in a peaceful world.  So peace must be pursued with intelligence and persistence.

	Now, my friends, one of the dangers that hits us is another one that comes from within.  This great Communistic threat is, after all, couched first in the form of an idea.  It is not merely a threat that comes with a sword in its hand.  It comes from within and it burrows into every single facet of our national life.  It has succeeded, as we know, in the past of getting into important positions of our government.  That must be uprooted.

	The greatest guarantee that we can have that we are going to be rid of that kind of thing in our government together with corruption, petty thievery and big thievery, is to make certain that governments, which are nothing but men and women, are composed of the outstanding men and women that this country affords; that each district, each region, will be represented in these governments by people whose prestige, reputation, character and records in their own sections will give those sections a guarantee that those governments are fair, just honest, and are working for the people.

	If there is an occasion where any subversive gets into our government, he will be uprooted by such people in a hurry and gotten rid of, and innocent people will not be damaged in the process.  One of the things that freedom must do is to protect itself from any excesses from within just as it defends itself sturdily from any encroachment from without.  We must keep ourselves free of the ugly charge of bigotry among ourselves because of race and religion.  That is one reason our ancestors came here to Lancaster County, to be free of that kind of thing.  I deplore any raising of that ugly charge, even in the best of a political campaign where much can be excused.  But in this day and time, to accuse any other American of nurturing bigotry in his heart against another American because of a national heritage or derivation or his color or his religion is just at the point where a man is forced to ask the question:  Just how low can you get?

	I have tried to outline very briefly for you, ladies and gentlemen, what this crusade is all about.  I am no longer concerned with the charges that are made against this crusade and me by others for the simple reason that there is no limit to the charges they can hurl.  I have no doubt, in these ensuing eight days, you are going to hear things that you have never heard before.  Certainly I have been hearing them steadily.

	I simply come before you as the representative of a great many millions of Americans who believe we can have good, strong, firm and friendly government in place of what we have been having.  I come before you to make a pledge, not to give you a whole bill of promises.  The opposition has worn out all the political promises in the last seven years, anyway.  Most of them are not only shopworn, but many of them were made with no intention of doing anything with them except to put them back on the shelf and let them gather dust.

	Now, here is what this crusade pledges to you.  This is a group of men and women who are determined to help place in Washington only the kind of people I described to you, people who are incorruptible and known to be incorruptible by their associates.  Some of them, of course, are in this crowd this morning, somewhere.  That government will make this pledge.  It will be fair and just to the full extent that God gives them the power to see justice and fairness.  Next, it will be a friendly government.  They will have nothing to take away from the people.  Their idea will be to serve and not to boss.  They will believe that people can handle their own private affairs better than a bureaucrat down in Washington can handle those affairs for them.

	Next, they will come in with government when asked by a locality to help in a problem beyond the capabilities of that locality to solve.  But they will always come again as a friend and not as a boss.  Finally, they promise this:  To be honest--just to bring you common woodshed honesty, the kind you should not have to ask from prospective public servants because you can demand it.  They will just try to bring you that kind of honesty, and at the end of four years, their hope would be that you people will say, "Well, they were a pretty good bunch; they were just like the rest of us."

	That, ladies and gentlemen, is what this crusade proposes to do.  I assure you the people belonging to it--Republicans, Independents, enlightened Democrats, all the rest of them--are determined to go through with this thing.  It is on the march everywhere.  We find the enthusiasm swelling, confidence growing; and there is going to be the biggest clean-out on January 20, 1953 that Washington has yet had the good fortune to witness.  All of you are invited to join.
COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSSOCIAL SECURITY     {5 G5 A5 =5 35
 %5  5 5 5 5 5 5 4	  	  	 c 	 F 	 . 	  e: