

	Well, I may be wrong, but I certainly feel like I am among friends here.  Thank you a lot for turning out.  I am grateful to each one of you who has taken this hour out of his busy day to come down here and give me a chance to bring him a word of friendly greeting.

	We are engaged in this campaign in a real crusade.  Incidentally, out there is some good cleaning material.  I see implements such as brooms and sweepers.  That reminds me of something else.  This county, I understand, is one of the two where you have a woman county chairman, and I have learned what an indignant woman with a broom in her hand can do about cleaning out things.  Maybe it is symbolic.  We will all get together and we will do some cleaning out.

	Frankly, that is what this crusade is, to clean out bad government from Washington--from all the federal political posts--and substitute government in which there is dedication to the single purpose of the best interests of America.

	We have all sorts of evidence to show that we have not been getting that kind of government from Washington.  The record of the past seven years is a pitiful one.  It is pitiful in the foreign field. Our lack of progress toward peace, our loss of China with 450 million people turned over to the Communists to use as they see fit in further assaults and attacks against a free world are all pitiful.  So is the war in Korea with its deadly costs, not only in treasure, but in the lives of our most precious asset, our young people.  That is the summation of the record abroad.

	At home, we have budgets of such astronomical size that we can't even comprehend what they are.  If there is anyone here who has the slightest idea of what $85 billion would look like, feel like, seem like or weigh, I should like to hear him, because I haven't the slightest idea.  But I do know this:  In spite of the heaviest taxes we have ever borne in peace, in spite of the fact that they tell us we are now having our era of greatest prosperity--with those taxes and with that level of employment and activity--we cannot meet our bills by something on the order of fifteen percent.

	Now, if you at home keep running behind each year fifteen percent, if you lack in all the total income of your family fifteen percent of meeting your bills, something is going to happen.  The sheriff is going to come around and carry away your rugs and your furniture and everything else.  Here we have got a like disastrous situation because what is being carried away is the value of your money.  Everything you have got in an insurance policy, in a pension plan, in a savings account, in a bond, is all going down the drain.  In five years the average savings of the American family have gone from four-hundred and thirty dollars  to three-hundred dollars without a single cent being withdrawn.  This new kind of reverse magic by the administration made it possible for you to lose one-hundred and thirty dollars in five years by doing nothing but putting four-hundred and thirty dollars in a savings bank and letting it stay there.  That is what is happening to our money, and that we can't afford, either as a nation or as families.

	Now, what the crusade is about is to get rid of that kind of incompetent government abroad and at home, a government that has forgotten the meaning of the words frugality and thrift, but believes in extravagant expenditures and has some curious idea that merely by cheapening and cheapening and cheapening our money, we have prosperity.  It is a curious one and others have tried it.  Some of you will remember the experience of Germany after World War I.  Let's have none of that here.

	This crusade is to get rid of that kind of thing and to substitute in its place the finest men and women--finest in terms of character and ability, experience and comprehension--that this country can produce from all walks of life and from every section.  It is to get people from agriculture, from labor, from management, from finance, and take them down there and--by their combined brains and by their combined dedication to the United States, particularly by their combined loyalty to the people of the United States--produce programs that will lead more surely to peace and more certainly to prosperity at home without depending upon a war production or preparation for war.  That is our problem.  We must have full employment at decent wages that will bring standards of living constantly higher without depending upon war to do it.  I say to you, it can be done.  As a matter of fact, we can have prosperity that way easier than we can for war production.

	If the same amount of money, whether spent by private sources or by someone else, goes into roads and hospitals and the things you need instead of into guns and planes, it is clear that eventually the American people are going to have more things that they need and want than they are this way.  That, my friends, is real prosperity, particularly as we do it and preserve the soundness of our dollar.

	In this particular region, I know that you have special problems in agriculture just like every other section of the United States.  One reason I know that is that they told me just as I came out here that a fine box of Wayne County apples had come aboard.  I have made several talks about agriculture in this campaign, about the program in which I believe.  There is one thing in connection with those programs that I want to repeat to you, because it is the core of the difference between what my associates and I in the crusade propose and what the administration practices.  They believe--and they have proved it through their advocacy of the Brannan Plan--that the best way to run a farm in New York state is to let a bureaucrat sitting behind a desk in Washington tell you exactly how to do it.

	We believe just the opposite.  We believe the function of the federal government in these programs is to come in as a partner to help and not to boss.  We believe that the decisive influence in making these programs and in operating them should come from the locality; that the farmer himself should have the greatest possible degree of independence, and such bodies as are put together to run and operate these plans should come primarily from the locality, the region, where they know the problems of raising apples--and anyone like myself who was raised out in the wheat country would gladly say somebody here knows more about apples than I do.  That means that you have got to go to every corner and cranny of this country and seek advice from those who know.  Now, there is the big difference in this agricultural problem between your administration that you have put up with so long and what this crusade is trying to do for you.

	In the big, broad picture, today, the basic question is peace or war and its effect upon us.  I would say that we are not going to have peace until you folks get a government that you admire and respect.  Let me address myself to that point for a moment.

	The one essential to developing a sound peace structure in the world is a strong United States; strong, my friends, not only in terms of guns and ships and planes and things military.  That is just one little part of this thing.  It must be strong economically, productively--strong in its spirit, strong in its adherence to certain basic aspirations and purposes.  That means in this great and broad country of ours--stretching from ocean to ocean--that we must be united.

	How are you going to be united?  Only behind great programs brought forward by leaders that you trust.  The outstanding people of your community, brought into that government, are your guarantee that that government is incorruptible, that there is no subversion or disloyalty anywhere, that there is no dishonesty in it; or if there is--that every single agency of government will be turned loose to uproot it, find where it is--and the people in whom you have trust are your guarantee that it will be gotten out of there just as fast as it can.

	You will not unite and the full power of the United States will not be realized until you get behind a great body of men and women--that is what government is, a great body of men and women--who will devise these programs and give you the confidence that they are being executed for your benefit, not for the benefit of someone who wants to stay in power and who is around selling you a program of fear and vilification just to get another four-year lease on power.  Not at all.  They have got to be people whose character is your insurance that they are serving you and not merely trying to rule over you.

	That, my friends, is the purpose of this crusade and that is its character.  If you believe that you need that kind of a government, if you need people like your Senator Ives and Congressman Keating and the rest, as I believe you do, then you belong in this crusade.  That is my word to you today as you go to make up our minds on the decisions you are going to make November 4.  That is between you and your conscience.

	I say, look at the record and decide whether you have got here the kind of organism that you can get behind and support--and if you cannot get behind it and support it with full confidence, ladies and gentlemen, the United States is not going to make the progress toward peace and prosperity without war that it can with people of your own choosing and people that you respect, admire, and for whom you have a real affection as neighbors.

	Now, as a final request, may I bring out my Mamie for a wave before this train pulls out. 
AGRICULTURE--GENERALDEBT, NATIONALECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANSAVINGS, PERSONAL     _& +& %& !& &
 	& & % % % % % %	 P 	 < 	 . 	  e: