
	I remember that four years ago my schedule brought me to Youngstown at an hour of the day when many of you were at work--or were supposed to be--and I had been duly warned to expect a small crowd. But there was a wonderful turnout.

	And I have come back to visit you again not because of any doubt of Youngstown's loyalties, but at least in part because it's pleasant to be where everyone's so friendly.

	And this goes in a very special way for a man here tonight whom I have known a long time and for whom I share with you a very great affection--and I mean Mike DiSalle.

	As a former governor, I know how tough a job it is to run the executive office of a big state. But I know, too, that Mike DiSalle has the toughness, the integrity, the experience, and the broad vision to do the job, and that he will prove to be one of the wisest, ablest, and most effective governors Ohio has ever had.

	You are blessed, too, by being represented in the nation's capital by a nationally beloved congressman, another man whom I am proud to count among my closest friends, and to whom I feel greatly indebted personally, as a Democrat and as an American--Mike Kirwan.

	I want to pay my sincere respects, too, to another great Ohioian, a man known across the country for his integrity, his extraordinary accomplishments, and for that special quality of independence he has made his trademark--Frank Lausche. He will, as Ohio's Senator, command a nation's unmeasured respect.

	I have only one regret tonight--that we cannot have with us my running mate, Estes Kefauver.

	I came to know Estes Kefauver last spring as a great fighter--and I've got some scars to prove it! I have come to know him now as a great partner, and a loyal friend--and not just my friend, but the friend of every Joe Smith in the country.

	When anybody asks me about the basic differences between the Republican and Democratic parties, I answer that one basic difference this year is that our vice presidential candidate doesn't have to turn over any new leaf when he goes before the people. He has a consistent record of defending and speaking out for the public interest. With him, honor and truth are not tactics but characteristics! And another difference between the parties is that we didn't have to throw anybody out of our convention for Estes Kefauver to be nominated.

	Well, Senator Kefauver and I have been hard at it ever since we were here with you last spring. And everywhere we have found a rejuvenated party, buoyant and vigorous, and people responding eagerly to the issues, people who are not content with the deluge of reassurance and half-truths from Washington.

	The issues before the country have emerged much more clearly in these past few weeks, and so has the people's mood--clearly enough, incidentally, that the Republican managers have decided that while they don't mind a part-time President, they can't stand a part-time candidate!

	I want to talk with you tonight about what I think is, in some ways, a startling and surely a significant thing that has developed in this campaign. It isn't new by any means, and yet I don't believe it has come out so clearly before. We realize more and more that the political lines in this country are now sharply drawn between those who are satisfied with things exactly as they are and those who feel, on the other hand, that there is still a tremendous lot to be done in America and in the world. And I don't need to fill in the names of the parties, either.

	There are only nineteen days left until the election. And so far, the Republican candidates haven't made one single new proposal or suggestion for conducting the affairs of this country. They say, smugly, that they are running on their record. What record? Or maybe I should say: whose record? For the fact is that the Republicans' proudest boast when they return the keys of office next January will be that they left things not too much worse than they found them--thanks, I may add, to a Democratic Congress these last two years.

	It isn't just that these Republicans lack new ideas. They seem to despise new ideas. When someone makes a proposal for strengthening America, the automatic Republican response is to call the proposal immoral, irresponsible, dishonest, deceitful, theatrical, and even wicked. And worst of all, afraid to face a new idea, they twist and distort it--until public understanding or discussion becomes almost impossible.

	This isn't accident. It is the deliberate design of a political leadership which doesn't want voters to think, which knows its own bankruptcy of new plans for a New America, and knows that its one forlorn hope is to wage the biggest advertising campaign in the history of American politics.

	They talk of peace--but they refuse to talk--and try to keep the rest of us from talking--about how we can win the peace.

	I have repeatedly said, and I am glad that the Republican candidate now agrees, that there is no difference between the two parties on the goal of a peaceful world. America has no war party, just as it has no peace party.

	But there are important differences about what real peace means and about how we can achieve it. We are all deeply grateful that the gunfire stilled and we are not now engaged in a shooting war. But we know, too, that the uneasy condition that prevails in the world today which they call "peace" is based on a balance of terror which is a dangerous foundation.

	The world is divided into three camps, the Communist block, the free block and the uncommitted or neutral nations. The Cold War, in its larger sense, is a struggle for the allegiance of these nations which have not yet made their choice between freedom and Communism. When they do choose, it will tip the scales of the world--and surely history's greatest demand upon this generation is that we throw America's full weight into this crucial balance.

	We know that the world is spending almost $100 billion dollars a year on war--three and one-half times more than is being spent on the health, education, and welfare of all the human race put together.

	America alone is spending almost $1,000 a year for every family in the United States. In the last three years we have spent three times as much money on defense as in any other three-year peacetime period in our entire history. And I'm astonished that the Eisenhower administration is so proud and pleased and content with this situation.

	I am not content! And neither are you. This isn't what we mean by peace. It's only an armed truce. And it calls for a people's decision as to how we are to achieve that true peace which can only come if America leads the way.

	I have urged in this campaign that we face up to the great issues, which are presented in today's struggle for peace. They call for strength--and this strength takes many forms. They call for new answers to new problems.

	In our struggle for peace we have to think of everything we do from all points of view--our security, the effect on others--friend, foe, or neutral. I have suggested the possibility of establishing a world policy of stopping the test explosion of the huge H-bomb. We are in a way--we, Britain, and the Soviet Union--custodians for all mankind, being presently the sole possessors of these ghastly weapons. We owe it to the people of the world to exercise the fullest measure of responsibility in the use of this elemental fire. For its dangers are pollution of the world's atmosphere and devastation and injury of the human race heretofore undreamed of in war.

	So for the sake of all peoples everywhere, as well as ourselves, we must do everything we can do to curb this ugly monster which has been unleashed.

	But it is of our security in less universal matters that I wanted to speak particularly tonight.

	We are living in an age of complex new weapons and new military techniques. It was in this connection that I said earlier in this campaign, before the American Legion Convention in Los Angeles, that "many military thinkers believe that the armies of the future, a future now upon us, will employ mobile, technically trained, and highly professional units, equipped with tactical atomic weapons. Already it has become apparent that our most urgent need is to encourage trained men to reenlist rather than to multiply the number of partly trained men as we are currently doing."

	I noted in connection with this matter of meeting the increasingly urgent need for experienced and professional military personnel that this may well mean that we will need and want in the foreseeable future to turn to a method other than the draft for procuring such personnel. This suggestion has been taken by some--and deliberately misconstrued by others--as a proposal for weakening our armed forces. It is exactly the opposite. It is a proposal for strengthening our armed forces.

	The point is simply that we need more and more today a type of military personnel--experienced and professional--which our present draft system does not give us. The draft means a tremendous turnover in our military personnel, and a resultant high proportion of inexperienced personnel. And there is ample evidence that this inexperienced personnel is not meeting today's needs.

	The Assistant Deputy Chief of the Staff of Personnel for the Army, Major General Donald P. Booth, said this to a congressional committee last May 31st: "The use of the Selective Service, with its short period of duty, causes a heavy turnover of personnel throughout the Army to the detriment of efficiency, unit spirit, economy, and battle worthiness... the two-year system is not conducive to economy nor stability.

	"Seventy-one percent of the Army's enlisted strength is composed of personnel with less than three years' duty. About 35 percent of the Army are draftees who are with us only for two years. Then, also, the law requires us to accept two-year enlistments to coincide with the two-year obligated tour of the inductee."

	"Four to six months are required to train and ship a soldier to his duty station. By the end of that period, most inductees have only approximately one-and-a-half years of obligated duty left. Their assignment to a unit overseas is, therefore, short."

	A total of some 750,000 men will leave our armed forces this year. Simply to give basic training--nothing more--to their replacements will cost the American taxpayers 2.5 billion dollars.

	Air Force Chief of Staff, General Nathan F. Twining, testifying before a congressional committee, condemned this needless personnel turnover in blunt terms--both as to its cost and its damage to our military effectiveness. "If this trend continues," said General Twining, "there would be more than a 100 percent turnover in the Air Force every five years. No industry could absorb this rate of personnel turnover. Nor can the Air Force. This rate of turnover would lead directly to an alarming decline in operational effectiveness."

	It was such facts that persuaded Senator Mike Mansfield in March 1955 to conclude: "An armed service of professionals cannot be built by conscription. As in any profession, there must be a certain amount of incentive. The current situation in the branches of the service 	gives very little incentive to a young man to make a career our of the Army, Navy, Marines or Air Force."

	It was such testimony that persuaded the Democratic Congress in 1955 to pass a Career Incentives Act, which resulted in base pay increases of from 7 to 17 percent for enlisted men. It helped, but it was only a first step.

	Every young man who has served in our armed forces knows the incredible waste of our present system of forced but short-term service. He knows the money that could be saved, the new efficiency that could result from a volunteer system which calls on young men not to endure two years of service because they have to, but to choose it--and for a longer period--because it offers advantages that seem to them appealing.

	There seems to me every reason for searching out ways of making military service attractive enough that sufficient numbers of young men will choose such service voluntarily and will then remain in the services for longer periods.

	By cutting down on turnover we can reduce the present enormous cost of training replacement after replacement. The money that is saved by this reduction in training costs can be used to pay our soldiers, sailors, and airmen better salaries, to provide them with improved working conditions, and perhaps to offer special bonus inducements for longer service. In this way we can develop a more effective defense, with a higher morale, and, I believe, no higher cost.

	Where there are needs for particularly highly trained men, as for example in radar, electronics and other specialties, I think we should consider offering university scholarships which will provide specialized training in conjunction with a liberal education, to applicants, otherwise qualified, who will agree to spend a specific period in the armed forces.

	No one could feel more strongly than I do the imperative necessity of keeping our armed forces at full strength. And I include the necessity of meeting our obligations on this score under the NATO agreements.

	What I have proposed, I repeat, is a consideration--from the standpoint of military effectiveness, and from no other standpoint--of what is the best way of obtaining the military personnel we need.

	I do add, and I think I speak for every person in America, that we will count it a better day when we find that these military needs can best be met by a system which does not mean the disruption of the lives of an entire generation of young men, which lets them plan their education, and get started more quickly along life's ordained course.

	This is, I submit, a matter that should be seriously considered by the American people. The Republican candidates insist that it should not even be discussed, that this isn't the people's business, and that with a military man in the White House things like this can be left up to him.

	Well, I say just this: what is involved here is the security, perhaps the life or death of this nation. What is involved here is the use that should be made of two years of sons' lives. What is involved here is whether there should be new ways of more effectively meeting new problems. And I say that these are decisions that must be made not by one man--not by one general--not even by one man as president--but by the American people.

	And I say beyond this that these decisions are not to be entrusted to an administration that has now built up a four-year record of rigid refusal to consider new ideas or new ways of doing things--and a four-year record of appalling indifference to human concerns.
MILITARY PREPAREDNESSNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGMILITARY PERSONNELMILITARY RECRUITMENT     : t: n: j: b:
 U: P: K: A: =: ;: ;: 1:	 O 	 :  &   e: