

	Mayor Lawrence and my friends of Pittsburgh: You are very generous with your welcome and I am very grateful to you. If I am a little breathless, it is due to the fact that we arrived breathlessly from the railroad station only this moment. I am deeply distressed that we were unable to have the parade that we had planned through the city of Pittsburgh. However, I have always thought that I was better off if fewer people saw me. It has been a most exciting day for me traveling through Pennsylvania accompanied by many of your state and local candidates. Everywhere the receptions were warm and cordial and enthusiastic, and I feel myself deeply indebted to Pennsylvania. My memories of today shall remain with me always.

	I should like particularly to say how much I have enjoyed and benefited from my association in the past two days with your splendid candidate for the United States Senate, Judge Guy Bard. Every day new people ask me how in the world I keep on talking. And I think what they mean is, why in the world I keep on talking. But the big question to me is how or why in the world anyone keeps on listening--but you do. And, because I know you are here because you are interested in the nation's business--your business really--I am delighted to have an opportunity to talk with you about it here in Pittsburgh.

	The time has come in this campaign for summing up the case just before it goes to the jury. There is an old formula among the lawyers for doing this. If the facts are against you, talk about the law. If the law is against you, talk about the facts. And, if they are both against you, pound the table and yell your head off. Of course, our Republican friends have added one new wrinkle to this procedure. They pound on the table, yell their heads off, and then suggest slyly, but not very slyly, that the red blood in a Democrat's veins is sure proof that he's a Communist.

	If I were required to summarize in general terms the case of the Democratic party and to contrast it with that of the Republican party, I would say this: the spirit of the Democratic party goes back twenty centuries. Men were then told to lift the fallen, feed the hungry and clothe the naked. The highest morality and the most commonsense practicality are one. They merge in the incandescent wisdom that, "what I gave I have."

	This is the principle which animates the Democratic party. It is the party with a heart. It is conscious of human pain and human needs, and human loneliness. It tries to help people. The evidence of the meaning of this principle, and of the effectiveness in applying it lies in the record of twenty years of laws--covering social security, collective bargaining, small business protection, honest securities, control of monopolies, farm parity prices and a hundred other things--laws which have been written into the lives of 156 million people, which have written both freedom and the protection which makes freedom worth having.

	These are the laws--and these are our facts--and we are proud to lay them once again before the American jury.

	To try to summarize the principles of the Republican party is, of course, to face first the question of which Republican party we are talking about. The party is still theoretically the party of Abraham Lincoln. I honor that tradition and respect greatly those who adhere to it in deed rather than words. But the Republican Old Guard is something else. It has kept the shadow of Lincoln and rejected the substance. In the words of his first inaugural, "This country with its institutions belongs to the people who inhabit it." They sound a little cynical in the mouths of those who have opposed all of the social progress we have made in this revolutionary interval in our history. These gentlemen live in a state of antagonistic cooperation. When the Old Guard isn't playing upon our emotions and fears, it sings the song that Ethel Merman used to sing, "Anything you can do, I can do better," and I might say that she can sing it better too.

	But you know, the Old Guard accomplished something the last time it was in power. It brought eggs down to a dime a dozen. The rest of the story you remember--almost no one had the dime. I suppose it was by deliberate choice that the Republican candidate decided to abandon the Lincoln tradition which had been reawakened in the Republican party last spring. To be sure, he talked of Lincoln when he came to Illinois, as he did of General Marshall in the East, but not in Wisconsin; as he did like a lion about civil rights in New York, and a purring kitten in the South.

	It is by his choice, not ours, in fact to the nation's very deep regret, that we are compelled to recognize that every piece of evidence indicates that Senator Taft writes the candidate's domestic policy, except when he is in the East, and then someone else cuts the pattern to fit the cloth--I mean the vote.

	On international policy I confess I am bewildered but maybe that is what they intended. First it sounded like the old Ike who was evidently for--and all for--the policy of strength, of assistance to our allies and resistance to the Kremlin. Then he calls for gigantic tax cuts, and we see the hand of Senator Taft. Then he denounces bungling and fumbling, and it sounds like Senator Jenner, and Dirksen and all the associated isolationists. And then a ghostwriter says, "Let's go to Korea," and the general says, "Okay. Let's go."

	For fighting Communism at home he seems to view with no disfavor the program of Senator McCarthy which catches more headlines than [missing text] and that is the program which catches more headlines than Communists.

Now as a result of all this, and a lot more besides, it looks as though the great crusade has become the great masquerade--or should I say the great rout--as one principle after another, one pledge after another, one plank after another is discarded in the scramble. But it is not the names of the players on what the Republicans call their team that is important. As we approach our day of national decision our interest is less in political personalities and alignments than it is in the things which come closest to home. No issue, save that of peace in the world, is more important to us all as individuals and as a nation than whether our economy is and will remain sound. We want to know whether there are going to be jobs, and all of the things that jobs at fair wages mean. Here in Pittsburgh today steel is being produced at 108 percent of capacity. This city is full of working people and their families--men and women who are making good wages, who have homes, and automobiles and savings accounts; who are sending their children decently dressed to school and to college. Businessmen, storekeepers, office workers, sales girls have good incomes because their customers can afford to buy what they have to sell. There is a market at good prices for what the farmer brings to the elevator, or to town. The superb Golden Triangle is rising skyward. In Pittsburgh's heart--in Pittsburgh's heart, no less than in its sky, the smoke is gone. This has become the bright and the shining city. But the Republican orators are gloomily telling us that all this is false, that shortly now this will all collapse about us.

	They went out of office twenty years ago telling us that prosperity was just around the corner, and now they try to come back with the same old corner story, but this time it's a depression that's hiding around the corner. With the facts against them they talk about the law--the Republican law--their law of gravity--that an economy which gets better must get worse. They have another law of gravity, too by the way, as you know. They are very grave about any Democrat who enjoys a smile.

	The Republicans are thinking, of course, as they look at our present well-being, of what happened at the end of the one we allegedly enjoyed under their benign benevolence in the 1920s. They just don't understand the difference.

	One of Pennsylvania's distinguished economists has brought to light recently these illuminating facts. During the 1920s, between 1920 and 1929, the period of Republican prosperity, only five people out of a hundred in this country increased their incomes. They were the ones who were best fixed to start with. Ninety-five people out of a hundred actually got poorer during those years. To them, the supposed prosperity of the 1920s was a hollow sham--a sham that burst with a shock in the stock market crash of 1929.

	But the prosperity we enjoy today is of a fundamentally different kind. In the twenty years following 1929 the incomes of the ninety-nine families out of a hundred whose earnings are lowest--and that's just about everybody--have more than doubled.

	Most of us don't find full satisfaction in statistics because it's hard to translate them into our own lives. But these comparisons of what happened during the twenties and what has happened since tell their story so that its meaning is clear to us all. What they say is that America busted after the alleged boom of the twenties, because that boom was a boom for only five out of every hundred of us--and it busted because 95 percent of us gained no reserve buying power to carry us through the trouble that commenced in 1929.

	But today's prosperity is one that reaches from top to bottom. It is a prosperity in which we are all sharing, and it is made up of things we all have. We have woven countless safeguards into our freedom--the safeguards of minimum wage laws, unemployment and retirement benefits, collective bargaining rights, protections for small businesses, price supports for farmers. These things not only contribute to our welfare when things are good--they are built-in safeguards against a repetition of violent economic catastrophe.

	We have worked on the principle that our country's strength and prosperity cannot be left to depend just on the financial success of those at the top, but that it must be based upon the economic strength and security of all the people. We are strong today as a nation, and unafraid of tomorrow, because our strength today lies in all of us as individuals. Yet, we insist on taking every conceivable precaution against the possibility that some unforeseen force might threaten our prosperity, and our jobs.

	So, for example, Congress passed in 1946 the Employment Act. Its purposes were to enable the government to plan ahead and take precautionary steps to prevent depression. It is part of our insurance program.

	But it is not in laws that we place our basic faith. It is in what we see in the future of America.

	Our Republican friends are telling us that when we level off our present defense production program there will be nothing then for the men and women to do who have been making the guns. But we can also say that it is arms production which is holding us back from an even greater well-being that is within our grasp. There will be dislocations, re-conversions, readjustments--yes--and they will be difficult and inconvenient. But we have in this country unlimited demands of people for more things for their needs and their comforts and their pleasures, and for the great development that awaits us.

	The soil of America and its factories can supply these needs and if people are willing to work that soil and willing to man those factories there is simply no reason why fields should lie fallow or factory wheels stop turning.

	We know that by 1975 there will be another thirty million people in this country. Their needs, too, must be met and to us, to us of the Democratic party, it is an essential part of this picture of the future that we recognize the needs in other lands than ours, the lands of our friends and of our fathers.

	It was the minds and hearts of Europe that built America and it is in the minds and hearts overseas that we have our essential allies against the brutality and the evil of Communism.

	It is not in sentiment but out of the most enlightened self-interest and the common interest that we help Europe build its bulwarks today. There is room for faith.

	My friends, only behind sightless eyes, can minds think of America as a system rather than 156 million men and women and children with individual needs and hopes and ambitions and aspirations.

	Now, I have talked perhaps too long on this matter of our economic security and of our jobs. It means there is no time to discuss such problems as high prices and so forth, but it's important that we realize how these things are all knit together. I think we know, most of us, that the idea of Communism will not grow in America so long as this economic system of ours works the way it should.

	Communism breeds in the darkness of poverty and want and despair. It dies in the sunlight which is shed on people's lives when the steel mills are working and in a country where men's faith in God is strong. 

	I am tired, frankly, of having a few little men, men whose political ambition consumes their integrity and their honesty, talking so loosely about Democrats who love Communists.

	Such shameless hypocrisy. Let's look at the record, such loss of the truth. Let's look at the record for it speaks louder than all their insinuating words.

	Who provided the military aid to Greece and to Turkey which saved those brave nations from Soviet conquest? Was it the Old Guard Republicans who now [missing text]? It was not.

	Greece and Turkey and the eastern Mediterranean were saved by prompt action by President Truman and the Congress and they were saved in spite of the blind obstruction of the Old Guard Republicans.

	Who gave us the Marshall Plan which prevented the Kremlin's bloodless conquest of Western Europe?

	Who faced up to the Russians in Berlin when they tried to strangle and seize that city? Who insisted on the heroic airlift and who was it that hammered out the North Atlantic Alliance, which banded together the free people of Europe in a united defense against Communist aggression?

	Who was it that inspired the Point Four Program to help the undeveloped areas of the world to kill the seeds sown by the Soviets before they sprout?

	Who was it that pushed through the Mutual Security Program, which is now arming our friends to resist a Communist onslaught?

	Was it the Old Guard Republicans? No--the record shows that they fought against every one of these measures. And in the light of this record I ask you: who has been really soft toward Communism? Was it the enlightened Republicans who recognized long ago this new and ugly imperialism and took practical steps to fight it, or was it the Old Guard Republicans who now clamor about Communism as if they discovered it.

	And what have the general's colleagues said of President Truman in their bitterness and what have the general's political pals called his benefactor, George Marshall, the father of the Marshall Plan?

	And who was it that jailed the entire leadership of the Communist party in this country?

	Who was it that ferreted out the spies that were trying to steal our atomic secrets?

	Well, it wasn't any noisy, name-calling Republican orator. It was the FBI and our other security agencies--it was the security agencies and the federal prosecutors, working carefully, thoroughly and in silence. And that is the only way you can catch real Communists--the noisy approach never catches anything except a few votes.

	The next time you hear these partisan attacks against our security system, I would remind you of the measured judgment of General Bedell Smith, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency. This is what he said a few days ago: "If either candidate does as well as President Truman in cooperating with the security agencies in ferreting out subversives, the American people can congratulate each other and we will have little to worry about. And it was General Smith--he was General Eisenhower's chief of staff during the war--you will excuse me, my friends, if I get a little indignant about the Republican office-seekers who clamor so righteously about Communism and point hypocritical fingers. These warriors for righteousness--who have come so lately to make the world safe, the world safe for hypocrisy--they remind me of the cynicism of another who once said that there are times when we must rise above principle.

	I have not talked to you--because of the time--of the greatest of all our ambitions for America and the world. Here, too, the fulfillment of the hopes of our hearts and the demands of our minds depends in part upon the achievement of strong, free economies throughout the world so that aggression will not grow from insecurity and want. There are more immediate steps that must be taken to complete as quickly as we can the mission of our soldiers in Korea and to build further the programs of free world unity which offers us the one path to peace without war. The building further of this long hard road to peace must be the all consuming purpose of everyone with the heads and the hearts of all of us and the help of God in heaven who has some other destiny for deserving people than death and destruction, pestilence, want and misery, I say to you it can be done.

	Not long ago I flew over Pittsburgh at night and I shall carry always in my mind that glow that lights the sky above your city, a beacon set up by Pittsburgh's mills, saying that America is vitally alive and at work. And that beacon, my friends, is the symbol of the ways of freedom, yes, to peace for the whole world.

	Thank you and God bless you.



ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGREECEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)TURKEYWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     6F F E E E
 E E E E E E E E	  	  	  	  	  	 y 	 s 	 J 	 / 	 ) 	  e: