

	I have been looking forward with a very real and special pleasure to this visit here today.

	It gives me, for one thing, an opportunity to say how proud I am to have among my close advisors in this campaign two of your fellow townsmen--Barry Bingham and Wilson Wyatt.

	I am proud, too, that over the years I have had the counsel of one of the wisest, most hard working, most effective members of the United States Senate--Earle Clements. You know there is a saying about Earle in Washington that "you have to get up pretty early in the morning to beat out Earle Clements." And let me tell you that I have yet to meet a Republican who gets up that early!

	I also enjoy meeting again with my old friend Lawrence Wetherby. Back a few years ago when I was governor of Illinois and he was governor of Kentucky, I used to meet with him at governors' conferences and other meetings. I was always tremendously impressed with the firm grasp he had of state and national problems, with his quickness of mind, and his broad human sympathies. He is a strong and able man, with great courage and a very warm heart. I know that just as he was an effective governor, Lawrence Wetherby will make an outstanding senator.

	I also count among my friends many members of your congressional delegation headed by Congressman Brent Spence, who has been a tower of strength in the House of Representatives. And I am confident that you will further strengthen Kentucky's delegation in Congress by sending Philip Ardery to Washington.

	While we're at it, I hope you'll send me there to help greet him. 

	There is another reason I am proud to be here in Louisville today. Last month, this nation we all love--in all its parts--came to what I think history will record as one of our great crossroads.

	The way you met and mastered the elements of crisis in integrating your schools has won the profound respect of an anxious nation. I just want to say that the rest of us feel a very great debt to you and to the people of St. Louis and Baltimore and Washington and of other cities and school districts when this transition has now been made in a spirit of tolerance and mutual understanding .

	There is another matter that has arisen recently in Kentucky but that has national overtones. I understand that certain members of the opposition party here have been engaging in the growing Republican habit of suggesting that one of our two great parties is a war party and the other is a peace party. May I say quite bluntly that so far as I am concerned any man who talks this way is unworthy of being a United States Senator.

	I have believed all my life--in politics and out--that the things that unite Americans are more important than those that divide us. One of the things that unites us is our hatred of war and our great overriding hope for peace. I say that a man who talks of any war in which this country has ever been engaged as a partisan political affair is insulting the brave men, living and dead, who fought and won those wars. We have, not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans, sought always to prevent war. When, in spite of all we could do, war has come, we have fought--not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans. We will cheapen our political debate, yes, and we will make infinitely harder the remaining job of winning real peace, if we start playing politics with war and peace.

	And I want to read to you--because this seems to me so terribly important--the judgment about this of a very great statesman who served his nation for forty years, a man whose patriotism knew no party lines, the revered and beloved son of Kentucky--Alben Barkley. In one of the last speeches he ever made, Alben Barkley in April of this year talked about this very question. This is what he said: "For a generation Republican politicians have sought to beguile and deceive the American people by referring to the Democratic party as the 'war party' and Democratic administration as 'war administrations'."

	"I am old enough," Alben Barkley said, "to remember to campaign of 1916 in which Charles E. Hughes... then the Republican nominee for president of the United States, bitterly criticized President Wilson for not pursuing a more aggressive and belligerent attitude toward German submarine warfare against American commerce, the American flag, and the American people.

	"I recall with what solemnity President Wilson asked Congress in April, 1917, to accept the status of war forced upon us by the central powers of Europe and I could never forget what he said--'It is a fearful thing a lead a great peace-loving nation into war," but he and the American people recognized that sometimes a righteous war is better than an unstable and humiliating peace.

	Who was the peacemaker and the peace-lover of those days?

	"We did not make a political issue of the second effort to organize the world for peace. We asked the Republicans in equal numbers to sit with us and draw the framework of the Charter of the United Nations and when at San Francisco that Charter was adopted and the United Nations launched upon the tossing water of the international seas as the successor of Mr. Wilson's League of Nations, President Truman appointed a great Republican, Warren Austin, to head the American delegation to this world's organization to preserve peace.

	"Let the shallow critics answer. Let them answer to the American people, or accept as men the obligations and responsibilities that go with statesmanship and leadership."

	Those were Alben Barkley's words. As he so often did, he summed up the issue so that all could see the truth. Let us remember his words and ignore that fakery of those desperate political candidates who raise this false issue today.

	Are they afraid to discuss real issues before the voters of Kentucky and of America?

	Well, I suppose it's understandable.

	If you had the misfortune to be a Republican candidate, would you like to talk to the people of Kentucky about Ezra Benson? Or about Dixon-Yates? Or about a tax bill that gave 91 cents our of every dollar of tax relief to corporations and wealthy individuals? Or about the cost of living when prices at the store reached the highest level in history? Of course not! You'd run away from those issues, too. But I doubt that anyone could run as fast and as far as I understand the Republican candidates in Kentucky are running this year.

	You know, speaking of taxes and the cost of living, I was reading the other day a speech a politician gave here in Louisville four years ago. "What I am trying to do," he said, "is to help set up the kind of government that... will stop these backbreaking taxes, that will quit depreciating our money so that we can scarcely carry enough money to the grocery store to get a basket of groceries..."

	Well, he had his chance. That was General Eisenhower four years ago. And what's happened?

	Well, the only backs that have had the taxes lifted off them are the corporations.

	And today, with the cost of living having gone higher than ever before in history, it's harder than ever to carry enough money to the store to get that basket of groceries.

	Kentucky is in the limelight in this campaign because it is the only state in the Union where two Senate seats are at stake this year. If the election throughout the nation should be close, you here in Kentucky may well decide which party controls the Senate. This is why the Republicans drafted two candidates for the Senate and hustled them back to Kentucky this year. The masterminds who thought up this Republican strategy are not concerned about the interests of Kentucky; they are only interested in seizing control of the Senate.

	What would Republican control of the Senate mean? It would mean that Joseph McCarthy would become chairman of the Committee on Government Operations, the most important investigative committee in Congress.

	A Republican victory would mean that Senator Jenner of Indiana would become chairman of the Senate Rules Committee and chairman of the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee.

	It would mean that Senator Bricker of Ohio--who tried so hard to hobble the President as the chief architect of foreign policy--would become chairman of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee.

	A Republican victory would mean that Styles Bidges of New Hampshire would take over one of the most important committees in the Senate--the Committee on Appropriations. Earle Clements could tell you how hard it is to get anything done for Kentucky when a man such as Bridges is there trying to block him every step of the way.

	Who are these Republicans I have mentioned, McCarthy, Jenner, Bricker, and Bridges? They are the hard core of the reactionary Old Guard. They are typical of the crowd who have fought step by step every social advance of the last twenty years. I am confident that on November 6th you will not vote to deliver the control of the Senate into their hands.

	When we vote in a national election, we are choosing a whole administration, a vice president, a Cabinet, a party to control the Congress.

	In this campaign, we have a chance to put into the vice presidency a great leader of the upper South, Estes Kefauver.

	We have a choice between the Democratic Secretary of Agriculture who will fight for the farmer, and the man who is the Number One Enemy of the farmer--Ezra Benson. 

	We have a choice between a united party and a party that is so hopelessly divided that it cannot conduct a firm consistent foreign policy. We have a choice between a united party and a party in which the president says he is going one way and his leaders in Congress insist on going another way.

	Is this common sense? Nobody would run a business of a farm or a store this way. I think it is time we stopped trying to run the country this way.

	We have another choice this year--a choice between the party of youth and the party of age, between the party with new ideas and the party with old ideas or no ideas.

	And this is particularly important here in Kentucky this year, where you have lowered the voting age. I am told that already in Louisville your young people have, in you own initiative, been interviewing candidates and studying the issues in preparation for the vast responsibilities and the exciting opportunities of democracy's most precious privilege, the ballot.

	I came across, the other day, a yellow copy--I have it here--of a political speech my grandfather gave in Bloomington, Illinois in 1878. It ends with this little poem about the ballot:
	"The Ballot--which falls as lightly
	As the snowflake falls upon the sod,
	Yet executes freeman's will
	As lightning does the will of God."

	I don't need to tell you first-time voters that you are very welcome in the Democratic party. And I think you feel at home in it.

	The Democratic faith means many things--a belief in the people, a concern for their well-being, a determination to protect the weak from the strong, the little from the big--but perhaps more than anything else it means a faith in the power of the new ideas.

	Today we need new ideas as never before--need them, indeed, desperately. We live in a time of enormous peril and unlimited opportunity. Only new ideas, freely debated, can show us how to free mankind from the hydrogen horror, how to make the atom our servant instead of our executioner, how to guide an awakened Asia and Africa away from Communism and toward freedom, how to use our great abundance in this nation to do the things we want so much to do and must do together.

	We reject the opposing political philosophy that has always been afraid of new ideas, that frowns at them today--does not want to discuss them and tries to kill them by calling them names.

	When we Democrats propose programs for better schools, or for better health, or for better housing, the Republican answer is always that it costs too much or is "socialism" or worse.

	Let me suggest, if I may, that you test what I say this way. This present campaign is drawing toward its close. The election is just eighteen days away. Can you think of one single new idea, one single new program for America that the Republican party has proposed in this campaign? I can't

	I mean it very deeply and sincerely when I say that the Democratic party is the party of youth and vigor. It has always been the party that welcomed new ideas.

	Social security, minimum wage, bank deposit insurance, help for the farmers, the Marshall Plan, Point 4, NATO--those were new ideas, and they were Democratic ideas. And it is to the young men and women of the Democratic party that we look today for new ideas for a new age.

	I have thought often, recently, of Woodrow Wilson. Wilson was fighting to awaken the country to the absolute necessity of finding new and better paths to peace. He found it tough going. New ideas are never popular at first, even when their purpose is peace. Wilson said it was not easy for him to speak when, as he put it, he "thought of his clients as the next generation." These are my clients too--our children and our children's children. It is the young who will inherit the earth, who will build the New America. Let's give them a chance to do it!

	And I would say another word to you young and first-time voters. The power of the secret ballot is the greatest power on earth. It is at once a blessing and a burden. It is your right to think as you please; it is also your duty to think how you vote.

	To vote is a simple act--pulling a lever, marking a piece of paper. But to vote is to shape the future.

	And I would say to you, as you face this new responsibility, the words that were said by a very great and a very wise man who was born here in Louisville a hundred years ago this year. "Sometimes," Mr. Justice Brandeis said, "if we would guide by the light of reason, we must let our minds be bold."

	Think--think boldly--and then vote.
CONGRESS--MAJORITIESCOST OF LIVINGEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYVOTING--YOUTHVOTING AGEWORLD WAR IWORLD WAR II     7 u7 o7 k7 c7
 V7 Q7 L7 B7 :7 87 87 .7	  	  	  	 j 	 A 	 . 	 ! 	  	  e: