
	
	Ladies and gentlemen, some time back, there were four citizens of Wilmington who visited me.  Now, I understand that when they came back they were referred to as "nobodies."  They were Mr. DiSanto, Mr. Wood, Mrs. Jackson and Dr. Wilson.  But out of that visit comes this meeting.  If four nobodies can do that in Wilmington, then they must be even greater geniuses than some of your people who produced houses out of nothing in your great industrial chemical plants.

	I am particularly delighted to be in the state of Senator Williams this morning.  Recently, I hear, he has gotten a new designation.  He is now the "good for nothing" Senator.  He has been so labeled by one of the minor figures in the opposition.  He is so called because he makes it his business to look after the people's business in Washington.  What he is actually good-for-nothing for are those people who indulge in speculation and try to make tax collecting and similar activities of government a rather profitable one for themselves.

	Just before I started in this particular campaign, before I made my first southern trip, Senator Williams did me the great honor and service of coming to see me in New York, and we spent some hours together there.  He began to tell me out of his prodigious memory some of the things he found in Washington.  Some of them he had documented and he had written reports, but there were such things as a whole series of federal officials filling the important offices of collectors of our taxes in the important districts who had been relieved for malfeasance.  Some of them had been put behind bars.  He uncovered a statement in the Attorney General's office where an ex-assistant said, "Why, if my old chief should tell all he knew, he would blow the White House so high that the forces of gravity would not work and we would never get it back."  Senator Williams, being a rather frugal man, objected to that because he remembered we had just put five million bucks into repairing that place.

	All up and down he uncovered this evidence.  The reply given by the opposition was to the general effect that every society has crooks--and I suppose that as an indictment of the human race, that is correct.  We do have the wild shots.  And then they went on to point out that there were so many embezzlers in our banks last year and so many this and that.  But here is the point that struck me about Senator Williams' story and I wonder whether you looked at it the same way.  When the first evidence of these crimes was brought to the attention of those people in government who have the duty of upholding the law and looking after our business, they dismissed it.  They did nothing.  Months later, months after this evidence was brought in and placed in the hands of responsible officials of government, finally, nagging, urging, cajoling, working, would bring about some results.  People would be brought before the bar of justice and then the very same evidence that was first brought to the attention of responsible officials would bring to these people the punishment that they deserved.  Consequently, the worst part of this thing wasn't merely in the fact that a few weak souls, maybe 200 or 300, fell prey to their cupidity and skimmed off some of our tax money.  The difficulty lies in the fact that government would do nothing about it, whether it was subversion in government or whether it was dishonesty.  That is the real indictment of an administration that has been so long in power it has grown arrogant, complacent, and even indifferent to dishonesty.

	I do hope that from now on if Senator Williams has noted this new name of his he will glory in the fact that the opposition calls him a good for nothing Senator, as long as he has earned that title by unearthing this malfeasance in office in favor of we the people.

	Let's make a little lead in the subject for discussion this morning and talk about Wilmington for just a second.  So long as I marvel at the great miracles of production that come out of your industries, particularly in industrial chemistry, frankly, I expected to come in here and see everything made of plastic.  Everything seems to come out of here, from shoelaces to pre-fabricated houses all made of nothing.  You apparently get the materials out of the air or out of some abandoned pasture, and you raise, in the average American mind, a vision of the future that is unparalleled in its promise to mankind for the raising of his standards of living, for the good things of life that can come to him out of this kind of thing.  This, coupled with atomic energy already used, we are told, for the powering of submarines, experimentation in every kind of power plant--that possibly we could look forward to the day when ships can sail the seas with almost no necessity for touching the ports for refueling, and airplanes the same.

	In the future, it is even possible that this earth itself will no longer mark the limits of our capacity to travel, but even now we are told by the scientists that they are opening up new possibilities in securing for us that sort of thing that we always need--additional power--for the use of the doctor in looking after the ills of our bodies, particularly this dread disease of cancer.  All of those things are opening up before us, but to reach their full realization, ladies and gentlemen, as nothing else, we need peace.

	These things cannot go on to fruition in favor of mankind if first we have to use too much of our brains; secondly, too much of our facilities and materials for purposes of war.

	Now I am going to refer again to my first subject:  That of corruption in government.  It is true that one lady wrote me a letter not long ago and said:  "General, I should like to vote for you, but before I do I want this promise:  that you will see that more of my tax money actually gets to Washington."  My reply to that lady was this:  "My friend, we have come to a rather low order of political standards in this country when a hard-working American taxpayer has to ask a prospective official to observe common woodshed honesty."  Ladies and gentlemen, we can demand that:  We don't have to ask for it.  But the point I want to bring out is this:  No matter how much that kind of thing has damaged our pocketbooks, it is nothing compared to what it has done to us in far wider fields.  The only possible cornerstone for a peace structure in the world today, among the nations of the free world, is a strong, solvent United States--strong spiritually, strong intellectually, economically, financially, and finally--and only finally--militarily.

	Now, there is one indispensable ingredient in American strength, and that is American unity behind our government in its great stated aspirations and policies abroad and at home.  If government itself deliberately destroys your trust in it, your faith in it, by countenancing this kind of petty crookedness--and some of it not so petty--and by its complacency does not earn and keep your pride, how are we going to unify behind such a government?  If we are not unified--I don't mean uniform; we are not going to be uniform in our thinking about a thousand details--but if we are not united in our determination for peace, in our realization that a steady, positive program backed up by all America, is essential to that peace; if we do not understand our relationships with the rest of the world, particularly the free world--then we are going to be very sadly handicapped in our efforts to contain and defeat the doctrine of Communism.

	Therefore, I repeat:  The few pennies that any of us may lose out of his pocket individually, through this peculation, is nothing compared to what the complacency of a government that views these things tolerantly is doing to us at home and abroad.  It is affecting our whole future.  Consequently, you will not reach your maximum in the possibilities of industrial chemistry, chemical and atomic energy, and all the things that your scientists, your industrialists, your businessmen can bring us in this world unless you get a government in Washington that you respect.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the people associated with me in this crusade for good government instead of bad government cannot come before you to compete with others in political promises.  Most political promises possible in our country have been used up in the last twenty years, and some of them are very shopworn.  We have no intention of indulging in that kind of contest whatsoever.  But we do know certain things and we can make you certain pledges.

	The first pledge is this:  This group in the Congress and in the Executive Departments will be composed first of the finest men and women that we can find in the United States, men and women who are incorruptible and because they are incorruptible, will attack any crookedness, subversion or communism in government where it should be attacked, on the preventive side, keeping it out.

	They can pledge that the sole yardstick by which they will measure any project or proposal for adoption by the federal government will be this:  what is good for the United States of America--not what is good for any one section, any one group, any one industry, any one state or anyone else.  They will be sure in their knowledge that any part of us or any group of us can prosper only as America prospers and, therefore, their single guide will be, I repeat, what is good for the United States of America.

	Next, they can come before you and say that because this government is to be made up of the kind of people it is, they will be frugal, because their job will be to be frugal with your money.  It is easy, you know, to be generous with someone else's time and money, but a public servant does not indulge in that kind of generosity. 

	It is his job to be your steward and to report upon his stewardship at any single moment that you might ask as a people.  It will not be their job to cover up, evade, and avoid answering, but to invite the light of day on everything they do so that they may say to you, "We are of you.  We are your servants.  We work with you and we don't just work you."

	And finally they would say, "Because we believe in the social progress of our population, we are quite anxious to preserve the values of your bonds, of your savings accounts, of your pensions, and we are going to stop this erosion of the money in your pockets. Those of you who are lucky enough to have a five dollar bill in your pockets this morning, if you think of it for a second, will find it looks like five dollars.  It has five dollars printed on it.  It is the same size as the five-dollar bill that has been out for some years.  But if you think of it in terms of the groceries it will buy this morning right over at the store here, you will find that in terms of just the first year of the war it is two dollars and sixty-five cents, and that is what is happening to the pensions of our aged, their investments and savings that they have laid by for this period of their lives.

	Now, the leaders of this crusade say that will stop because we will stop wild spending of your money and prevent these recurring national deficits from putting the pressure on your money to go down and down.

	And finally, the great purpose of these people will be to pursue intelligent measures to develop peace in the world.  They will pursue them tirelessly, patiently, firmly, in the certain knowledge that only in a peaceful world can Americans remain free, happy and prosperous.  And that is what they will be trying to do.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I could not leave here without attempting to express to each of you my very deep and sincere thanks for coming out here, for giving me a chance to bring you a word of greetings and a few of the thoughts that are on my mind as we pursue this political campaign.  The crusade of which I speak is one which people are pursuing who have ideals in government:  the purpose of honesty and integrity.  

	Among the leaders of that team, you have had several presented to you here this morning.  The point I want to make as my final thought is that no one man, no matter what his administrative ability, no matter what his comprehension or his wisdom and his strength, can do this for you alone.  There must be teams, teams that can reach you all the time; your representatives, your United States Senators, your governors, our state officials, all.  We must get a team that will work together as a single unit.  That I ask you to consider as you make your own decisions on November 4.

	Thank you very much, my friends, and good luck.

BUDGET DEFICITNUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     2 O2 I2 E2 ;2
 -2 (2 #2 2 2 2 2 2	 | 	 n 	 M   e: