

	Mr. Tepe, Mr. DiSalle, and distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen: You didn't keep your bargain, Mr. DiSalle; you didn't use all the 30 minutes and now look at my predicament. I am most grateful to you for that gracious introduction. I remember saying one time after something even less eloquent than that, that I suppose a little flattery is all right, as long as you don't inhale. And may I say to you, Mrs. Edwards, that I think that the least you can do is to give me the address of that remarkably discriminating lady. I also presume that you intend no pun when you referred to glittering generalities.

	When I heard Mr. Tepe say here a moment ago that Hamilton County and Cincinnati were the heart of Republicanism, I was tempted to rise at once and dispute it because I came from Bloomington, Illinois, which is in McLean County, where up until an enlightenment set in recently, my father used to tell me that they conducted the Democratic County Central meetings in a telephone booth. That is the county and that is the town, by the way, where the Republican party was founded in the state of Illinois, in 1854, and it was my own great grandfather who organized the meeting. He was a close friend and admirer of Abraham Lincoln and it was to him that Abraham Lincoln addressed his only autobiography.

	That, Mr. DiSalle, is a Republican connection of which I have always been proud through my mother's family, and I might say it is a connection with the Republican party which, as you have aptly indicated, expired in 1865.

	I have often thought, as Sam Goldwyn said, that if that great grandfather of mine were alive today, he would be rolling in his grave. So, on the basis of the experience of McLean County in Bloomington, Illinois, I think there is hope for Hamilton County, Ohio.

	I read and hear quite often--and most recently only today--that I have been talking over the heads of the people during this campaign. I also note that everyone who says that also adds, "Of course, I understand, but I am worried about the other fellow."

	Well, for my part I am not in the least bit worried about the other fellow, and if it is a crime in this country to trust the intelligence and the common sense of the American people, then I gladly plead guilty. Besides, my friends, if we do not appeal to intelligence and reason instead of ignorance and prejudice in a presidential campaign and in a fateful hour of our country's history, where, when and how can we hope to improve the practice of democracy to which we have all sworn allegiance?

	Anyway, be that as it may, I am very much consoled by a letter I had this week that was brought to my attention in which a lady--Mrs. Edwards--writes as follows:

	"Your intelligent, sincere and studious approach to America's problems and needs have given us all a needed shot in the intellect."

	Well, I have heard of a shot in the arm, but I never heard of a shot in the intellect before, but I am mighty glad to be the author of one because after all, win or lose, I think it is better to light candles than to curse the darkness. And I am frank to say, Mr. DiSalle, that as you detected the Republican campaign sounds mostly like cursing Democrats.

	I had another letter from a converted Republican this week who said that at long last he had made up his mind to vote Democratic because all he had heard from his side was corruption and Communism, served with corn.

	This is my first campaign visit to Ohio, and I thought that Cincinnati, the home of Senator Taft, would be a good place to start. At least you know where Senator Taft stands and what he thinks about most things, which is more than I can say for the General who seems to be receding into a ghostly fog.

	You will remember the scene in Shakespeare when one character boasts that he can call spirits from the vasty deep. "Why, so can I," remarks another, "or so can any man but will they come when you call them?"

	However sweetly I call, the elephants seem to prefer the fog of the vasty deep.

	But, although I have not been able to develop any useful debate on the real problems and specific issues that confront this country, it seems to me that a very real debate is developing just the same. It is more than simply a debate over the details of policy. It is a debate over the nature of our country--over the meaning of America.

	One side speaks of a country ever-changing, growing, striving to realize its rich promise for a good life for all, working for all, working for peace, looking forward. That is the way I like to see America and I think you do too.

	But the Republican Old Guard sees something quite different. They see Uncle Sam on his last legs, staggering to an ignominious end. They see bankruptcy, and socialism, and even dictatorship. They see handwriting on the wall. Sometimes they even see pink elephants. You know what a pink elephant is--it is any Republican who favors replacing the Taft-Hartley law with a new one. They criticize everything and propose nothing. They demand a change and propose no changes--except in jobholders.

	Well, this is a free country. They are entitled to their nightmares. And we are entitled to our dreams.

	We know that we live in the happiest, most prosperous and vigorous country in all history. We know that we want to continue to move forward--not to turn back the clock.

	It is my nature--and the nature of the Democratic party--to think more about tomorrow than about yesterday. I think of the accomplishments of the past twenty years as a foundation on which to build a better future. There are lots of things we can get done in the next four years--if we keep moving forward--things that will mean richer, fuller, better lives for all of us. Those are the things about which Democrats like to talk. I think those are the things most Americans want to know about.

	But it is important, also, to look back at the record. I am proud of the great Democratic record of this century that started with Woodrow Wilson. When it comes to judging a man or a party, you want to know what the man or party is like, what it has done. It is easy enough to promise. It is harder to perform.

	There is a good reason why voters are suspicious of politicians. Over the years politicians have made promises they knew they couldn't carry out and the people knew that the politicians knew they couldn't carry them out.

	A little common sense will tell us, for example, that my opponent is not talking sense to the American people when he promises to cut taxes while he strengthens our armed forces and our allies.

	It is, of course, his privilege to base his campaign on pie-in-the-sky, baked, I might add, by ghosts.

	But, of course, it is equally our privilege to vote for my esteemed fellow governor, Frank Lausche, and for the gifted Mike DiSalle and the other Democrats whose names you will find on the ticket in November. We Democrats may be short on the pie-in-the-sky but we will give you a baker's dozen of good government.

	Frank Lausche has been my friend for a long time. During the past four years we have developed an even closer feeling of comradeship. As reform governors of two very similar states, we have fought the same battles for economy, for integrity and for pride and progress in state government. He has been president of the governors' conference. With constant respect--and sometimes a little envy--I have watched him establish a record as one of the ablest and most independent governors of our generation.

	I know Mike DiSalle, too, even if I never have been able to keep up with him. And I have a feeling in my bones that Toledo's best mayor in a long time is going to become Ohio's best senator in a long time. Before election day Mike will have been seen or heard by most everyone in Ohio--and he will have been seen and heard talking sense. From close experience Mike DiSalle understands the problem of the high cost of living as well as anyone in the country. And he knows the problems of good local government--the problem, for example, of getting enough schools and enough school teachers. And, thank heavens, he isn't incapable of seeing the humor in life now and then.

	I am told that Cincinnati has a record registration this year. That is good news--whether it bodes good or ill for either party. It doesn't surprise me--the citizens of Cincinnati have always been good citizens. I hope your example will stimulate people in other states. In 1948 only 52 percent of the people of voting age in the United States actually voted. We can't have successful representative government when only half of our people take the trouble even to vote. I hope that in 1952 we will show the world that Americans really appreciate their most precious possession--government by the consent of the governed.

	Coming to Ohio this time, I could not but reflect on the occasion over 30 years ago when two citizens of this state were running against each other for the presidency. In 1920, as you will recall, the big issue was American membership in the League of Nations. James M. Cox of Ohio, the Democratic candidate--and his running mate, Franklin D. Roosevelt--stood solidly for the League. A lot of Republicans were for the League too. Some of them thought perhaps they could best work for peace by supporting the party of Woodrow Wilson.

	Other Republicans, however, were more adept at self-delusion. In October 1920, thirty-one of them signed a famous round-robin letter saying that "we can most effectively advance the cause of international cooperation to promote peace by supporting Mr. Harding for election to the Presidency." Among these thirty-one men were Elihu Root, Henry L. Stimson, William Allen White, and Henry W. Taft, who was assumed to speak for his brother, William Howard Taft.

	A few Republicans remained skeptical. They were not convinced that the Republican Old Guard had suddenly changed its spots. They detected an isolationist hand beneath Warren Harding's fine kid gloves. As one of them--Herbert Parsons--put it, Harding's real policy would be "to do what he is squeezed into doing by the opposing pressures... in politics the man who is unctuous in talk... compromises only one way--the way of those who know what they want and are determined to have it."

	Well, we know which way Warren Harding compromised--and we know the terrible consequences in blood and disaster. Liberal Republicans in 1920 made the fatal error of thinking that they could control the policies of the Harding administration. As Henry Stimson, repenting of his participation in the round-robin letter, later wrote:

	"The penalty of this error was visited upon the nation and the world."

	I think there is a real danger of liberal Republicans making the identical mistake today.

	I respect the General and honor him for his military services and for the part he has played in the past in executing our bipartisan foreign policy. But every day that passes shows more clearly that the same Old Guard is in control and that they "know what they want and are determined to have it."

	What is really the issue in this election is the role of this country in the world. The Old Guard fought the League of Nations. It raised our tariff barriers higher than they had ever been before and thus intensified the depression which convulsed the world. The Old Guard was blind to the ugly menace of Hitler and Tojo in 1939. The man who is now my opponent's foremost adviser on foreign affairs said in 1939: "Only hysteria entertains the idea that Germany, Italy or Japan contemplates war upon us."

	Since the Second World War the Old Guard has fought almost every measure by which we have tried to build a system of collective security in the world. It has tried to cut our defense program. It has opposed assistance to friendly and allied countries. It speaks disparagingly of the United Nations. It calls resistance to Communist aggression in Korea a "useless war." It says that the greatest threat to our liberty is not world Communism but the cost of federal government.

	I hope the enlightened Republicans and Independents will not delude themselves again by thinking that they can control policy in a new Republican administration. They can't. The Republican candidate is supporting all the isolationists in the party and asking their support. They gave it at a price. He talks about slashing our defense and foreign assistance programs--though only last spring he pleaded with the Congress not to cut even $1 billion from the foreign assistance program.

	The new isolationism has put on some new clothes and uses some new words. But it is just as dangerous in 1952 as the old isolationism was in 1920. The new isolationists have stopped at nothing in their drive to control the Republican party. They have the money. They have the organization. And the Republican candidate seeks their support and bows to their demands. Maybe this is all very agreeable to the General and maybe this is a personal tragedy. I don't know; but I do know that it could also be a national tragedy--as it was in 1920.

	I thought the Columbia University newspaper put it pretty well in an editorial endorsing me this week--the first time they have endorsed a presidential candidate in 77 years. It says the Republican candidate--who is also president of that university on leave of absence--"has compromised every principle to the dictates of party strategy," and the great crusade has become the great compromise and the great disenchantment.

	And now, this month, the Old Guard is going to try to sell the new isolationism to the American people. The plan is to saturate and blitz the nation with spot announcements in the most concentrated selling campaign in the nation's history.

	I think this campaign is going to backfire. I don't think the American people want politics and the presidency to become the plaything of the high pressure ad men, of the ghostwriters, of the public relations men. I think they will be shocked by such contempt for the intelligence of the American people. This isn't a soap opera, this isn't Ivory soap vs. Palmolive. This is a choice for the most important office on earth and I think the people want the candidates to talk sense about the issues.

	Do you think the farmers of America can be made to forget the Republican record on farm supports and soil conservation and rural electrification by three weeks of spot radio announcements saying that the Republicans are the real friends of the farmers?

	Do you think the housewives of America will forget the Republican record of opposition to control of the cost of living by three weeks of spot radio and TV announcements saying that the Republicans are the housewife's best friends?

	And I don't think working men and business men are going to pay any attention to spot announcements crying ruin--when all about them is the evidence of America's prosperity and America's might--just as you people can see it here in the new Ruhr of America that now stretches up the valleys of the Miami and the Ohio.

	I will bank on the American people to make up their own minds. I think they will judge on performance rather than empty promises and baseless accusations.

	I have enjoyed my visit to Cincinnati. Most visitors to Cincinnati do. One of your visitors was Audubon, whose short essay on the Ohio is one of the most beautiful descriptions of this part of our country. In it he recalls an earlier visit and notes the changes that had taken place in 20 years. Let me read a bit from it:

	"It was in the month of October... the days were yet warm... the tinkling of bells told us that the cattle which bore them were gently roving from valley to valley in search of food, or returning to their distant homes... Here and there the lonely cabin of a squatter struck the eye, giving note of commencing civilization. When I think of these times... when I reflect that all this grand portion of our Union, instead of being in a state of nature, is now more or less covered with villages, farms and towns, where the din of hammers is constantly heard...  that hundreds of steamboats are gliding to and from, over the whole length of the majestic river, forcing commerce to take root and to prosper at every spot... when I remember that these extraordinary changes have all taken place in the short period of twenty years, I pause, wonder, and, although I know all to be fact, can scarcely believe its reality."

	That is my picture of America, too. A land of extraordinary, rapid changes. A land beautiful and thriving and strong. A land to love and work for. I think there are wonderful days ahead.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHENDORSEMENTS--PRINT MEDIAFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSISOLATIONISMPOLITICAL ADVERTISING     B B B B xB
 kB fB aB WB SB QB A A	  	  	  	 l 	 C 	 ! 	  e: