

	In less than nine weeks, we're going to have a new president of the United States.

	The Republican ticket wants us to be content.  To stand still.  To hang on to what we have.  To hope for the best.

	But I say the time has come to stop ignoring foreign competition and start beating it.  To stop hiding our heads in the sand, and realize that we've got a fight on our hands; that we're in a battle for the economic future of this country.

	The time has come to roll up our sleeves and go to work and make America once again the most powerful and productive economic force on the face of the earth.

	I'm running for president because I want to build a strong America--an America that's as strong economically--as it is militarily; an America that knows its values; that defends its beliefs and that commands respect throughout the world.

	I'm running for president because I want to stand up for the families of this country.  I want to build an America where our children can go to college and afford a new home; where our parents can get decent health care and enjoy a secure retirement; and where every American family is a full shareholder in the American dream.

	I'm running for president to bring prosperity home to every family in America.

	And prosperity in America begins with education.

	Education.  No issue, no concern, no institution means more to me, or to our families than education.

	My parents arrived in this country seventy-five years ago.  My father, unable to speak the language, worked hard and ran from his daytime job to take night courses in English.  Eight years later, he enrolled in medical school and went on to be the first American-trained Greek-speaking doctor in metropolitan Boston.

	My mother became a school teacher, and she wouldn't have made it without the encouragement of an elementary school principal named Stanley Gray.  And when her second son was born, she gave him Stanley for a middle name.

	That's why I, Michael Stanley Dukakis, have been fighting for good schools and good teaching ever since I've been in public life.  And that's why I feel so strongly that every young person in this country who has the ability to go to college should have that opportunity.

	That's what I want to talk about today, and it's an important difference in this election.  Because this fall, the American people will face a choice between two very different ideas of prosperity; and two very different records of leadership.

	Between those who see education as a lifetime commitment, and those who see it as an election year strategy.

	Between those who believe that good education should be the birthright of a few, and those who believe it is the birthright of every American, no matter who they are or where they come from or what the color of their skin.

	Between those who believe that America can afford to settle for second-best schools, and those who believe--as I do--that our students must be the best-prepared, best-skilled and best-educated in the world.

	We don't need a president who undergoes an election year conversion on education.

	We need a president who understands that in a world in which information and technology can travel the world in a blink of an eye, the one thing that is uniquely American, the one thing that gives us a competitive edge is us--and in today's world, knowledge, and how we use it, is everything.

	We need a president who understands that every time we help a youngster in this country become a judge, instead of a criminal; a pharmacist instead of a drug peddler; a teacher instead of a dropout; our families are strengthened, our communities are enriched, and our nation is better--and stronger.

	We need a president who cares when youngsters who have the energy and the ambition and the skills to go to college are denied that opportunity, because their parents are being victimized by Republican economic policies that have the rich getting richer, the poor getting poorer, and those in the middle--and that means most of us--getting squeezed.

	That's why Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to invest in America's future by investing in education, and we're going to begin on January 20, 1989.

	Together, we're going to invest in a new National Teaching Excellence Fund that will provide scholarships for young people, willing to make a commitment to teaching, to help make teaching an honored and valued profession in America again.

	Together, we're going to work with our states and with citizens from all walks of life to end illiteracy in America.

	And together, we're going to dedicate our country to the basic principle that no young person in this country who completes high school; is qualified to do college work; and is admitted to college should ever be denied that opportunity because of financial aid.

	Never has that been more important than it is today.

	And never has it been more important that we have leaders who are dedicated to creating college opportunity.

	The difference between the average earnings of those who have completed college and those who have not is almost double today what it was only 7 years ago.  That's a difference of $10,000 a year throughout your working career.

	And yet the opportunity to attend and graduate from college is fading for many.  Average family incomes haven't increased in real terms in 20 years.  But college tuitions have risen by almost 60 percent since 1981.  It now costs an average of more than $6000 a year to send a child to a public university; more than $13,000 a year to attend a private college.

	And while we were quadrupling our scholarship assistance to low and middle income students in my own state, the Republicans have been leading an assault on college loans and grants for students around the country.  Cutting Pell grants.  Cutting work-study.  Cutting the Perkins loan program.  Cutting the counseling services that help prepare disadvantaged students to enroll and succeed in college.  Replacing grants with loans as the dominant form of federal assistance.

	And where was George Bush while his Administration was doing its best to slam the door of college opportunity in the face of millions of young people across this country.  Where was he while his Administration was denying middle income families the hope for a future of prosperity and success for their children?

	Where was George?  George was right there--all the time.  Not doing and not saying a thing.

	Well, I have a different idea of leadership.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to stop the assault on college loans and grants, and we're going to stop it cold.

	We're going to work with our states to create college opportunity funds that will allow families to set aside enough today to meet the costs of college tuition in the future.

	Earlier this year, we announced just such a college opportunity fund in Massachusetts.  And one month ago, a similar program got off the ground in Michigan.  In just the first five days after it was open for business they received 82,000 applications, twenty times what they had expected.

	College loans and grants and state College Opportunity Funds.  Two big steps.  But what about those caught in the middle?  What about the youngsters who may not be eligible for a grant; and whose families cannot afford to invest in a college opportunity fund?

	Fifty years ago, Franklin Roosevelt came up with an idea to ensure that, after a lifetime of work, senior citizens would be guaranteed a decent standard of living.  It was a pact between generations; and it was called Social Security.

	As president, I'm going to use an approach entirely independent from Social Security, but based on the same principle, to open wide the door of college opportunity to every youngster in this country who is qualified to do college work.

	We're going to call it the STARS program.  It's going to reach out to the millions of youngsters from middle income families who are not eligible for grants and loans today, or who choose not to take advantage of loans because they don't want to start out in life burdened by tens of thousands of dollars of debt.

	Under this system, students would borrow directly from banks and other financial institutions; and would repay them through payroll withholding of a small percentage of income earned after they graduate.

	The loans would be guaranteed by the government; and would be available to any student in need of financing for college, vocational or graduate school.

	The new loans would supplement, not replace, our existing programs; and they would help our financially strapped colleges and universities to stretch their scarce scholarship and financial aid dollars.

	For the financial community, this new STARS program will provide an incentive for helping our students get a college education while relieving lending institutions of the burden of collecting student loans.

	For our business and community leaders, we'll be providing a well-educated, well-trained and highly-motivated workforce that can take on and--and beat--our foreign competitors.

	For our families, we'll be helping to bring college within the reach of all our children; and helping to bring prosperity home to millions who now find themselves pushed to the economic margin of the American dream.

	For our taxpayers, we'll be providing a reliable, self-financing new mechanism for making and enforcing the collection of student loans.

	For our students, these loans will be the ticket to a better and brighter future for themselves, and for their own children.

	My friends, this is the kind of proposal that can help make America stronger, and make America better.

	The Republicans have a different plan.  They're not interested in college opportunity, but they do want to give those who make $200,000 a year or more a new tax break of $30,000.  That's more than the average teacher makes.  That's enough to send a student to Rutgers for four years.  It's the downpayment for a young couple looking to buy a first home.  And who do you think is going to pay for that new tax break?  Look at your parents.  Look at the person sitting next to you.  Look in the mirror, and ask yourself, is that the kind of leadership we need in America?

	Can't we do better than that?  You better believe we can.  And we're going to begin on January 20, 1989.

	Because Lloyd Bentsen and I want to be able to say to every student in America--to our future scientists and teachers and Presidents of the United States--aim high.

	Aim high, because as the great educator Benjamin Mays once said, "It is not a disgrace not to reach the stars, but it is a disgrace to have no stars to reach for.  Not failure, but low aim is a sin."

	Aim high, and don't let anyone tell you that you can't make it--don't let anyone tell you that you're not as good as the kids on the other side of town or in some other neighborhood; don't let anyone tell you that you can't make it if you work hard and study hard and stay in school and believe in yourself; and don't let anyone tell you that it's okay to take drugs.

	Two days ago, we sent our athletes off to the Olympics in Seoul.  We hope and pray that they will bring back the gold.

	Our thoughts and prayers are with them.  For their task is America's task.

	And if we work together, we can win the gold, not only at the Olympics; we can win the gold for college opportunity and for our future.

BANKING/LOANS/CREDITEDUCATION, HIGHEREDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AID     |- H- B- >- 6-
 +- &- !- - - - , ,	 E  1    e: