

	I am glad to be here in Connecticut. I first came here to school not far from Hartford about thirty-five years ago as a small boy. I have always gratefully recalled the warmth with which your citizens took me in, and also the patience with which my teachers tried to educate me. Some of them are here tonight and I am deeply touched by their continued interest in this Democratic heretic from the prairies of the West. Or should I attribute it to the fact that the last twenty years have won most of the more enlightened to the Democratic standard.

	In recent weeks my distinguished opponent has adopted the singular theory that a candidate for president should support all state and local candidates on his party ticket--good, bad, indifferent, and regardless of their views and records.

	I believe this is a new theory, even in the Republican party. It was not too long ago when Governor Dewey, as party leader, honorably refused to support a Republican congressman who had distinguished himself by incessant and noisy opposition to vital national policies. But the general's theory is not only novel, it is dangerous. If the voters of this nation ever stop looking at the record and the character of candidates, and look only at their party label, it will be a sorry day for healthy democracy.

	Win or lose, I will not accept the proposition that party regularity is more important than political ethics. Victory can be bought too dearly.

	But this exhibition of Republican expediency is not what I wanted to talk to you about. I wanted to talk here tonight about something which transcends politics--atomic energy, which is the new dimension in all our thinking--and also about the relation of power to peace.

	I was moved to select this topic because atomic energy is a major component of our power and because our decisions and actions in atomic energy matters, as they relate to preparedness for both war and peace, will long bear the imprint of our wise and lamented friend, Brien McMahon of Connecticut.

	Brien McMahon was among the first to see the great potentiality for good and evil which was opened up by this advance of the frontiers of knowledge. He sought to reconcile the needs for security with the needs for information--both to encourage further scientific advances and an intelligent public opinion. He saw the need for civilian control. He fought to keep the sights of the development program high.

	We have already, for example, opened up new fields of medical research. Brien McMahon died of cancer. With luck and the help of atomic research, our children may be safe from this grim disease.

	We have already produced, with an atomic reactor, the steam to generate electric power. We are building now--and in a Connecticut shipyard--an atomic-powered submarine. We can begin to dream of electric stations, ships, airplanes and machinery to be powered by the atom. Men are at work today with atomic tools trying to find out how plants convert energy from the sun into food. It is not too fantastic to think that we may, in time, unlock new doors to boundless energy for our homes and industries.

	This is a field in which government and industry can work in ever more fruitful partnership. The people of this country have invested more than $6 billion in atomic development. This work must be for everyone's good, and not just for the profits of some. But more can be done to work out new relationships in this field between government and business--relationships which will safeguard the public interest and yet allow full room for private initiative.

	This is the excitement of the future which awaits us. The age of atomic abundance is still far off. And we will never be able to release the power of the atom to build unless we are able to restrain its power to destroy. This is the merciless question of the present--the question of what we should do with atomic power in a divided world.

	Here again we face a bitter decision. We shrink from the use of such weapons--weapons which destroy the guilty and innocent alike, like a terrible sword from heaven. The memory of Hiroshima is fresh within us--described in enduring prose by one of the most accomplished of contemporary writers--John Hersey--who, I am proud to say, is head of the Volunteers for Stevenson in Connecticut. But we can't renounce the power which science has given us when renunciation might expose our people to destruction.

	In the decision to move ahead Brien McMahon again played a leading role. He demanded that we constantly step up our reserves of atomic weapons. He worked always to keep the sights of the atomic energy program high and its policies bold--and the United States has made a notable contribution to the security of the free world by its rapid development of atomic power.

	Yet there has always seemed to me a danger in making the atomic bomb the center of defense strategy. The bomb is but one part of a general system of defense. It cannot be a substitute for such a general system. It cannot be our only answer to aggression. But the bomb remains an essential part of our defense system. Until it is subjected to safe international control, we have no choice but to ensure our atomic superiority.

	But there can be no solution in an arms race. At the end of this road lies bankruptcy or world catastrophe. Already the earth is haunted by premonitions in this shadowed atomic age. Mankind must deserve some better destiny than this.

	Because our government knew the futility of the arms race, it made its great decision to seek an international system for the control of atomic power. We went to the United Nations and Bernard Baruch, a beloved and wise elder statesman, offered on behalf of the United States to share with other nations the good in atomic energy. In return, we asked that other nations join with us to curb its power for evil.

	I think this decision was right--profoundly right. Few things we have done since 1945 have so clearly demonstrated our national determination to achieve peace and to strengthen international order. By this offer, all nations were asked to diminish their own sovereignty in the interests of world security--just as each of us gives up some degree of personal independence when communities establish laws and set up police forces to see that they are carried out.

	Unfortunately, as we all know, the Soviet Union has thus far refused to join in a workable system. The reason is obvious. To be effective, such a system would require effective United Nations inspection; and the Kremlin fears to open up the windows and doors of its giant prison. It fears to have the rest of the world learn the truth about the Soviet Union. It fears even more to have the Russian people learn the truth about the rest of the world.

	And so the negotiations have long been deadlocked. And, in irritation and disgust, some of us have rebelled against the whole idea of negotiation itself. Some of us have even felt that our possession of the bomb makes negotiation unnecessary and, if our allies are alarmed by our uncompromising attitude, so much the worse for them. When we have the bomb as our ally, some of us may say, we need no other.

	Such ideas are folly. If we started throwing our atomic weight around the world, no stockpile of bombs could remotely make up for all the friends we would lose. And the irony is that it is our allies who make our atomic strength effective. We built the bomb with the help and cooperation of foreign scientists. Our atomic production program today depends on foreign supplies of uranium. Our air power would be gravely crippled without foreign bases. Even in terms of the bomb itself, going it alone would simply be a shortcut to national disaster.

	A year ago some Republican leaders contended that the best way to stop the war in Korea would be to extend it to the mainland of China. In the same vein, Republican leaders today seem to be arguing that the best way to deal with Soviet power in Europe is to instigate civil war in the satellite countries. These are dangerous, reckless, foolish counsels and likely to lead to the sacrifice of the lives of the very people whom we hope to liberate.

	And likewise the Democratic party opposes that weird Republican policy which proposes to reduce our contributions to free-world strength, on the one hand, while it steps up its verbal threats against the enemy, on the other hand. Theodore Roosevelt used to say: "Speak softly and carry a big stick." But these modern Republicans seem to prefer to throw away the stick and scream imprecations.

	The Democratic party will never desist in the search for peace. We must never close our minds or freeze our positions. We must strive constantly to break the deadlock in our atomic discussions. But we can never yield on the objective of securing a foolproof system of international control. And we will never confuse negotiation with appeasement.

	In the long run, the strength of the free nations resides as much in this willingness to reduce their military power and subject it to international control as in the size of their military establishments. This desire and willingness to the free nations to give up their preponderant power and to abandon force as an instrument of national policy in the interests of peace is not only unprecedented--it provides the moral justification for the amassing of great power. And we must never delude ourselves into thinking that physical power is a substitute for moral power which is the true sign of national greatness.

	I hold out no foolish hopes. We all know the character of the men in the Kremlin--their fanaticism, their ruthlessness, their limitless ambitions--but we know too that their realism has restrained them thus far from provoking a general war which they would surely lose, and they know that they can have peace and freedom from fear whenever they want it and are prepared to honor their wartime pledges and the obligations assumed when they signed the United Nations Charter. We may hope that the steady strengthening of the free world will increase their sense of the futility of aggression; that the intensification of peaceful pressures against the Soviet Empire will sharpen the internal contradictions within that empire; that, in time, free peoples may lift their heads again in Eastern Europe, and new policies and leadership emerge within the Soviet Union itself.

	No one can be certain about the meaning of peace. But we all can be certain about the meaning of war. The future is still open--open for disaster, if we seek peace cheaply or meanly, but open for real peace, if we seek it bravely and nobly.
	
	In any case, let us not cower with fear before this new instrument of power. Nature is neutral. Man has wrested from nature the power to make the world a desert or to make the deserts bloom. There is no evil in the atom; only in men's souls. We have dealt with evil men before, and so have our fathers before us, from the beginning of time. The way to deal with evil men has never varied; stand up for the right, and, if needs must be, fight for the right.

	To my Republican listeners I would say: the atomic adventure transcends partisan issues. Win or lose, we Democrats will work with you to follow this adventure to the end of peace and plenty for mankind.

	To my fellow Democrats I would close by repeating what Brien McMahon said in his last public appearance. He said: "The way to worry about November is to worry about what is right. If we do not stand for the right, ten thousand campaign speeches will never help us. If we do stand for the right, we will again be asked to lead our country."


MILITARY PREPAREDNESSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)SOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     . . . . .
 t. o. j. b. W. U. 9. ..	  	 k 	 <  ! e: