
	Ladies and gentlemen:  First I hope you will allow me to thank each of you for the very great honor you have done me by coming out to allow me to say hello to you, and to give you one or two of the thoughts that were on my mind.

	Today as I have come across your great state--and I must say also big state--I have made it a rule not to talk politics.  When I started this campaign, a new kind for me, you understand, I decided that Sundays would be good days to lay off politics and to talk Americanism.  Now, I am delighted always to come to a college town.  You know, I am a college president myself--on leave, it is true.  Incidentally, you people have to decide how long that leave is to be.  I like to meet the young people of America, and it is one reason that I accepted that post as college president.  I have spent my life with America's young people, young men and women mostly in uniform, but since then in the college years those in civilian life.

	I think this evening I would like to tell you a few incidents of the war.  I think they have a little bit of application and anyway, you know it is an old soldier's right to grow reminiscent, even garrulous.  One I want to tell you illustrates for me what America is and what it makes of its youth.  It is a story that involves a man named Sergeant Kuhlen.  When we invaded Normandy we got involved in a very difficult make up mostly of hedgerows, with very heavy hedges every 50 yards.  It was a terrific country through which to attack.  Originally we hadn't intended to attack through that land but when our left flank was held up, there was no out for it, we had to go through there.  Now, we had the difficulty that when we put our tanks at these hedgerows they would do what the driver calls belly-up.  They would point their noses straight in the air and then the Germans could shoot holes through the unprotected underside and our guns couldn't even shoot.  They were just pointing in the air.

	Little Sergeant Kuhlen came along with an invention that was simplicity itself.  He fixed up cutters on the forward end of our tanks that would not only cut off the hedgerow as we went into it but would carry it along as camouflage for the way.  Sergeant Kuhlen's invention unquestionably saved thousands of American lives.  There are thousands of young men alive today whom we would have had to pay as a terrible price except for that man's imagination and for this:  he was not in an army where he had to keep his secret to himself.  For a noncommissioned officer of some snooty second lieutenant would not bat his ears down for bringing his idea forward.  Indeed, this sergeant and the little squad working for him brought their idea to the captain.  The captain thought it pretty good and ran to the division general.  The division general went to General Bradley and General Bradley got to the top brass and it was all started.

	Then we had this idea:  we said, "Fine, Sergeant, but where are you going to get all the steel for this?"  He laughed and he said, "We have got that figured out.  Down on the beach are all those steel stakes that the Germans put in to keep us from getting ashore.  There they are." 

	Now, where in the world except in America would you have found that combination of initiative coming from his early training, inventiveness, readiness to come forward with an idea, and the confidence to go to see his bosses?  He didn't have to crawl on his hands and knees to see the captain.  He just took his knives under his arm and came on up and demonstrated his idea, and he is a grand fellow today.  Incidentally he lost a leg later in the war.

	Another time in a part of the assault on the Normandy beachhead we wanted to use two of our finest units, two airborne divisions.  The air commander came to me about two days before the attack and said, "General, it is sheer murder.  If you send these men in there you will lose 90% of them and you won't accomplish anything."  It was a terrible burden to put on a man that close to battle and I had to take the thing all alone out into the dark and study it out again.  I decided they had to go but it was, of course, on my heart and mind because it was a terrible prospect.

	I went down to see this unit just the night before, at 12 o'clock at night.  They were starting out at 12:30 and going over to attack.  These young fellows, these young Americans, seeing me coming, knew there had been some argument about this and they knew I probably was worried.  Everywhere I went along they all had their faces blackened and had spotted uniforms.  They laughed at me and said, "Cheer up, General, we are on the job.  We will win this thing for you."  Now the text books that we studied, your friend Shrimp Milburn and I studied when we were kids, said that the commander went down to see his troops to inspire them.  Not for me!  I went down to get inspired.  Those men did things for me, and I never forgot the lesson.

	Today when I meet you youngsters I wish I could give you some idea of what you do for me.  You see, you still own 60 years' worth of America.  If I am lucky I own 15 or 20 years' worth.  I respect your greater stake in this greatest of all nations, in the nation that must live if freedom is to live, that must live if a respect for decency and religion is going to live. 

	You in your turn can say, "Now, what have we a right to demand from these oldsters?"  Now, the generation to which I belong has made many grave errors.  We got into two world wars.  We are now in a Cold War of 7 years standing.  A part of that Cold War in one section has broken out into a hot war.  We have had many other things happening to us.  Each new baby born today--and tonight there are 6,000 more Americans than there were last night--is born with a present of a $1,750 debt.  That is what we give it when it is born.  Now, all of those things represent some of the places where we have failed.  It was not always our fault.  All of you young people must soon take over, and for my money, the sooner the better, because you couldn't do worse than we have done.  Out of all of those lessons I hope we can show you this:  what we are really trying to defend is a way of life, a scale of moral and spiritual values.  You are not just trying to save your own pocketbook.

	When your tax money is shaved off and chiseled on by some tax collector it is not the few dollars or pennies of yours that he gets that is the shameful thing.  It is the fact that in America a public servant would sell out his birthright, as one federal judge put it, for "a mess of dirty dollars."  Now, what we must get over to you is that this life is one of spiritual and moral values.  Indeed, if you want to understand how definitely our form of government is related to them, just go back and read the Declaration of Independence.  Find out how our forefathers had to explain our government to the world.  In order to explain this new form of government they said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator" with certain rights.  They didn't try to explain our type of government by saying people had rights because they were born east of the Appalachians or south of Canada or anything else.  Their Creator gave them to them, showing that our form of government is firmly based on some kind of religious faith.  Don't ever forget it.  Then you will always have the scale of values that will lead you forward.

	If, before all of us oldsters turn this business over completely to you youngsters, we can get that firmly in your minds, I assure you will do a better job than our generation and those who went ahead of us, and you will have a country which you will be proud to turn over to your children and you will say, "There, my son, or, my daughter, there is a country in which every right and every privilege that freedom has enjoyed is still inviolate.  Yours is opportunity on all sides of you.  Go out and as long as you don't infringe upon similar rights of others, yours is all that you want."  Now, that is exactly what I should like to leave with you on this Sunday evening.

	I would like to go back for a second, if you people still have a second, to another little war story.  We got into the Battle of the Bulge.  Such battles are always soul--shaking during the first assault.  You can never tell what might give way.  But on a Sunday evening--and as I remember it was also Christmas--one week after the battle started we knew we had this fellow stopped.  If ever there was a Sunday that was glorious, that was it.  Yet the weather was below zero.  The snow was deep on the ground.  We were having a terrible time getting our wounded off the battlefield in time to prevent shock from being fatal, even with minor wounds.  But we did it, and we worked, and everybody, from that time on with a light heart because we knew the end of the war was in sight.  Their last reserves were used up.  Every time I come to a beautiful Sunday like this in this land of ours my mind goes back to that Sunday.

	If I could only impart to every American that feeling of great confidence.  You can do anything with America; don't ever forget it--155 million united Americans--and I don't mean united in all the little details of processes and methods--155 million Americans united behind the great brains of our country are the mightiest power that God has yet seen fit to put on His footstool.  Remember that as you approach every problem that America has to solve.  Remember our own power and be not dismayed, because you can do anything.

	May I now bring out Mamie to see you for a second?

DEMOCRACYINVENTION/INNOVATIONMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESWORLD WAR IIYOUTHCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEHEROES/HEROISM     & T& N& J& @&
 2& -& (&  & & & & &	 s 	 j 	 V 	 @ 	 4  /   e: