

	Governor Kennon, Mayor Fant, and all of my friends here:  I want to extend first to each of you a word of thanks for coming out today, driving this long distance from town, to give me a chance to say hello to each of you, and to express to you one or two of the thoughts that are on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	I know that each of you would allow me a special word to my friends in uniform and who have worn the uniform.  It gladdened my heart to see this sign over here a minute ago, "Vets for Ike."  Of course, my affection for the men who have worn the uniform, my appreciation of their services, is well known.  I do not need to repeat them, but I cannot pass a gathering of veterans without saying it is awfully good to see you.

	[Missing text]..."Americans for Ike," because ladies and gentlemen, I didn't come to talk to you today with any kind of an adjective in front of that word "American."  So far as I am concerned, I have no interest as to what your past political affiliation has been, or whether you have had one.  I want to talk to you briefly about the problems of the United States, the problems that affect us all, and what we can do about them.  So I am particularly delighted with the reputation Shreveport has for independent thinking and for independent voting.

	The other day, the governor of Texas said something that impressed me deeply.  He said, "Now is the time for every Texan to caucus with his own conscience."  Now, I imagine something like that, substituting the word Shreveport for Texas, has been the watchword of this city for a long time, and I imagine that each man and woman, each voter of this city, as he goes into the voting booth, is caucusing with his own conscience.  I am very proud of the fact that one of these seven electors, that your governor just said decided could not go along with the traditional party label, was from this city.

	All of this has to do with my reason for coming south.  I was told, you know, by experienced men in this political business that it would be useless.  They said, "In the first place, you cannot draw a corporal's guard to hear you in a southern city."  Now, among you here today are many men who have been corporals.  Did you ever have a command the size of this one?  I don't think this dire prediction about a corporal's guard had any validity.  In the same way, they said, "The south is in the bag.  You can't go down there and do anything about it.  They don't care what you say.  Even if they agree with you, they will take the kicking around from the administration and then these states will all be in their proper column."  And it is because, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you that I came, and I am mighty glad I did.

	I don't, for one second, believe that you people belong in the same bag with the Pendergast machine of Kansas City.  I don't think you belong in the same neat bag with Tammany Hall, or with Arvey's Machine in Chicago.  You are independent thinkers, and that is the reason I am here.  I believe that you are as interested in good government as anybody in the United States, no matter where he lives.

	Now, what should good government be?  Well, it should be frugal.  It should be thrifty.  We are sick and tired of expenditure programs that finally run into such figures that they lose all meaning for us.  Indeed, who in this crowd has the slightest understanding of what eighty or eighty-five billion dollars means?  I don't.  But I do know that in spite of the fact that they say we never had it so good, meaning that we are better off than ever in our lives, and in spite of the fact that on that kind of a situation they impose the highest taxes we have ever borne, that we still cannot pay the bill.  That I know.

	And what does that mean to you?  Let us say a fifteen percent-deficit in your national budget.  It means, finally, that we print more money.  What does that do?  That makes the money in your pocket still cheaper.  It means that your prices go up still further and you are caught in this double squeeze of taxation and high prices and next year you will have to pay more taxes because the expenditure program will be higher because there is cheaper money.

	Good government means that every single influence of government, direct and indirect, that it can bring to bear is used to keep that money stable, to cut down costs, and finally to get efficiency instead of wastefulness in government.  If we need airfields in Northwest Africa, which we do under the present situation, why should we get only two for the price of five?  Why should one of the services in buying twenty-thousand fine chairs pay only ten dollars each more than the market price?  It is that kind of wastefulness and inefficiency that good government will get rid of.

	And then in the matter of loyalty, good government may not always be certain that it can keep out every single individual who may have designs against our form of government and who is working in collaboration with others to hurt us, but this thing is true: The second that people in authority in good government have the slightest notion that such subversion exists, there will be turned loose every investigative body of government.  The guilty will be searched out as rapidly as possible and brought to justice.

	But beyond that, what is good government?  Good government is the concentration in our federal departments and in the Congress of the finest men that the districts of the United States can provide, the finest men and women.  They are men and women whose local reputations, whose prestige, are guarantees that they are incorruptible.  If they are incorruptible, they are not going to appoint to responsible positions under them men and women except those who are also incorruptible.  In other words, we will keep subversion, disloyalty and dishonesty out of government in the first place, which is exactly what we should do.

	Good government in our country is still not too much government.  Maybe it is not the least possible, but at least it is not too much.  We have gotten into the habit under the leadership of Washington of passing all problems to Washington, and Washington, in turn, stretches its long nose further and further into our business.  Good government will oppose this tendency.  It will oppose it in the tidelands.  It will say the states have traditionally owned these areas and we are not going to try to get the federal government in them to seize them, merely because someone suddenly discovered they are valuable.

	We will observe this in the farm program.  Both major parties, of course, support these programs.  Generally, there is sound agreement between the two parties as to what must be done and our present laws are working well and will further improve as time goes on.  Indeed, my next talk over at Memphis will be on this general subject of farm programs, especially as applied to the South.  But the big difference between this crusade, that is aiming to take over the operation of this government next January and that crusade wants to give the local farmers, the local authorities maximum influence in farm programs in both their development and operation, and keep Washington out of it so far as it is possible to do so.

	They believe this same thing with respect to all other programs that we need in which we need federal support:  our development, reclamation, soil conservation, all of the other problems that are of such great importance to all of us and in which we need federal cooperation.  The crusade intends to bring cooperation, not bossism.  That is the difference.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, obviously I do not come before you today to engage in any competition in political promises.  All the political promises that can possibly be made have been made over the last twenty years, and some are getting very shopworn.  Above all, I do not promise one group or one class or one section any advantage at the expense of another group, another section, or indeed, the whole United States.  All those engaged with me in this crusade have one yardstick only by which to measure a proposal or a proposition or any contemplated action.  It is this:  What is good for the United States of America?  What is in her service?  What will make her prosper?  Above all, what will lead her closer to peace?

	It is our conviction that only honest, efficient, dedicated government can do this.  The real power that must be generated is the united power of 156 million Americans.  They will generate that great power only as they are united behind basic principles, principles that are in keeping with those given to us in our Declaration and in our Constitution.  That is the kind of government that the crusade intends to put into Washington for the next four years so that the American people can go ahead with confidence, both in the domestic scene and abroad, in order that we may establish and live in peace.

	I thank you very much.


AGRICULTURE--GENERALGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGOVERNMENT WASTEPARTY AFFILIATIONREGIONALISM--SOUTH     $ # # # #
 # # # # # # # #	 f 	 R 	 3 	 # 	  e: