

	I have traveled many thousands of miles since my last visit to the state of Washington early in September. I have talked to many thousands of people. It has been an exhilarating and sobering experience, and I hope I have gained more in knowledge than I have lost in weight. It has brought me to the conclusion that two questions, above all others, concern Americans in this year of crisis.

	One issue is the preservation of our well-being here at home. The other is the achievement of peace in the world.

	I want to discuss both these great questions with you today.

	As you well know here in the Northwest, the foundation of our national wealth lies in the soil, the water, the forests--in the people's great treasure of natural resources. I talked about power and resources development when I was here in September; and I certainly had not intended to talk about them here again. But my distinguished opponent, I understand, has just marched his crusade through this part of the country; and he has left such a trail of confusion that I thought I might recur to some of the basic issues of our economic development.

	I fear that the General did not always talk sense to the people on these matters. I am sure you recognized this, but I am not sure he did. The burden of his remarks was that the Republican leadership has always supported the development of your rivers and lands and forests, that it will support such development in the future, and that it will somehow do so without the participation of a single federal employee.

	The General apparently has been misinformed about the great struggles that have gone on--and are still going on--to get the resources of the Northwest developed in the people's interest. He seems to think the history of the Northwest and the development of its resources is something recent and that his crusade furnishes the shock troops charged with conquering this subject--and capturing some votes in the process--well of course, we know that it is an old story; it began a long while ago.

	The General also said proudly that government engineers had "dreamed" and "planned" Grand Coulee Dam for "many Republican years" before it was started in 1934. Engineers had dreamed and planned--and so had many citizens of this state, led by that far-sighted Republican, Rufus Woods of Wenatchee. But also during those years, Republican presidents and Republican Congresses did nothing about building Grand Coulee. No lamps were ever lit, no wheels were ever turned at Grand Coulee by the Republican party.

	The people of Washington know why Grand Coulee was built. It was built because of the wisdom and daring of a great Democratic President--Franklin D. Roosevelt.

	In 1933, when this nation was flat on its back, when Republican leaders were wringing their hands and crying that all was lost, Roosevelt saw a magnificent future for this country. He had the courage to start Grand Coulee and a hundred other projects for a greater America and a better life for countless Americans.

	Grand Coulee has been finished; it is pouring its power into the lifestream of the nation. Now the Republican leadership is trying to claim the credit. But back when Grand Coulee was being built, eminent Republican leaders in Congress were calling it a "white elephant," and "the most colossal fraud in the history of America." "Up in the Grand Coulee country," said one of these Republican savants, Representative Culkin of New York, "there is no one to sell power to except the coyotes and jack rabbits, and there never will be."

	Here is an old Republican habit. They oppose the steps that need to be taken to strengthen and develop our nation--they oppose, before they are done and while they are being done. Afterwards, they take the credit. Well, the Russians say they invented baseball.

	For half a century there has been a running battle between those who want to exploit our natural resources for the profit of private monopolies and those who want to conserve and use our resources for the benefit of the people as a whole. And the ironic thing is that the power companies are beneficiaries of that same development themselves as communities grow and power demands increase--and they should be in a free enterprise system which we Democrats have been seeking to preserve and strengthen by developing our country.

	This has been a fierce, unrelenting struggle to protect the public interest. It has gone on all our lives and will continue to go on for years to come.

	The battle was fought over the Reclamation Law in 1902. The issue then was whether the government would help make water available for small farmers who wanted to settle on new land.

	Theodore Roosevelt, a Republican president, put through that law, and we honor him for it. But as Theodore Roosevelt himself noted in his autobiography, he put the law through over the bitter opposition of the Old Guard Republicans in Congress. He observed that they "consistently vote for local and private interests and against the interest of the people as a whole." And note, too that the original Reclamation Law was sponsored in the House of Representatives by Representative Newlands of Nevada, a Democrat. It passed by the votes of 77 Democrats and 69 Republicans.

	The Republican record has not improved. When the TVA came before the House of Representatives in 1933 the Republicans voted against it 7 to 1.
	
	Theodore Roosevelt, you will recall, was later thrust aside by the Old Guard in favor of William Howard Taft. The present Republican candidate has now declared his loyalty to another Taft who is leading the Old Guard today. It looks as though the General was following the rule that Theodore Roosevelt scorned: "If you can't beat them--join them."

	You here in Washington know firsthand how you have had to fight for the public interest in natural resources, especially in power. The story of our public utility districts, your municipal utility systems, your REA co-ops, is one long story of successful striving to get enough power for the people at lower rates.

	This is what the transmission line controversy is all about--and, incidentally, you will look in vain in the General's speeches for even the words "transmission lines." He may not know, but you know, that government transmission lines here in the Northwest country make the difference between higher and lower rates for power.

	In 1949, the Republican senators voted 4 to 1 against the Kerr-Anaconda transmission line, over in western Montana--a line that was needed to insure fair distribution and fair rates for the power to be turned out at Hungry Horse Dam. One of the Senators who voted "against" on that occasion was our present Republican senator from this state whose affinity for lobbies will shortly result in his replacement, I trust, by a staunch Democratic defender of the public interest, Henry Jackson.

	Speaking of your officeholders, I can't overlook the strange speech Governor Langlie made not long ago criticizing my financial management of Illinois in highly inaccurate terms. I thought he was a truthful man and therefore would take care to check information supplied him by the Republican National Committee which sponsored his broadcast. His statements about the uncommitted balance in the Illinois treasury were wrong by $107 million, and he failed to say that Illinois has not raised taxes, except for highway construction, since the war, while doubling state aid for schools, opening new hospitals, increasing all state salaries by more than 20 percent and many other things that cost money. How many other big states can say that? I notice also that he overlooked that Illinois, in proportion to the income of its citizens, has the second lowest cost state government of all the states, with a per capita annual tax burden, according to the latest figures, of $51.61 as against $102.72 of the state of Washington, which is the highest in the Union.

	And of course he didn't say that I admonished the legislature not to add to the budget I presented without subtracting from it, but the legislature subtracted $300,000 and added $50 million. It was a Republican legislature. But the Democratic governor vetoed more than $42 million of appropriations. I hope Governor Langlie's speech is not a fair example of truth in government in the state of Washington.

	I gather from the General's speeches that he seems to see no reason why the government should be mixed up in resource development at all. He used some very ugly language about a "whole-hog" government that is putting its "long nose" into people's business. He painted a picture of the people of the Northwest being ground down and oppressed by their government.

	Had the General looked up from his speech and looked about him here in Washington, he would have seen hundreds and hundreds of new businesses, ranging from vast aluminum plants to corner drug stores. These are private businesses, which are growing and thriving because the country is prosperous and the government has opened up the water and power resources of this area for the benefit of the people.

	The farmers of this state are selling their wheat and other crops at good prices; 90 percent of them own their own farms 92 percent of them have power line service. The men and women who work in the factories and stores and shops of this state are earning good wages; they are buying their own homes; they have cars, and because they live in this blessed country they can use them to go hunting and fishing and campaigning--which makes me very envious.

	Is this a picture of government tyranny? Or is this a picture of free, private citizens, citizens who recognize nonsense when they hear it.

	What is all this about a "whole-hog" government pushing its nose into everyone's life? It is a myth, a fable--and it comes most strangely from a man who has spent virtually his entire life as a servant of that government he now professes to fear so much.

	But of course the men who have taken the General in tow do know what has been going on in this country. They know what they want. And some of them at least have given unmistakable evidence of wanting to set aside the work of fifty years--the work of Theodore Roosevelt. They would turn our joint heritage, our public estate, over to private exploitation.

	These are some of the things you have to think about in this election. And I hope you will also think hard about what kind of foreign policy you want this country to follow in the years ahead. We face a long, tough, bitter struggle to preserve freedom in the world. We know in our hearts, all of us, that it is childish to suppose there is any simple solution, any easy answer. The lives of our sons are involved now, while we are fighting in Korea. The lives of everyone would be involved if that conflict were to grow into world war.

	All of us know that what is ahead is a dangerous, expensive, painful struggle--a struggle that can only be won for peace and freedom if we are willing to put our brains, our money, our sweat and our blood into the effort.

	Those are the facts. You know them, I know them. And we once had reason to suppose that the General knew them.

	Instead he has been asking people to vote for men who have protested, and opposed, and hamstrung our foreign policy measures; men who have tried to slash our military and economic aid to free European and Asian countries; voted against the Point Four Program; voted to cripple our reciprocal trade program for putting international commerce on a sensible and self-sustaining basis.

	On the other hand I urge you to vote for Henry Jackson and Hugh Mitchell. These are the men who have voted to oppose Communism with actions, and not just with words. These men saw the Communist menace to the free world early, and they did something about it.

	The General has been doing other strange things in this campaign, too, since his famous meeting with Senator Taft in New York. Some perhaps can be explained by what some charitably call the necessities of political compromise. But one I feel deserves another look.

	I have spoken on other occasions of his criticism of our taking United States troops out of Korea in 1949 pursuant to a United Nations resolution, an action he himself recommended when he was Chief of Staff of the Army. Now he implies that we could bring our men home from Korea soon if we would only train some South Korean soldiers to take their place.

	Surely as our most distinguished soldier the General must know that we have been training South Koreans as rapidly as we could for a long time now. He must know that the South Korean divisions have been growing in combat ability and carrying more of the load of battle every month. He must have seen in the newspapers that one of the South Korean divisions has just conducted one of the most heroic combat operations of the whole war on White Horse Mountain and has been warmly praised by United States observers for its courage under fire.

	I will not play politics with war and peace. Our men are fighting in Korea so they will not come home from Korea just as soon as our national safety permits. And, for my part, I deplore the suggestion that they can come any sooner. There is no trick that can end the Korean War--and I am sure the General knows this full well.

	While we block Soviet expansion in Korea, we must work everywhere to build collective strength for peace. We are doing well in our world struggle for peace and freedom. Both in Europe and in Asia, great strides are being made toward strength and unity among the free nations.

	Our problems are formidable, the task is appalling, but we will have peace only if we earn it. We have not been entrapped by soft words or soft solutions. And so it is with our tasks here at home. The farm program, rural electrification, social security, our co-ops, were not built by men who sought to evade difficulties at the price of results. The Marshall Plan, the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance, the Point Four Program and our grim task in Korea reflected no preference for the easy path--to disaster.

	Because the Democratic party is the party not of evasion but of responsibility, I believe it has earned your support. And I believe it will get it!

	Before I say farewell to Spokane, I want to add another word. This country was discovered by the celebrated Meriwether Lewis and George Clark and ever since men have written with rapture about the glories of this Empire of the Northwest.

	But it is easier to discover and explore a country than to help govern one. It is easier to conquer a wilderness than to conquer the unseen forces commanding the allegiance of men coming after. It is easier to be an explorer in the trackless mountain ranges than it is to search out the dark recesses of the social jungle--the thickets in the soul of man out of which comes his overt actions.

	There came another young man to Spokane, some 25 years ago, who loved to tramp the trails and sing the songs of men and nature. His home is across the street from the executive mansion in Springfield, where I live, and he was a long time friend of my family in Illinois. When his mother died, he chose Spokane out of all the cities of America as the place to live and write. His name, as you know was Vachel Lindsay--the poet.

	Vachel Lindsay, too, was a man exploring the soul of mankind. He, too, shared the wistful search for the song of the nightingale within us all. He was more than a poet of nature and a tramp along the trails of earth--he was a prophetic spirit, a voice in the wilderness, and like Abou Ben Adhem, he loved his fellow men.

	From Lewis and Clark to Lindsay, America has much to learn about its frontiers. Physical frontiers have ceased to be, geographically, in America. But the human frontier, the social frontier, the frontier of human relations and our social order, this challenges the best intellects and the most dedicated spirits in our time. Since the free-land frontier ceased to exist so that the footloose and fancy free could pull up and move to the further range, Americans have been facing the new frontier at home and abroad--and the way we conquer the new frontier is not with ax and saw and gun but through the more difficult task of vision, law and government.


ELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESHISTORY--UNITED STATESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESILLINOISKOREAN WARNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSRECLAMATION PROJECTSREGIONALISM--NORTHWEST     A WA QA MA EA
 8A 3A .A 'A A A @ @	  	  	  	  	 n 	 f 	 \ 	 ? 	 * 	  e: