

	Over the last twenty months, I have been campaigning for the presidency in one of the longest formally announced campaigns in the history of this country. During all that time, I have given attention to the whole range of domestic problems that face our country--the problems of unemployment, problems of inflation and mismanagement of the economy, the misdirection of the priorities of the nation, the loss of confidence and credibility in our government, and the erosion of our constitutional safeguards.

	In all of these areas I have offered alternatives to the American people. I have offered something else besides the sterile Republican rallying cry, "four more years."

	But there is one concern that surpasses all the others. And that matter has weighed on my conscience for almost nine years, and for all that time it has literally been an obsession with me. And now that issue forces us to ask, more directly and more insistently than any other, these questions: What kind of country is it we intend to be? What is it we want to stand for in the world? And how would we like to be remembered when the history of our time is written?

	During the hour we meet here tonight, one hundred thousand pounds of deadly bombs will fall on the people of Southeast Asia.

	As I speak to you tonight, hundreds of American pilots and airmen are confined to prison cells in Hanoi. Some of them have been in those cells for more than eight years--for longer than it took for America to win her independence.

	Nearly 150,000 Americans are still mired down in this war. The President talks about winding it down. He has withdrawn forces from Vietnam. But those 150,000, in Vietnam and offshore and in Thailand and in Guam, have a direct assignment to continue the combat in Indochina. They are still ground down in that bitter struggle.

	And as I speak, thousands of Asians are burning, bleeding, and dying under the bombs that fall from American planes. They suffer in a struggle most of them will never understand. Many of them are innocent children, many are the old--but none of them have direct responsibility for the conflict that takes their lives.

	I want you to know tonight that every fiber of my being, every ounce of moral sense that I possess, is determined to do whatever we have to do in 1972 to see that we do not have four more years of this barbarism.

	Now, in the presidential campaign of 1968, the Republican presidential candidate said, in his most serious tones, that he had a plan for peace. He said that once the campaign was over his plan would be unveiled. And then he added, on October 9, 1968, almost four years ago: "Those who have had the chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance."

	Today that candidate is president of the United States. And his four years are up.

	But his secret plan will remain forever a secret in the hearts of 20,000 Americans who were alive at the time that plan was announced and who are no longer with us. It remains a secret to countless thousands of human beings in these little countries in Southeast Asia who have remained under aerial and artillery bombardment since January of 1969.

	What is it that keeps a great and decent country like the United States involved in this cruel killing and destruction? Why is it that we cannot find the wit and the will to escape from this dreadful conflict that has tied us down for so long?

	We are told first of all that the bombing continues and our military presence continues in order to rescue the prisoners of war. But what a transparent fraud that is. 

	Just a few days ago, the one hundredth American in the last five months was blasted out of the sky over North Vietnam. In fact, more than five hundred airmen have become prisoners or missing in action since Mr. Nixon set out on this course to free the prisoners of war.

	Surely, we can all see that bombing does not release prisoners, but only makes more prisoners with each passing day. It will make new prisoners of men who at this very moment are now free--men who have not yet been sent out on the mission that will take their liberty away.

	Last Christmas, the wife of a missing American pilot, Major William Mullens, wrote about her fifth bleak Christmas alone. Listen to her words:

	"Christmas is pain and lonely and tears; and he'll be away for many more years...

	"Don't think about Asians, or question why; prisoners alone and forgotten should die...

	"Talk of brotherhood and kindness and cheer; tell all your friends it's been a good year...

	"Peace on earth is a lie, and death is sadness; they'll never be back, for mankind is madness..."

	Only one thing will bring these prisoners of war back, and that is to end this murderous war in Southeast Asia.

	Last week, I had a brief argument with a young man at a Western Electric plant in Columbus, Ohio. He was one of many Americans who have been told, and I suspect he sincerely believes, that we are staying in Vietnam, and that the bombers go out day after day, on behalf of self-determination and freedom for the people of Vietnam. But what a tragic deception that is.

	General Thieu's brand of freedom means jail for anyone who has the audacity to tell the truth about what is going on in South Vietnam.

	It means if you have the courage to run against him for the presidency, as a lawyer named Dzu did four years ago, you go to the penitentiary after the election. It means forcing a law through his puppet assembly to disqualify all the other candidates in the most recent campaign.

	His brand of democracy recently has meant suspending the electoral process and local control in ten thousand villages across the face of South Vietnam. And anyone who is even vaguely aware of the importance of village life to the people of that part of the world knows what a cruel and terrible blow this is to the whole political and social structure of South Vietnam.

	Mr. Thieu's brand of democracy means closing down the newspapers any time an editor has the courage to suggest that there might be something wrong in the administration of Saigon.

	General Thieu's brand of self-determination means executing more than 38,000 of his fellow countrymen without a trial, on suspicion that they do not support the government.

	It means a government that literally seethes with corruption--with officials who steal our aid and who are deeply involved in the hard-drug traffic that has sent poisonous, killing heroin into the veins of a hundred thousand American GIs. And those same Southeast Asian drugs are now flowing into this country, not only killing our people or destroying their lives, but causing at least 50 percent of the crime that makes it unsafe to be on the streets at night.

	Mr. Nixon told us last week about his plan to cut off military and economic aid to any government that traffics in hard drugs. I would suggest that the place to begin is with his friend, General Thieu, in Saigon.

	Then we are told there is a third reason why we are in Vietnam. We are told that the bombs fall so that America's honor will be preserved.

	But how many of us know what is really happening to the honor of America in Southeast Asia? How many of us know how our moral posture in the world has suffered because of the terrible death and killing that goes on in the name of America?

	It is a fact that American casualties are down and the economic costs have been somewhat reduced. But another kind of cost has escalated.

	The war now, more than at any stage since we have been in Southeast Asia, has become an assault on the decency and self-respect of the people of this great country.

	For what we now present to the world is the spectacle of a rich and powerful nation standing off at a safe distance and raining down a terrible technology of death on helpless people below--the most incredible and murderous bombardment in all the history of mankind.

	Almost four million tons of bombs have been dropped since 1969--more than all the bombs unleashed in all theaters in World War II and Korea combined.

	All of that has been done in the name of saving South Vietnam. Yet the tragic irony is that most of the victims are those same South Vietnamese people we say we are there to defend.

	Enemy soldiers know how to avoid the bombs. They move at night and hide by day. They stay out in the jungles where even the smart bombs cannot find them.

	But there are twenty million bomb craters scarring the face of South Vietnam.

	There are 400,000 innocent civilians dead--old men, women, and children. And all of them are South Vietnamese.

	There are 900,000 civilians wounded--all South Vietnamese.

	There are 6.3 million refugees living in hovels and dying from hunger and disease. They are all South Vietnamese, and they represent about a third of the population of that land.

	We seem to be saying that one man killed is murder, but thousands killed is only a statistic.

	We have counted bodies so long that somehow they just don't seem to count any more at all.

	Perhaps we need to hear how this war seems to the people who are on the receiving end. Listen to this young father in Laos:

	"My son is six years old. We are from Ban Qui. In July 1969 we were all sitting in our little shelter out in the forest when the planes came. Two people with us--a man aged sixty and a little girl aged seven--were killed lying in their beds. My little son's hand was hit, and his fingers flew up, embedding themselves in the roof of our shelter."

	The air strikes come with new weapons and new techniques, and these weapons have a very special purpose. They cannot blow up a bridge. They cannot destroy a structure. They do not stop a truck or even penetrate a rubber tire. Many of them have only one purpose, and that is to kill and maim human beings.

	We have the innocuous-sounding "pineapple" with 250 steel pellets in the casing of each one. A single aircraft carries 1,000 of these "pineapples," or 250,000 pellets, and it can saturate an area the size of four football fields. And it just hits people.

	We have developed a way to explode those weapons above the ground, so they can even reach people who hide in ditches or holes.

	We have steel fleshettes that penetrate the skin and cannot be removed. We have napalm--jellied gasoline that sticks to the skin as it burns. We have white phosphorus that cannot be extinguished until it burns itself out.

	Now, these are some of the weapons that produced that picture we saw in the press not too long ago of the little girl, Kim, running away from a school that had been hit by American napalm. She was naked, her clothing had been inflamed, her flesh was burned, and she was running directly into the lens of a cameraman nearby.

	And I want to say to my fellow Americans that that picture ought to break the heart of the people of America. 

	Can we ever comprehend the horror? Can we ever understand the anguish of a mother who watches her child torn apart before her eyes, of a father whose family disappears forever beneath tons of earth?

	I do not charge that we are deliberately pounding innocent civilians in Indochina. That is not my claim.

	But what I ask is this: Does it make any difference whether it is deliberate or not? On the ground, the suffering is no less if it is inflicted by accident instead of design. And our most sincere apology will not resurrect the dead.

	I was a bomber pilot in World War II. We fought then, and many died, to defeat a vicious tyranny that threatened the world. If need be, we would do it again.

	But how can we tolerate today's awful destruction, when we know its only purpose is to preserve one kind of tyranny against another?

	How can we tolerate it, when we know that where we once destroyed a village in order to save it, we will soon complete the destruction of an entire land?

	So I ask here tonight how our honor is saved by fewer American deaths, and more Asian. I ask if we are more honorable because the color of the corpses has changed from white to yellow.

	I think not, for the blood is still red.

	I think not, because when we think of the people of Indochina, we must know that they, too, are created in the image of God.

	Our children look to us for moral guidance--for America's true ideals. But we protect the prestige of war-makers. And we pay with the soul of our nation.

	The war does not represent the honor of America, and it does not represent the American people.

	I have traveled this land for twenty months in a quest for the presidency and in a search for peace.

	I have looked into the eyes of people all across America. I have listened to what they had to say, and I have tried to sense what was in their hearts.

	What I have found is that the American people remain a powerful moral force--a force for compassion and love and human decency, not only in our own land, but throughout the world.

	And I have found that the American people have a common hunger to love their country, to take pride in what it does, and to honor what it represents. They want to stand up once again for the ideals which gave America birth two hundred years ago.

	That is a goal I share.

	That is the reason for my firm pledge that the bombs will stop falling on Indochina--and we will begin the withdrawal of all our remaining forces--on the very day of my inauguration.

	On that same day, we will work to arrange the release of our prisoners of war, so they can all be returned along with our forces within ninety days.

	We will end our military support of the corrupt regime in Saigon, so the people of Vietnam will be able at least to choose their own future.

	And then we will resolve that never again will we commit the young blood of America to bail out a corrupt dictatorship half a world away.

	So I ask you to come with me, and we will restore peace.

	Come with me, and we will find again the true patriotism that has nourished our freedom for two centuries.

	Come with me, and we will bring America home to the great and good and decent land our people want it to be.

DICTATORSHIPSDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIES--SOUTHEAST ASIAHUMAN RIGHTSPOWS/MIASSOUTH VIETNAMPACIFISMVIETNAM WAR     	8 7 7 7 7
 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7	 o 	 b 	 5 	 ) 	       e: