

	Are we going to carry Minnesota?  Are we going to win this election?  Are we going to put a people's president in the White House?

	I have traveled all over this country.  In the last few weeks, I have taken this massive national press corps with me.  Every day, it's been cold.  I said, "Just wait, it's going to warm up.  We're going up to Duluth, where people will give you a warm spirit," and here we are today.

	I'm back in my home state to make certain that we win this election.  I have many, many qualities that I would bring to the White House.  As some of you know, I am the best fisherman and the best hunter ever to seek the presidency of the United States.

	I come to Minnesota today when there are facts here that would make a stone cry.  We've got communities on the Iron Range where over 50 percent of the people who were working just a few years ago are out of work, and where the young in those communities, who very much want to live there and live in Minnesota, have had to take up roots and go somewhere else.

	I look at the great Iron Range, which was the promise of Minnesota's economy just a few years ago, and now you know it's a black cloud.

	I look at our farmers in Minnesota who produce all this abundance for our country and produce so many of the values of decency and honesty that we depend upon, and I see those farmers having the worst year in their history.

	I look at young Minnesotans who want to go on to college and vocational schools and to stretch their minds, who can't find the help that they need.  I see a president turning his back on their future.

	I am here today to say that that's not what Minnesotans believe in.  We believe in a solid, just, compassionate, hopeful future.  That's why I'm in politics.  That's why I'm running for president.  And that's why we're going to win this election!

	I'm here today to ask for your help, not for myself, but for all of us.  Not just for us, but for our children and all the children who follow us in American history.

	Now, some of these pollsters and experts are saying the election is over, that your vote doesn't count.  They have decided for you who your president is going to be, but I've got a little message for them:  Polls don't vote; people vote.  And you're going to vote on November 6 for a change.

	We've never had an election with higher stakes and deeper differences than in '84.  This election is not about jelly-beans and pen pals.  It's about the future of our country.

	You have to watch these Republicans.  They've done a lot of grave-robbing this year.  Whenever a Democrat dies, they suddenly discover they liked him after all.  So they honor Franklin Roosevelt.  They honor Harry Truman.  They even tried to take our Hubert Humphrey from us the other day.  Hubert's mad as hell about that.

	This president went all over the country saying what a good friend he was of John Kennedy.  Minnesota, in case the national press doesn't know it, loved Jack Kennedy, and it was Minnesota that put Jack Kennedy over the top for president of the United States in 1960.

	Then it turns out that while I was chairman of Minnesotans for Kennedy, Mr. Reagan was chairman of a thing called Democrats for Nixon.  In the same year, he wrote a letter in which he said Kennedy got his ideas from Karl Marx and Adolf Hitler.

	That's the difference.  I liked Kennedy because he stood for the best in America.  I don't like Ronald Reagan's policies because he's closed the door on opportunity and decency for millions and millions of Americans, and that's the difference.

	President Reagan likes to say that Uncle Sam is a kindly old man with a spine of steel, and that he is.  But I want to see Uncle Sam as well with a mind and with a heart and a soul and a conscience.  That's a real Uncle Sam.  That's what we're up to in this election.

	Today I'm asking you to join me in building America's future.  You gave me a chance as attorney general; many, many times as senator; and then as vice president, to travel this country more widely than I think any other living American has traveled.

	You can start from the Minnesota Iron Range and Duluth and go through Wisconsin and Iowa, go through Illinois and Michigan and Indiana and Ohio and Pennsylvania and New York, and you will find a vast Rust Bowl, with tragic unemployment and broken dreams all through the great industrial Midwest.

	These enormous Reagan debts have made it almost impossible to export the things that produce good jobs, and they are swamping America with a literal ocean of cheap foreign imports.

	With it go our best jobs from the Iron Range all through our great Midwest.  With it goes farm prosperity, and with it goes the dreams of our children.

	Some of you in this room are of my generation.  When we grew up, did we not always assume that each generation would do better than the previous?  Did we not assume that if there were going to be jobs, they would be found first in America?  If there was going to be prosperity improved, it would be found here in America?  And if there was to be a future, it was here for our children?

	They have ruined that dream in America.  I want to be president to bring it back for all of the people of this country.

	I want an America that's fair for working people.  I stood with working Minnesotans all of my life.  These massive federal debts must come down.  The president won't admit it.

	But the real question is: Who's going to pay?  In the 1981 tax bill, if you made $200,000 a year, you got $60,000 in tax relief.  If you made $30,000 a year or less, all taxes considered, you got no relief or your taxes actually went up.

	Many corporations that are profoundly profitable don't pay a dime in taxes.  General Electric, Mr. Reagan's former employer, in three years earned six-and-a-half million dollars, didn't pay a dime in federal taxes, and got $280 million back in return.

	When the vice president of the United States pays less as a percentage of his taxes than the janitor who cleans up his office, something's rotten.  It's got to be changed, and I intend to do it.

	I want an America where kids come first.  I know this is a Minnesota idea.  My dad was a minister.  My mom was a music teacher.  We didn't have a dime, but I was able to get through the University of Minnesota because of the GI Bill and because we had reasonable tuition at the time.

	I want a nation in which every young American, regardless of the income of their parents, has just as much opportunity to go on to college and vocational school and beyond as my generation did, and I intend to fight for that objective.

	I want an America where we open doors.  This great state launched Hubert Humphrey to national leadership.  Hubert did more for civil rights than any leader in this century.  He took to national leadership the spirit of Minnesotans that gives everyone a chance and denies no one for unfair reasons.

	I want to be a president who restores that Minnesota-Humphrey sense of fairness in that White House again. I want us to open doors and to give every American a chance.

	This summer, when the president rejoiced with all of us in the victory of our young in Los Angeles at the Olympics, did he stop to think how that was possible that we won all the gold?

	Didn't he notice that--no thanks to him--because we enforced civil rights laws, because we prohibited discrimination against women, our athletes won?  And they were white and they were black and they were brown and they were Asian and they were American Indian and they were young men and they were young women, because everybody was there and participated and let us win.

	I want an America where the president defends our air, our water, our land, and our public health again.  If you elect me, I will guarantee you we're not going to have the likes of James Watt or Ann Gorsuch or any of those polluters or poisoners anywhere near the nation's capital.

	I want a nation of justice, where the Justice Department stands for the Constitution.  Minnesota is a religious state.  We're proud of our faith.  American is the most religious nation on earth, and there's a reason for it:  Never in the two-hundred-year history of our country have we allowed the politicians and the government to interfere with the purity and the honesty of our religious faith, and we'll never let it happen in this country again.  Never.

	If Mr. Reagan gets four more years, Mr. Falwell may get five more justices, and I don't want him to have a single one.  I want judges who believe in justice.

	I want an America that stands for human rights again.  Another Minnesota idea.  We rejoice in our democracy and in our liberty, but we want our president to reflect those values.   We don't want him to send his vice president to the Philippines and praise Marcos's love of democracy.

	We don't want him playing games with the racists in South Africa.

	We don't want him looking the other way from the death squads of El Salvador.

	The American people do not want that illegal, dirty war going on in Nicaragua either.  We want it stopped.  We want it stopped.

	I see an America where we remain strong against our adversaries, but where we have a president who sees the most important issue of our times.  This president stands condemned for putting [in place] the worst arms race, the most runaway, expensive, and dangerous arms race in the history of the atomic era.

	Now he wants to extend this arms race into the heavens with a trillion-dollar program that would delegate the starting of a war to computers, would make the world much more dangerous.

	I'm here to tell you I'll have none of it.  I'm here to stop it.  We're going to stop it, and we're going to control those god-awful weapons before they destroy us all.

	And one idea that runs deep in Minnesota is the basic belief that kids aren't any good unless they honor their fathers and their mothers.  This nation, with your help, over the last several years has put in place Social Security and Medicare to make it possible for people, when they retire, to be able to retire with dignity and some security and without fearing the awful cost of a major illness.

	I know what that's meant in my own life.  When my father died, my mother raised the last three boys, and I was one of them.  She put every dime she had into her kids--

	[To audience member] You may not want to hear about Social Security and Medicare, and I don't blame you, but we're going to hear about it, and we're going to elect a president to protect those programs for our senior citizens!

	And, in her late sixties, Mom came down with cancer.  The first thing that happened to her was she got a notice canceling her private health insurance.  The only thing that permitted Mother to pay those bills and live with dignity, as she did the rest of her life, was Medicare.

	She deserved that.  She worked her whole life. She never made any money.  It wasn't important, but she was a good mother and a good neighbor and a wonderful American.  Like most Americans, not on the make, just good citizens of the United States.

	That experience in my family has been repeated in millions of other homes of decent Americans of moderate income who have done everything we have had a right to expect of them.

	This president, just as he assaulted Social Security after promising not to do so, refuses to make any commitment about Medicare.  He has tried, on four successive occasions, to deeply cut Medicare.  He has made a lot of cuts in it already.  The current proposal, if it had been enacted--but Jim Oberstar and the others blocked it--would have increased the cost of the average stay in hospitals for senior citizens by 70 percent.

	He won't tell us what he's going to do because if you knew, you wouldn't vote for him.  I say this:  Let's not break our commitment to our parents.  Our time will come when we will want our children to care for us.  It's now our time.  I want to be president of the United States, and I'm going to protect Social Security, and I'm going to protect Medicare for our senior citizens.

	Finally, I want to be the president who brings America back together again.  Today we have a president who often says he wants America to be a shining city on the hill.  He refers to perhaps the most famous sermon in our nation's history, given by Reverend Winthrop to the Puritans as he entered the harbor well over those three-hundred years ago.

	What Mr. Reagan omits in his speeches is omitted entirely in his administration.  Because what the minister said was necessary to be that shining city he described as follows:

	     We must strengthen, preserve, and comfort one another.  We
	     must bear one another's burdens.  We must look not only at our
	     own things, but also on the things of our brethren.  We must
	     rejoice together, mourn together, labor and suffer together. 
	     We must be knit together by a bond of love.

	That's what's missing now, and that's what this country needs again.  We need a president who will bring us back together as a nation, as a community, as a family where we care for one another.

	Over these last twenty years, you've allowed me to represent you in so many ways.  All during those years, we've been together, haven't we?  In happy times, in sad times, in victory and defeat.  We've always worked together.

	When there was massive unemployment on the Iron Range in the late fifties, Hubert and I and John Blotnik and Jim Oberstar and the rest of us went to work.  It took some time, but they didn't have to call and holler at us.  We were there with them because when they suffered, we suffered.

	When the young people of this community could not find student assistance so that they could go on to college, we worked together and we put in place a policy that permits every young American to go on to college.

	When this university needed a medical school, and they said they couldn't have it, Rudy Perpich and I and Oberstar and many of us went to work, and now you have a great medical school at this university.

	When seniors were being wiped out by major illness, when Social Security was being outstripped by inflation, we were together.

	When the Indians that lived in northern Minnesota were living in housing and had a tuberculosis that was five and ten times the national average, and raising children in the cold in the winter on the soil without any floor or any decent housing whatsoever, we worked together and provided decent housing.

	When there was discrimination, we fought it.  When the handicapped suffered, we reached out to help them.

	Time and time again, we've been together, in good times and in bad times.  And I wouldn't trade one minute of it for anything in the world.  That's what we need again in that White House and in our country.  We've got to gather together and solve these problems.  I intend to do it.

	I want to go back to the range and see those people back at work.  I want to see the young people of northeastern Minnesota having a chance to stay here and live their lives here with decency and prosperity.

	I want to see an America where it's American-produced exports that go overseas and not a constant rush and river and mountain of imports swamping this country and taking our jobs and our future away.

	I want our farmers to prosper again.  That's why I seek the presidency:  not just for a program here or a program there but for a principle.  That we should stand together, be together, in good times and bad times, so that together we can build this nation once again into that example, that shining city on the hill.

	You can make the difference for me in Minnesota.  I believe before the news is over tonight, the word is going to be across this land that Minnesota's going to do the right thing again.

	We have just one week to go.  I was just in Seattle yesterday, and they had the biggest crowd in the history of Seattle--huge, enormous, excited, committed.

	Here today we see again the spirit of America.  The pollsters say you don't count.  A major slick magazine today has already picked the next president of the United States for us.

	Mr. Reagan is taking his re-election for granted.  They've got old George Bush locked up in the basement because he makes mistakes every time he goes out.

	I've been endorsed by the Washington Post, The New York Times, the papers all over this country, because thinking people see what's involved here.  We're going to win this election because it's time for new leadership.  It's time for America to move on.

	Thank you very much.

CIVIL RIGHTSEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESMANUFACTURINGMEDICARENUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)REGIONALISM--MIDWESTSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--GENERALUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     fB 2B ,B (B  B
 B B B B A A A A	  	  	  	  	  	 } 	 I 	 5 	 & 	  e: