

	Thank you very much, my good friend Charlie Rangel, for that very kind introduction.  There isn't a finer member of the U.S. House of Representatives today than Charlie Rangel.  Let's give him a big hand for his leadership and for his friendship.

	This foundation again tonight honors this superb Black Caucus of congressmen and congresswomen who represent twenty-one congressional districts in this nation, growing with every election in numbers, but with influence far greater than just twenty-one members.

	They are the conscience of the House.  Each of them is a leader with a strong and forceful personality.  I know every one of them, and tonight, each of you, you are magnificent.  We are proud of you.  We want to double your numbers just as quickly as we can, and we're proud of what you stand for.

	We congratulate Lou Stokes, the chairman of the foundation.  I can't name all the members.  I won't, but I want to especially congratulate Gus Hawkins, the senior member and now chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee.  Over the years of the Congress, it has been the committee that has fought for justice year in and year out.

	And it is comforting to know that Gus Hawkins, that champion of justice, now handles the gavel in that most important committee in the U.S. House of Representatives.

	Tonight, in a few moments, Reverend Jackson will receive the Adam Clayton Powell Award this year, and we honor him for his leadership.

	I believe that I had something to do with his winning this award.  You know, when he announced for president, he wasn't a very good speaker.  But when he came up against Mondale, he had to learn.

	And now when you hear him tonight, you're going to hear the new Jesse Jackson, new and powerful and compelling.  And I know he'll take time to thank me for my contribution.

	Tonight we meet thirty-seven days before what I am sure will be the most important election in modern history.  And tonight I want to announce something.  I'm going to win this election and go into that White House and lead this nation.

	I'm going to win for three reasons.  First of all, we're together and united like never before.

	Second, we're not just interested in this campaign--we're mad.  And we want to win this election because it's important.

	And finally, we're going to win because we're right.  And I am proud to be with you in this effort.  We have fought together side by side over 30 years in every fight for civil rights and justice that's been conducted in this country.

	Together we have achieved what can only be called one of the most successful peaceful revolutions for justice in modern history.

	We are proud of that progress.  But we know that, in this election, there is at stake the question of whether all of this progress will be destroyed and whether all of the progress that we know yet must be achieved will be paralyzed under a re-elected President Ronald Reagan.  Now he says that that's not the case.  But this evening I'd like to address that issue just a bit.

	Last year, he met with the Caucus of Black Republicans.  Didn't take much room.  I think they used a telephone booth.

	Well, have we got one here?  Stand up.  Let's give him a hand.  I'd like to meet you afterwards. I think we'll have it unanimous by about midnight here.

	In his remarks to this group, he said something that he's been saying for years and that explains a lot.  He said that all the progress that together we've made over the last thirty years "threatens the character of the American people."

	Of course, it's just the reverse.  When the war on hunger nearly eliminated malnutrition in America, that didn't threaten our character.  It rescued our hungry.

	When Medicaid cut infant mortality in half, it didn't threaten our character.  It saved our children.

	When Head Start and Title I help all kids get a fair chance in school, that didn't threaten our character.  It educated our nation.

	And when we pulled millions out of poverty--a course, incidentally, that's being dramatically reversed--it didn't undermine our character.  It confirmed our compassion.

	They may think our struggle was a failure.  But let me tell them what failure really is.  

	When millions of children are born in poverty; when they go to school hungry; when they don't learn basic skills or have any chance to even learn about hope.  That's failure.

	And when Americans by the thousands roam the streets and sleep on grates, and thousands of them have been plunged into tragedy, that's real failure.

	And when thirty of our fellow human beings are killed in South Africa simply by pleading for justice, and 80 percent of that nation's people are prohibited from voting, and when Reverend Jackson asked for a visa to go to South Africa and plead the cause of humanity, and this government remains silent and refuses to press for that visa, that's real failure, and we ought to be ashamed of it.

	Now, I don't disagree with everything Mr. Reagan has said.  When he kicked off his campaign, particularly, he said something with which I agree.  And I quote him: "You ain't seen nothin' yet."

	Well, when it comes to jobs for our youth who are condemned to joblessness, we ain't seen nothing yet.

	When it comes to educating these children who need our help, we ain't seen nothing yet.

	When it comes to keeping the Civil Rights Commission independent and as a conscience of our people, we ain't seen nothing yet.

	When it comes to enforcing the civil rights laws, we ain't seen nothing at all.

	And if he's re-elected, if you think this crowd has already undermined black colleges, you ain't seen nothing yet.

	If you think he's already done something to damage the Supreme Court, you ain't seen nothing yet.

	If you think he's undermined Parren Mitchell's efforts to bring entrepreneurship to minority Americans, you ain't seen nothing yet.

	And if you think they've cozied up to apartheid in South Africa these last four years, you ain't seen nothing yet.

	We know the answer.  We don't want to see any of it at all.  Not take a chance.

	A few weeks ago, the president went to Los Angeles and rejoiced with all of us in the magnificent success of our young Americans, who defeated the world and gathered more gold medals, I think, than any single nation in the history of the Olympics.  They made us proud.

	But I wonder if Mr. Reagan stopped to wonder how it was possible that we were so good.  When he watched television, did he see something that he should have seen?  If he just watched with open eyes, he would have seen whites and blacks and Hispanics and Asians and Native Americans and everybody.

	He would have seen young men and young women.  And might it not have occurred to him that if this nation had taken his advice and not passed those civil rights laws, we might not have done as well as we did at that Olympics?

	And if we'd followed his advice and never passed Title IX, to protect the right of women not to be discriminated against in athletic programs in colleges and universities across this country, whether we'd have won as many medals as we should?

	The answer is:  Because we fought for justice, because we opened up doors, we were able to tap the best talent in America.  That's why we won, and that's why we need civil rights legislation.

	Now, tonight we meet when that issue is at stake again in the United States Senate, which is in session at this very moment.

	The question is whether the Civil Rights Act of 1984 is going to be passed to protect these rights that made these Olympic victories possible, or whether we're going to go on a retreat away from those principles.

	Incidentally, Title IX protects all women from discrimination.  Most of them are white.  This is a measure for all Americans.  The Justice Department, the White House, is playing a clever, slippery game of not trying to be caught in opposing that bill.

	That's not what we elected a president to do, not to get caught.

	We elect a president to stand up and lead this nation.  And tonight I call upon Mr. Reagan to pick up that phone, call Majority Leader Baker, and say, "I want the Civil Rights Act on my desk and I will sign it into law."

	Now, some people are trying to tell us that this election is over.  They're telling you that your vote won't count; your voice doesn't matter.  They don't want you to think about the stakes in this contest.

	As a matter of fact, they want to trivialize it.  "It's not important."

	I say this to them:  This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's about toxic dumps that are killing our children.

	This election is not about country music and birthday cakes.  It's about old folks who can't afford to pay for medicine.

	This election is not about the Olympic torch.  It's about the civil rights laws that opened athletics to women and the minorities who won those medals.

	It's not about sending a teacher into space.  It's about educating our children right here on earth.

	It's not about the size of my opponent's crowds.  It's about the size of its deficits.

	It's not about the Republicans sending hecklers to my rally.  It's about Jerry Falwell picking the next justices of the Supreme Court.

	And this election is about leadership.  It's about what we expect a president to do when he represents American values and dreams.

	To represent America, it is not enough to engage in some kind of orgy of congratulations.

	We know we're great, but we want to be greater.  What we need is not self-congratulations but challenge.

	What kind of question is it to ask the American people if you want to be our president, "Are you better off?"

	We should be asking, "Are we better off?"  "Are our children better off?"  "Is our nation better off?"  "Is our future better off?"  These are the questions.

	The song "America the Beautiful" tells us to "crown our good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea."  There are no words of selfishness and self-interest in there at all.

	We need a president who rejoices in our progress but challenges us to see our problems, to solve those problems, and move on to a higher plateau of prosperity and justice.

	What we need again are leaders who tell us what Martin Luther King, Jr., once said:  "Let us be dissatisfied until every man and woman can have material necessities for their bodies, culture and education for their minds, freedom and human dignity for their spirits."

	Let us be dissatisfied until discrimination and intolerance are found only in history books.

	Let us be dissatisfied until we can look back on hunger and poverty and say that we have overcome.

	Let us be dissatisfied until our youth no longer waste their lives on the streets and their minds on drugs.

	Let us be dissatisfied until there are jobs for every pair of hands that need work.

	Let us be dissatisfied until the victims of oppression from Johannesburg to Warsaw can breathe the sweet air of freedom.

	Let us be dissatisfied until our children no longer dream the nightmares of nuclear war.

	And let us be dissatisfied until justice rolls down like the waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.

	That's what we need in leadership again in America.

	Thank you very much.

AFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL RIGHTSDISCRIMINATION--WOMENDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALOLYMPIC GAMESPOVERTYSOUTH AFRICASPORTS/ATHLETES--WOMEN     *- , , , ,
 , , , , , , , ,	  	 t 	 h 	 S 	 6 	 ) 	 " 	  e: