

	Good morning, folks.  I hope that first you will allow me to address a word to the school children.  It looks to me like I got them a holiday and if I did, I am certainly going to be popular with them at least.  I am all for it, because I believe that when we are talking about the future of America we are talking about the youngsters that are sitting around our supper tables and talking with us, and we hope imbibing from us some of the lessons from the mistakes and errors we have made and thereby possibly they can do better.

	I heard this town called the butter capital of the world and instantly I thought there must be some relationship between you and me.  The last job I had before I entered the Army was as a second engineer in a creamery and refrigerating plant, and I learned something about butter making.  When they told me this was the butter capital, I said I must be coming home.

	But they also told me that here you had developed something else to a very high degree of perfection, something in which I am vastly interested, which is the farmer's cooperative.  I believe that the farmer's cooperative is the real salvation of the family farm and I believe the family farm is the salvation of our agriculture.  I am certainly proud of the initiative you have taken in that line and certainly you will find in me a supporter of that effort.

	I have been talking over the past day or so about a number of questions and I find that the Americans I have been visiting with are not waiting for entertainment.  They don't expect me to be a Bob Hope; they don't expect me to have some wisecracks.  They expect me to speak seriously, and that is what I want to do this morning in the few moments I have with you.

	For example, one of our problems is this Korean War; how we got into it, what we are going to do about it, how we are going to arrive at a situation in the world where we can keep our youngsters home, where they don't have to go to a foreign shore to serve in uniform during times that we call peaceful times.  That is a job that seems to overshadow all others that we have in this world today, and so far as I am concerned there is nothing amusing about it.  It is deadly serious.  We need people who are dedicated first to America, second to a comprehension of the world's interrelationships one with the other, and thirdly to a determination to be courageous, simple and consistent in attacking this problem so that we may know what we are aiming at--each person in this crowd this morning; what are the aspirations and goals of America in the foreign field; what it will cost us to reach them; and we certainly should know when we do reach them.

	Is dishonesty in government a laughing matter?  Is that something amusing?  Is it funny to know that the collector of internal revenue in Boston, the internal revenue collector in St. Louis, and the one in San Francisco all proved unworthy of their trust?  Those three collectors were handling 5-1/2 billion dollars of our tax money each year.  Is it funny when people so high in government go crooked and at least two of them are in the penitentiary?  Is it funny when another man, called before Senator John Williams for explanation of some of his income couldn't remember where he got 40 thousand dollars in cash that he had in his satchel?  Money may come easy in his job, but 40 thousand bucks is still 40 thousand bucks to most of us, and I think we would know where we got it.

	Is it funny when inflation takes our prices to the point where now the housewife has to take $20 and more down to the grocery store to fill the same market basket that in 1940 she filled for $10?  It is not a laughing matter in my book. 

	Is it a laughing matter when an American is working, according to the tax foundation, roughly four months a year just to pay his taxes?  It is federal, state and local taxes, with the federal government taking the lion's share of them, that forces us to work a third of our time just to pay what the government says we owe.

	Is it a laughing matter when each of all the thousands of babies born today in the United States get as their first inheritance an $1,800 debt?  It is not funny at all.

	Is it funny when evidence was discovered that there are Communists in government and we get the cold comfort of the reply, "Red Herring"?  How are you going to get rid of Communists if you call that funny?

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, of course I have only a few moments with you this morning and I am not going to try to list all of the things in which we have a right to expect better government and better action on the part of Washington.  I am merely going to remind you that free citizens of the United States have first of all the greatest privileges, the greatest rights, the greatest opportunities of any people in the world.  Each of you today has more to look forward to and especially the youngsters than anyone who is born to a throne in Europe, because you are born to the priceless opportunity of carving out your own destiny and making of it what you choose.  That is, so long as we retain Americanism as it has been over this past one and three-quarters centuries.

	The job of us older people is to give to those youngsters those same opportunities, that same system, not merely cash.  We want to give them, of course, the  education that they deserve, the comprehension of our work, but let's--don't think of it only in terms of cash.  Let's turn over a system whereby they can become exactly what you became.  There are many in this audience this morning who were born just as humbly as I was, but what did we do?  Did we sit and pity ourselves?  We got to work, every one of us, and we had the chance that belongs to all respectable citizens to go as far as one can in his own chosen profession.  That, it seems to me, is what we want to turn over.

	How are you going to turn over these rights unless you turn over also a comprehension of the responsibilities?  If I have an individual right, I have an individual responsibility.  That responsibility is to protect those rights.  How do I do it?  I do it by participating in the political activities of my country. I do it by exercising that great right and great responsibility of voting.  Vote according to your own conscience, because I believe so thoroughly that you should inform yourselves as to the great problems of the moment, decide where is the group or the party or the individuals in all echelons who will do their best to work for America consistently, honestly, sympathetically and decently, who are not just out in the business of outpromising.  So firmly do I believe that that I couldn't possibly ask you for your vote.  This is what I ask you:  to examine and make the decision and exercise the responsibility.

	I want to say just one word beyond the business of voting.  Let us assume that the administration of your own choice is put into Washington next January by reason of your votes in November.  Your responsibility has not ceased.  Ladies and gentlemen, at that moment begins the making good on the positive program of promoting peace, of cutting down crazy spending, of getting rid of deficits, of doing those things in our country that we believe are good for 155 million people.  No one man can do that alone.  No one man in a cabinet can do that alone.  No one man in the Congress can do that alone.  The people of the United States have got to continue to study their problems.  They have got to make their voices heard.  That is free government.  Free government isn't merely voting on November 4th.

	If you people, and the millions like you across this broad land, decide that the Republican Party with me as its head is to go in and assume these grave responsibilities next year, we not only need and should have your advice, your council, your digested opinions--it is your duty to give them to us.

	The pledge I make to you this morning is the same pledge that I made to the labor forces on Labor Day, September 1st.  I said that if I should have this responsibility for four years I hoped that at the end of that period--and I would so try to conduct myself as to make it come true--that every man who works and every man who earns, everybody in this United States--farmer, merchant, professional, white collar man--would say, "Well, the man tried to be fair.  He tried to be our friend.  He tried to be an American."  More than that I cannot promise you.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have listened to my words patiently and for that I am highly honored.  I can give you now something just a little bit better than any further listening to my particular sentiments.  I shall bring out my Mamie who wants to meet you.  
AGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSPOLITICAL PARTICIPATIONVOTING     # " " " "
 " " " " " " " "	 c 	 : 	  	  e: