

	Senator Scott Governor Love, Senator Dominick, all of the distinguished guests on the platform and all of the members of this great audience. I want you to know that I am delighted to be here for a number of reasons. First, because I am proud that the man that introduced me, Senator Peter Dominick, not only has one of the great records in the United States Senate, but he is one of the men I am counting on in the new Senate to give that new administration the support that it needs. How about sending him back with a big majority.

	And also may I indicate my enthusiastic support of the candidates for Congress, some of whom have been introduced, I understand. Remember that when you elect a president, give him the men that he needs in the Senate, in the House, who can help him put his program through. You have splendid candidates. I endorse them all enthusiastically, and I urge you in our districts to vote for them.

	And although he is not a candidate, although he is not a candidate this year, could I be permitted a word about a very good friend and a man who is taking on a very great chore for me, Governor Love of this state. Now, Governor Love is one of the leading members of our truth squad, and, believe me, they have a double task this year. They have the responsibility of following Hubert Humphrey around the country and of answering what he says. Now, the trouble is we have had to two-platoon him. One squad has to answer what he says in the morning and the other squad has to answer what he says in the afternoon, which is just the opposite. But I can assure you having Governor Love with his eloquence, ability, integrity telling the truth is a great asset for a campaigner, and I am delighted to be here in his state to pay my tribute to him and to those who have indicated their affection for him by the votes you have given him.

	Then as I stand here before this audience, I, of course, recall the many other occasions that I have come to Denver. I recall the occasion in 1960. I didn't think then the crowd could be bigger, but you have done it. This is the biggest crowd we have ever had. And since you have come, many of you, for long distances and because I know many of you have stood here for a long time and since you are jammed in here like this, I suppose you wonder, is it like this only in Denver or could it be like this in other parts of the country? And I want to tell you something.

	My friends, what is happening in Denver and in Colorado is happening all over America. I can tell you, I have heard the voice of America across this land in the past three weeks. It started three weeks ago in Chicago. We got into the city right after they left town, and when we got there some thought it was a hazardous trip to come in then, but, believe me, it was the biggest and most enthusiastic crowd they had in Chicago's recent political history.

	And then the same thing happened the next day in San Francisco with 300,000. That night at Santa Clara with 30,000 out to a rally. The next night in Houston, Texas, the biggest rally in Texas history. And the next night in Westchester, New York--when Governor Rockefeller introduced me he said it was the biggest and most enthusiastic political rally ever held in his home county of Westchester.

	We are going to carry New York and we are going to carry the nation. That's what it means. But not just in those states. The same in Charlotte, North Carolina. And then across the land in Indianapolis. In Des Moines and all across to Seattle yesterday, the biggest crowd in their political history. Something's happening across this land, and I want to tell you about it. Oh, I see it in the numbers of people and I see it in their enthusiasm. I see it in their youth. Never so many young people. The young people are out, and I believe in them.

	And, of course, I see it also in the signs along the road. Oh, they are very interesting. I have seen some interesting ones here today, both for and against. I will talk about the ones that are for. My friends, the other day in Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, I saw an old lady--I learned later she was eighty-five years of age--sitting on the side of the street in a wheelchair. She had a great big sign, "Sock it to 'em, Dick." And then in Des Moines, Iowa, when we got to Des Moines there was another sign right in the middle in front of me, and he kept waving it in front of the people. It said, "Trade Hubert for the Pueblo." I don't think North Korea would take him. And then another one that we saw yesterday when we were in Idaho, up at Boise, and this one said, "Smile, you are on the road to the White House."

	My friends, I want to tell you who you are, though. What is really significant about these crowds is not their size and not their enthusiasm, but what is even more significant is the fact that these are not the usual partisan crowds.

	Sure, the Republicans are out. But the Democrats and the Independents are out too. I will tell you who they are. Americans are out that have never been out before. These are the people that haven't been breaking the law. These are the people that haven't been shouting and demonstrating and violating the law of the land. These are the people that are doing--my friends, these are the people--these are what I call the "forgotten Americans". You have been paying your taxes, you have been sending your children to school, you have been supporting your churches. You love this country and you love the people who live in this country. You know that if America isn't a good country for all of us to live in, it isn't a good country for any of us.

	And you want progress for all Americans. And the reason you are out, the reason you have taken to the streets in the right way, the peaceful way, and the reason you are going to have a peaceful revolution by your votes on November 5th is this: that you don't like what has happened to America over the past four years and you say we are going to have a change and you are going to give America a change. That's what's going to happen.

	My friends, that is the great issue that I see all over the country, Republicans, Democrats, Independents, regardless of background, concerned Americans, out in great numbers, listening to the candidates, wanting a change, wanting hope. And here we get to the choice, the choice which I think is the most decisive choice, the clearest choice that you will have in your lifetime. And I refer to the choice that has been made between the two major parties in their nominating process. And that was summed up pretty well the other day, and I didn't know what Peter Dominick was going to say in his introduction but it leads right from that.

	It was summed up yesterday when Mr. Humphrey, speaking in Minneapolis, made a very interesting statement. He admitted that both of us had been vice president but he said that he had been vice president during a period when he could point with pride to the record of the last eight years. He has been vice president for four of those years. And he didn't think that I could be proud of the time that I was vice president.

	Now, I just want to set the record straight. My friends, I was vice president for eight years, and I am proud of the fact that I served in an administration that ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's the kind of administration we want.

	And, my friends, I am proud that I served in an administration in which we had peace in the United States, in which we did not have this problem of violence and fear which pervades this nation and its cities today. I am proud of that record. I am proud that I served in an administration in which crime in the nation's capital went down by 1 percent instead of up by 175 percent, as it has in the last eight years. Yes, I am proud, my friends.

	And so I say to you in all fairness, since the issue of who should be proud of the record of the administration has been raised, I want to face it frontally right here in Denver. You are fair-minded people. You are objective people. Let's look at their records.

	And I ask you, as I point out that record, if you think that the man on the other side can point with pride to what we have had and can say to the American people as he does say, "I helped to make that record, I support every bit of it and I will continue those policies."

	My friends, I don't think this country can afford four more years of what we have had over the last four years. I will put it quite directly to you. I say to you that when the time has come when the strongest nation in this world can be tied down in a war in Vietnam with no end in sight for four years; when the time comes that the richest nation in this world can't even manage its own economy; when the time comes that the United States, and all of you young people studying history know this, with the greatest tradition of rule of law and respect for law is torn apart by unprecedented lawlessness; when the time comes that respect for this great country, the greatest in the world, falls so low that a military power like North Korea dares to seize an American naval vessel on the high seas; and when the time comes, my friends, when the time comes that the President of the United States cannot travel abroad or to any major city at home without fear of a hostile demonstration; that's not a record to be proud of. That's a record to change. It's time for new leadership for America.

	My friends, we can have a better day. You can make it a better day. And I want to tell you the promise now of the future. I want to tell you what we need. The kind of policies that Peter Dominick has been supporting and that he and his colleagues will support and that we will provide that leadership for.

	And we have got to begin right at the heart of the problem, the problem that we see over here represented in those signs, no more war, the problem of what is happening in Vietnam, but also how we avoid other Vietnams.

	I point to the record. Who have been the peacekeepers, not just the peace talkers? We have. We have kept the peace. And, my friends, as we look at that record, I say we need a new foreign policy. We need a new foreign policy that not only will bring to an honorable end the war in which we are engaged, but, my friends, we have got to look at what has happened to America over the past twenty years.

	For twenty years this nation has furnished $150 billion in foreign aid to other nations who at that time and in times past could not help themselves. But also in that twenty-year period we not only have furnished most of the money but we have furnished most of the arms and we have furnished most of the men to help other nations defend their freedom against aggression, first in Korea and then in Vietnam.

	But now the world has changed. The other nations that we have helped, they are rich enough, they are strong enough to help themselves, and I say the time has come for a new foreign policy. Let's look at the figures. There are 200 million Americans but there are two billion people that live in the free world, and I say its time for a foreign policy in which other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around this world.

	We will restore the strength of the United States so that we can negotiate the peace that needs to be negotiated from strength and not from weakness and we will restore respect for the United States, not with belligerence, but with the firmness, the firmness that will be understood and the firmness that will mean respect abroad and at home. But if we are going to be respected abroad, my friends, we have got to start right here at home.

	And let me leave one message with all of you here. Of all the ground around this world, important as it is, there is no ground more important than the ground we stand on. Because if we can't keep the peace at home, we are not going to be trusted to keep the peace abroad. And if the United States of America, if we aren't going to be able to establish respect for law at home, we are not going to be trusted to establish the rule of law for nations which, of course, is the road to peace abroad.

	So we look at America, and I ask you if you feel that you could be proud of the record of the last four years. And here it is. Crime has gone up nine times as fast as population. We find that in the city of Washington, D.C., for example, that churches now have to be closed at the end of a service. That was in your papers this morning, because of the possibility of vandalism in case they were opened. Bus drivers have to carry weapons, and they do not carry money, they have to provide scrip because of the possibility of robberies. And we found that Washington along with 300 other cities has suffered riots and burnings which have killed 200 Americans and injured 7,000 more.

	My friends, I say with that kind of a record, instead of defending the record of the Attorney General of the United States, instead of being proud of the record, I say we need a housecleaning, and I pledge a new attorney general and new respect for law for the United States of America.

	My friends, we will reestablish that respect for law and order in this country, and let me tell you what I mean when I use those terms. I mean it in terms that all will understand. If laws are to be respected they must deserve respect. And I mean it also in terms that all will understand. We believe in civil rights, everybody here in this great audience, I know, in the heartland of this country.

	But, my friends, never forget, the first civil right of every American, whether he is a black American or white American, the one in which he is most interested is the right to be secure from domestic violence, and let's be sure that right again lives in the United States of America.

	So we begin with those two propositions. But then I noted another interesting claim, the same day. This was the afternoon truth squad that had to answer this one. The other one was the morning truth squad. And this one in Toledo said--John, notice well, it said, "You never had it so good."

	All right, and so you never had it so good. Take a look at yourselves. Wage earners, yes. Wages have gone up $23 a week in the past four years. But do you know what has happened to your real wages? Because of the increase in prices and taxes, the wage earners of America have been on a treadmill. And so we find that instead of getting ahead you have been able hardly to hold your own. That's what's happened to the wage earners, and they are the most fortunate of all because they have had some increase.

	Let's look at the forgotten Americans who are not getting the increases. Twenty million Americans are retired. They have a little life insurance, a little pension. Most of them a little Social Security. And they have found the prices of their groceries and of their food raised 10 percent in the last four years, and it has driven some of them below the poverty level as a result.

	And when we talk about those people, what I say is, let's get an administration that will reestablish the value of our dollars so that the money we earn today will buy a dollar's worth when we retire five or ten years from now. Let's have that kind of administration. And when they say you never had it so good, if you say that, I say, tell it to the farmers of America. You tell it to the farmers.

	My friends, I have been all through the Corn Belt, and I have been through the Wheat Belt, North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Idaho, and here in Colorado, this great farm center.

	And you know what has happened? We find that farm prices are the lowest in thirty years, and we find the prices of what the farmer buys in farm equipment are the highest in history. They have gone up 25 percent in the last four years. And so what is the answer? A cost-price squeeze. And so to the farmers of America I say we need to stop the raise in prices of what you buy and we need a new farm policy, and the place to start is with a new secretary of agriculture. And, my friends, in that respect I say that it's time that we had a secretary of agriculture who recognized that it was his function to speak for the farmers to the White House rather than for the White House to the farmers. That's the kind of a secretary we will have.

	Let me turn then to the promise of progress. The promise of progress that all of us are interested in. And here we have the clearest choice of this campaign. The clearest because it is an honest difference in philosophy between your two candidates for the presidency of the United States, the nominees of the two major parties. On the one side a man who says and honestly believes that the answer to problems is a knee-jerk reaction of government program, a federal government program, that is. He looks back over the past four years and the past eight years, and every time there is a problem, we have government jobs, government housing, government welfare, billions and billions of dollars poured into those programs. And the result, failure and frustration and riot across the land and not the progress that we want.

	And so rather than continuing down that road and pouring more billions into programs that have failed, I say to you today, why not a new road? Why not a new road?

	And I will tell you what that new road is. My friends, it's a road that has been in a way an old road, but we can make it the new great road to progress, progress without inflation, prosperity without war.

	And let me tell you what it is. Think a minute. The war on poverty in America didn't begin five years ago. It began when America began, 190 years ago. And it's been the most successful war on poverty ever waged in the history of man.

	Oh, there are a lot of things wrong in this country, and there is too much poverty, and we must deal with those problems. But never forget, when you look at America and compare it with all the nations of the world, and I have traveled to most of them, and when people have a chance to choose, the traffic is all one way. They are coming this way. They are not going someplace else to live.

	This is a great country. My friends, how did we become the richest nation in the world? Why is America a great nation? And remember this, if you forget everything else I say today. America became great and America is a great nation not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years.

	So I say there is a better way, a great role for government, yes. Government must provide that education so essential for everybody, to give them that equal chance at the starting line. Government must provide for the aged and for the needy. Government must provide in those areas of developing the great natural resources of our country so that we can always move upward and onward.

	But, my friend, when it comes to the individual who is able to take himself, who is able to help himself, let us never forget that the best role that government can play is something else again. And I want to tell you what I think it is. Our objective in these next four years should be rather than more millions on welfare rolls, let's get more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. And we will use the powers of government to enlist private enterprise to train the unemployed, to enlist private enterprise to build the housing that people can own and get the pride and self-respect that comes from homeownership. And we will enlist private enterprise in providing the opportunity for every American, black Americans, white Americans, Mexican Americans, any American, not only to be a worker, but to be an owner and a manager, to have a piece of the action. That's the way to build America. That's the way we are going to move, and that's the way you want. And that's the road you are going to put us on by your votes on November 5th.

	My friends, as I see this great crowd, as I realize your tremendous interest in this election campaign, I would like to leave with you one final thought that is particularly relevant because of the great number of young people who are here and because of what we have heard about what's wrong with the younger generation.

	Sometimes I know that when I have spoken to college and university audiences, a student will come up very troubled and say, "Mr. Nixon, isn't this a terrible time to be alive, we have a war in Vietnam, we have got the draft hanging over us and we have got no peace at home and all these problems? Isn't this the worst time that we could possibly have lived? Wouldn't it be better to have lived someplace else or in some other time?"

	I want to give you my answer. Yes, we have got problems. But I have traveled, as I indicated, to most of the nations of the world, and I have studied the history of man, and, my friends, from the whole beginning of time, the whole history of man from the beginning, if I were to pick a time in which to live, and of all the nations of the world, and I have been to most of them, if I were to pick a place in which to live, I'd pick the United States of America, 1968. This is the time. This is the place.

	I want to tell you why, and keep this message of faith always uppermost in your mind, however you vote in this election.

	Remember, we have problems, but look at the opportunity. All the wealth that is in this country, not only the wealth and our resources and our inventions and our science, but the wealth in our young people, the best educated, the most involved, people who care, people who can create. I believe in the young people. I know you are going to build a better America.

	All we have to do is to give you that chance. And also look at the opportunity abroad. I want to tell you that in the first third of this century what happened in London, in Paris and Berlin determined whether peace survived in the world. And in the second third of this century decisions made in London and Paris and Berlin and Moscow and Tokyo determined whether peace survived in the world. But, do you know what's happened? Suddenly a great change has come over the world. We didn't ask for it, but here it is.

	What has happened is that now what happens in the United States of America of all the free world, the decisions we make will determine whether peace and freedom survive in the world. Here's where the action is. Here's where the power is. Here and now is the time for America's greatness. And for us to meet this challenge we must be great at home. Every one of us must be great in our relations with our fellow man.

	And in order to meet this challenge we have got to step up to it. Oh, I know some of you when you hear of politics will hear it said, "Oh, don't get involved in politics. You are going to go out there and somebody is going to boo you or heckle you and you are going to have a fight with your neighbor. It is much better to stay on the sidelines."

	Don't you ever believe it. Let me tell you something. Greatness comes from stepping up to big events, not sitting on the sidelines, while history is made by others.

	I say to you, my friends, today, we in this state of Colorado make history this year. Let's make great history. Great history for this state, great history for America, but, more than that, great history which will mean that peace and freedom will survive in the world for the next third of a century. We can do it. Now let's go out and win it big in November.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCIVIL DISORDERCOST OF LIVINGCRIME--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIACRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEPOVERTYPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSENIOR CITIZENS     F] ] ] ] \
 \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \	  	  	  	  	 d 	 V 	 B 	 - 	 & 	  e: