

	I come here to Kennedy Square.  I always come when a campaign shifts into high gear. And today, we're in high gear. It's a brand new race.  From now on, everything is wide open.  From now on, Americans know what's at stake in this campaign, and what's at stake is a good and sound and solid future for the country that we belong to--this great United States of America--and we know it.

	In 1960, President Kennedy said what we say again today:  "America is a great country, but we can be greater."  Today, in this good city, one out of seven citizens is looking for work and unable to find it.

	Today, in this great auto state, in this great industrial state, we see too many of our jobs disappearing, too many of our best jobs going overseas, and too much of the American standard of living disappearing.  We want a change.

	We know that it's not enough in America just to congratulate ourselves.  We know that to be greater, we must challenge ourselves.  We know that no progress is made if we pretend that problems don't exist.

	We need a president who knows what's going on, who sees the problems, understands them, and together, we will solve those problems and [missing text] a great nation.

	In short, America doesn't need a cheerleader.  We need a quarterback. I'm here in Detroit to ask for your support.  The stakes have never been higher.  The Republicans are trying to trivialize this campaign and this election, but we won't let them.

	This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's about toxic waste dumps that give cancer to our children.

	This campaign is not about banners and balloons.  It's about old folks who can't afford to pay for medicine.

	This election is not about photo opportunities for stock car races.  It's about auto workers who fear for their jobs and about a need for a president to stand up for the workers of this country.

	This election is not about who is proud of our young people at the Olympics.  We all are.  It's about the civil rights laws that opened up athletics to all Americans--blacks, browns, whites, Asians, men and women--and let us win the gold.

	This election is not about sending a teacher into space.  It's about educating our children right here on earth.

	This election is not about train rides and whistle stops.  It's about the ninety-thousand profitable corporations in America who don't pay a penny in taxes.

	The issue today is not whether Mr. Reagan will raise taxes.  He will.

	The question is whether those taxes will be fair to average Americans or not.  When the vice president pays less in taxes than the janitor who cleans up the White House, something's wrong.

	Under my plan, I will protect middle- and moderate-income Americans.  If you work and make $25,000 or less, you will pay no increase in taxes.

	If you make $70,000 or less, you'll do better under Mondale than under President Reagan.

	In 1981, they gave enormous relief to the wealthy, and most Americans of moderate income got no relief or your taxes went up.

	The reason he won't talk about it is, if he's re-elected, right after this election he's going to sock it to moderate- and middle-income Americans again, and I won't let him get away with it.

	This election is not about country music and birthday cakes.  It's about Jerry Falwell picking justices to the Supreme Court of the United States.

	This Friday, the president is going to take a trip on a train using Truman's old car.  Today, Mrs. Reagan is giving a luncheon honoring Eleanor Roosevelt.

	That's not surprising.  They've been robbing graves all year.  Oh, they quote Roosevelt and they quote Truman and they quote Kennedy.  They're even trying to quote my old friend Hubert Humphrey.

	But we know the difference.  You don't honor Truman by passing the buck in Lebanon.  You honor Truman by standing up to the terrorists and taking responsibility.  Those Republicans will do anything to try to ruin a rally.

	You don't honor Eleanor Roosevelt by cozying up to racists in South Africa and dictators in Latin America.  You honor her by standing up for human rights everywhere, including Poland and Afghanistan.

	You don't honor the memory of Franklin Roosevelt by gutting Social Security.

	You don't honor John Kennedy by shipping 3 million of America's best jobs overseas.  You honor Kennedy by electing a president who understands that it's his job to stand up and fight for American workers, American farmers and American business.

	You don't honor Lyndon Johnson by giving taxpayers' money to segregation academies.  You honor him by fighting for civil rights.

	You don't honor Hubert Humphrey by cutting student loans.  You honor Hubert by making certain that every young American has a chance to go to college and vocational schools.

	If the Republicans are looking for heroes to honor, leave ours alone.  Use your own.  Hoover and Nixon and Agnew and the others.

	This election is an election of high stakes.  Above all, it's a question of what our values are.  It is your choice, and you must decide, as Americans, what you want.

	The issues are clear.  When I fought to save Chrysler, I didn't do it just to save a corporation.  I did it because I knew five-hundred thousand decent Americans and their families depended on those jobs if they were going to have any future at all.

	I said yes to Chrysler.  The president said no.

	I fought for those quotas that the president finally put in place.  With Reaganomics, with these deep deficits, with these imports swamping America, if it hadn't been for those quotas, the auto industry would be in the worst condition ever.

	He's for them now, finally.  Where will he be after the election?

	Don't take a chance.  I would rather fight for the heart and soul of America than for the bonuses of the Fortune 500.  I would rather be the underdog in a campaign about decency than the front-runner in a campaign about self-interest.

	Don't let them steal the future from our children.  Don't let them put ice in our soul.  They have a right to ask for your vote, but don't let them take away your conscience.

	There are things we must do, and I ask for your help so that we might do them together.  In this great, free society of ours, the power is in your hands.

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any public health clinic in America and talk to a doctor who will say, "I haven't seen a hungry child this year."

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any classroom in America and talk to the brightest students and have many of them say, "I want to be a teacher."

	By the end of this decade, I want to walk into any store in America, pick up the best product at the best price, turn it over, and read "Made in the U.S.A."

	By the end of this decade, I want to go into any successful business in America and see as many women and minorities in the corporate rooms of those businesses as we see here today in this great rally.

	By the end of this decade, when I go to my second inaugural, I want to raise my right hand and swear to preserve, protect, and defend a Constitution that contains the provisions of the Equal Rights Amendment.

	By the end of this decade, I want to ask our children about their dreams and not hear one word about nuclear nightmares.

	My fellow Americans, the future was made in heaven for our blessed country.  We have everything we need to build it.  We have the values of a decent society, the strengths of a buoyant democracy, the power of a free economy, the muscle of a skilled work force, the talent of an educated people, and the dreams of a restless people.

	It's your choice.  We have everything we need to build a future except a leader to take us there.  This election, this campaign is now close.  This campaign has begun.  We're on our way.  We're making progress every day.  Last Sunday night you saw the difference.  Let us go out, each of us, and do everything we can to win this campaign for the future of our nation.

	Thank you very, very much.

AUTOMOBILES/AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUES     [  '  !     
 
           	  	 c 	 : 	  e: