

	Thank you very much, Governor Sullivan, and distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen: I was sure that after he got through with that introduction that somebody more eloquent, more competent and more versatile than I was going to step forward--I thought for a moment that Benjamin Franklin must have come to the meeting.

	It is good to be in New England this autumn. I wish I could have been here, traveling through this lovely country, a couple of weeks ago when there were more brilliant leaves on the trees; now, they are falling off the trees the way the Ike buttons are falling off the lapels. But I am glad that the beautiful New England autumn hasn't changed since I went to school here in Massachusetts years ago. Many other aspects of our national life have changed--and most of them have changed for the better.

	I wish you could think back for a moment to the 1920s, to the stock market boom and bust, to the farmer, lonely and defenseless, before the buffeting of the market, to the worker without the protection and the dignity which strong labor organization gives him today, to our nation, as a whole, more preoccupied with the pursuit of the dollar than with the moral and the spiritual values of American life.

	I don't think that any of you would deny that the last twenty years have been years of immense change and progress--or at least, no one would deny this, except the Old Guard Republicans--and I call them, GOP, the Gloomy Old Pessimists. They are the men who tell you that this abounding, dynamic land of ours is trembling on the verge of collapse, that the American people are slaves of an oppressive government, that all initiative and industry, all guts and gumption have departed behind a group of regimented [missing text], leaving but serfs and peasants. That is the way the Old guard sound; the only other people who say that, by the way, are the Communists.

	Now, you know, I wouldn't say, my friends, that this proves conclusively that the Old Guard Republicans are really Communists, but I suppose if I were an Old Guard Republican I would, because that is exactly the way they argue.

	The great transformation which has overtaken our country in these twenty years has come about, in great part, because we have had a new spirit and a new purpose in our government--you could almost feel the change from confusion to confidence, from fear to faith, when the election of 1932 produced a great new leader, Franklin Roosevelt. And that was only the beginning of the process by which America began to lift itself out of the depths, both economically and spiritually, and onto a new plane of social responsibility and of decency. Government assumed responsibilities to avert economic catastrophe and to assure reasonable levels of security for the people. By doing this, great new energies within the people were unlocked. Of course, this new activity on the part of government aroused resentment. The Old Guard began raising their tired old refrain of socialism, and regimentation; you have heard these cries against every new idea in American history since the post office and the public schools.

	Some of you will remember the campaign of 1928. They called New York City's great governor, Alfred Smith, a socialist because he tried to do things for the people as a whole, and he replied in words which are as important today as they were when he first spoke them in Boston twenty-four years ago; this is what Al Smith said--that there was nothing new about the cry of socialism--I have heard it raised by the reactionary element of the Republican party in my own state over a period of a quarter of a century--and he added this, "every forward-looking progressive up-to-date legislative enactment in New York was at some time or another referred to by reactionary Republican leaders as state socialism. The cry of socialism has been patented by the powerful interests that desire to put a damper on progressive legislation."

	But the Republican leaders who want a change so bad haven't themselves changed a bit. What Al Smith said about reaction twenty-four years ago is every bit as true today and I would suggest to you that it is time for them to start changing their old tune of no, no, no. You know, I hope I can get through this so-called speech before my hair blows off.

	When the Republicans nominated the general last July it looked for a moment as if the Republican Old Guard had come to the end of the road. For a few weeks after the slaughter in the stockyards of Chicago, the Old Guard sulked in its tents. But this was before the Great Crusade turned into the great compromise and the great compromise into the great surrender. In the past four weeks the general has devoted a major part of his energies to demanding that the American people send back to the Senate of the United States the worst coalition of isolationists and reactionaries that this nation has known for many years. And those weren't love pats, those endorsements that he gave the Old Guard. Those were mortgages, and every one of them will be collectible in full on November 5th. Now, whatever else you can say about Senator Taft, you must concede him one thing. He is the first man in American political history who lost the nomination and won the nominee.

	Now I say to you that the Old Guard never changes. Their opposition to change at home will continue as it always has. Their opposition to an affirmative policy of strength abroad will continue as it always has. And if their negative policies prevail, they may well spell disaster for the United States--a policy of negligence which might lead to depression at home; a policy of weakness, which might lead to war abroad. And the dreadful things that they say about us--as for me, I never know each morning whether overnight I have become a traitor or a Communist, or just a crook, or just a socialist, or all of them put together--or just a helpless creature--a creature of the bosses; or, perhaps just an artless half-wit who didn't ask for the nomination and who won't give any mortgages to win the election. You know, sometimes earlier in the campaign I thought I would offer to make a deal with the Republicans. I was going to propose to them that if they would stop telling lies about us, we would stop telling the truth about them. But, my friends, you don't need to worry about the Old Guard mortgages on the general, because they won't be there to collect them. We will be there. And we Democrats propose to continue our firmness. We propose to take up where Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman left off, and we shall not relax in the fight for a better life and for a safer nation for all Americans. Of course, the president can't carry on this fight alone. He needs an alert and a progressive Congress. And that's why I want so much for you to give me that remarkable young man, Jack Kennedy, to help us in the Senate. And I know you will return to Congress your able and devoted congressman, Harold Donohue. And of course, it is always a comfort, as I discovered, to have in the governor's chair an understanding, intelligent, and sympathetic governor. He is sitting here on my left--my old friend, Paul Dever.

	My friends, the election gets nearer every day. The choice is urgent and fateful. I know that the people of Worcester will join with me in preferring progress to reaction, faith to fear, prosperity to depression--and, most of all, peace to war. The best way to move toward all of these things is to vote for these candidates a week from Tuesday. And as for me, of course modesty forbids me from making any suggestions whatever.

	You have been most kind and most generous with your cordial reception here this afternoon. I am deeply grateful to every one of you, and before we leave to resume our journey, I wonder if you would afford me the privilege of introducing to you my youngest son, who got a day off from school. He is being educated in the state of Massachusetts. And may I also have the privilege of introducing to you Mrs. India Edwards, national vice chairman of the Democratic Committee. And we have with us the national co-chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson, which has been doing such invaluable work from coast to coast--Mrs. Edison Dick, of Chicago. And may I also present my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives. I guess she didn't make it. Maybe she is doing some work for a change.

	Bless you all, and I am so grateful to you for coming here. And if there are any further introductions, I shall have to leave them to the local committee.
HISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSSOCIALISMSTATESPERSONS--NEW YORK     d" 0" *" &" "
 " " " ! ! ! ! !	 j 	 B 	   	  e: