
	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very, very much. Thank you. I can't believe this. Thank you. Ten more days. Thank you very, very much. I want to begin by thanking Mayor Pasquale for having us here and for a special word of thanks to all the people for having us in this wonderful tiny structure. I've never seen anything like it. I love being here.

	I want to thank all the people who've joined me here on the stage, Senator Metzenbaum and Attorney General Fischer and other state and federal elected officials, and especially your congressman, Tom Sawyer, and Senator John Glenn. Please send him back to the Senate to help us change America. Please send him back to the Senate.

	I want to say a special word of recognition to someone I understand is here on the stage tonight, your long-time state representative, Cliff Skeen, for being here, for having the courage to come out and be with us tonight. Thank you very much, Cliff. Thank you.

	My fellow Americans, as we come down to the last ten days of this election, the incumbent president has asked us to give him four more years on the basis of trust. He says we ought to give him four more years. Today, just today, he said, "You know, things are getting better in America." Mr. Bush said this on television. "But every time we do something better, the media goes out and interviews some little guy who says he still doesn't have a job." That's what your president said today. This man says, "Well, trust me. I am a great leader." And look what is happening to your government in Washington. You've got the FBI investigating the Justice Department and the Justice Department investigating the FBI. They don't have any time to look into criminals; they're too busy investigating each other. You've got the CIA and the Justice Department fighting over which one of them really lied about the Iraq scandal in the federal court. Now you've got the State Department with so many people with nothing to do, they've got time not only to look into my files but to investigate my mother's travel plans. Now, I don't know about--that'd be funny if it weren't for the fact the entire government--your tax dollars paying for three of their political hacks to rifle through my mother's files at 10:00 at night. The only good thing about it--it's probably the first time any of Bush's political cronies worked until 10:00 at night the whole four years they've had.

	Look at the real facts. When Mr. Bush became president, there were 35,000 more jobs in the private sector than there are now. We have lost 1.1 million manufacturing jobs, and the last two years alone, average family income is down by $1,600 and over two-thirds of the American people are working harder today for less money than they were making ten years ago. That is what we know happened. Your local newspaper did a series on the economy recently, just in the last week finished, and entitled it "The Decade of the Deal." And that's exactly what it was. If you wanted to work hard and play by the rules, you got the shaft. But if you were willing to tear a company apart with leveraged buyouts and big debt that cost good jobs and good benefits, you got rewarded. If you wanted to do something to pollute the environment, you got quick access in Washington, but if your job was cleaning up the streets, all you got was a tax increase. If you really believed in working hard and you operated [missing text] you were a telephone operator, there was nobody home for you at the White House. But if you were a slick Washington operator, you got whatever you wanted. I think we ought to turn all that around and go back to good old American common sense. We can do better than that.

	You know, the group in Washington, all they're doing now to get Mr. Bush re-elected, besides feeding on each other, is running down our ticket, our campaign, and our ideas. I got tickled the other day. You'll forgive me, since Ohio is a big state, but Mr. Bush and Mr. Perot were fighting in the debate. Mr. Bush said that I had a bad record and Mr. Perot said I had an irrelevant record because my state was so small. You know, where I come from, they sort of took offense at that. But let me tell you, he talks about tax and spend. We've got the second-lowest tax burden in the country, the lowest per capita spending in the country, the highest job-growth rate in the country, and I'll bet Ohio would like to have a higher job growth rate. That's what I want to bring to the United States of America.

	I don't know about you, but I'm just tired of having all this finger-pointing and blame-placing and whining and quarreling, all these things they do. Mark Twain said it best, that "petrified opinion never yet broke a chain or freed a human soul." They have petrified opinion. They have run out of ideas. They have run out of energy. They've run out of initiative. And it's time we ran them out of town on November 3rd. We can do that with your help.

	But let me say to you, I seek the vote for the people of Ohio, not just because the incumbent president does not deserve another term, although he doesn't, but because I believe that Bill Clinton and Al Gore have the best program for America, because we want to do good things, not just because they have done bad things.

	Of all the choices you have, only our ticket has ever balanced a government budget, taken on lobbyists and special interest groups, passed a complicated program to promote jobs in the legislature. I am the only person running for president who's never been a Washington insider. And I'll tell you something, folks. Most important of all, every independent economic analysis of our program says that of all your options, that will create more jobs and raise incomes quicker and move this economy forward, and that is what we all ought to be about, giving the American people a chance to be rewarded for their work again.

	My fellow Americans, the Democratic party I seek to lead is committed to job growth. We believe that people ought to be able to make a lot of money, but we have this crazy idea that people ought to make money in America the old-fashioned way; not by deals and not by getting special tax cuts from the government, but by getting tax incentives if they invest in new manufacturing facilities, if they start new businesses, if they break ground in new technologies. I don't mind people making money. I want to make a lot of millionaires by having people put you to work; the old-fashioned way, by lifting America up. That's what we ought to do.

	I believe that we need a strong national defense that has fewer troops in Europe but emphasizes more high-tech work, like the kind of work done by the company that owns the structure we're in today. And I believe when we do reduce defense, every last cent of that money ought to be reinvested in the American economy, not squandered, but put back into jobs here at home, in building transportation, communication, environmental cleanup systems, putting the American people back to work and lifting this economy up.

	I believe that we live in a world in which what we earn depends on what we can learn. And I know that I have a heavy obligation to the American people, after the cynicism of the last four years, to be a real education president, and I will devote myself to that. What does that mean? It means, among other things, that we ought to teach everybody in America with a job to read and to have a high school diploma and to have access to job training in the next five years. It means we ought to tell everybody who gets out of high school, who doesn't go to college, that if you don't go to college, we'll at least give you two years of further education and training in an apprenticeship program so you can have a good job, not a dead-end job. You deserve that. It means that we ought to open the doors of college education to all Americans without regard to income. It's important to our economic future.

	Of all the ideas that I have advanced to the American people, perhaps the one that most embraces everything I stand for is the idea of the national trust fund for college education. We want to say to all the young people of this country, you can borrow the money to go to college, but you must pay it back either as a small percentage of your income after you go to work at tax time, so you can't beat the bill like so many do today; or even better, by working for two years here at home to rebuild America, as teachers, as police officers, working with people with disabilities, working with the elderly, working with young people, working in housing programs, working to rebuild this country. We can solve the people problems of America, not with a government bureaucracy but from the grassroots up in communities all across this country. It would be the best money we ever invested. We would educate a whole generation of Americans and move this economy forward. I want to do it.

	The last thing I want to say about the opportunities we offer is that this country must, at long last, join the ranks of other advanced nations to control health care costs and provide basic health care--affordable, quality health care--to all the American people. We must do that or we cannot restore the health of our economy. You can ask the members of Congress on this platform, you can ask anybody who's studied it; one half the government deficit in the years ahead is going to be due to spiraling health care costs. We spend 30 percent more on health care than any country in the world, and yet 35 million have no health insurance. Health care is going up at two and three times the rate of inflation.

	One hundred thousand Americans a month lose their health insurance. Millions of Americans cannot change jobs because somebody in their family has been sick, and if they change jobs, nobody will cover them with health insurance. We don't have to put up with this. No other country in the world would permit this.

	We spend too much money on insurance, on bureaucracy, on regulation, on prescription drugs, on unnecessary procedures. I want to change that and put those savings back into a health care system we can all be proud of. Give us a chance to do it. We can do it. We can do it.

	But we cannot do it with a president who always says we can't. We can't have health care. We can't have family and medical leave. Seventy-two other nations will give you a little time off from work if you've got a baby born or a sick child or a sick parent, and George Bush has twice vetoed the family and medical leave bill, talking all about family values and then saying we can't do something that seventy-two other countries can do. We can't do it with a president who vetoes--he talks all about middle-class taxes going up. The United States Congress passed a bill to give the middle class a tax break, that raised money for people with incomes above $200,000 and also provided incentives to grow our economy, and he vetoed it. The United States Congress passed a bill to spend more money on women's health research, more money to break down the barriers to learning what causes diabetes and other terrible diseases, and because of purely political reasons, he vetoed it. Ladies and gentlemen, you need a president who will roll up his sleeves and go to work and get something done and not veto, veto, veto, veto.

	Let me say this. I want you to know something else, too. And it's not just the opportunities I seek, but also the responsibilities we must all shoulder. We owe you, those of us in public life, a governmental system in which you can have confidence. I want to go to Washington and reduce the influence of political action committees, reduce the cost of congressional campaigns, open the airways to honest debate, disclose the activities of lobbyists, and restrict the influence of lobbyists that are doing things they shouldn't be doing for the public interest, and I will do that if you'll give me a chance to do it.

	But I want you--I want you to know that you, too, have responsibilities. No president can repeal the laws of economic change. Every worker and every plant and every job in America must be constantly committed to improving productivity, to educating themselves better. Nobody can repeal the laws of change. The average eighteen-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. If we elected Lucy in the comic strip Peanuts president, that is going to happen. What you have to decide is whether you have the courage to change and the courage to scrap some of those old ideas. I have some good ideas and Bush has some bad ideas, even though he's saying them louder. You know, Lucy said in Peanuts, "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can." And that's exactly what they're doing.

	Let me give you some other ideas that I think will work. I want to have a country with much tougher child support enforcement so you can't cross the state line and beat the bill for raising your children. Give me a chance to do that. We ought to use the system we have. We've got records of people with their income records. We could collect more if you'll give me a chance to do it.

	I want to be a president who works in partnership with people at the local level, to let them make decisions that ought to be made. I want to help people like your mayor here hire another 100,000 police officers a year so you can do what you've done in Akron, put more police on the street working in the communities. You could lower the crime rate in America, but you can't do it in Washington. You've got to put the money out here at the grassroots level, where the people are.

	There are things we can do to assume more personal responsibility, of all of us. But finally, we have to decide whether we're going forward together without regard to race, region, gender, income, anything else that divides us. Everybody ought to be part of the American family who's willing to work hard and play by the rules. Whether we like it or not, we're going up or down together, and we don't have a person to waste.

	I have been deeply moved in the last few days by the support that has come to this campaign from unlikely quarters. I just came from out west, from Montana and Wyoming and Colorado, from Oregon and Washington to California. I was in places that hadn't voted for a Democrat since [missing text]. They can't remember the last Democrat they voted for. A newspaper in Oregon's biggest city endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket, the first Democratic ticket they've ever endorsed in 142 years. The man out here with a sign that says "Vietnam Vets for Clinton," I thank you for that sign. I thank you for that sign. The other day, twenty-four retired generals and admirals, including the deputy commander of Operation Desert Storm and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they wanted change. We had a group of business executives in California; two-thirds of them were Republican, high- tech computer company executives. They produce more jobs in their companies than Bush has in the whole country in the private sector, and they endorsed this ticket because they wanted change.

	But I want you to know something, folks. All of that doesn't mean nearly as much to me as the people that I see in this crowd and the people I met on my bus tour across Ohio and through the heartland of Illinois and down through south Georgia and Florida, the people who come out on these tours and to these rallies, who've worked hard and who deserve better. I got into this race for president because I had worked for a dozen years as governor of my state to try to create jobs and educate children and solve problems and lift people up, and I could see our folks falling further behind. I got into this race because I did not want my twelve-year-old daughter, who means more to me than anybody in the world, and all these other children who are out here tonight to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. I got into this race because I honestly believe with all my heart that the end of the Cold War opens to us the greatest opportunities the United States has ever known, and I am sick and tired of seeing them squandered by trickle-down economics, dragging people down when we ought to be lifting people up. I believe we can do better. And what I want you to think about is this: Now this election has reached the stage when who wins is really more about what's in your heart and whether you're going to be governed by hope or fear, by the thirst for change or the comfort of the status quo, by the courage to reach out for new ideas or the comfort of sticking with things you know won't work but are comfortable. My fellow Americans, we can do better.

	Just imagine what you're going to feel like if you wake up on the morning of November 4th and the newspaper reads "Four more years." Imagine what it would be like. This is not a country--this is not a country that has ever been governed for long by the things-could-be-worse crowd, by the bellyachers and the whiners and the blamers and the dividers. We have given them their chance. They have had their day. Their ideas have failed, and it is time to change.

	Think about what you'll feel like on November 4th if you have helped to create a new America, to bring back the American dream and bring the American people together. Stay with me. Fight on, and together we can do what we ought to do for our country. Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--GENERALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS     E E }E yE qE
 fE aE \E WE SE QE GE	  	 a 	 L 	 1 	  e: