

	Dole-Kemp, Dole-Kemp--two four-letter words you can teach your kids--Dole-Kemp, Dole-Kemp. Well, let me thank you for being here. We're going to have a big, big surprise party on November 5th. Hope you can come.

	And we will carry the state of California and its fifty-four electoral votes.

	And I want to welcome you to Modesto's retirement party for Bill Clinton.

	I'm sorry my wife--I see this Red Cross truck. I'm sorry my wife, Elizabeth, cannot be here.

	Pardon? I rode in one--I rode in one of those, right.

	It might be that one. It probably is. Looks like it.

	They all looked alike. But in any event--I'm sorry, but she's campaigning today in California. I think she's in Monterey now--Modesto, Monterey--whatever, but, but she is working every day. She is so talented Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her. That's how talented she is.

	And I'm proud to be here with Ann Venamin. This is her hometown. She's done a great job in agriculture. It'll be one of those I look to for advice and leadership when I'm the president of the United States.

	And Dick Ling over here, the only secretary of agriculture in history from the great state of California. Dick, good to see you.

	And another former secretary, Clayton Yeutter, who was a member of TVV Board--Clayton, you've done a great job, also our trade representative. And I'll look to Dick Ling and Ann and Clayton Yeutter when I have concerns about agriculture. And we understand agriculture, we understand its importance, how many jobs it creates--thousands and thousands and thousands--and the fact that America's consumers have the best food bargain in the world because of effective agriculture all across America.

	And I want to say a special word of thanks. I know these gentlemen have been introduced. We think about elections. We think about America. We think about history. We talk about the future, because that's what there is. It's the future--young people, the future--what happens ten, fifteen, twenty years. But now and then it's not too bad to think about the past, and why we're here today. And we wouldn't be here if it weren't for men and women all through this audience, and these five Medal of Honor winners standing behind me. Come on up here, fellows.

	They don't pass those out on Post Toasties. These were earned the old-fashioned way, the old-fashioned way. They risked their lives for you, for us, for your children.

	This is what America is all about, right behind me. This is it. The greatest nation on the face of the earth.

	And it's been an honor and a privilege to have them with us all throughout the day. We're going on to Stockton. They'll be with us there. They've done an outstanding job and I'm just proud to be with them today. And I'm trying to get on Bo Derek's bus, but it's filled--I can't even get some people off the bus. They don't want to lose their seat.

	There he is right now, P.F. Bentley, Time Magazine. He won't even get off the bus because that's the bus Bo Derek's on. He won't get off. I can't get him off the bus.

	We're going to borrow that Red Cross truck, just me and Bo, and get out of here, get out--

	Don't tell Elizabeth. Yeah. All right. This is a very important election. It's very important that you're here today. I want to thank you. I know its a day's journey--you take a little time for yourself and your family. The election's not very far away. I know Bill Clinton thinks he's got this state wrapped up.

	No. And we've got news for him. Yes. He'll be able to get his, all of his haircuts out here after he's retired. He probably can't afford it then, come to think of it. But in any event, I believe this nation cannot afford four more years of weak leadership. And the liberals in the White House have had their chance, and on November 5th America's going to say to them that it's time for them to go, time for them to go.

	And this campaign is about telling the truth, and the truth is the federal government is too big and spends too much of your money, too much of your money.

	And I know there are families in this audience where one parent works full-time for the family, while the other parent must work full-time just to pay the taxes. Right now taxes, taxes take 38.2 percent. Almost 40 percent of your income goes for taxes, more than you pay for food, clothing, and shelter combined. We need a change. We're going to have a change. Bob Dole and Jack Kemp in January.

	Now Bill Clinton likes to brag about how many new jobs he created. I don't know that he created any. But he said, "I created eleven"--yeah, I've got some lawyers working, come to think of it--yes. He said, "I've created eleven million new jobs." And yeah, I met a guy the other day who's got three of them. You know, you've got to work at about three jobs just to pay the bills, or the wife goes back to work. That's happening in about 21 percent of the cases. That's fine. If they want to work, that's fine. But you shouldn't have to work just to pay the taxes.

	And I have a plan to give working people, working people a break. It's called a tax cut. It's called a tax cut. And I know a lot of people will probably say, "Oh, well--tax cut. That's what Clinton promised." I don't believe these guys. And I'm not Bill Clinton. I am not Bill Clinton.

	I keep my word. I keep my word. Ask my colleagues that I served with in the Congress, either Democrats or Republicans, and they'll tell you one thing: I may not have agreed with Bob Dole, but he kept his word. That's important in America.

	We'll give a $500 tax credit. I see a lot of them down there. Every child under 18--there's $500, $1,000, $1,500. One child--$500; three children--$1,500; ten children--you're probably too busy to pay your taxes--that's $5,000. And then we're going to get the economy moving again by cutting the capital gains rate in half.

	And the bottom line is very simple, very simple. It's your money. It's your money. Now Clinton says the government can't afford it. Did he come out to California in '93--he promised you a tax cut in '92, and in '93 he gave the biggest tax cut--increase--in America history, $265 billion. Did he come out and ask you if you could afford a tax increase? No.

	And we don't have to ask him if we can afford a tax cut. We know the government can afford a tax cut.

	So what does he want? He wants every family here to continue to pinch your pennies so he can dream up more of these government programs to spend your money, decide how the money is spent. My view is the government ought to pinch pennies, and you can make better decisions spending your money than any bureaucrat in either party in Washington, D.C.

	So for an average family in Modesto--if they make $30,000, a family of four, it would be a $1,261 tax cut. That's four or five months' child care, it's four or five months' mortgage payments. Maybe it's a payment on a car. Maybe you just take a little time off with your family, take a little vacation. Take a little vacation. That is an 86 percent tax cut. Now why shouldn't you take a vacation? Hazel O'Leary flies all over the world at your expense. Why shouldn't you take a vacation? It's your money. It's your money.

	So--and this is a Main Street tax cut. Don't get--even President Clinton in the first debate--well, I guess it was a debate; I couldn't get into the debate very much, but anyway, he said he'd like to have a tax cut. He said he could use it. And I said, "Leave your change of address and we'll get it to you next year."

	And that is just phase one. Phase two is a fairer, flatter, simpler system, and we're going to end the IRS as we know it.

	So let me tell you, it sounds good to me--

	Thank you.

	Let me tell you what the tax increase--you know, California is a big state, a lot of people, a lot of taxpayers, a lot of things going on out here, always on the cutting edge. That tax increase I talked about cost--over five years it cost the state of California $37 billion, $37 billion, about $800 million a year just in gas taxes--not to build highways, but to put in their little court fund back there so Albert Gore and Bill Clinton can sit around trying to figure out how to spend your hard-earned money. We've had enough. It's time to go. It's time to go.

	And let me say to senior citizens, in case any--I don't see one, but if any show up--we are not going to cut Medicare. We're not going to cut Medicare. We're going to save Medicare from bankruptcy, save it from bankruptcy in about four years, just as some of us, myself included, saved Social Security from bankruptcy in 1983.

	Don't listen to the labor bosses and all the Democratic ads scaring America's seniors. When I used to go home, all my mother had was Social Security and Medicare, and she said, "Bob, don't touch my Social Security. Don't touch my Medicare." I will not betray my mother. I would not betray any senior citizen. We're going to save Medicare. I want to save Medicare and we will save Medicare.

	And while you're talking about that, remember who the president was, and not a Republican--voted for this--that raised taxes on Social Security benefits that seniors receive--thirty-some billion dollars in new taxes that you have to pay. And if--President Clinton said if you're receiving Social Security benefits, and say you're a widow, and you've got $25,000 worth of income--you're rich and you ought to pay taxes on 85 percent of your benefits, 85 percent. When I'm president we will repeal the tax hike on senior citizens' benefits in my administration.

	He even raised taxes retroactively on estates. Somebody passed away, nothing you can do about it and he raises the tax, the estate tax. What we're going to do in our economic package, because we know that some families and some in this audience work hard--seven days a week, six days a week, five, whatever--the husband works, the wife works, the kids work. You save a little money, you get a little business, you buy a little farm. Somebody passes on, and you've got to sell half of it to pay the estate tax. That should not happen in America. We're going to start providing estate tax relief.

	And then we've got a guy named Bruce Babbitt--have you heard him out here? Bruce Babbitt, yeah--he'll be long gone after January; don't worry about it. He'll be riding around in that Red Cross wagon over there along with the rest of the Cabinet.

	But he's got a new idea for a tax. I thought they thought of everything. I was speaking one day when I was still in the Senate, and I was making my point, and I said, "Now, gentlemen, let me tax your memories." And Ted Kennedy jumped up and said, "Why haven't we thought of that before?" So--

	I thought they had thought of everything. But Bruce Babbitt's got another idea. It's called a recreational tax. You'd tax your RVs, you'd tax your, your binoculars, your hiking boots--you'd even, you'd tax birdseed. You can't catch the birds. You can't tax the birds, you tax the seed. They tax everything, whether it moves, flies, whatever. If it blows away, they'll tax it.

	Now President Clinton said, "I don't know anything about that." Well, this guy happens to be in his Cabinet. Maybe he doesn't--he doesn't know much else going on in the White House. Maybe he doesn't know who is in the Cabinet.

	He doesn't know how the FBI files got there. He doesn't know how those other records got up in the living quarters. He doesn't keep very close track. You need somebody in the White House who knows where the front door is and the back door is and the upstairs is.

	And unemployment in California is a third higher than the national average, and in most communities in the Central Valley, unemployment remains in the double digits.

	And Bill Clinton's defense cuts have done more to undermine American security--he's taken $10 billion out of your economy, $10 billion out of California's economy and cost this state about 520,000 jobs. I know we have to cut defense. He said $60 billion. He cut it $112 billion. He cut it too much. He cut it too fast. We may have a problem. The last time I looked there were a lot of trouble spots in the world. And if I'm your commander in chief and I'm going to have to make a judgment, I'd rather err on the side of spending a little too much than a little too little, because if we don't spend enough, our liberty's at stake.

	He opposed Prop 187. I supported it.

	And we have just learned that the Clinton administration has granted citizenship to thousands with criminal histories--thousands. And why did they do it? Why, they want their votes. They want them out by November 5th. Now, I tell you, it's an outrage. It's an outrage they have 900 FBI files. Maybe somebody here--I've been--Mrs. Dryder has been--I've been talking about Mrs. Dryder. They have her FBI files. Nothing wrong with Dryder. She just happens to be a Republican, that's all. So they're down there looking through her files. And maybe they have your file. We all have F--well, not everybody has an FBI--it doesn't mean you've done anything wrong; you just have an FBI file. They went to sleep reading mine. They don't know what they're going to do when they get it finished.

	But--that's an outrage, Mr. President. It's an outrage to suggest you're going to pardon somebody whom you did business with, who might implicate you in a trial. It's an outrage, Mr. President.

	It's an outrage, Mr. President, to invite a drug dealer who gave $20,000 to your campaign to come to the White House for dinner. We will not have drug dealers eating in my White House. And I will not be on MTV making jokes about using drugs in front of America's children.

	Drug use has doubled ages 12 to 17 in the last forty-five months, while Clinton was AWOL. He's been AWOL before, but he's been AWOL on the war on drugs, AWOL on the war on drugs. He cut interdiction; he cut the drug czar's office. Then he says, "Well, this ought to be bipartisan, nonpartisan." He is the President. He didn't believe it was necessary. He said, "Oh, we ought to have more treatment, more treatment." Why not a little prevention? Why not stop drugs at the border, so they never are used by young people in America?

	Illegal aliens cost California $3 billion a year. I believe strongly in legal immigration. We're a nation of immigrants, but illegal immigration is something else. And if we can't protect our borders, then we shouldn't ask California taxpayers to pick up the tab. We ought to pick up the tab.

	So we're going to keep the front door of legal immigration open, and lock up the back door of illegal immigration in my administration.

	And we're going to look at the Endangered Species Act. You know, I've heard about all these terrible horror stories in California. This is what we're concerned about--too much government, too much power in the hands of bureaucrats. Send it back to the people. Send it back to the people. Power to the people. Give America back to the people, the taxpayers, the people.

	In fact, I have in my pocket here if I can get it out--

	Or maybe I don't have it. I don't have it in my pocket. But I have in my--keep in mind the 10th Amendment to the Constitution. It's twenty-eight words in length. It's Article Ten of the Bill of Rights. It's over 200 years old. Our Founding Fathers were so smart, they knew that some day, if we didn't watch it, the government would be so powerful they could take away your privacy rights, they could take away your property, they could take away everything through high taxation. So they wrote in to the Constitution the 10th Amendment. It's Article Ten of the Bill of Rights. It says unless the federal Constitution gives the power to the federal government, the federal government, or denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people, to the people, to the people.

	And we're going to send power back to the people in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	So I want to say--you know, I'm from the Midwest. I live near where Harry Truman--

	Oh, are you from the Midwest? Great--close to where Harry Truman came from, and one day in the campaign, they asked Harry--they said, "Give 'em hell, Harry." He said, "I'm not going to give 'em hell. I'm going to tell them the truth and they'll think it's hell." And we are going to do that for the next ten days. We are going to tell the American people the truth.

	I cannot believe that any Republican, or many Democrats or any Perot voters want to support Bill Clinton for reelection. I can't believe it.

	And I'm happy to see Perot--oh, you had another sign--yeah, you've got two sides. I can see I'm--too fast for me. Perot has the facts, and I have the answers. Well, I'm not certain about the first part, but I'll work on the answers. I do have the facts and we're going to make it work. And I want to reach out to Perot voters in California. A vote for Ross Perot is a vote for Bill Clinton. If you want Bill Clinton, vote for Ross Perot. If you want Bill Clinton to go back to Arkansas, vote for Bob Dole. That's the way it works.

	I don't mind beating one guy but it's hard to beat two. It's hard to beat two. And where do Perot votes come--come from? They come from me. That's why Clinton wants him in the race. "Stay in there, Ross. I want you in the debates"--all this goofy stuff. They didn't want him in the debates. They know that if he stays in the race, they get three or four points' advantage. In some states that could be the difference. We need the state of California. I told Ross Perot--do you want to reelect Bill Clinton? I don't think he does. He was pretty hard on him the other day. He talked about Whitewater, Watergate, all the things going on in the administration.

	So let me say if you know any Perot voters, if there are any Perot voters here, take a hard look. Write Ross Perot a nice note and say, "Ross, I like you but I can't vote for you." And then vote for me.

	He'll like it. He'll appreciate it.

	And finally, I want you to be proud of the vote you cast on November 5th. I remember my first vote for Dwight Eisenhower, my commander in chief, my hero, my military and political hero, and your hero, right--right over here. I've been proud of that vote ever since, proud of that vote.

	And I want you to be proud of the vote, not just on November 5th but a year later, and a year later, and a year later. So when you go home tonight, please think about it. Just take, you know, sixty seconds. Turn off the T--turn off those crazy TV ads, those negative political ads, and think about it. And think about your kids, or think about your school, or think about your business or your farm, whatever it is. And then think about what's going to happen the next four years.

	Remember what happened in the first two years of this past--this Clinton administration? They tried to take over your health care system, seventeen new taxes. Spent $1.5 trillion, fifty new bureaucracies. You couldn't even choose your own doctor. You couldn't choose your own doctor. Do you want four more years of this? No.

	Do you want more taxes? No.

	Do you want a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution? Yes. And so do I. And he's against it.

	Do you want an amendment to protect the flag of the United States of America? Yes. So do I. And he's against it.

	Do you want an amendment to permit voluntary prayer in public schools? Yes, I do, and he's against it. And the list goes on and on and on.

	He is not a mainstream--anything but a mainstream liberal, a mainstream liberal. So let's go to work.

	You know, everything that's been good in my life has come the hard way. I guess it has in your life. If it's worth it, you've got to go out and work for it. And sometimes you win and sometimes you lose. But you go out and work and work and work. Now this is about--not about Bob Dole. It's--I'm not trying to fill out my resume. I'm not trying to get Elizabeth into the White House. She's trying to get me into the White House, come to think of it.

	We're trying to get--but--and she'll be a great first lady, make no mistake about it.

	But I just want to ask you--in Kansas, if you don't ask for the vote, you don't get their votes--and I want to ask everybody [missing text] the sound of my voice--I stood here like Billy Graham with all these people here. I want to ask you all for your support. It is very, very important.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
BILL OF RIGHTSCAMPAIGN FINANCEDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONENDANGERED SPECIESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEILLEGAL ALIENSINCOME TAXINHERITANCE TAXPRIVACYSALES TAXSOCIAL SECURITYTHIRD PARTY CANDIDACYTAXATION--GENERAL