

	You have a wonderful plant here. Now I know why they say, "If it's Goya, it has to be good!"

	This plant--this great company--is the living embodiment of the American dream. Founded in 1949 by Joe Unanue's father, and now a 300 million dollar company. Goya provides not only good food to people all over the world; it provides jobs--and hope--to 1,500 families.

	That's what the dream is all about. Having an idea, and the freedom to pursue it. Building a business. Creating hope for families.

	I know something about that dream. When I was a young man, I packed everything I had into a little red Studebaker. My wife Barbara and I drove to Texas, and eventually started a business. Zapata Petroleum, it was called.

	Before long, we had several hundred employees. That's several hundred people for which we provided not only the paycheck, but the hope.

	I realized then what I realize now. That a job is more than just something you do everyday, more than just a paycheck. It's a source of pride.

	That's why my number one goal as president of this country will be to make sure that everyone who wants a job--a good job in the private sector--has a job.

	We've done pretty well so far. We've created 17.8 million jobs in the last six years. Two-thirds of them are in categories where the average annual paycheck is over $20,000.

	But I think we can do better--if we keep going in the same direction. That means no new taxes. It means knocking down barriers that prevent us from selling in other countries, not building up our own barriers. And it means doing everything we can to prepare you and your family for the economy of the future. That means good schools. Safe streets. Help in saving for college.

	America, too, is a crossroads. It's a place that all of us call home, no matter where we've come from. We are all drawn here by one idea.

	Like the families it ties together, that idea goes by many names. Opportunity. Freedom. The chance for a better life.

	But the point is that we are the keepers of that idea. We as a nation carry a flame that has lit the world on fire. Every nation on earth sees its light--and they turn to us for inspiration, for hope, and for leadership.

	My friends, I'm happy to say that today, in 1988, that flame is burning more brightly than ever before. It flickered for a while under Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale, as the "Misery Index" soared. Some said it would go out.

	They were wrong. Today, the idea of opportunity is alive--right here in Union City. It's alive in New Jersey. And, most of all, it's alive in America.

	Remember where we were in 1980. The prime rate of interest was 21.5 percent. Young people could not afford to buy a home.

	Inflation lurked like a criminal sneaking in the door of every home in America--robbing people of their hard-earned buying power. Inflation stole the value of social security checks from older Americans, it picked the pockets of families trying to put food on the table, it cheated every wage earner in America.

	It's easy to forget those times. But remember the lesson. The prime rate of interest is now 10 percent--half what it was. The rate of inflation is below five percent--half what it was. Family income is growing, not shrinking.

	America has economic power--and I am not going to let anyone take it away from you.

	Let's keep America charging in the right direction. Let's have lower interest, even less inflation, even more jobs and opportunity.

	My opponent thinks things are awful. Well, maybe he should do some door to door campaigning. That would let him see some of the houses people were able to buy after we brought interest rates down.

	I think America is well and on the move. My opponent thinks America is sick and getting worse. His prescription: go back to the way things were. That means more government and if he does to us that which he did to Massachusetts, that means more taxes. It all adds up to retreat.

	Well, America doesn't know how to retreat. I say let's move forward with a program that's working. I say let's create more growth. I say let's create more jobs. When he says retreat, I say no. Let's charge ahead.

	In 1981, we cut taxes in this country. Today, the average American family pays $2,200 less in income taxes than it would have under the other party's policies.

	Those tax cuts worked. In just six years, we've created almost 18 million new jobs. America is the economic engine that is pulling the world along. America is the model, the hope, for every free country on this planet.

	But what does my opponent say? He says that our tax cuts were "one of the worst bills Congress could have ever passed." He claims that the Reagan-Bush tax cut "virtually destroyed our position in the world."

	My friends, those are the words of someone who is just itching to raise taxes. Those are the words of someone who doesn't understand that families would rather have money in their pockets than in government's greedy hand.

	Those are the words of someone who wants to take away the gains we've made. Well, you have more money in your pocket today, and I am not going to let anyone take it away from you.

	I know that many in Congress want to raise taxes. They'll push me, and I'll say no. They'll try again, and, I'll say no again. They'll find another way, push a little harder, and try to raise taxes. And I'll say:

	Read my lips: No new taxes.

	The families who've been strengthened most by our recovery are those who had been left behind, ignored, or even discriminated against too often in the past.

	Jobs for Hispanic Americans have increased at three times the rate of those for the country as a whole. 2.3 million more Hispanic Americans are working today than in 1982.

	Employment for women is at an all-time high. Two-thirds of the jobs we've created in America's economic boom have been taken by women. And the gap between women's pay and men's pay is closing.

	Can we do better? You bet. Will we do better by going back to the policies of Jimmy Carter, Walter Mondale, and the governor of Massachusetts? No way.

	When Simon Bolivar, the great liberator, was bringing freedom to much of South America, he said, "we are seeing the light." He kept going, this great man, called the George Washington of South America, because he said "we have no desire to be thrust back into the darkness."

	This week is Hispanic Heritage Week in America. Across this country, we celebrate the special combination of history, of family, of faith, and of belief in freedom that have enabled Hispanic Americans to make such a remarkable contribution to this country.

	What better time to remember the words of Simon Bolivar--we know what works, and we have no desire to go backwards.

	We know that tough crime laws deter crime. We don't want a president who vetoed mandatory sentences for drug dealers. We don't want a president who lets convicted murderers, not even eligible for parole, out on weekend furlough. We want a president who will keep criminals behind bars. We want a president who supports the death penalty for the most cruel and brutal crimes. With George Bush, that's what you'll get.

	We know that peace through strength works. We know that the Soviets came to the bargaining table because we were prepared. We were ready. We were strong. We don't want a president who opposes the modernization of our weapons. We don't want a president who would make unilateral concessions to the Soviets. We want a president who has been at the negotiating table. We want a president who will keep our country strong, who will bring the Soviets back to the table, and who will never let America be made weak again.

	In a few minutes, I'm off to tour the plant of Goya Foods.

	What better example of the dream I'm talking about than Joe Unanue. Joe's father came from Spain to Puerto Rico, and then to America. He started this company as a small canning company in 1949. Today, Goya--with over 300 million dollars in sales and 1,500 employees--is the second largest Latin-owned company in America.

	Today, Goya is a giant family--one of the millions of families that are woven together to give America its incredible strength.

	A famous writer once wrote that "the family is one of nature's masterpieces." To that I would add: America is one of history's masterpieces.

	I know that to build a better America, I've got to start with families--families like yours and mine, families like Goya.

	I know that we have to keep on building pride, in places like Union City. Pride in New Jersey. Pride in the United States of America.

	Most of all, we know that America must continue to be the symbol for opportunity and freedom in this world. We must be the leader. We must be number one. We must be the source of hope, the model of democracy, the engine of economic growth.

	That is my mission.

	My friends, America today is growing. America is at peace. You must choose one man to keep it that way--to spur the economy to new heights, and to keep the peace through strength.

	And ladies and gentlemen, I am that man.

	Thank you very much.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--BUSINESS EXPERIENCEEMPLOYMENT--HISPANIC AMERICANSHISPANIC AMERICANSJOB GROWTH/CREATION     $ P$ J$ F$ <$
 4$ /$ *$  $ $ $ $ #	 g 	 C 	 %   e: