

	Thank you very much. It has been suggested, incidentally, ladies and gentlemen, that before we begin the program, that those of you who have signs would pull them down so that those in back could see a little better. We thank you for the signs, but we do want them to be able to see.

	And also I do want you to know that it is indeed a very great honor and privilege for me to be here in this city, and I want to say, Mr. Mayor, that in receiving that fine nonpartisan welcome and a mace of authority, that I am well aware of what's happened in Norfolk in the sixteen years that I was here before, I mean for the first time, I should say, because while I was in the Navy, I was never stationed here--I am a Navy man, let's get that straight, right here.

	And I do know that to hundreds of thousands of young Americans, Norfolk is a home away from home, just as San Diego is out on the West Coast, and I am very, very proud to have noted the great developments that have taken place here, this all-American city, its urban renewal.

	And I want to say to the people here from Norfolk, to those of you who have opened your homes and also your arms to those who are away from home in the Navy, we thank you. That's a great American service. It's a great group, I can assure you.

	And, too, as I stand here I do not want to overlook the fact that before we arrived, a number of dignitaries had been introduced. Those are on the stage, on the platform. And included among those who have been introduced are some men in which I am very, very interested. I am interested in all of them, all of the candidates for office, but I am particularly interested in the candidates for Congress. I just want to say this. Virginia at the present time on the Republican side has excellent representation in the United States Congress. The only trouble is we need more. We want a few more, and in this district here, in William Whitehurst and some others, you've gotten some more.

	Will they come up here and let's get a picture.

	My friends, the reason that I did that is a very simple one. Many, many years ago in 1946, before all of these girls down here and a lot of the boys were born, I had the opportunity of running for Congress, and I will never forget how lonesome you can feel when you are running for Congress, and you wonder whether anybody is paying any attention. And, believe me, remember, electing a president this year is immensely important, but give him the congressman that he needs to help him. We need these people. Give us the help and they will help you.

	I also would like to be permitted one other further word before we go to the heart of our meeting, and then to the panelists who I know have the questions that I am sure you would like to ask, at least I trust they will ask them.

	One of the men who is not a candidate but with whom I was proud to stand with when he was a candidate in the year 1965 is Linwood Holton. I hope he runs again some time. And I certainly am glad to be here with him.

	And now, my friends, could I set the stage for the panel by telling you first why we are a little late. There is an overflow crowd and, believe me, that's good news. I have just been over in the auditorium speaking to the overflow crowd. We are piping this into there, and I can only say that with that kind of overflow crowd which we have seen here and in virtually every city in the country, something is happening in America today. It's happening in Norfolk, it's happening in Virginia, it's happening all over this country. And during this day I have had a very exciting day. I was over at William and Mary College, made a speech there and on that occasion I--as usually when a dignitary comes and makes a speech, he gets a degree, they didn't give me one. Let me tell you, I have plenty of them. I don't need it. I am only interested, my friends, this year I am only interested in one degree, and you can help me. I want a degree from the Electoral College, if you know what I mean.

	Certainly in this state which has produced more presidents of the United States, very proudly, than any state of the Union, this state which has such a tremendous tradition and now has developed a two-party system, this state is one in which I am delighted to bring my campaign. I want to hear your questions. I want to talk not just to the Republicans but to the Democrats and the Independents, who are in this state and in this nation. And as I come here, I naturally think back to that period sixteen years ago tonight when I was in this hall. I want to tell you something. The crowd wasn't as big. Now, it's true, I wasn't running for president, I was running for vice president. And it is different, but, nevertheless, it was a big year.

	I want to tell you that in that year 1952 we won in November and after winning in November we went on, I think, to provide leadership that the American people want. In this year, 1968, sixteen years later, I've come back to Norfolk on the same night that I came in 1952 and this year we are going to carry Virginia as we did in 1952, and we are going to carry America this year in 1968.

	Before we go to the panel, I will just make one comment, one comment with regard to that administration of which I was proud to be a part and of which the citizens of this community and of this state helped me to be a part of sixteen years ago. A few days ago Hubert Humphrey was speaking over in Minneapolis. That's all right, don't worry, if he gets going he might come in second.

	My friends, he made this comment, and I understand you have to make a few partisan comments, but this one I thought deserved an answer. I'd like to give you my answer. He said the difference between his having served as vice president and my having served as vice president was very simple. He said that he could be proud of his four years as vice president in that administration and he said that Nixon could not be proud of the eight years he had been a vice president.

	I just want to lay the record right out as to how I feel. I will have more to say about his administration in answer to the questions.

	As far as our administration is concerned, I want to say this, and I say before every audience in this country, I am proud to have been vice president and part of an administration that ended one war and kept this nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's the kind of leadership we will have.

	I suppose you could speak of pride in one way or another but for four years, the last four years, we haven't had a moment of peace abroad. We haven't had a moment of peace at home, and I think we ought to be able to do better than that.

	Well, that's all I have to say. Let's go to the panel.

	MR. HOLTON: Mr. Nixon, for our first question tonight I am going to call on Mrs. Anna Lawson, who is one of our panelists.

	MRS. LAWSON: I want to preface this by saying I am a registered Democrat, for what that's worth.

	NIXON: We need her. We need her. Come on, we want her.

	Yes, go right ahead, Mrs. Lawson.

	MRS. LAWSON: I will get right to a really important problem, and that's the same old question of law and order. I want--I understand first, and correct me if I am wrong, that you propose a free enterprise situation in the cities, as some, of a remedy for the ghetto situation.

	First, I want to know exactly how you plan to put this into effect and in doing this what you will use as an incentive for business to want to go in and establish a business under these circumstances.

	NIXON: All of you can hear the questions out there, can you? All right, fine.

	Now, Mrs. Lawson, in answer to your question, you, as I understand it, are interested not only in my position on law and order but particularly in the proposals that I have made to try to get at some of the root causes of some of the difficulties we are having in our cities and by getting at those root causes, as I have suggested, rather than through a system of bigger and bigger federal programs, through enlisting private enterprise or free enterprise, as you put it, on the job. How would I do it, how would I get the incentives.

	Let me begin first by telling you what I think law and order means and by laying to rest what I think is a myth. When I talk about law and order there are some who come up after a speech and say, "Mr. Nixon, you shouldn't use the term "law and order", that's a code word for racism." I don't agree with that.

	I want to tell you why. We have to remember that every person in America, white Americans, black Americans, are interested in the first civil right of every American, and that's to be free from domestic violence. Law and order is something that we all need and that we all want. And I think we have to understand that right off the bat. I think we have to understand, too, if I may go further, that when we talk about law and order being a code word for racism, that those who have suffered most, suffered the most from the riots, from organized crime, are the poor and those who live in the ghettos of our great cities.

	They need, just as do all Americans, that protection of law and order with justice, laws that deserve respect, all of these must come together.

	On the other side of the coin, however, when we talk about law and order, we have not only got to be against crime and for, of course, a strong program to deal with those who would destroy rather than build, we also have to be for programs that will remove some of the causes of unrest in our great cities.

	Now, the difference in approach that I have and Mr. Humphrey has is a very simple one. He looks back and I look forward. He looks back--you see, the difficulty with every approach that he has is that he is a prisoner of the past four years. For four years we have poured billions of dollars into federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare, and what have we reaped? We have reaped frustration and riot and no solution of the basic problems.

	And I think we need a change. That's why I say that at this time, rather than to pour billions of dollars more into big federal government programs that have failed, let's take a new road. That's why I say that rather than more on welfare rolls, let's have programs that will put more on payrolls in the United States. That is the answer.

	Now, how do we do this? How do we do this? The way we do this is to enlist in the job of rebuilding the cities of America, and they need to be rebuilt; to enlist in the job of training the unemployed, and they need to be trained; to enlist in the job of providing opportunity for people who haven't had the opportunity, and they deserve that opportunity; rather than leaving that to government, let's get private enterprise in on the job. Because, let's look at America for the moment. The war on poverty didn't begin five years ago. It began 190 years ago in this country, and it's been the most successful war on poverty in the world. We have many problems in this country. We've got too much poverty. But, my friends, never forget, we are the wealthiest country with that wealth more equally shared than in any nation in the world. And never forget how we got that way. America is a rich country and a great country today, not because of what government did for the people but because of what people did for themselves. This is what we've got to understand.

	So I have programs and I will initiate programs in which the federal government will provide tax credits and other incentives to private enterprise to train the unemployed. That's called the human investment act. And, incidentally, if you give me enough of these Republican congressmen up there, we will pass that during the next administration.

	Second, I also have programs, I also have programs--several senators, including some Democratic senators have joined in this--programs which will provide for tax credits and other incentives for private enterprise to go in and rebuild the cities, provide the new housing, but housing that people can buy and that they can own. Because with the pride of homeownership will come the dignity that we need, and once you have that homeownership, you will feel it very different than if you live in a government house in which the government is in effect taking care of you. And third, I have programs that provide for tax credits and incentives for businesses which do go into these areas and also for businesses that are started there. So that the people that live in our cities, whether they may be black or they are white, whatever their background, will recognize that they not only have a chance to be a worker but a chance, if they have the talent, to be trained to be a manager and an owner. And I will put it finally this way. Once people get a [missing text] in the action, once people have a piece of the action of private enterprise, they are going to be defenders of the system rather than attackers. That's why I am for this kind of a program rather than a Federal program.

	MR. HOLTON: Mr. President--you don't care if I call you that, do you?

	NIXON: I have been called everything else. That's all right.

	MR. HOLTON: I call now on Mr. Morris Fink who has a question for you.

	MR. FINK: Mr. Nixon, my question is this. As president, what steps might you have taken in the Czechoslovakian crisis, sir?

	NIXON: Well, the Czechoslovakian crisis presented to the United States somewhat a similar situation that was presented to the United States during our administration in the Hungarian crisis. And the steps that the United States could take then and now were limited because of the risk that would be involved in a nuclear confrontation with the Soviet Union.

	However, I believe the response of the United States was not as vigorous as it should have been. I believe that when all of the stories came out, as they did come out for weeks before, that the Soviet Union was contemplating this kind of move, we should have moved on the propaganda front, in the United Nations, for example, and in other world forums, to make it clear that this kind of move would have a very detrimental effect on the Soviet Union's policy which they presently--were attempting to develop of having closer relations with the United States.

	I think we should have indicated that this would jeopardize, as it has jeopardized, the immediate approval of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. In other words, I think that the United States missed the boat in failing to in effect put the Soviet Union on the spot in the eyes of the world before it acted. And I think if the Soviet leaders had recognized the outrage of world opinion which did occur, then the step might not have been taken. I am not sure.

	But I do know this. As president of the United States, when actions like this occur, of course, we are not going to jump in and risk a nuclear war. But, on the other hand, the United States has other powers. We have our diplomatic power, we have the power of trade, either to give it or to take it away. We have the power of credit, either to give it or to take it away. We have the power that we have in the world forums to be--in the terms of moral leadership.

	And I think the United States must stand firmly against this kind of action, whether it is indulged in by any nation, whether it's the Soviet Union or any other nation, in which the right of a people to choose their own future is in effect stamped out. That is what I would have done.

	MR. HOLTON: Mr. Carl Croasdale, a question.

	MR. CROASDALE: Mr. Nixon, in regard to our public schools, what is your position on freedom of choice as a means of letting each locality set its own pace on integration?

	NIXON: Well, that problem is one that poses for whoever is in the Office of President of the United States, and all those who are appointed by him, a difficult individual district-by-district decision in each case. Now, if freedom of choice is implemented in such a way that there is no question of its being used as a subterfuge for perpetuating segregation or for providing for segregation, then freedom of choice in my view would be within the legislation as passed by the Congress of the United States.

	If, on the other hand, freedom of choice is used and if it is clear from the evidence that it is being used for the purpose of perpetuating segregation, then I think that the federal government has the responsibility, under the law as passed by the Congress, pursuant to the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States and after that decision of Brown versus Board of Education, it has the responsibility to use its power to see that segregation is not thereby a policy of a local school district.

	Now, let me put the question--let me put the proposition, my difference with the present administration in this way. The law in Title IV, as I am sure from your question you obviously are aware of these titles, in Title IV provides that in the assignment of students, assignment of students must be made without regard to race, creed or color. In other words, there can be no segregation. But then it goes on to say, on the other hand, that assignment of students should not be made and need not be made for the purpose of overcoming racial balance.

	And here is the difference. The Office of Education, Mr. Howe, has interpreted the law in this way. He made a speech in 1966 in New York in which he said that he as the head of the Office of Education considered--and I quote him--"that the primary purpose of building schools was social and economic integration." I don't agree with that.

	The primary purpose of building schools is education, and that's what we have to have in mind. And so I say we must be sure that in no district in this land is there segregation, artificially or otherwise contrived.

	There must be that opportunity for every individual to be able to go to a school, regardless of whether he may be--whatever the color of his skin and the like, but by the same token, in terms of somebody in the Office of Education trying to act as a local school board, then I would take a very dim view of that kind of action, unless it was pretty clear that they had overstepped the bounds.

	MR. HOLTON: Let's go now back to the young people and ask Sam Howlett to ask the next President a question.

	MR. HOWLETT: Mr. Nixon, probably one of the most pressing questions of the young men in high school and college today is the draft and just how it will affect their futures. Many students feel the present system is unfair and far too impersonal. As President, just what will the Nixon's stand be on the present day draft system?

	NIXON: First, let me say in answer to that question that I am delighted to see so many young people in this audience. And I want to say, too, that in responding to that question I want to make clear to all these young people that I am not responding simply because I know of their interest, and it is a very real interest in finding a different answer than the draft.

	Let's get right down to brass tacks. As President Kennedy once said about the in relation to the time that he called up the reserves in the Berlin crisis and somebody said it was unfair, he said, "Well, life is unfair."

	And it's true, the draft is unfair. It was unfair in World War II, it's unfair in Korea. It's unfair now, no question about it. The point about it is this. We have the problem of defending the security of the United States of America and the question is how are we going to be able to accomplish that. My own view is that in the administration of the draft that it is far more preferable to move to younger people, people who have not yet, for example, gone through college and are in graduate school, and the rest, move to younger people between the high school and the college level, rather than to move up into the higher age groups. Because the older a person gets, he may get family responsibilities, he may be far along in his education, the more that it imposes a difficulty upon him.

	So in the administration of the draft, that is the direction that I would take of the present system. But, beyond that I would go further. I believe that once the war in Vietnam is brought to a conclusion, that then we should move from a compulsory military system to what I call a volunteer service. Now, I know that many of my military friends will disagree with that. But I will tell you why I think we can do it.

	As I look at whatever war the United States may be engaged in--in the future, it's either going to be a nuclear war where we are not going to need a mass army or it's going to be a guerrilla war where the kind of an army that we need is a highly trained, permanent professional force on the military side and a highly trained volunteer civilian force for nation building.

	We don't have the right kind of force in Vietnam today. That's why we haven't put the right emphasis on pacification. And so, what I would do, and this would only come after Vietnam, it would be one of the peace dividends, it would cost around--the estimates run from three to four, maybe four-and-a-half billion dollars. I would raise the pay of those in the permanent armed forces so that it was competitive, so that we could attract good men into it as a career, and then I would do that, and I would believe, it is my view that that system would be effective in providing for our needs.

	If it were not, then we would have to take another look. But I think we ought to give the volunteer system a try, and let's just go one further step. When you talk about pay, let's look at it. It really doesn't make sense for a boy fighting out in Vietnam to get $90 a month and somebody in the Job Corps to get $200 a month. It just doesn't make sense. I think we ought to change it.

	MR. HOLTON: All right, Mr. Underwood. Let's let Mr. Underwood ask a question. Mr. Underwood.

	MR. UNDERWOOD: Mr. Nixon, for approximately thirty years I am representing an industrial union, and I have been retired for eight years. Now I represent a group of annuitants. And what I would like to know is what can be done to curb this inflation? For the last eight years it practically cut a big hole in it.

	NIXON: Mr. Underwood, did I understand you used to represent unions, and now you represent annuitants, retired people, people living on fixed incomes, and so that's why the question relates to what can we do about the inflation and the rest.

	Well, let me say there is a pretty clear choice here, a very clear choice, because on the one hand Mr. Humphrey believes that the policies of the last four years not only should be continued, but he would expand them.

	As far as spending is concerned, he is going to make Lyndon Johnson look like a piker, you can be sure of that. And then, beyond that--now, let's be quite precise about this, you know, you hear about all these wonderful spending programs and they say, "Gee, this fellow cares because he will spend more for this, that and the other thing than his opponent."

	Here's my answer. I say that when you look at the fact that in this country there are twenty million people over the age of sixty-five who are living on a little Social Security or a retirement or some savings or a pension or all three. And when you look at what has happened to them over the last four years--when you find that they did not have any increase of significance, when you find that as a matter of fact the price of their grocery bills, the price of their clothing, and everything that they bought, went up 10 percent. Many of those people who had saved their money were driven to the wall. I think that's wrong.

	And so I say that we need a policy which will re-establish the value of our dollar, and we have to have men in Washington, basically, who take this attitude, basically those who are in Washington have to recognize that before they spend money for this or that project, how is it going to affect the millions of Americans that are trying to balance the family budget. All this talk about balancing the federal budget isn't relevant. But the reason we have to make an effort to balance the federal budget, because if we don't make a better effort to do that, millions of Americans can't balance the family budget.

	So I say we will have a policy that will stop the rise of prices, we will have a policy that will stop the rise of taxes, and, in addition to that, as far as those on social security are concerned, I favor a policy where if we do have continuing inflation, then social security annuitants should receive an automatic increase so that they do not fall behind. That's the kind of a policy we ought to have.

	MR. UNDERWOOD: Do you believe that you can give us the kind of policy that we received from President Eisenhower for eight years when things were stable and reliable and dependable?

	NIXON: Well, let me make one thing very clear, that the purpose of my policy will be to provide for progress without inflation. And by progress I mean by that that I believe that we can use the great economic tools that are available to the President of the United States, use them at times to spur the economy, when the economy needs to be spurred. I am basically an activist. I don't intend to stand by and have a dip in the economy occur if I can use the credit of the United States or the tax powers in order to get the economy moving.

	But, by the same token, I am not going to continue to pour coal onto an economy when it's already overheated. In other words, what we need is a balance. The kind of a balance in which we can have wage increases, but real wage increases.

	Let me turn to the wage-earner a moment. I talked about the people over sixty-five. Most of the people in here are under sixty-five and most of you are in the wage earner bracket. Those who happen to be factory workers or shall we say in manufacturing, that's about sixty million Americans, over the past three years your average wage increase per week was $14 a week. In other words, if you will check back, you will find that today you are getting $14 a week more than you got in 1965. And so you think, as Hubert Humphrey said in Toledo the other day, "You never had it so good."

	But you ask your wife what's happened. You ask her why it is that she hasn't been able to save more, why she hasn't been able to put more meat and potatoes on the table, and all that, and she will tell you why. As a result of inflation the wage earners in America, who have had an increase which retired people have not, have been on a treadmill. Actually, the wage earners who have gotten $14 a week more over the last three years have had every bit of it eaten up by taxes and inflation so that they get less, and we are going to stop that.

	MR. HOLTON: Good. Let's move along now back to--let's go back to Sam Howlett and see if he has another question.

	MR. HOWLETT: Mr. Nixon, it's been noted, and tonight is no exception, that lately you have been associating yourself with large throngs of youth. Just what, if any, part will the youth play in your administration?

	NIXON: Well, I met today with a very exciting group of young people. We called it--we call it the American Coalition, Youth Coalition. And in talking to this group of people I tried to respond to that question. Let me see if I can analyze for this great audience here, analyze American youth today and perhaps say some of the things about American youth that ought to have been said before and that need to be heard now.

	Sometimes when we hear about the troubles on the campuses and sometimes when you see the political candidates, and I am no exception, that we get heckled by people who try to shout you down when you are talking. You will hear people throw up their hands and say the younger generation has all gone to pot. That's not true. Let me tell you something. And I mean in a literal sense a lot of them. Nevertheless, let me tell you what is the fact. It is true that never have so many young people been protesting. But also there is a plus side to this. I have never seen so many young people at political meetings in my whole life. This is the best educated group of young people we have ever had in the American history. They know more, second, and this is an admission that I am going to make. Second, this group of young people knows more about the world, they know more about political situations in the United States than I did when I was in law school thirty years ago, and I thought I was pretty well, shall we say, motivated at that point.

	And third, the younger generation today is motivated toward solving social and economic problems. It isn't just motivated toward--as perhaps generations in the past were because we had to be simply in getting out and earning a living. You want that, too. But I find that young people want to make a contribution to their country. They want to help. They want to help in the problems of rural America and the problems of urban America, and they want to be listened to. And I think one of the problems with regard to the youth rebellion, if we want to call it that, and the alienation is that this present administration has been doing too much talking and not enough listening. I am going to start listening to American youth. And that's why I am going to set up across the country a group of listening posts so that we can pick out from the great educational institutions not simply from the deans and the presidents of the universities whom I would know, anyway, any president would know those, any president of the United States. But when we can get right from the grass roots from young America, what they think, what they believe, what contribution they can make, either on a volunteer or on a permanent basis to our nation, the solution of our nation's problems--I think we are going to get some exciting solutions, we are going to involve American youth. And if we give American youth a new sense of purpose, something to be for, then you are not going to find so many American youngsters that are just going to be against. We've got to try to give them something to be for, and I am going to try to do that as president.

	MR. HOLTON: We will just have time for one or two more questions, and I will call on Mr. Fink for another question.

	[VOICE: What about Vietnam?]

	NIXON: I will cover that.

	MR. FINK: I have got two questions, Mr. Nixon. One has to do with Vietnam and one is why hasn't either the Democrats or the Republican party failed to sponsor a bill in Congress to declare a war on Vietnam so that the United States Navy could block the Port of Haiphon and cut off 95 percent of the Communist war supplies. I've got it written down here, if elected what do you plan to do, but as president you are going to be elected, so what is your positive approach to solving--

	NIXON: First, with regard to the declaration of war, in my view the declaration of war, and I am at odds with some of the members of my own party in this respect, that a declaration of war would not have been a wise move then or now. Not a wise move, because you have--let me tell you, you have this problem. Against whom do you declare war? And when you do declare war, suppose you declare war, for example, if you declare war--you can't declare war against the Vietcong, naturally, they are a front for North Vietnam. So you declare war against North Vietnam. You then immediately set in motion, and these are some of the technical actors that anybody who has been in foreign policy has to think of, you set in motion any international agreements that North Vietnam might have with Communist China or the Soviet Union. It might, in other words, have the effect of broadening the war and of escalating it rather than keeping it dampened down which is what we want.

	What we want is to bring this war to an honorable end in a way that will not increase our involvement, rather than the other way around. So that is why I oppose the declaration of war.

	Now, the second point is that in terms of what I have said about Vietnam and what I believe should be done, let me make clear what my policy has been. I probably have been the most consistent critic over the past four years of the conduct of this war. I believe that this administration wasted our military power by using it gradually rather than effectively.

	Second, I believe that this administration--second, I believe that this administration has made a fundamental error in failing to recognize that in a war of this type our objective must be to help them fight the war and not fight the war for them. We failed to train the South Vietnamese until very lately, they have begun a training program, and as a result what we have had--what has happened is that we have brought Americans in to do fighting that South Vietnamese could have done and should have done and thereby there have been more casualties than had been necessary as a result of that mistake.

	Third, let me make one thing clear. This is not just hindsight. I have been saying this for four years. But next time they will be listening, I hope. But nevertheless, the third point is this administration has failed, as I indicated earlier, to recognize the true character of the war. A guerrilla war is not like the kind of a war we had in Vietnam. This is a war not for territory, it is a war for people, and consequently what you do non-militarily in pacification, in nation-building, can be more important than what you do militarily. And here we have dropped the ball almost completely. They have had a pacification program, but it always has received secondary emphasis rather than primary emphasis which is what it should.

	Now, why is pacification important? For this reason. If we want to get out of Vietnam and be able to stay out, the South Vietnamese have got to have something to fight for. They've got to be able to take care of themselves. And until we get the kind of a program that will build up the institutions in South Vietnam and build up their military forces so that when Americans get out they will be able to handle any continuing insurrection or any other insurrection, they will go calling on us to come back in again, and I don't want Americans going out there again.

	So let's bring this war to an end in that way. Now, the third point is this. The other areas that I think we have been deficient in the use of our diplomatic power, in failing to enlist the Soviet Union more adequately and also in other areas. That is enough of the criticism of the past. Now, we come to the present situation. At the present time negotiations are going on, as we know, in Paris. Those negotiations, I, of course, get regular briefings on. Those negotiations have not yet been successful, but at this time there is a chance, and I of course have been informed that there is a chance that those negotiations might lead on the part of the North Vietnamese to some de-escalation of the war.

	Now, as long as there is that chance, I as a presidential candidate, don't want to say anything that will destroy that chance. Now, let's understand one thing. Somebody said, well, look, you're trying to dodge the question.

	Not at all. Let me say this. I am trying to get peace. And if Johnson gets peace, more power to him. I hope he can. Then we get it off our plate. My friends, let me say if a man who is a candidate for president stands here and makes a statement that, well, look, if I get in, I am going to make this or that or the other concession to the enemy, can you imagine the negotiators from North Vietnam talking to Harriman and to Vance? Of course they won't. They will stop. They will wait. That is why I have persisted in the position and I stand by it today, that as a presidential candidate I will do nothing to injure or jeopardize the chance of the negotiators to bring an honorable end to that war. If the war is not ended, if the war is not ended, then I will have the responsibility. If I of course am elected, and in that responsibility I think then the American people have to choose, and the choice will be between one man who helped to make the policy, who has always defended it, and who until very recently has indicated no differences and if you can tell me what the difference is today, I don't know, if you don't like Humphrey's policy today, wait until tomorrow, we will have another one, you can be sure of that.

	And my point is I think for four years they have had a chance, for four years they messed it up. And I think that what we need is new leadership, new leadership that can go in unencumbered by the mistakes of the past, and I believe that that new leadership by using the military, economic, diplomatic, and other power of the United States in an effective way can bring this war to an honorable conclusion. I believe we can do it. And I believe certainly that when we make that choice the American people rather than turning to the leadership that has failed is going to turn to new leadership that has not had a chance, and I think we can bring that chance off.

	MR. HOLTON: Mr. Fink says he has one more question.

	MR. FINK: This is a very short question. Mr. Nixon, many of our spiritual leaders of all denominations throughout the country stress the importance of a spiritual revival throughout the United States, for the country to turn back to God. I would like to know how as president you feel about that.

	NIXON: I have often said in answer to that question that when we talk about law and order, when we talk about the respect for law, that that respect for law has to come and will only come when men take the law into their hearts and their minds and not into their hands.

	Now, think about that just a moment. What we need in this country is a new understanding on the part of the American people of basic moral principles. We must get away from this permissiveness that anything goes. Now, where are you going to get that understanding? I don't know of any place where you get it better than through the great religious organizations in this country. I happen to be, I may be a Protestant, others may be Catholics, others may be Jewish, this is their holiday today, you know--we have all of these various groups, but my point is this. I am utterly convinced as I look at the United States today that a revival in terms of an understanding of and more than that, an application of these basic principles of our great tradition in religion would go a long way to help solving some of our problems. Because you know a president can call for more money for police, and he can call for more laws and all that, all the rest, but until you change the individual, until he understands, until he believes that one thing is wrong and another thing is right, you are going to have a very great difficulty in enforcing the law.

	MR. HOLTON: Let's let Anna Lawson ask one more question, and then perhaps Mr. Nixon after answering that would like to sum up.

	MRS. LAWSON: Mr. Nixon, you have sort of stated this, but I would like to know a little more completely what you think about your foreign policy toward the Soviet Union and the Communist bloc countries. I noticed that you don't approve of this Non-Proliferation Treaty at this point, is that right?

	NIXON: That's right.

	MRS. LAWSON: What do you plan to do in your administration?

	NIXON: Let's look for a moment, if we can, at the next president of the United States, whoever he is. Let's look at him in terms of not just what he is against, and there is perhaps a strong feeling in this country of just protest, let's just be against. And so here is the problem of the next president of the United States. And I want to tell you how serious I think it is. If he serves for eight years, the danger of world war in the next eight years will be greater than at any other period in our history. Why? Because the Soviet Union in the next four years will catch and pass the United States in power unless the next president can reverse the situation that this administration has allowed the country to fall into. That will be a dangerous situation for us. And, secondly, in the second term of the next president of the United States, the Communist Chinese will acquire a significant nuclear capability, and the Communist Chinese now are outside of the nuclear club, outside of the family of nations. Here they are, 750 million of them, a billion at the end of the century, and so that question is, what do you do about a president?

	Now, I know that there are many who are tempted to say, well, this past administration has messed it up and the Eisenhower administration has messed it up, and anybody would be good, and I have heard in fact one candidate suggest, well all you have to do is to go out and get all these State Department bureaucrats and throw their briefcases into the Potomac. Well, now, everybody is going to cheer at that. But let me say this. It takes more than just being against what has happened to solve the problems of this country. It's a question of what you are for. And I want to tell you what I am for.

	First, the United States must be strong. We've got to make sure that our president will always be able to negotiate from strength. He must negotiate with the leaders of the Soviet because in today's nuclear world there is no alternative to negotiation. The Soviet knows it and we know it. And that is why I will reestablish the strength of the United States, not only here, but reestablish also the strength of our NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) Alliance which has been allowed to crumble and go to pieces during this administration.

	Once we have reestablished that strength, then I believe that the next president must conduct a series of meetings at the presidential and other levels with the leaders of the Soviet Union. Now, those meetings are not going to produce peace instantly. There are no instant solutions. Simply because we are for peace, they are not going to be for peace, but there are some things, interests, we have in common. And one is this, neither of us wants a nuclear war. And I think, therefore, that in those meetings if we take areas like the Mid-East, we take areas like Eastern Europe, we take areas like Berlin, and then we take in addition to that the prospect of what could happen if we had better relations, of trade, of credit, et cetera, we put all of those things on the table with Vietnam, too, incidentally, if that's still on there, I think that kind of meeting with the Soviet Union, that that kind of meeting, it will not be easy, it's going to take a lot of hardheaded bargaining from a position of strength, that kind of meeting can first avoid miscalculation which could lead to war, and, second, it could produce on a slow but steady basis the reduction of tensions and eventually the kind of live and let live attitude that we need between these two great superpowers.

	Once that is done, then we have established also the basis for moving onto the problem of Asia. Now, we cannot forever just sit here and say, well, there is China out there, and at the present time we shouldn't recognize China, we shouldn't admit it to the U.N., we shouldn't trade with it, because Communist China has an aggressive policy toward several U.N. members, including India and others, and at this time if you recognize it in the U.N. you in a sense put a seal of approval on that policy and encourage her to do more. But looking to the future, the next president of the United States must make plans in terms of how the strength of free Asia from Japan clear around to Thailand and India can be built up so that we eventually can open a dialogue with China and bring China within at least the realm where we can communicate again.

	Now, why have I gone into such detail on this? Only to indicate to you that the problem isn't quite as simple as throwing the diplomats' briefcases into the Potomac. Some of those briefcases probably have some things in it that are worth reading. A lot of them probably aren't worth reading. But I do know this, that today's world, and I wish it were easier, I wish I could just stand up here and say, well, if a man is for peace, elect him president. It isn't the peace-talkers but it's the peacemakers that count these days.

	I want to say, too, I don't offer an easy solution. I am not telling any audience that we are going to have peace with the Soviet Union simply by telling the Soviet Union, look, we don't threaten you. The Soviet Union will understand strength and firmness, not belligerence, never that, but strength and firmness will lead to negotiation.

	Now, getting back to your question, and I strayed a bit from it, from the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The reason I believe that it would have been a mistake for the Senate of the United States to approve a Non-Proliferation Treaty with the Soviet Union at this time is that the Soviet Union right now has troops in Czechoslovakia in violation of a treaty. And as Anthony Eden said recently in a column that I read, and some of you may have seen it here, we learned in the thirties the great mistake at a time of making new agreements with a nation when they were in violation of old ones, it does not bring progress, it only brings contempt.

	I believe we've got to make it clear to the Soviets, we've got to make it clear to the Soviets, I think we've got to make clear to the Soviet that--or any other nation in the world--that we want friendly relations with the Russian people, we want trade eventually with them, we want all of these things, but, on the other hand, it's a two-way street. And as far as we are concerned, we are going to maintain our strength and keep it at that level until we are sure that the world has changed to the point that we are not threatened by their attempt to expand. And I would say finally in that connection that--and perhaps this will be a good theme on which to close the panel, Lin, in that connection I perhaps have taken more time on that question than I should have, but as I see a great audience like this, I know that everybody likes a simple solution, and, believe me, I want to be elected.

	I would like to tell you there was a simple solution to everything. I'd like to tell you that, well, just stop the bombing of North Vietnam without any conditions, just stop it, and you'd have peace.

	But let me say what I am interested in. I am interested in not just stopping the bombing, I want to stop the war. And I say that what we want to do, that's why I say and that's why I say that a president of the United States, when he makes that decision, must stop the bombing only when he thinks it's going to save American lives rather than cost American lives. That's the point that we have to have in mind. And so I come back to the fundamental proposition, it has often been said that the business of waging peace is infinitely more difficult than that of waging war. I have had some experience, certainly very little experience, in war in the Navy, three and a half years, many, many years ago, eight years as Vice President of the United States, six years in the Senate and the House.

	But I do pledge this, there is in my view nothing that is more important insofar as the next president of the United States is concerned than to develop the new foreign policy that this country needs. Look around the world. Vietnam has been raised. But, my friends look back to the eight years ago when Dwight Eisenhower and I left office. You can't name a place in the world where America isn't in worse trouble today than we were then. The Mid-East, Africa, Europe, Asia, Latin America, every place around the world we are in trouble. And I say that when an administration has fouled up that badly, what we need is a new approach and a new policy. And on that score I just close with this final comment. That policy must be of course directed--directed toward lessening the tensions between the two superpowers. It must be directed toward negotiation. But also that policy must be directed toward something else. The United States is a very rich country and a very strong country. But over the past twenty years the world has changed.

	For twenty years we have been furnishing most of the money and most of the arms and most of the men to help other nations defend their freedom. And now today other nations that we have helped in the past are able to do more. And that's why I say that in addition to this, relations with the Soviet and the other problems that I have discussed tonight. One of the major objectives of our new foreign policy will be to develop in consultation with our friends and our allies. New policies so that in the future if something comes up like Vietnam, that the United States will not do as we did in Korea and in Vietnam, shoulder the burden not only of furnishing the arms and the money but most of the men.

	I say that it's time when we look at the balance in the world, when there are 200 million Americans and when there are two billion people that live in the free world. I think we need a foreign policy where other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom, and that's what I will work for.
BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONBUDGET, BALANCEDCOST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALCZECHOSLOVAKIA--SOVIET INVASIONEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONINFLATIONMILITARY PERSONNELMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINAPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHPOVERTYRACE RELATIONSSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)URBAN AFFAIRS/AIDVIETNAM WAR          
    { s q < 2 P	 	 g	 W	 I	 ;	 	 	  	  	  	  	  	 j 	 L 	 E 	 7 	  	  e: