

	The primary foreign policy objective of the Dukakis administration can be stated very simply:  to restore respect for American leadership in a changing world.  The kind of respect that Franklin Roosevelt earned when he championed the Four Freedoms in crushing Hitler's armies during World War II.  The kind of respect that John Kennedy earned when he forced the withdrawal of Soviet missiles from Cuba and signed the world's first nuclear test ban agreement.  The kind of respect that America received when it served first as the arsenal and then as the breadbasket for the free world; when the dollar was the world's strongest currency; when American goods were known to reflect the world's highest quality and finest technology; when America put a man on the moon and a Peace Corps in the developing world; when people from around the globe looked to us for leadership and for hope.

	I'm running for president because I want to see our country receiving that kind of respect from our allies, our neighbors, our trading partners, our friends, and even our adversaries.  It is not essential that everyone love us.  It would not be healthy if everyone feared us.  It is not necessary that everyone agree with all our policies.  But if we are to lead in this diverse and dangerous world; if our words are to be heard and our warnings are to be heeded; we must be respected.

	We are not winning that kind of respect--when the people of Western Europe tell the Gallup poll that the Soviet Secretary General is more admired than the President of the United States;--when massive budget deficits are yielding control of America's economic future to bankers in Tokyo and Bonn;--when American ideas and dollars are producing more jobs and better jobs overseas than here at home;--when an avalanche of drugs is pouring across our borders and thugs like Noriega can thumb their nose at diplomats and law enforcement officers here in the United States; or--when the highest officials of our land betray American ideals and values by selling arms to a terrorist nation.

	To regain respect, we must rebuild our strength.  And we must understand that that strength does not hang from a single thread; it is like a steel cable, drawn from several intertwining strands.  If one of those strands is allowed to fray, the whole cable is weakened.

	A coherent national security policy must weave together and tighten all the strands of our security; a strong military; a healthy and growing economy; strong and decisive leadership that understands and knows how to cope with change; a President who loves this country and who respects the ideals that have made us the greatest force for justice and opportunity and freedom in the history of mankind.

	To regain respect, we must meet every challenge to our security, not only the military challenges of which I will speak in Maryland on Wednesday; not only the challenge of the Soviet Union, of which I will speak in Ohio tomorrow; but also the new challenges arising from new quarters in this rapidly changing world, the challenge of trade in an increasingly interdependent world; the challenge of terrorism in an increasingly vulnerable world; and the challenge of drugs in an increasingly corruptible world.

	In each of these three areas, George Bush has failed.  I want to beat our foreign competitors; he's willing to settle for second place.  I want to crack down on terrorism; he knuckled under to the Ayatollah.  I want a real war on drugs; his answer to drug kingpins like Noriega is J. Danforth Quayle.  And in each of these three areas, the man given the responsibility by this administration was the Vice President, George Bush.  No wonder he isn't eager to debate.

	Today, I would like to spell out how I intend to respond to each of these three challenges to American security and respect, and how my approach differs from that of Mr. Bush.

	First, the issue of trade.

	The next president must understand what 7 and 1/2 years of voodoo economics had done to America's competitive position in the world.  By driving up the dollar, it placed a tax on every product we sell abroad; and a discount on every foreign car and radio and television we buy at home.  It has turned America from the world's largest creditor into the world's largest debtor; made Middle America a shopping mall for foreign investors; cost more than two million good American jobs; and placed our economic future in the hands of the bankers and finance ministers of other lands.

	George Bush offers us more of the same old voodoo economics in the face of a $150 billion budget deficit; in fact, he wants to cut taxes for the wealthy again.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I want to get America moving again; to make America respected again.

	We're going to invest in the good schools and good skills and new technologies that are the source of real economic strength.  We're going to get labor and management working together to make the label "Made in America" a symbol of quality and durability and value throughout the world.  We're going to help small and medium-sized businesses to find new opportunities to export their products; we're going to use the authority provided by the new trade bill to open new markets for American goods and services overseas; and we're going to create expanded markets by insisting that our allies work with us to ease the debt crisis in the less developed world, and foster economic growth and opportunity around the globe.

	George Bush has no plan for the trade problem, because he doesn't believe there is a trade problem.  He told a shipyard worker in Oregon the other day that we should expect lower wages because America was undergoing what he called a "competitive change."  He told us last fall that we would have higher quality goods if we imported auto mechanics from the Soviet Union.  And when he was put in charge of a task force on trade with Japan, he concluded that our trade relationship with that nation was "superb."

	Mr. Bush may have gotten used to the idea of being number two, but Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to aim higher and do better.  We're not going to apologize to our foreign competitors; we're going to beat them.  We want America to be number one; not if, but, or almost, but number one, today, tomorrow and for years to come.

	My friends, economic strength is one measure of national security, and it is one test of presidential leadership.

	Standing up to international terrorism is another.  My position is clear.  America must never make, and in a Dukakis Administration, we will NOT make any concessions to terrorists--ever.  We will not sell arms to terrorists--ever.  And we will use the full power of America's military and intelligence forces to protect our citizens; to deter and apprehend terrorists; and to take action against terrorist base camps whenever and wherever they pose an imminent threat to the safety of our people.

	What about Mr. Bush?  Can we trust him to lead the fight against terrorism?  In 1985 and 1986, George chaired a special Cabinet-level task force on Terrorism; a task force whose principal conclusion was that the United States should "make no concessions to terrorists; [missing text]  (it should) not pay ransoms, release prisoners, change its policies or agree to other acts that might encourage additional terrorism."  During that same period, during those same six months, the Administration first considered, and then decided, to sell millions of dollars in deadly arms to the Ayatollah of Iran.

	And so, the question arises once again: where was George?  I can tell you where George [missing text]. Shultz was.  The Secretary of State, the man who should have been the President's principal foreign policy adviser, was arguing in meeting after meeting that this sale was a mistake; that it would betray American values, undermine our foreign policy, reward terrorism, and by trading arms for hostages, make it more likely that other Americans would become hostages.  George Bush had a different view.  He says he was out of the loop, but the fact is that he was fully briefed on all aspects of the transaction; he had time to think about it; he had an opportunity to advise the President and he did advise the President.  And he was disastrously and completely and unforgivably wrong.  

	I don't question George Bush's patriotism.  Not for a minute.  But does this man, a man who would encourage the President of the United States to undermine American interests and prestige by selling arms to Iran, have the judgment and the steadiness required in the Oval Office?

	I think we can do better.  I think we HAVE to do better if we're going to restore respect for American leadership around the world.  And I know we can do better in the war against drugs.  On this issue, as on trade and terrorism, my record and my positions are clear.  Lloyd Bentsen and I favor tough and effective and unrelenting law enforcement; an all-out commitment to drug education and prevention in every school in America, beginning in the early elementary grades; and a nationwide alliance--led by the President of the United States, to cut the demand for drugs.

	As president, I will lead that alliance for America, as I have in Massachusetts, where our Governor's Alliance has been called a model for the nation by the Drug Enforcement Administration; an alliance that has helped to cut marijuana use by our high school seniors by twice the national average and cocaine use by five times.

	We must fight the war against drugs not only because drugs can ravage the body of a child, but because they can steal the soul of democracy.  The drug cancer is eating away at fragile democracies throughout this hemisphere.  It's corrupting governments; destroying economies; splintering communities; spawning terror and crippling lives.  It's the single greatest threat to our national security in the Americas today.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I have spelled out a detailed plan for fighting the drug way; for working with democratic governments in the region to eradicate crops; share intelligence; strengthen law enforcement; crack down on money-laundering operations; and enact tough laws in every country in this hemisphere to make drug traffickers pay for what they're doing to our children.

	We're going to make it clear to every country that American foreign aid is not a blank check; we want, we expect, and we are legally required to demand--that they cooperate in the fight to destroy drug crops and to prevent the transshipment of drugs to American soil.  And we're going to put someone who is tough and aggressive and experienced in charge of the war against drugs.

	Mr. Bush says that, if he's elected, he'll put his vice president in charge of the drug war.  President Reagan tried that and it didn't work.  And when he was asked about the drug problem, Mr. Bush's running mate said he didn't know anything about it.

	After seven years of task forces and policy boards and grandiose claims, cocaine imports have tripled on the Vice President's watch; drug-related deaths have doubled; and heroin imports have risen by 50 percent.

	I want to restore respect for America; I want to win the drug war; and I have some questions for Mr. Bush.  Mr. Bush, if you are serious about fighting drugs, why is your administration cutting federal aid to state and local drug law enforcement by two-thirds?  Why are we telling four out of five drug users who are looking for help in this country that there's no room for them in our drug treatment centers?  Why did you ask the President to veto a Defense Authorization bill that would have increased the role of the National Guard in intercepting drugs?  Why were dozens and dozens of Coast Guard vessels, our first line of defense against drugs, tied up at the dock for most of the summer?  
What is it about Dan Quayle that makes you think he's the most qualified person in this country to run the war against drugs?

	Does it bother you that three of your top campaign people asked for and got almost a million dollars to peddle influence on behalf of a foreign government--some of whose top officials were--and still are--under investigation for trafficking in drugs?

	Why haven't you explained to the American people, to our parents and children, to our law enforcement officers, and to victims of drug-related crimes, why the United States government had General Noriega on its payroll?  Why were we using American tax dollars to pay a man who was responsible for giving the Medellin Cartel, the biggest gang of drug killers in the world, a beachhead in North America; a man who sheltered that drug gang after they murdered the Colombian Minister of Justice, who let them build a cocaine factory on Panamanian soil, who laundered their money and shipped their drugs and received millions of dollars in return?

	Why, if there's nothing to hide, is your administration blocking a congressional investigation into when and why and how much we paid Noriega?  Why have you refused to join me in declaring that the CIA and our other intelligence agencies should never again bankroll a drug peddler who's corrupting our society and killing our children?  And why, two weeks ago, did your administration turn logic inside out and upside down and certify that the government of Panama--with General Noriega still in charge--is cooperating with the United States in the war against drugs?

	What kind of judgment is this?  What kind of priorities are these?  What kind of strategy for restoring respect for America and protecting our national security can we expect from Mr. Bush?

	My friends, we need answers, and we need better leadership from the next president than we're going to get from George Bush.

	We need a president with better judgment that George Bush.  And we're going to elect one on January 20, 1989.

	My friends, for more than 200 years, we have been engaged on this continent in a grand democratic experiment; an experiment based on a profound sense of optimism about the nature of the human spirit; and a deep and abiding faith in the American dream.

	Our commitment to that dream, to that expression of faith in the ability of human beings to live together and work together in freedom has succeeded beyond the wildest expectations of our ancestors.  And it has earned America respect and admiration around the world.

	This fall, we will have a chance to renew our commitment to that dream.  And to inspire renewed respect for our courage, our energy, and our values in every part of the globe.

	I'm running for president because I want to lead an America that is once again on the march; an America that is moving forward, meeting the challenges posed by our traditional adversaries, defeating new threats to our citizens and to our way of life.

	I want to lead an America that leads the world; an America that does not settle for second-place or second best.

	An America that loves peace, but knows the cost of freedom.

	An America that has not wavered from the pledge that another son of Massachusetts made twenty-eight years ago, a pledge to "pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, [and] oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty."

	My friends, here in Philadelphia, where freedom was born, let us dedicate ourselves anew to the dream of those who founded this country two centuries ago; firm in our purpose; true to our principles; confident that the best America is not behind us; the best America is yet to come.

DRUG ABUSE--GENERALDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALINVESTMENT, FOREIGNIRAN--IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIRMILITARY PREPAREDNESSPANAMA--NORIEGA AFFAIRPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALTERRORISM     l> 8> 2> .> &>
 > > > > = = = =	  	  	  	  	 v 	 c 	 K 	 6 	   	 	 e: