
	Thank you very much, thank you. Thank you very much, John, and to all those who spoke and to all those who are standing behind me both literally and figuratively, to all those especially who have had operations in my state or who come from there and who know what we've tried to do together. And to those who I've come to know-

	AUDIENCE MEMBER. Does that include adulterers?

	GOVERNOR CLINTON. Please sit down. We believe in freedom of speech. You're not here to participate in this and we're not going to talk to you.

	AUDIENCE MEMBER. [missing text]

	CLINTON. Somebody remove this guy. You have just seen a good example of the Republican response to America's economic crisis.

	Young man, I realize this is painful to you and your political allies but you had four years to govern this country and you didn't do it. You've had your say, now sit down and shut up so we can go on with this. You've had your say, sit down.

	Character is relevant and you're not showing much of it right now. Would you please sit down and let us continue?

	AUDIENCE MEMBER. We've come to hear you--[missing text]

	CLINTON. (Laughs) As I was saying--the support that these folks have brought to this round today of this campaign means a great deal to me because it reflects not only the changes which have occurred in the world but the changes which have occurred inside all of us.

	I got into this race for President because I was convinced that we not only had to change this country but that we had to change the direction of the Democratic party to do it, that the debate which had gone on in Washington for a dozen years between trickle-down economics and tax-and-spend divide-the-pie economics had produced a paralysis which bore very little relationship to the world in which these people live every day and the world in which I have lived for a dozen years as a governor.

	I have done my best to challenge the Democratic party to change. I have also challenged business leaders to participate in that change. I never will forget the first time Roger and Katherine had a breakfast for me in Orange County, California, a great bastion of Democratic strength as I am sure you all know. And I laid out my ideas and said look, we're all going to have to change. I do want to raise personal income tax rates at the upper level, limit the deductibility of executive compensation unrelated to productivity, and to have more training of employees by the private sector up and down the line. But I want to raise this money so that we can have a real investment strategy for America, not across-the-board tax cuts that produce deficits, but investment incentives that produce jobs and growth and income and reduce deficits.

	And so we began this dialogue, a dialogue that for me has been going on for a dozen years in my own state, trying to define that special partnership we need between the public and the private sector to make America a high-wage, high-growth, high-opportunity country. Keep in mind that most Americans, according to the census, are working harder today than they were twenty years ago for incomes which, adjusted for inflation, are lower than they were ten years ago. That is in spite of the fact of dramatic increases in productivity by some of the companies represented here and many companies in this country.

	Why is that? It's because we have stubbornly refused to develop the kind of partnership for growth and opportunity in this country that the global economy requires: a partnership which will require us, in my judgment, to adopt an across-the-board investment tax credit for new plant and equipment so that we can continually have incentives to reinvest and modernize our plants here and our small businesses; a partnership that requires, in my judgment, the infusion of new amounts of venture capital into new ventures, and therefore, we ought to have a long-term capital gains treatment for investment in new ventures in America; a partnership that requires a comprehensive and permanent research and development tax credit and significant housing incentives to revitalize the construction industry in this country; and more importantly, a partnership that requires us to make a comprehensive, long-term commitment to the education and training of all of our people, and to creating a climate in this country that supports the development of new technologies, supports the revitalization of our manufacturing sector, supports and strengthens our effort to promote small business. These are kinds of things that we have to face. Do we have all the answers? Of course we don't. But we are agreed that we have to face the problem: how to get a new energy policy, how to get a new health care policy.

	One of the thorniest issues that I will just put on the table before I close is how to deal with the health care crisis. My opponents, as you know, have criticized me for proposing a comprehensive solution to the health care dilemma in America, which would bring costs in line with inflation and provide basic health care to all Americans. They say it's anti-small business, but most small businesses insure their employees. And those small businesses every year run the risks of economic ruin because we don't control costs. Unless we control costs of health care, there will be no control of the government's budget deficit, and it will be very difficult to restore the health of the American economy.

	What I have pledged to these people in the meeting that was private I want to make public. I asked that none of them join this campaign, to make a contribution, or make an endorsement unless they were committed to be a part of the next administration, unless they were committed to let me set up a mechanism in the White House which would guarantee a continuous involvement by the American business community both large and small and in the middle in all sectors of our economy to see what we can do to increase productivity and growth and investment in the quality of our education and training. I am profoundly moved by the response that these people have given to our campaign, just as I was a few days ago in Silicon Valley when the high-tech executives there, most of whom were Republicans, endorsed this candidacy not because they agree with me on everything, not because they think I have all the answers, but because I have committed to them to listen and to work and to make progress.

	It is perfectly clear that there is no way in the world we're going to turn this economy around unless there is a much more disciplined, more focused economic strategy that has as its core private-sector growth spurred by sensible public-private partnerships. That's what we represent here today. I am very honored to have the support of all these people. I thank them for their presence here, and I'm looking forward not only to the next six weeks in this campaign, but to an administration that can genuinely be one that operates for business and for the working people of America. Thank you very much.

	MODERATOR. The Governor now is willing to take some questions.

	QUESTION. Governor-

	CLINTON. The others can, too.

	QUESTION. Governor, Dick [missing text]. It is not unusual for CEOs to endorse Democratic candidates for president. What I'd like to know is, and maybe we can get a show of hands from all of those here who have either voted for George Bush or given to George Bush in the last election. Can we ask them to do that?

	CLINTON. More than half.

	QUESTION. Well, it's about twenty-five, according to our count. I mean is that--Will you raise your hands again?

	CLINTON. Let me just say, I didn't count. It looked about half to me. But the count in California was--two-thirds of them were active Republicans. Go ahead, ask your question.

	QUESTION. Well, that was my question. [Laughter.] Is it then really significant if you have a majority who have voted for Democrats and supported Democrats in the past elections then?

	CLINTON. I think it's significant that we have so many who have not. And what is more significant is the broad range of agreement in the business community among those who are Democrats and those who are Independents and those who are Republicans about the direction we need to take. That is the significant thing. The significant thing is the emerging consensus in this country that we need to break out of the paralysis of the last twelve years and take a new course. And it is--and I think the reason that this response is coming is because, in various ways, all of us have confronted the world over the last dozen years and the demands and challenges, the problems and opportunities it presents, and all of us have felt, in our different ways, that the direction and the debate in Washington hasn't corresponded to the world that we live in every day.

	QUESTION. [missing text]--before Bush debates you, you should debate yourself and explain all your flip-flops on various issues?

	CLINTON. That's another dodge by them.

	QUESTION. Governor Clinton, today the President for the first time personally attacked you in the press. He said on a national radio program today, "I don't believe he's telling the whole truth and nothing but the truth. And it's been a total failure on his part to come clean." What's your reply to that?

	CLINTON. Admiral Crowe has more credibility on truth telling than George Bush. Yes?

	QUESTION. Are you getting more--Gina Strasburg from the Chicago Defender. Are you getting more Republican defectors, and is the economy the main issue here?

	CLINTON. Yes, the economy is the main issue, and I think that that is the reason that at least more Republicans and Independents and former Perot supporters are considering voting for me, but I think if they did not believe that I had made an honest effort to come up with a plan that would move beyond where the Democrats and the Republicans have been in the last twelve years, I don't think that--they might be more tempted to just sit the election out, or vote for the lesser of two evils.

	What I'm trying to do is to really build a coalition for change--for genuine, positive action. And I think we're well on our way to doing it.

	QUESTION. . . . [missing text]--on the military, he said referring to you, "He and I differ on the military. I would never call the military immoral, as he did in his letter, we have a different view of service to the country. He said he'd only fight if there was an immediate threat to the country." Any further reaction to that?

	CLINTON. The only reaction I have is that you ought to go back and see what Mr. Bush said about this issue in February in New Hampshire when he was ahead in the polls. And he said it shouldn't be an issue.

	QUESTION. Governor, a lot of what you've been saying--your business reforms--goes against the orthodoxy of your party. You've said you've had to challenge your party. How can you make the pledge to the people behind you that you'll be able to get some of what your proposing through Congress?

	CLINTON. That's one of the questions that they asked me at the meeting this morning. I think, first of all, I'm far more likely to be able to pass a program in Congress than the incumbent president because, number one, I have a program, and number two, I will work at it.

	Let me just give you an example. In this last budget, three-quarters of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against the last Bush budget. It wasn't even a serious document. They didn't take it seriously. I will engage the Congress. I will challenge them. I will tell them what they know, which is that a lot of these things we want to do must be passed by the Congress.

	The second thing is one of the reasons I tried to be so specific--even though when you're as specific as I have been and you put out a book, people can find fault with it, I think that's good. Nobody's got all the answers. I'm trying to engage in ongoing debate here in this country and give the American people the benefit of the very best thinking I have. So the Congress now knows if I win this election that I won on a very clear set of priorities, many of which I just outlined.

	The third thing I would tell you is there's going to be a big turnover in Congress this year, and while in all probability the Democrats will maintain control of both houses, you will have a new group of people who were elected on a charge to get something done.

	And finally, I think the ones that are there are looking forward to having a partnership again and getting something done. I don't think it's very pleasant to be in Congress in either party if all you do is play the blame game and run for cover, and point the finger at the White House while they point the finger at you. That is not a very constructive way to live your life. So I think that you've got, even more than the Democrats, a whole crowd of people in Congress that would like to move this country forward again, and I'm going to give them the chance to do it.

	QUESTION. . . . [missing text]--incentives and the technological programs you laid out on paper today. How would you deal with two specific cases: one, a corporation that, after getting incentives, locates significant manufacturing activities overseas; and a second case of incentives and assistance to foreign companies that locate some of their facilities in this country but are still owned by Japanese or German or other investors.

	CLINTON. Well, under our program--first of all, that's why I don't like across-the-board incentives. Consider the case--in order to answer your question, I have to tell you what the present tax law is. Okay? Consider the case of a small manufacturer in Chicago, let's say, who has 400 employees and makes light bulbs--I'm making this up, okay?--and is subject to intense competition from another country with lower wages. And the manufacturer has the following choices: keep doing what you're doing and go broke, buy an expensive piece of new equipment which dramatically increases productivity, and phase down employment but keep your jobs in America at a higher productive level, or shut your plant down and move it overseas.

	Under the present tax system, if the manufacturer gets good advice from his accountant, he may believe his government wants him to go overseas because you get no investment tax credit for buying the new piece of plant and equipment here, but if you shut down, you can deduct the cost of shutting down, you can take a loss carry forward when you start up overseas, when you lose money, and then if you start to make money if you keep it in a bank account offshore you never pay any American income tax on it.

	So under my plan the investment tax credit could not be claimed by someone unless they were making an investment in America. Might they also make investments overseas? Of course. Should they be free to do so? Absolutely. What we want to do is to promote a market system which will make American investment as attractive as it can be given the economic realities.

	In my state can a foreign corporation claim the Arkansas state investment tax credit? It can if it's been there two years and they're going to invest in new plant and equipment and put our people to work.

	I am interested in having an America that is competitive for capital, for modern plants and equipment, and modern businesses and it puts people to work at good incomes, and that's what we ought to be focusing on. There is a global economy. We can't repeal the rules of that. What we want is for America to do as well in it in terms of productivity growth as many of our competitors have been doing in the last few years.

	Thank you. 

BUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECONGRESSECONOMY--GENERALENDORSEMENTS--PRIVATE ENTERPRISEGLOBAL ECONOMYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHIGH TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIESINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESINVESTMENT, FOREIGNMANUFACTURING--PLANT MODERNIZATIONPRODUCTIVITY     ? > > > >
 > > > > > > {> q>	 	  	  	  	  	  	  	 u 	 [ 	 A 	 . 	  e: