

	We have strong families here. And a strong community. People know each other. People care about each other.

	Over the past few days, I've laid out some proposals for how I believe we can work to keep fighting crime in this country.

	The reason I've made fighting crime such an integral part of this campaign is simple. Safe streets are essential to the continued economic growth of this country. Ask Governor Kean or Mayor Rafferty or Councilman Armenti about the conversations they've had with the shopkeepers and the storeowners, with the folks who just want to go down to the corner store in the evening.

	They'll tell you what I've heard over and over again from the people--often in small businesses--who keep this country going. They care about taxes, yes. And they are concerned about national security. But they also worry about their security right here at home. They want to know that when their employees leave work, they won't be assaulted in the parking lot. And their patrons want to know that a walk down the block is a pleasure and not a risk.

	That's why we've been working in these last eight years, with states like New Jersey, to cut crime by letting criminals know that the hand of justice can and will be very stern. We've made some gains in taking back the streets. Even by conservative estimates, the rate of crime has fallen seven percent since 1980. But the murder rate is down 19 percent, and the robbery rate is down by 30 percent. And two million fewer households were hit by crime last year than in 1980.

	But, frankly, that's not enough. As long as there is one victim of crime, in my book that's one victim too many.

	In my view, that's what government is here for. It's not a new thought--it's part of our tradition, dating back to the Romans. It was the Roman lawyer Cicero who said: the people's safety is the highest law."

	And early in our own history, Alexander Hamilton said, "I think the first duty of society is justice."

	You see, part of what I mean when I speak of a "kinder, gentler nation" is a nation where the awful impact of violent crime on victims, on families, and all too often on children, senior citizens, and vulnerable members of our society, is lessened. A better America--the America I want to build--is a safer America.

	Some elements of my plan necessarily involve just the government. For example, I've proposed a sharp increase in our federal budget for building new prison cells. Right now, in Washington, DC, judges are being told not to sentence any more convicts to jail. There's just no room. The problem in this case involved local government, but at any level this should never happen--criminals, in some cases, violent criminals, roaming free on the streets for lack of adequate facilities to lock them up.

	New Jersey has shown what can be done at the state level. Under this good governor's leadership, you've added 7,000 prison cells. We must make that kind of crash effort at the federal level--and that's exactly what I propose. The message must be clear: If you commit a crime, you do time.

	I also proposed a new effort to fight street gangs, with mandatory sentences for illegal gang activity. We need an anti-gang office in the Department of Justice. I believe you should have to pass a drug test before you can make bail or get out on parole. I say that for violent crimes we must have tough and certain sentences that make it clear that punishment will be swift and sure. I proposed to give more help to local law enforcement. And for certain particularly heinous crimes--such as the murder of a police officer--I believe we must have a federal death penalty.

	But today I would like to speak about the most important weapon in our arsenal against crime--and that is each one of us, as individuals, as family members, and as neighbors.

	The key to fighting crime is community action--and, as the President's Commission on Law Enforcement said back in 1967: "Controlling crime is the business of every American."

	Right here in Trenton and Hamilton Township, you realize that. As I drove in this morning, I saw signs dotting the neighborhood which are reassuring to me and daunting to criminals: "This is a neighborhood watch community."

	You're not alone in Mercer County: in Lakewood, Colorado, burglary fell sharply in neighborhoods where crime watch programs were started. That experience was repeated in the rural areas of Sidney and Shelby County, Ohio.

	In New York, citizens hang banners across their blocks declaring them to be drug-free zones, scaring buyers from their neighborhoods. In Houston, 1,000 community residents--backed by police--reclaimed a 12-acre park from drugs and crime. In St. Louis, in Philadelphia, in Flint, Michigan and Miami, citizens are banding together to make their own streets safer. All around the country, crime has dropped as much as 50 percent where neighborhood watch programs exist.

	And you ask the police officers in this audience--I know several from the Trenton force are here--and they'll tell you--an involved community is a policeman's best friend, and crime's worst enemy.

	Across America, more than nineteen million people are actively involved in neighborhood watch programs. And more than fifty-seven million Americans live in communities that have active neighborhood watch programs. Some of them right here in Chambersburg.

	These programs work. When a child walks home from school; that child has the watchful eye of neighbors and friends as an extra precaution against trouble. When a senior citizen takes a simple walk down the street, the community adds to his or her security. In fact, the Justice Department cites neighborhood watch and other citizen efforts to fight crime as one of three major reasons why crime hit a fourteen-year low in 1987.

	Apparently Americans agree--because here's the telling statistic: in a Gallup poll, 82 percent of those surveyed--that's four out of five--said they'd like to have a neighborhood watch program in their community.

	I've mentioned the community but I'd like to inject a brief comment here about the most important building block in the community--and that's the family.

	We know now that a frighteningly high percentage of crimes in this country are drug-related. We know that a key to stopping drugs is educating our kids not to use them; and we know, most importantly, that that education begins at home.

	I've talked in this campaign about building values. I want the schools to help, but I don't believe that they can do all the educating in this area. My opponent only mentions education--consistent with his philosophy that the government must solve every problem--but he misses this fundamental point: Parents have a responsibility to teach their kids to say no to drugs, too.

	I ask the parents of this country to help build self-esteem in your kid. Provide drug-free alternatives, whether its sports or scouting, the 4-H or my new proposal for volunteer services, the YES program, for Youth Engaged in Service to America. Monitor your children's friendships--know who they hang around with and who their parents are. Talk to your kids.

	And most of all, learn about drugs yourself, because many, too many kids try them--at an early age. One study showed that the average age of first drug use is now 13, and the average age of first alcohol use, 12.

	So I challenge the parents of this country to help stop drugs before drugs stop us, as a nation. And I repeat my challenge to the young people of this country to shut down drug dealers around the world.

	Again with drugs, community involvement can help solve the problem. We've made great strides--thanks to the leadership of First Lady Nancy Reagan, who was effectively out front in this fight early on. And of the National Federation of Parents for Drug-Free Youth, the Just Say No Foundation, and thousands of community groups across the country--in raising awareness of the harm that drugs can do.

	Drug use peaked in the late seventies and early eighties--it's no coincidence that our crime rate peaked in 1981 as well--and is now on the way down. But I won't let the effort end when the President and Mrs. Reagan leave the White House. Their work must and will continue. I will do everything I can as president to help with the best information, the best research, and the strongest effort possible to get the message to our young people to "just say no" to drugs.

	As part of that effort, I'm announcing today the leadership of the Drug-Free America coalition that's part of my campaign. Our national chairmen are Congressman Clay Shaw, Transportation Secretary Jim Burnley, and former U.S. Attorney Leon Kellner, the man who indicted Manuel Noriega as part of our administration's war against drugs. Your own governor, Tom Kean, is one of our honorary chairmen.

	They'll work with me not only to push tough laws against drug kingpins, but to help schools with education programs, and to establish "zero tolerance" of drugs as an attitude across this country.

	Let me say a word about who benefits from the community efforts to fight crime and drugs that I've been talking about: We all do. Unfortunately, crime is a phenomenon that knows no boundaries.

	But the statistics are clear. Black families are more likely to be victims of violent crime. And poor families are more likely victims than those who are better off. Senior citizens face higher rates of purse snatching and fear.

	My point is that a tough approach to crime isn't a Republican or Democratic issue--it's vital for all Americans.

	For many years, liberal thinkers thought it was compassionate to lighten up on sentencing, to allow early releases and furloughs.

	We know now that it was not compassionate--but rather that the greatest incitement to further crimes is the hope of going free. And after all, the victims of crime are given no furlough from their pain and suffering.

	I've spoken at length about the differences I have with my opponent on this fundamental issue, and that's not my purpose today. Suffice it to say that I think there is something very wrong when there is so much sympathy for criminals that there is none left over for victims.

	I hear the stories of individual Americans who are hurt when government doesn't listen. And I am moved.

	One such victim is here today. Mrs. Helen Lanza, of Wall Township, New Jersey. A few years ago, two juveniles raped and murdered her mother, and beat her father so badly that he later died, too. It turned out that between them, the young kids who committed these crimes had twenty-three prior offenses.

	Now those kids are serving time--they're in for life, with no ifs ands or buts. And Mrs. Lanza is being helped by New Jersey's Crime Victims Compensation Board.

	But what of the other victims around this country? True, many states have enacted victims' rights laws--with our active help and encouragement--since President Reagan and I took office. Communities can and should help with victims' services programs. None of us should rest until all of our laws fully reflect the sympathy we should have for the victims of crime--and the intolerance we should have for hardened criminals.

	Frankly, law-abiding Americans are fed up with the cruel and unusual punishment inflicted on them by those who are soft on crime.

	So I would like to strengthen the rights of victims and I have some ideas for how we can do that. Here are just a few:

	First, I call upon Congress to reauthorize--as soon as possible--the Victims of Crime Act. That bill, enacted under our administration, allows victims to be compensated from the penalties charged to criminals. They have that right, and it should not be jeopardized.

	Second, I believe that victims should have the statutory right to be informed of, be present, and be heard at every critical stage of the criminal justice process. This was recommended by the President's Task Force on Victims of Crime--it's time to spell it out in our laws.

	Third, victims should have the right to full restitution--and they shouldn't have to go back to court to get it if the financial circumstances of a convict change. And in that same vein, although the federal government--unlike most states--devotes all criminal fine money to victims, I believe we should consider raising the fees charged defendants upon conviction--so that more money can be channeled to victims.

	Fourth, we should increase the payment to the families of public safety officers who are killed in the line of duty. Our police put their lives on the line every day--this is the least we can do.

	Finally, I'm going to meet with our U.S. attorneys and look closely to make sure they're doing everything possible to give victims and witnesses a fully fair shake under the Victim and Witness Protection Act.

	In short, I'm going to bring an attitude to the White House that has more sympathy for the victims of crime than for the criminals.

	Like so much in the area of crime, it starts with an attitude. An attitude in the community that says we're going to take back our streets. An attitude in the family, and in the society, that says an unyielding no to drugs. And an attitude in city hall, in the state house, and in the White House that won't tolerate crime--that stands for firm sentences and judges which will uphold them--that is tough on criminals so that they can't be quite so tough on innocent people.

	That's the attitude we'll have in a Bush administration. I expect to take personal responsibility for building a safer America--a better America.

	Some of the choices we have to make in fighting crime aren't easy, but that's what leadership is all about.

	On this Columbus Day, we are rediscovering America. It is a kind and gentle nation with opportunities limited only by our dreams. And we refuse to let criminals snuff out those dreams.

	We've set a course in these last eight years that will make the next part of America's journey smoother and safer. In just a little over four weeks, you'll have to decide whether you think that course is the right one.

	I believe it is. I believe that America is stronger and prouder than ever before--and my mission is to make it even better. I hope you'll join me in that mission.

	Thank you, and God bless you.

CRIME, GANG-RELATEDCRIME, VIOLENTDRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG ABUSE--GENERALFAMILIESPRISONS/PRISONERSCRIME--GENERALCRIME PREVENTION--COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENTCRIME VICTIMS     19 8 8 8 8
 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8	  	  	  	 n 	 [ 	 S  B  4   e: