Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1025.003SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/25STUMPPhoenixARIZONAAZ2,719 WORDS

	Thank you. Thank you very much.

	I think after those ten reasons I'll just give the benediction, and we can all go home. Let me say just a few words, and let me say--welcome to the Clinton-Gore people. You'll get the tax cut, too. Don't worry about it. You're going to get it. And even ex-President Clinton will get it, if he leaves his change-of-address. You know, he'll get it.

	Well, we were here not too long ago with Sheriff Joe. I bet those tents were blowing today out there, Joe, but we were there. He's a real hero in the war against crime and drugs.

	We also had a chance to visit Barry Goldwater at that time, and I want to thank my congressional colleagues, John and J.D. and Matt and my good friend, John Kyle...[missing text]...who's doing a great job for Arizona as your junior senator.

	And, of course, my good friend, Grant Woods, Governor Symington, and my special friend, John McCain...[missing text]. We believe in America. We trust the people. That's the basic difference.

	And while I'm, and while I'm here at this very moment, my daughter, Robin, is being honored in Scottsdale by Child Help, U.S.A., for her work helping abused children. I'm sorry she couldn't be here, but I'm very proud of her. She'll be getting an award tonight for helping abused children, which I think is very, very important. Hi, Lynn.

	Let me say that this campaign is a fight for America's future, and I said earlier in Houston, Texas, and later in Dallas, I am reminded of what Harry Truman said. Somebody said, "Give 'em hell, Harry." And he said, "I'll just tell 'em the truth and they'll think its hell." And that's what we're going to do the next ten days.

	And I remember back in World War II days, these big posters out there, "I Want You," you know, the enlistment. Well, I want you. I want every one of you to go to work in this campaign for all of us, because we're fighting for America again, just as we did in World War II, we're fighting again as we did in Korea and Vietnam, we're fighting for the heart and soul of America.

	I want--I want--I want to build a better America for your children and your grandchildren, and you can trust me. I will keep my word.

	It's time you had a president who understands that the government is too big and spends too much of your money. And I know in this audience there are parents, both parents--one works full time for the family, the other has to work full time for the government, just to pay the taxes. Forty percent of what you earn now goes into taxes, more than food, clothing and shelter combined, you pay in taxes. And many women are being forced back into the work force just to help make ends meet.

	And I know President Clinton in these debates we had, he said, "Oh, I've created 11 million jobs." And I said, "Yeah, I met a guy the other day who's got three of them." You know, you've got to work at about three jobs to make ends meet. And, of course, he's better off than he was four years ago, but he'll be out of work in about three months. And we're going to send him back to Little Rock.

	Now, let me tell you about this tax cut plan. We haven't had a federal tax cut in ten years. It's not rocket science. It's been looked at by hundreds of economists, four Nobel prize winners, fifteen across the board, 15 percent across the board, a $500 child credit for every child under eighteen. I see $500 there, $500 here, $500 everywhere. If you have one child, that's $500, three children $1,500, ten children, you're probably too busy to worry about taxes. But that would be $5,000 and then to stimulate the economy in Arizona and all across America, we're going to cut the capital gains rate 50 percent. Fifty percent.

	Now President Clinton, of course, says the government can't afford it. Now, did they come to Arizona when they raised taxes in 1993, and ask if you could afford it? He can't do it. I can't do it. That's another reason that I will be president of the United States come January, 1997.

	The President wants you, the President wants you to pinch your pennies. I want the government to pinch pennies for a change. They haven't done it in a long, long time.

	Now the tax cut will mean for a family of four making $30,000 in the state of Arizona, a tax cut of $1,261, which is an 86 percent tax cut. That's an 86 percent tax cut--child care, mortgage payments, maybe even take a vacation with your family. That'll be all right, too. It's better you take a vacation, than Hazel O'Leary flying all over the world at your expense.

	This is a Main Street tax cut. It's not a Wall Street tax cut. Not even President Clinton says it's a tax cut for the rich, but he said he, said he could use it. And as I said, he'll get it, he'll get it if he leaves his change of address card. We'll send it to him, send it to him postage due.

	And that is just phase one. Phase two is a flatter, fairer, simpler tax, and we will end the IRS as we know it.

	And if you know any, know any senior citizens--I don't see any senior citizens here, but if you know any senior citizens--oh, I see one--all right--we are not going to cut Medicare. Organized Labor and the Democrats have spent $91 million, $19 million frightening senior citizens. Don't be afraid. We're going to save Medicare just as we saved Social Security in 1983--on a bipartisan, nonpartisan basis. You can trust me--we'll start working on it in January, 1997.

	Medicare spending will rise 39 percent and Social Security 34 percent, so don't let them scare you. You're going to say, "How are we going to pay for it?" Clinton wants to increase spending 20 percent, we want to increase spending 14 percent, and give the 6 percent back to the American taxpayers. It's your money--it's your money.

	If I had a dollar for every time President Clinton leveled with the American people, I would keep one and give the other one to Elizabeth. And I'd have to stretch my imagination to find the second one. I can't even remember the first one, anymore, but--let me tell you--I'm a--you know, somebody said, are you frustrated? I said, "No, I'm outraged. I'm outraged."

	You know, I've been in Con-, well, I left Congress in June. I'm out of work, but otherwise I'm doing all right. But--all the time I was in Congress I kept saying, some day foreign aid will come to America. I just didn't know when. And now it's coming from Indonesia--yes--from India--some fellow named Gandhi out there--he owes $10,000 in back taxes, but he found $300,000 to give the Clinton campaign. And now Gandhi is gone. Gandhi--gone, gone, gone. They can't find him.

	And then this rich family from Indonesia--oh, they gave a lot of money to Clinton. He had to shake hands first, of course, and meet with him privately. And from Gandhi he got a phony plaque, so these guys really know how to raise money. I wish they would join the Red Cross and help Elizabeth when she goes back. They can raise money

	And then they put some guy named John Huang in a special place in the Commerce Department, where he could do favors for Indonesia. And they've paid off. And now we can't find John Huang. John Huang has disappeared. And they said, "Well, maybe he'll show up." Is there a John Huang here? No. Oh. John, if you're here we want to talk to you. Yes.

	This is an outrage. Can you imagine what would happen in the media if this were a Republican president, and all these reports were coming out? Can you imagine what would happen? Why--tell the truth, tell the truth, tell the truth. And, while they're sitting in the White House, while they're counting up all the money--I don't know where they count it. They must have their own laundromat, the way this is being laundered, but in any event--now, think about it.

	You're a private citizen. And probably all of--half of us--in this whole crowd, have an FBI file. You may not know about it. It doesn't mean we're guilty of anything. But why should the White House have nine hundred FBI files of innocent people? They hired a bartender, a bar bouncer, and put him in charge of White House Security. His name is Craig Livingstone.

	So, so he's been down rummaging through the files, I suppose setting the best ones up, upstairs for reading at night, a little bedtime reading. They went to sleep reading mine, I understand. But, in any event, this is America. You have a right to privacy in the United States of America.

	That is an outrage. That is an outrage. And what about somebody you've done business with, who's been sentenced in Arkansas, by the name of McDougal. And there are others--and say, well, now, if you don't--you send a signal--don't say anything--I may give you a pardon afterwards--no. That is an outrage, Mr. President. That is an outrage.

	And now we're told that a million new immigrants are coming to America. They've been naturalized, and they did it so quickly so they could get them all done before election time, that 10 percent have criminal records, and they've already been naturalized. That is an outrage, Mr. President, and it's your administration.

	I think we've had enough outrage. Let's get rid of this guy. Let's get him out of there. The White House is not a place for games. It's a place of trust, public trust. When you enter the White House, when you take the oath of office, and go to the White House that first day, you must say to yourself, okay, there's a public trust. I'm going to conduct myself in this White House as I've never done before. But they didn't do it. It's a game. They think they're above the law. Nothing makes any difference. They don't care. What did McCrury...[missing text]...say about John Wayne? Oh, we'll produce him after the election.

	They don't--they don't believe the American people care, but the American people do care. And I'm talking about Republicans and Democrats and Independents. The American people care. This is America. This is America. For your children and your grandchildren's sake, let's provide some strong leadership.

	And let's put somebody in the White House who respects the uniform that men and women wear in America.

	And let's make certain, and I'll make certain in a Dole administration, that 17,000 of those young men and women who wear uniforms, don't have to rely on food stamps to get by every month. They ought to be paid enough to feed their families.

	And they shouldn't be living in substandard housing, either. Not in America. This is the United States of America. We're the greatest country on the face of the Earth.

	And working with the members of Congress, we're going to restore a little money to defense. Clinton has cut defense too much. We're not respected any more by our friends. We're not feared by our enemies, because they know this administration will turn it over to the United Nations. When the going gets tough, they'll let Boutros, Boutros-Ghali make the decisions.

	That will not happen in my administration. And we will not rely on organized labor and the trial lawyers and the Hollywood elite for all the money we're using now for negative television ads trying to frighten senior citizens. Everything the trial lawyers want, they get from this President.

	In fact, when I was out in Chico, California, a couple months ago, and I leaned on that railing and it gave way, on the way down my cell phone rang, and this trial lawyer says, "Bob, I think we've got a case here."

	Well, we've got to stop some of the frivolous lawsuits that are putting small-businessmen and small-businesswomen out of business. Stop.

	But just let me give you this--as I conclude here--a few differences between Bob Dole and Bill Clinton.

	I support an amendment to protect the flag of the United States. And he is opposed to it.

	I support an amendment for voluntary prayer in school, and he is opposed to it.

	I support an amendment to balance the budget and he's opposed to it.

	I want school choice and I want competition. I want more children to have the same right the president of the United States has, a better school for their children. And I support it, and he opposes it. We need to give the schools back to the parents and the teachers in America.

	I supported a $500 per child tax credit. He vetoed it. He vetoed it.

	I support a balanced budget. He vetoed it twice. He vetoed it twice.

	I support a welfare reform. He vetoed it twice, then he finally signed it and said he'd change it next year. You can't trust what he says. You can't trust what he says.

	He supports--he supports--I, I know, I know, I know abortion is a very sensitive subject, but do you know about the partial birth abortion? What a---Do you know how bad that is? And, and Dr. Edward Everett Koop, he cites him a lot, quotes him a lot--Clinton does--said, "It, it's never necessary to have a partial-birth abortion." He vetoed it and I will sign it when they send it to me as president of the United States.

	And I believe in American English should be the official language, and he does not. English plus. Learn any other language you want, but please learn English or you're going to be left behind--you're not going to have a chance in America.

	Now, that's about it. Those are all the nonpartisan remarks I'm going to make today. But I want to ask you for your support, and I want to ask you one thing, too. I want you to be proud of your vote on election day, but proud of your vote the year later and the year later and the year later.

	Can you think of one reason to re-elect Bill Clinton? I can't either. I was proud when I voted for Dwight Eisenhower for president. And I'm not Dwight Eisenhower but I want you to be proud when you vote for Bob Dole and Jack Kemp.

	So tonight, when you look at your children and look at your child and think about your grandchildren--you think about drugs and think about crime and think about education, and think about leadership and think about what may happen around the world without strong leadership.

	In a Dole administration, we're not going to cut interdiction for drugs. We're going to use the National Guard if necessary to stop drugs coming across the border in the first place.

	And I'm not going to appoint wishy-washy liberal judges. I'm going to appoint conservative, no-nonsense judges.

	We are going to give America back to the people, back to the people.

	We are going to follow the 10th Amendment to the Constitution which says unless the Constitution gives the power to the federal government or denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people.

	So, as we go into the next century, and Elizabeth gave her reason number one--I'll repeat it, I can't, I'm too modest to say it myself, but she said, "a better man for a better America." We're going to do that.

	Thank you very much ,and God bless America.
ABORTIONBILINGUALISMCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSIMMIGRATIONINCOME TAXINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDINDONESIALITIGATION REFORMMEDICAREMILITARY PERSONNELSENIOR CITIZENSTAX REFORM     ~; J; D; @; 6;
 .; ); $; ; ; ; 	;	 S	 K	 ?	 	 þ 	 æ 	 ¬ 	  	 t 	 j 	 M 	 D 	 3 	 + 	  	 
 e: