Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1029.002SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/29STUMPSEATTLEWASHINGTONWA1,634 WORDS

[MISSING TEXT]

	Mr. Reagan said that Kennedy's ideas were from Karl Marx and from Adolf Hitler because, he said, "whenever government tries to help people, we're walking down the road to dictatorship."

	Well, that's the issue.  I believe in a strong president who cares and uses our government for justice, for decency, toward peace, and toward a reflection of the values of human rights that bring us all together.

	This election is wide open.  It's in your hands.  I ask your help so that we can build our future.  I want an America where this economy can grow, where these debts we're floating on our children will be removed, and where the jobs and the future and prosperity are to be found here in the United States and not somewhere else.

	As we solve that problem, I want to do it the fair way.  On the issue of taxpayers, this Reagan is hopeless.  He would have you believe that he intends to protect the average American.  His tax policies have the same relationship to people of average income as Colonel Sanders had to the American chicken.  We all know the difference.

	I want an America where our kids come first.  I want this next generation to be the best educated in the history of America.  I want to be a president who goes forward and invests in the human mind again, who gives the best education so that every young American, regardless of the wealth of their parents, can go on to college and vocational school and build themselves and their minds.

	I want an America where we open doors and not close them.  That's why I'm proud to run with the first woman running mate in the history of America.

	Oh, how little they understand.  This summer, when the president rejoiced with the rest of us in the victory of our young Americans in the Olympics, did he stop to think why we won all the gold?

	The reason we won is that--no thanks to him--we had a nation that enforced the civil rights laws and prohibited discrimination against women.  That's why we won.

	They don't understand that civil rights and women's rights is not something that we do for them.  It's something that we do to strengthen our America because everybody can participate.

	I want an America where we defend our air, our water, our land and our public health again.  I never want another James Watt, another Ann Gorsuch, another polluter or poisoner in Washington.

	I want an America where we're committed again to justice.  I intend to put justice back in the Justice Department.  If Mr. Reagan's re-elected, he wants Ed Meese as attorney general.  If I'm elected, Ed Meese can forget about it.  He's not going to be attorney general.

	If Mr. Reagan is re-elected, he'll get four more years, and Jerry Falwell will get five more justices of the Supreme Court.  Don't let them do it.

	I believe in an America that is strong and stands up to her adversaries but is also committed to controlling those god-awful weapons before they destroy us all.

	This president, after four years, stands condemned for policies that have given us the four worst years in the arms race ever.  Now he wants to add to the arms race on earth an arms race into the heavens.  I'll have none of it.  We will stop it.

	I believe in an America that stands for human rights around the world.  America must not only stand tall; we must stand for something as Americans.  We can't always have our way, but we shouldn't lose our way.

	Just think a moment about this record.  Shortly after they were elected, they sent the vice president to the Philippines to praise Mr. Marcos's love of democracy.

	They sent their UN Ambassador to Chile and clinked glasses with the thugs that run that country.

	They met with the Argentine junta.  The UN Ambassador permitted herself to be honored at a dinner the night they invaded the Falklands.

	They were silent in the face of death squads in El Salvador.  The president opposed all human rights conditions that Scoop Jackson and others wanted to impose on aid in that direction.

	They have sponsored the illegal war in Nicaragua and published manuals for the murder in that area.

	They have cozied up to the racists in South Africa.  They praised the constitution that condemned the blacks in that state to total denial of power.  And this week, the United States was the only nation in the United Nations to abstain in a resolution condemning the South African for oppressing the black community.

	In our debate the previous Sunday, the president said the choice was between tyrants and communism.  Shame on you, Mr. President.  That's not the issue at all.

	In the Philippines, it's the difference between Mr. Marcos on the one side and Cardinal Sin and that Catholic population and the business community and the great democratic traditions of the Philippines.  It's not communism.  It's democracy; it's liberty; it's justice that are at stake in that country.

	In South Africa, the issue is not the racist government and the communists that they've cozied up to.  It's between them and Bishop Tutu and the religious leaders and the decent, honorable people of South Africa who want justice for all of the people of that good country.

	If you'll help me get into that White House [in response to applause] You know, I think Reagan's in for a big surprise.

	I intend to end that illegal war in Nicaragua.  I'm going to impose sanctions on South Africa.  I'm going to condition all foreign aid on progress in human rights.  I'm going to put in place an assemblage of the democracies.  I'm going to press for Soviet Jewish emigration.   I'm going to speak for Sakharov and Scharansky and the great people of that country who ought to be heard.

	I'm once again going to enlist the young people of this country to join in the Peace Corps and go around the world to help develop those countries.

	I'm going to use America's agricultural abundance, expand Food for Peace.  In my administration, when people are starving as they are in Africa, in Ethiopia, I am going to take American agricultural abundance, and we're going to save the money, the trillion dollars that we'd spend on Star Wars, and we're going to use some of that for an airlift and a sea-lift of American food to take to the hungry of the world so that we're seen as a people who care.

	I don't want the peoples of the world who yearn for freedom to turn to the Soviets.  I want them to turn to the United States as the symbol of leadership and of decency all over this world.

	Finally, as president, I want to bring us back together again.  Today we have a president who says he wants America to be a shining city on the hill.  He refers, of course, to that famous sermon over three-hundred years ago by Reverend Winthrop as he spoke to the Puritans as they entered Boston Harbor.

	But Mr. Reagan missed part of that sermon, and it's the same thing that's missing in his administration.  What the minister said was this:

	     We must strengthen, preserve and comfort one another.  We
	     must bear one another's burdens.  We must look not only on our
	     own things, but also on the things of our brethren.  We must
	     rejoice together, mourn together, labor and suffer together. 
	     We must be knit together by a bond of love.

	My fellow Americans, that sermon speaks for our nation again.  That spirit of community, of family, of nationhood is entirely missing from this administration.

	If you're old, tough luck.  If you're handicapped, too bad.  If you're a minority, that's a mistake.  Wherever people are in need, this administration is trying to teach us not to care.

	When you're in trouble in America, they want you to be all alone.  That's not America.  I want a nation where, when you're in trouble, we're all together working for each other, for a better nation, for a community that cares.

	Today we have eight days to go to this election.  It's close, but the people are beginning to think.  They're watching not just the polls, but they're looking at the Republicans.  Most of the time, Reagan's sleeping at Camp David.  They've got old George Bush locked up in the basement because he makes a mistake every time he's out.

	Yesterday the New York Times endorsed me.  Today the Washington Post endorsed me.  You know what?  The Miami Herald's editorial board met, considered all the facts, voted to endorse me, and then the publisher reached out and said, "You can't do that."

	Well, the publisher may be able to control the editorial board of the Miami Herald, but he can't control you.  You can do what you wish.

	In the Washington Post editorial today, they said, among other things, that not only should I be elected president, but Geraldine Ferraro should be elected vice president.

	They said something that we need to remind ourselves of.  They said George Bush is showing us something, not only that he's a rotten campaigner but that he seems to reveal himself as the Cliff Barnes of American politics--blustering, opportunistic, craven, and hopelessly ineffective all at once.

	I need your help.  We've got to win this election for many reasons. First of all, to my fellow Norwegians of Washington, this nation has discriminated against us for the last two-hundred years, and it's time that a Norwegian was elected president.

	I want an America where the president understands that it's time for new leadership; it's time for America to move on.

ENDORSEMENTS--PRINT MEDIAFOREIGN AID--GENERALHUMAN RIGHTSHUNGER (WORLD)LATIN AMERICANUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)PHILIPPINESSOUTH AFRICA     «% ì% ç% â% Å%
 v% q% l% e% [% Y% Y% N%	 ü 	 Ü 	 r 	 f 	 X 	 K 	  	  e: