Speeches\1996\rep\S96R0917.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)09/17STUMPSAN DIEGOCALIFORNIACA2,041 WORDS

	Thank you. I'm proud to be back in San Diego, because I was starting to miss the place. You can never express gratitude too many times. So let me say once again to the fine people of this city: thank you for hosting the best Republican National Convention in history. When I am president of the United States, I'll always remember that the road to victory began right here in San Diego.

	Forty-nine days from today, the American people will decide between two very different visions of our country's future. Our opponents have an outdated, liberal vision that puts government at the center of our lives. As they see it, if we just send more of our money to Washington and give up more of our freedom, the government will take care of us.

	Jack Kemp and I have a different vision. We say that the government has already taken too much money, too much authority, and too much freedom from the people, and it's time to give it back. That's why we're going to do what the naysayers believe can't be done--we are going to balance the budget and cut taxes.

	We're going to get this economy moving again with our pro-growth--starting with a tax cut--15 percent across the board.

	We're also going to help lower- and middle-income families with a $500 tax credit for every child they are raising.

	And to create more jobs and opportunities while helping homeowners, family farmers, entrepreneurs, and small-businesspeople, we're going to cut the tax rate on capital gains in half.

	That's just phase one. Our goal in phase two is to make the tax system flatter, fairer, and simpler, and to end the IRS as we know it.

	What it all boils down to is this: we've got a tax relief plan that will make a real difference in the lives of working families. This isn't tax relief for Wall Street. This is Main Street tax relief--good for everyone who works and everyone who pays taxes in every part of America.

	President Clinton and his liberal supporters say it can't be done. They're wrong. The truth is that with today's pro-growth Republican Congress, balancing the budget while cutting taxes is just a matter of presidential will. If you have it, you can do it. I have it. I will do it.

	But lower taxes and a balanced budget aren't the only key to a better America. We also need to restore a sense of security and safety in our homes and communities.

	One of the founding principles of American government was to insure domestic tranquility--but today, tragically for too many American families, government isn't fulfilling that role. One of our problems is that the current administration talks tough on crime but doesn't deliver.

	They brag about the fact that some crime statistics are going down. Some positive numbers were reported today: last year there were 9.9 million violent crimes--a smaller number than in 1994. And I want to congratulate Governor Wilson, Attorney General Lungren, and the Republican governors and attorneys general across America who've been tough on crime. But let's face it: ten million violent crimes in one year is ten million too many. More Americans are murdered every three years than died in the entire Vietnam War. And 35 percent of all violent crimes are now committed by teenagers. These are not signs that we are winning the war on crime. These are signs that the criminals are winning.

	But let's put those statistics aside for a moment and ask what we're really thinking about here. We're talking about real people. A violent crime can happen in a flash. The victim dies--our...[missing text]...lives with that moment for the rest of their life. And so does the victim's family.

	Yesterday in Philadelphia I talked with Rosemary and Frank Delasandro. Some years ago, their twelve-year-old daughter walked down the street to sell Girl Scout cookies. A man two doors down invited her in, then proceeded to rape, kill, and dump her in the garbage. Rosemary and Frank have to live with that every day. Earlier this afternoon I was with crime victims and family members in Phoenix. They, too, spoke of how their lives were changed forever by evildoers.

	So statistics are fine. But let's stay focused on the people who've suffered, and the people we're trying to protect. Think about the grandmother who lives alone, and is worried sick every time she carts her groceries home from the supermarket. Think about the single mom who packed a lunch this morning and sent her third-grader to school, then rushed off to work. She's doing everything in her universe she can think of to protect that child. But she wonders whether that'll be enough. And she wonders whether she'll be safe herself when she walks across a parking lot to her car after it gets dark.

	It's to people like that across America that I make this pledge: when I am president, we're going to have a real plan to fight drugs and violent crime.

	Drugs and violent crime are both part of a pattern. Drug abuse leads to more criminal activity, and eventually to violent crime. I call it the crime pipeline.

	There are over a million more children using drugs today than the day Bill Clinton was elected. That's enough kids to fill every football stadium in America. Today, and every day, more teenagers will try drugs for the first time. Many of them will end up committing more and more serious crimes, until crime and violence become a way of life. In the 1980s and early 1990s, we went a long way toward reducing teen drug use and closing off the crime pipeline. Between 1979 and 1992, overall drug use in America dropped by 50 percent. Much of the credit for this progress goes to two strong presidents, Ronald Reagan and George Bush.

	But look at what's happened since then. Bill Clinton has opened up the crime pipeline again. Drug use among teenagers has more than doubled in the last four years. How did this happen? It happened because the Clinton administration let the drug war fall off the radar screen. Under Bill Clinton, America's drug policy has gone from "just say no" to "just say nothing."

	President Clinton came into office and cut the staff in the Office of National Drug Control Policy by 83 percent. He appointed a surgeon general who talked about legalizing drugs.

	He appointed liberal federal judges who have become known nationwide for bending the law in order to let criminals go free. One of the Clinton judges even threw out drug evidence and a voluntary confession in a drug case. Why? Because he said that it's not necessarily suspicious behavior for drug dealers to run away from police. That judge later reversed his position after a public outcry.

	And I don't need to tell people in San Diego about Bill Clinton's poor record on drug interdiction. 

	He cut by more than half the Defense Department's budget for the planes and troops to help keep drugs from coming across the border.

	He proposed cutting the number of drug enforcement agents by more than 600 in 1994.

	At some major ports of entry, he all but stopped drug searches. He appointed a U.S. attorney in this city whose policy has been to return hundreds of arrested drug smugglers back to Mexico without bringing any charges against them.

	That's the record. Yes, Bill Clinton likes to say how he is tough on crime. But as usual, his actions tell more than his words. He talks like Dirty Harry but acts like Barney Fife.

	I'm here to tell you that on day one of the Dole-Kemp administration, we're going to put America back on the right track in the war against crime and drugs.

	We'll start building a safer America with a five-point action plan.

	Number one: we will close down the pipeline of drugs to crime to violent crime. I will work with the governors and enlist the help of all Americans to accomplish the goal of cutting teenage drug use in America by 50 percent in my first term in office.

	We'll maintain a strong Office of the National Drug Control Policy. Instead of putting liberals on the bench, I'll appoint judges who work with us rather than against us, and respect the rights of victims as much as they respect the rights of criminals. And to keep drugs out of our country, I'll use what we'd use against any invader--our military and the National Guard.

	Furthermore, as a leader of the greatest nation on earth, I will give you an administration that sends one clear, consistent moral message: there is right and there is wrong. And drug use is wrong, period.

	And when I say my administration is committed to fighting crime, I mean fighting all crime. Millions of our senior citizens depend on Medicare, and one of the ways we'll keep Medicare strong is to root out fraud in the program. It's been estimated that 10 percent of Medicare spending goes to waste, fraud, and abuse. That's almost $20 billion this year alone--money that could be spent on home care or other needs of our elderly or disabled. My amendment to the Kennedy-Kassebaum health care law added 130 new Medicare fraud agents, and provides for cash rewards to seniors who help find Medicare fraud. I'll continue fighting Medicare fraud as president of the United States.

	Number two of our action plan: we will work with the governors to end the revolving-door justice system by abolishing parole for violent criminals. We will double federal funding for state prison construction so the governors can help us put violent criminals in prison--and keep them in prison.

	Number three: we will hold juvenile criminals fully accountable for their crimes. More than anything else, I want to see an America where no young person enters the dark world of crime. What I'm offering is tough love against juvenile violence. If we can make it clear to young people who might be tempted into crime that it doesn't pay, we might save thousands from going down that path. And the best prevention message is the simplest: if you do an adult crime, you will serve adult time.

	Number four: instead of spending all of their time watching TV, working out in weight rooms or filing frivolous lawsuits, we should put federal prisoners to work full time--at least forty hours a week--and use the earnings of their labor to help compensate their victims.

	Finally, as president, I will lead effective federal action to keep guns out of the hands of violent criminals. One of our top priorities will be a national instant-check system. No one who has been convicted of a serious crime should be able to buy a gun. And we will have that instant-check system up and running by the end of 1997.

	That's our action plan. It's time to get serious about violent crime and drugs in a way we haven't seen in our government over the last four years.

	Because it's not just an issue of government policy, but the character of our country.

	We need leadership from the top that works to shut down the crime pipeline.

	We need leadership that sends a moral message against crime and drugs--and will send the same message tomorrow, next week, next month, and next year.

	Can we turn things around? Of course we can. We were winning the war against drugs in the 1980s and early 1990s. We were closing the crime pipeline. And we can do it again.

	This is about the America that all of us want. It's about an America that doesn't fear the streets of our own neighborhoods, an America that doesn't have to live behind locked doors, an America where mothers don't tremble for the safety of children walking to school, an America where all are free to live out their dreams--where no one is left behind, no one is counted out, and no one is lost.

	Thank you very much, God bless you, and God bless America.
CRIME--JUVENILE OFFENDERSCRIME VICTIMSDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONGUN CONTROL--VIOLENT CRIMINALSJUDICIARY APPOINTMENTS--GENERALMEDICARE FRAUD/ABUSEPARDONS, PAROLE, COMMUTATIONSPRISONS/PRISONERSCRIME, DRUG-RELATEDCRIME, VIOLENT     ¯. {. u. q. g.
 _. Z. U. L. B. @. 5.	 ð 	 × 	 Ê 	 ¸ 	   	 ‚ 	 c 	 O 	 2  !   e: