Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1022.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/22STUMPSOUTH BENDINDIANAINNOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY, FOR RELEASE TO AFTERNOON NEWSPAPERS2228 WORDS

	It is a great privilege to speak here at Notre Dame. For this is a place where men come for instruction and guidance and for faith, and from which they go to "spread the salutary teachings of the Church far and wide." It is well for men who seek public office to speak here and to be reminded what this university is and what it stands for.

	This is an institution of great names--Father Edward Sorin; the late Father John Cavanaugh; your immediate past president, another Father Cavanaugh. And I want to make special mention of my own colleague and coworker, Lieutenant Governor Sherwood Dixon of Illinois, Class of 1920--whom I confidently expect will be elected governor of Illinois to succeed me--and he'll be a great governor too!

	Nor can any man who has grown up in this part of the country pass here without bringing to his lips another name--that of Knute Rockne. It was he who wove into Notre Dame's tradition of strong faith that other tradition of strong bodies--so strong indeed that some who had been your opponents concluded that the competition was too much for them. If you can't lick them, they decided, don't play them. I guess they decided it was time for a change.

	I want to talk to you this morning about a problem that deeply concerns all of us: the problem of ridding the world of the disease of Communism.

	It is a matter of great significance and meaning that this problem which is so much in the forefront of our political and public affairs today has received the careful thought and attention of the leaders of the Catholic Church for over a century. Their penetrating analysis of the causes of Communism and the methods of meeting its attack offer us today sound counsel and wise guidance.

	As long ago as 1846, Pope Pius the Ninth warned that Communism could destroy society. In 1878, Pope Leo the Thirteenth, one of the greatest and most eloquent of modern social thinkers, aptly defined Communism as "the fatal plague which insinuates itself into the very marrow of human society, only to bring about its ruin." And in 1937, with an insight then shared by few, Pope Pius the Eleventh described the Communist propaganda machine that was skillfully instilling false hopes in men's hearts.

	Your church leaders have approached this disease, Communism, not with a politician's bombast, but with the care and method of a doctor. They have sought its causes, and finding the causes, have pointed to the cure. Decades of study have taught them what all of us should know but too few say: that Communism finds its roots in the despair of the unemployed, the fear of the insecure, the shame of beggars; in the simmering resentment of the impoverished and the gnawing pains in the stomachs of the hungry.

	The only permanent cure for this disease lies in the eradication of its causes--in the achievement of social justice. It will not yield to the quackery of medicine men who claim to cure the disease with words of hate and loud accusations. Such men ignore the teaching of Saint James: "Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving only yourselves."

	The effectiveness of anti-Communism is measured not in words, but in deeds--deeds of courage when the force of Communism must be met with force; deeds of patience and sacrifice when Communist strength must be met with strength controlled by restraint; deeds of charity and generosity when the roots of Communism may be best attacked by establishing social justice.

	The history of the last two decades in America bear testimony to the wisdom of Pope Pius the Eleventh when, speaking of the threat of Communism, he condemned "the folly of those who neglect to remove or change the conditions that inflame the minds of peoples, and pave the way for the overthrow and destruction of society."

	In 1932, with twelve million unemployed and the nation in ruin, over a million persons despaired of the capitalist system, and voted for presidential candidates pledged to its destruction. Over a hundred thousand people voted the Communist ticket.

	But in succeeding years a solid prosperity more fairly distributed, and opportunity for all who seek it have replaced despair with confidence. Today the popular attraction of Communism is a fraction of what it was twenty years ago; and the socialist movement has all but vanished. And I am proud that by establishing social justice, by giving men and women the human dignity of freedom with security, the Democratic party has played a large part in uprooting from the soil of America the poisoned seeds from which Communism grows.

	Yet we know that this task is not yet finished. There are still those among us whose minds are infected. We must remain on constant guard lest there develop in our society those maladjustments from which new weeds might grow.

	So it is well that we mark carefully the precepts of our experience so that we may be guided by them. They are the precepts of the church and of the state, for Communism is a force which challenges both.

	One such precept is that the role of government in promoting and assuring the general welfare must be not a passive, but an active one. Leo the Thirteenth wrote in his great encyclical of 1891 on "The Condition of the Workers": "Whenever the general interest or any particular class suffers or is threatened with mischief which can in no other way be met or prevented, the public authority must step in to deal with it."

	The opponents of the progressive social legislation of the past two decades have never accepted this precept. To them, government is a not representative of the public; it is something to be opposed, even as a foreign government is often opposed. It has been aptly said that they "want the government to be restricted to the function of a policeman or umpire in enforcing private contracts but not to be trusted with the responsibility of promoting the general welfare."

	It is a basic tenet of the Democratic party that the government of a democracy has a social responsibility, particularly to those who have the least bargaining power in life's marketplace. We believe in a government with a heart, and with a conviction of purpose to see that the dictates of its heart find fulfillment in people's lives.

	A second precept is that each segment of society depends on every other; that what injures one segment injures society; and what benefits each part also benefits the whole. This precept is the basis for the minimum wage laws and the farm price support program, for we know that when the income of the worker or the farmer falls, we move into the threatening shadow of a general misfortune.

	The opponents of these Democratic programs have never been able to understand or accept this precept either. But labor's gain is not necessarily management's loss; nor the farmer's gain the consumer's loss. The record of the past two decades, in which all segments of society have gained, belies this, and proves rather that from balance and competition in a free society grows increased strength for all.

	A third precept, perhaps most basic in our experience in meeting the threat of Communism, is that security is a necessity which the public must provide where private means cannot. "Insecurity," a group of American bishops and archbishops once said, "not only leads to the creation of a strong social tension expressing itself in social disorder, but is also contrary to the prescriptions of Christian morality." As long ago as 1919, another group of churchmen prophetically urged that "the State should make comprehensive provisions for insurance against illness, invalidity, unemployment and old age."

	So, too, has it been a basic purpose of the Democratic party to add to freedom that dimension of security which creates human dignity. We count as purposeless the preservation of the freedom to beg, or the freedom not to work, or the freedom to grow into an old age of want and dependence.

	It is basic to our beliefs that among the greatest dignities is that of labor, the dignity of the laboring man and of the work he performs. And we find in the encyclical of Leo the Thirteenth full expression of that thought, too.

	We take pride, we of the Democratic party, in having contributed to the dignity of labor by establishing firmly in our laws and in the life of the nation the principle of labor's right to organize and to bargain collectively. And all the government has done has been to unlock the strength which there is in a group of people working together through their unions, so that they may meet effectively the forces of a highly organized society which they could not cope with as individuals working alone.

	It is particularly relevant to our discussion here this morning that the labor unions have become strong agencies for driving Communism out into the open--where it dies in the sun of men's recognition of its delusions.

	As a final safeguard against the threat of insecurity, we of the Democratic party believe in the principle that it is a responsibility of government to offer the fullest possible guarantees "that the opportunity to work will be provided to those who are able and willing to work." The words in this statement of purpose are those of Pope Pius the Eleventh.

	What it means to effectuate this purpose is fully illustrated in the record of the middle thirties when the Democratic party insisted that there can be no excuse for men and women to be unemployed in a land of unlimited resources when they want to work and when there is an unlimited demand for the products of their labors. That principle was reaffirmed in 1946 in a law too few people realize is on our books. It is called the Employment Act, and it pledges the government to use all available resources and means to assure against unemployment.

	Here then are the outlines of the basic defenses against Communism in America. They are the defenses of giving to the American people that strength and that security which will mean that none will be tempted by the beckoning light of the false hopes which Communism holds out to men and women who despair or feel insecure.

	I have emphasized the parallels between the approach which the Democratic party takes to this problem and that taken by the leaders of the Church to which this great university is a monument. This same parallelism exists, of course, in the beliefs of every other religious faith in America.

	Nor do I except from this alignment the members of the political party of the opposition in America--the Republican party. I do not accuse them, as their leaders do me, of being "soft toward Communism."

	But I do say that it seems to me high time that the leaders of the Republican party--or at least of one wing of it--start realizing that their opposition to the programs of social justice in America is opposition to the building of our strongest defenses against Communism.

	They have other reasons, too, I guess, for opposing the program of the Democratic party to add to the lives of men and women in other free nations those elements which will defeat the growth of Communism there. But they should realize that in their opposition to the Marshall Plan, to the subsequent programs of aid to free nations, and to President Truman's Point Four program, they have opposed the best means we have of preventing the spread of this delusive gospel and its power and tyranny with it.

	Let the record be clear that those who charge others with "coddling Communism" have voted "no" on almost every proposal of the Democratic administration to destroy Communism by pulling out--in America and the free world--the roots of poverty and ignorance and insecurity from which it grows.

	It was after an earlier war that, again in the words of churchmen, it was said that "the only safeguard of peace is social justice and a contented people" and that "the deep unrest...throughout the world is the most serious menace to the future peace... Great problems face us. They cannot be put aside; they must be met and solved with justice for all."

	I wonder whether the fullest answer to the problems of both war and Communism doesn't lie in the scripture, "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His justice, and all these things shall be added unto you."

	And now one other word: I have spoken to you here this morning with a seriousness which the occasion perhaps does not seem to warrant.

	Yet it seems to me particularly important that you who are participating in perhaps your first election be offered the most serious side of the issues which face this nation. You bring ideals with you, ideals of citizenship, which some who are older have lost. I don't think those ideals would be served by my offering you softer fare. Your holding to those ideals seems to me essential to the future of this democracy.




DEMOCRACYGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALCATHOLICISMCOMMUNISM     ]3 )3 #3 3 3
 
3 3  3 ö2 ï2 í2 ³2 ©2	 ˆ 	  	 j 	 A 	 )    	 e: