Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1024.006SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/24STUMPSAN DIEGOCALIFORNIACAS.D. COMMUNITY CONCOURSE2,957 WORDS

	Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, my friends.

	All right, ladies and gentlemen--thank you very much.

	Thank you, Congressman Lionel Vanderlin--thank you for just being a great congressman for this great city and this great district, one of the finest that we have in Washington.  And I wish that I could have on this platform today with me the next United States senator from California, Alan Cranston, because he is going to be the man.  

	The mayor of your great city, Mayor Curran, was kind enough to greet me and welcome me here.  I want to express to him, as I have before, my thanks for the leadership that he gives to one of the great metropolitan areas of America.

	We are going to build the better America that we want.  We are going to build the kind of America we want in cities like San Diego.  And when I see a mayor like Frank Curran, I know the job can be done, because he is proving it can be done.    

	All of our guests here and all of your representatives, your state senators, James Mill, this wonderful assemblyman here, James Baird sitting next to me--and to all the others, may I just say to them that I know that their service is going to be rewarded by the vote of confidence of the people in this area.

	By the way, the group that was leading the singing here a while ago is not exactly a trained professional group of performers, but they are wonderful people.  One of them is the very distinguished Californian, very distinguished, capable, wonderful American, world champion, decathlon champion in the Olympics, 1960--Rafer Johnson.  And I am sure you will be glad to meet him.

	Another one of the trio is a daughter of a very dear friend of mine, a great industrialist in this country, the daughter of Henry Ford, and her name is Charlotte Ford, and she is here with us today. 

	And the third member is the former United States Ambassador to Denmark, former United States Ambassador to Bulgaria, former United States Ambassador to the United Nations, a life-long friend of mine from the state of Minnesota--Mrs. Eugenie Anderson.  And I am so proud that she could be with us.    

	Now, you know, I said the other day that when you can have Henry Ford, Sidney Weinberg, of industry and finance, George Meany and Walter Reuther of labor, all supporting Hubert Humphrey, it shows that we can unite this country and that we can govern this country.  

	My friends, that is the question before the nation now is, Who can govern the country, and in whom can we place our trust?

	I think that you know that we need to place our trust in each other.  We need to place our trust in one another regardless of our race, our color or our creed.

	I think Americans know now that we need each other so much that there is no way that we can fulfill the responsibilities to our own people, to our own nation, or to fulfill our responsibilities abroad unless every American--every American--has his chance to fulfill his own destiny, become the best that is in him, and that we let no impediments of race or color or religion or national origin stand in the way.  We are going to build this country together. 

	Now, friends, there is one direction that a candidate for president must make that I think is a test of his character, as well as a test of his political performance, and that decision is made early.  It is made when he makes his selection for his running mate.  And I ask the people in this audience to give serious and sober consideration to the times in which we live.

	I ask you to think about the teams--and they are teams--that seek this high office of president and vice president.  

	On the one hand, there is the team of George Wallace and General LeMay.  On the other hand...

	VOICES:  Boo!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I gather you don't want that team, is that right?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  On the other hand, there is the team of Mr. Nixon and Mr. Agnew.  

	VOICES:  Boo!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And then right up front there is the team of Humphrey and Muskie. 

	Well, my friends, we give you a team of people, two men that have had experience in government, two men that have been with you in public service, two men that understand the responsibilities of public office.  And may I say that in these troubled times, it is good to think of both men.

	I am proud, very proud of the fact that my candidate for vice president and your candidate for vice president has been here in San Diego, and I am proud of the fact that if ever he is needed for the highest duties of this nation, then I have been able to give to you on the Democratic ticket and the nation gives to you on the Democratic ticket a man that can fulfill every responsibility and a man that can be my partner as my vice president, as we run and manage this country. 

	VOICES:  Go, go, Humphrey

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I believe that the American people are making a very sober judgment as to what they want.  I have watched the trend in the polls.  I know we have been told that things are not so good.  But I have some news today for you.  Mr. Nixon is beginning to think they are too good.  The man that was silent all during this campaign is beginning to talk.  At long last, he has even agreed to appear on a television show.  He waited two years to do it.    

	Oh, no, he hasn't agreed to debate.  Oh, no, he is not going to do that.

	But at least, at long last, at least after two years of refusing to appear on a single show, he has decided that he would face the public.

	Well, let me tell you something, friends--he is going to face a bigger public on November 5th, and he is going to come out on the short end of the count.    

	Now, this great city has many activities that are related to our federal government.  This great city has many activities that are related to the education and the well-being of our people.

	I think every body in this audience knows that the first priority of this administration or the one that succeeds it, the ultimate priority is to find a way to bring about, as quickly as possible, an honorable peace in Southeast Asia and in Vietnam, and to get on with the business of building America.    

	Now, let us hope--let us hope and pray--let us hope and pray that it can be done soon, and let us hope and pray that nothing will stand in the way.  But let us also plan what will happen to America, to your jobs, to our homes, to our schools--what will happen when that blessed day of peace arrives.

	So I address you tonight seriously on the subject--after Vietnam what.  Will America move forward with the greatest burst of creative human activity in history, or will it stand still, or will it retreat--because it has done both before.

	After Korea, when peace was attained, the Nixon Republicans were in power, and the dividends of that peace never came to the American people.  Those Republicans forgot the people.  They forgot the needs of this nation.

	There were poor people then, and they received no help.  There were jobless then and they received no training.  There were children needing schools, and they received no education.

	The Republican administration, to which Mr. Nixon points with pride, forgot its social responsibilities, and indeed forgot the people.  Three recessions, three periods of unemployment, that took thousands of jobs, that cost the American people $175 billion in lost wages and lost income.  And San Diego, California paid a heavy price.  This city alone faced grave problems, because the Republicans didn't care, didn't care about you.    

	Now, my friends, let me ask you something.

	What did Mr. Nixon and his Republicans ever do for the old people?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What did they ever do for the colleges and universities and the students?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What did they do for the unemployed worker that needed a job?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What are you going to do for Nixon?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!
	
`	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  When--on election day--absolutely nothing for him.  That's a fair deal.  Treat him like he treated you.

	Now, what else happened during those periods, that period of eight years?  They saw this country fall behind the Soviet Union in economic growth, in defense preparedness and in the crucial field of space exploration.  And the Republicans are already talking about cutting back these programs, cutting back, if you please, even, may I say, by raising up the ante of unemployment.

	The other day the chief advisor of Mr. Nixon suggested that maybe the time was at hand that America needed a little higher unemployment.  How in the name of common sense can a man seek to be president and promise the American people that they will suffer a little more unemployment?

	I want to know whose job he is talking about.  I want to know whose family he is going to leave out.  I want to know whose mortgage is going to go unpaid.  I want to know who is going to have to drop out of school.

	I'll tell you who ought to go unemployed, and I'll tell you who is going to be unemployed--Richard Nixon, on November 5th.    

	My friends, we don't have to go through--we don't have to go through recessions, and we don't have to go through job-killing operations.  We know what to do.  We have had eight years of steady economic growth under the full employment policies of the Democratic administration which have built new buildings like you see here in this city, new jobs, 12 million of them--ten million, if you please, that have come right out of the slums and out of the areas of poverty in America to become taxpaying, self-sustaining, self-respecting citizens.  And it has happened here in San Diego with a tremendous job program that has taken place here with American business and American government and American labor cooperating to make this a much better country.  You see, it can be done, if you keep an administration in power that cares about the people.  And I think you know which administration that is--a Democratic administration.    

	You know, I find out--I found out that San Diego now gets more of its income from education than it does from the aerospace industry.  And why?  Because the Democratic administration has tripled federal investments in education in just the last four years.

	The great university system of this state, the community colleges, the elementary and secondary schools have benefited to the tune of over $13 billion nationally on federal aid to education, and that is the difference, may I say, between prosperity and recession.

	And we have other things to do.  We have a tremendous voyage of exploration ahead of us.  And I want to look to the future, not to the past.  A tremendous voyage in the field of health.  Think of what Medicare has meant to the elderly, and think of what kiddie care means to the little child.  Think of what it means to have health centers across America where the needy can come and have their health care.  Think of what we could do in education from preschool through college.  Think of what the cities can be and how we can develop them and make them new.  Think of the transportation that still needs to be accomplished, and communications.  And think of what they can do in space--countless other fields.

	Ladies and gentlemen, this country can do whatever it wants to do if we get to work, if we trust each other, and if we listen to each other and not listen to the demagogues or the shouters. 

	So I come to you tonight--I come to you tonight to ask you to place your faith in your nation.  I come to you to place your faith in your neighbor.  I ask you to reject the voices of hate and bigotry.  I ask you to remember that we built this country together, black and white, rich and poor.  I ask you to remember that the great human resources of America are yet to be, really yet to be developed.  Right from the poor, right from the simplest family comes the genius today that makes America the wonder of the world.

	The next president of the United States will not only set policies for the next four years; he will set policies that will affect the lives of children yet unborn.  The next president of the United States will not only have to care for the defense of this nation, but he must care for the development of this nation.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, we need to take a hard look at the record.  And I have come before this audience to ask your help, to ask your help to maintain an economy of growth so that we have jobs; an economy of growth so that we can build schools; an economy of growth so that families can live a better life.

	And I will ask you to come with me to continue the work that we have developed in human relations so that America can be a family of friends rather than enemy camps; so that our neighborhoods can be safe, rather than filled with animosity. 

	You know friends, there is so much that this city tells us. Here in this great city of San Diego you built an Atlas booster rocket, the instrument that was once the power behind our defense system, and then it became the instrument for the peaceful exploration of outer space. And then I say that what was true of that rocket can be true of the entire American economy.

	What we want in America are industries that build for the lives of our people. We want a strong enough America to be able to stand strong in this world. But we want a strong enough America to be just to every one of its own citizens.

	So I ask you to help me in this election. I ask you to do the following things.

	Mr. Nixon and his group have the money; they have the television; they even have the hecklers. I sometimes think they are paid and hired to come to meetings just like this--don't you?

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  In fact, I want to say they are overpaid.  They are not that good.

	Let me tell you what we have. Let me tell you what we have.  We have each other. And if you go away from this meeting tonight convinced that this country has yet to live its best days, convinced that we cannot turn back, convinced that we cannot stand still, convinced that every man, woman and child in this America must have his or her chance for a good day; if you go away from here commissioned to fight for your life and your family, to think of your country--if you will trust me, I will give you everything I have to make this a better country.

	I need your help.

	Let us see--let us see whether or not Mr. Nixon, with his advertising budget, can buy his way into the White House. Let us see whether or not the White House is for sale. Or let us see whether or not the way you get to the White House is not a better radio program but a better idea.

	Let us see whether or not the way you get to the White House is not through propaganda, but through principle. Let us see whether or not we, the people, can put people power to work.

	So, come join with me. Come join with me, my friends, in a great, wonderful thing that is happening in this country. It is our happening. And I'll tell you what is happening. We are on the march. Mr. Nixon knows it. His troops are in retreat. He is beginning to talk, and he is beginning to say the wrong things. And, ladies and gentlemen--I tell you this, that a man that wasn't good enough for Sacramento in 1962 isn't good enough--wait a minute, listen. Let me put it another way. If you didn't want him in the State House in Sacramento, why should we want him in the White House in Washington?

	Now, are you ready to work?

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Are you ready to campaign?

	VOICES:  Yes!
	
	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Do you know there are only a few days left?
	
	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Does that make any difference?

	VOICES: No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Are you ready to go on out and show Mr. Nixon that we don't intend to let him get ahold of this country?

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, my friends, I am ready.  I am ready. I have taken him on from one end of this country to another. And I am ready to do it again. And I call upon San Diego to re-elect Congressman Lionel Vanderlin, to elect Alan Cranston.  And I call upon you--and I call upon you to elect your team of Humphrey and Muskie, the Democratic team, November 5th.

	Thank you.

AEROSPACE INDUSTRYECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANEDUCATION, HIGHERHEALTH CARERUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)UNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     +A ÷@ ñ@ í@ å@
 Ù@ Ô@ Ï@ Æ@ ¼@ º@ ¢@ —@	 ~ 	 l 	 O 	 > 	 3 	  e: