Speeches\1980\rep\S80R0916.001SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)09/16STUMPSteel Industry1,601 WORDS

	The American people have been told by President Carter that they are suffering from a national "malaise"--a weakness of will, a lack of determination to improve their own lives and the economic condition of their country. The American people have been asked to believe that this "malaise" comes from within themselves. This appraisal is wrong, and indeed is insulting to the intelligence and vigor with which the American people have always attacked their problems. The "malaise" has been imposed upon the people by the Carter administration, whose policies have undermined the strength of the American economic institutions which are the basis for our prosperity.

	Nowhere is this problem more evident than in the states which form the industrial heartland of America. The economic disaster that grips this region didn't just happen. The industries of this heartland have been weakened by shortsighted taxation policies, by inattention to problems created by dumped and subsidized foreign goods and by excessive government regulation.

	In this century, America achieved economic strength second to none. But now, in a few short years, the American people have seen this strength undermined. They are worried about the weakness of the nation's industrial base, about the inability of industry to support the nation's military strength, about the decline in productivity, about the erosion in the value of the dollar. In a word, the American people fear that their country is drifting, unguided, away from world leadership, to the point where our jobs, our lives and our institutions are at the mercy of others.

	The administration has failed to realize one fundamental fact: the industries which comprise the industrial base of America, and the people who are employed by those industries, must have the tools with which to produce more and to produce more efficiently. That fact has always been the basis for the economic strength of America; it is a fact now, and it will continue to be so.

	The outstanding example of the economic problem--and the outstanding potential for solving the problem--is the steel industry. In the administration of President Eisenhower, the American steel industry was the world leader in production and in technology. Since then, the trend has been one of gradual strangulation of the steel industry by Democratic administrations which have chosen to see American steel mills reduce operations or go out of business entirely, to ignore subsidized imports, to see Japanese, European, or other foreign steel workers take the jobs of American steel workers. The effects of these policies are visible today in scores of cities and towns which depend upon steel mills for their payrolls, for their retail business, for their taxes--for all the economic strengths that invigorate people, families, and communities.

	Our people recognize that this country must have a strong world-class industrial base. This industrial base is, in turn, founded upon a strong steel industry. And yet, in a program unveiled before Labor Day, President Carter attacked this massive problem with a series of half-hearted measures which approach the symptoms of economic weakness without really attacking its causes.

	If the United States is to return to world leadership in its economic strength, the rebuilding program must be built on a strong industrial base--and steel is part of the foundation of that base.

	The steel industry of the United States has been forced into second-class status because shortsighted government policies have prevented it from investing enough money in new production equipment. The steel industry must be revitalized, must be made more competitive with foreign steel, must serve the interests of the American people better with lower-cost, more energy-efficient production. This is a major first step in the industrial revitalization of our country.

	The key to this revitalization is investment. Steel mills must be enabled to invest more in modernization and expansion, to protect the jobs of their workers and to retain their own home market. These investment funds can only come from two sources: from profits and from realistic tax policies.

	The Carter economic program features subsidies and government handouts. The American steel industry does not ask for subsidies, handouts, loan guarantees or any other form of "bail-out." The industry asks, and should be given, an opportunity to pull itself up by its own bootstraps by earning the money needed for its own revitalization. Enlightened, forward-looking, constructive policies would do the following for the steel industry:

	Capital Formation. The steel industry, along with others which form the industrial base of the nation, should be allowed to take its depreciation allowances in a shorter period of time. For the American steel industry the average is now 12 years. This means that, by the time a company takes its tax allowances for new plant investment, the value of the dollars has been eaten away by inflation, and the funds available for new investment buy much less new equipment. American industry in general, and steel mills in particular, are placed at great disadvantage with their major competitors abroad, many of which have the benefit of one- or two-year write-off periods, and none of which have longer depreciation periods. Faster, less complex depreciation schedules should be placed promptly into effect.

	Faster depreciation is not a subsidy. All it does is to make available in a shorter period of time the same dollar amount of tax benefits which would otherwise be available to companies over a longer period of time.

	Imports. I have already pointed out that the American steel industry has been on a downward path since the Eisenhower years. Nowhere is this more evident than in imports. In the 1950s, imports accounted for an average of 2.5 percent of American steel consumption. In the 1960s, the market share of imported steel rose to an average of 10.2 percent. In the 1970s it rose to 15.5 percent. And, in the first three years of the Carter administration, imports of foreign steel increased to more than 17 percent. In the three years prior to the Carter administration they had been 13.7 percent.

	This demonstrates that growth in American steel consumption has gone to imports, while the productive capacity of American mills has gone steadily downward. This does not make economic sense for the steel industry or for the nation, and it adds to the nation's balance of payments deficits.

	Democratic administrations, and the Carter administration in particular, have been unwilling to cope with the import problem by enforcing laws which have been on the books for almost 60 years. These laws forbid dumping--that is, the practice of selling goods in the U.S. below cost of production in their home market or below prices which foreign producers sell for in their home market.

	The Carter administration has also chosen to ignore laws which require remedies for goods which undersell American producers by means of foreign government subsidies to their producers. Subsidized imports have reduced American sales volume and profits, thus restricting the funds available to American mills for investment.

	To enforce those anti-dumping and anti-subsidy laws is not only the most effective answer to the problem, it is actually demanded of a president who swears to uphold and enforce the laws of the land--not just those laws which he finds convenient to enforce.

	Enforcement of the trade laws would not prohibit imports of foreign steel. It would, however, require that steel offered for sale in this country be unsubsidized by foreign governments. American mills are ready and willing to meet foreign competition.

	As part of that enforcement process, the Trigger Price Mechanism should be promptly reinstated. Once we restore this protection against subsidized imports, we must then move forward to reduce foreign subsidies wherever possible. My administration will make every effort to negotiate reductions in such trade practices.

	Regulations. American industry is stifled by overregulation. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the steel industry's running battle over excessive environmental regulation. No one quarrels with the general objective of cleaning up the nation's air and waters. But we should not pursue those goals by insisting on timetables which force steel mills to spend money on environmental equipment when they don't have enough capital to invest in job-protecting new production equipment. Worse yet are cases where steel mills are forced to close mills or shut down facilities prematurely because strict enforcement of environmental regulations would make them unprofitable. Loss of jobs and community distress are the result. The steel industry has worked hard to accomplish the vast portion of its clean-up task, and within the next few years will be removing even more of its pollutants from the environment. What is needed is to stretch out the time period for further clean up.

	It is a matter of priorities. Right now, with so much of the pollution clean-up already accomplished, we must balance the need for environmental protection with protection of jobs and rebuilding industry.

	For a generation, the steel workers and the steel industry have been whipping boys for those in Washington who wish to show the public how zealously they are holding down prices. Price restraints have not been applied evenhandedly--to the point where the costs of producing steel have risen, prices have risen more slowly, and profits have been squeezed.

	The steel industry must be allowed to earn a reasonable profit on investment and on sales, in order to generate the funds for investment in plant modernization and expansion. Government loans or subsidies are no substitute for honest profits earned through aggressive cost-saving and competitive selling in a free and open marketplace.

	America needs a modern, world-class steel industry. My administration will support government policies which enable us to achieve it. 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESMANUFACTURING--PLANT MODERNIZATIONPRODUCTIVITYREGULATION/DEREGULATIONMANUFACTURINGSTEEL INDUSTRY     Ë( —( ‘( ( ƒ(
 y( t( o( a( V(	 Õ 	 ½ 	  	 z 	 ` 	 > 	 2     e: