Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0922.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/22CONVENTIONNEW YORKNEW YORKNYCONVENTION OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR3,081 WORDS

	This convention has followed the American tradition of giving a hearing to both parties to an argument, and I am glad to take my turn.

	You have been transacting your business here for eight days. And I would think it was high time for a little humor. But I fear that there may be some people listening who don't like the light touch, although--well, they don't seem to mind the heavy touch, as long as it is a Republican and not a Democrat. But, gentlemen, there is business before your house and I propose to get right to it, obeying, as far as I can, what seems to be known as the Republican law of gravity.

	I have been told that I should try here today to make you roar with enthusiasm. Why, I would not do that even if I could. After all, you are the responsible leaders of organized labor, which, if it does not act responsibly, could do the nation and the working people infinite harm. And I, in turn, am a candidate for the most important individual responsibility in the world. If I were more comforted by your cheers than your thoughts I would hardly merit the confidence of responsible men.

	So you will, I hope, understand that what little I have to say, or rather to add, to the many speeches you have dutifully listened to, is intended for your heads and not your hands. And, if I don't start any cheers, I hope at least that I shall not stop any minds.

	First I should like if I may to dispose of this matter of the Taft-Hartley law.

	The Democratic platform says that the Taft-Hartley Act is "inadequate, unworkable and unfair," and should be replaced by a new law. I developed, on Labor Day, the five basic respects in which the present law seems to me defective and I outlined some five principles to guide the writing of a new one.

	How to get a new one? The method, whether by amendment of the existing law or replacement with a new one, has, frankly, seemed to me less important than the objective. But, because the required changes are major changes, because the present law is spiteful, and because it has become a symbol of dissension and bitterness, I urge, therefore, as I did on Labor Day, that the Taft-Hartley Act be repealed.

	The Republican platform commends the Taft-Hartley Act because among other things it guarantees to the workman, and I quote, "the right to quit his job at any time."

	To this deceit they add the insistence that the real issue here is whether the present law should be "amended" or "repealed." This is not the real issue. The real issue is what changes should be made in the law of the United States. But, if repeal were in itself the issue, I would remind Senator Taft that he himself has publicly recognized twenty-three mistakes in his favorite law, and it seems not unreasonable to recommend that a tire with twenty-three punctures and five blowouts needs junking and not a recap job--and especially a recap job with reclaimed Republican rubber.

	There has been, too, the usual barrage of intemperate name-calling. Why is it that when political ammunition runs low, inevitably the rusty artillery of abuse is always wheeled into action? To face the facts of labor relations is to be accused of "captivity," and of "turning left." Now these are words without roots, weeds which grow in darkness and wither in the sun. But the sun is sometimes slow to rise--especially during campaigns. And I am reminded of the saying that a lie can travel around the world while the truth is pulling on its boots.

	Now the final Republican maneuvers were executed by General Eisenhower on this platform last Wednesday. I am grateful that it was the Republican, Senator Morse, who revealed so masterfully how all of those explosions we heard were only blank cartridges.

	It is proposed now apparently to change the Taft-Hartley Act in just two respects: by removing what the speaker called the union-busting clauses, and by making employers, like union leaders, swear that they are not Communists. The tinkling sound of these little words was unfortunately smothered in the thundering silence of what was left unsaid.

	And on only one point was there anything even approaching a joining of the issues.

	It was charged that I had "embraced," and I quote the words, "the principle of compulsion" by asking for the power as president to "compel" arbitration of disputes which threaten the national safety. Now, after that great reunion with Senator Taft on the loveseat at Columbia University, I must say I respect the General's authority on the subject of embraces. But if he wrote what he said, he had not read what I said.

	My proposal was, and is, that if Congress sees fit to direct the president to intervene in a labor dispute it should give the president authority to try, among other things, to have that dispute referred to arbitration. I did not say that he should be given the power to "compel" arbitration. I recommended a flexibility of procedures, all built around the mediation process, to replace the present requirement that in all of these cases the collective bargaining process be stopped--stopped dead--in its tracks, by a court order.

	Now what my distinguished opponent would do I cannot determine. If that was his purpose, by the way, he succeeded. He says he is against compulsion. Yet he seems to support the present law, which compels men to work under court injunction for eighty days on terms they have rejected. I find it hard to see where there can be a greater compulsion than this. And if I read what he says as fairly as I can, I gather that in fact he recognizes this too and agrees with me, and with you, that the labor injunction is not a fair or effective dispute-settling device.

	He cites with approval the Norris-LaGuardia Act which was passed, so he said, under his party's administration in 1932. Now this will all seem a pretty broad claim to those who remember that the House of Representatives in the 72nd Congress was safely Democratic, and who can't see much resemblance between Republicans like George Norris and Fiorello La Guardia, on the one hand, and Senator Taft and Representative Hartley on the other. He didn't mention the fact that that act virtually outlawed the labor injunction in the federal courts or that it had been seriously cut down by the Taft-Hartley Act. I wonder if by any chance Senator Taft deleted such frankness from the General's text.

	But the General in his talk to you did recognize squarely that issuing injunctions, and I quote him, "will not settle the underlying fundamental problems which cause a strike." That is one statement we can all agree with. The trouble is that the Taft-Hartley Act was written by those who don't recognize that squarely.

	But enough of the labor relations law. There are other problems of equal concern to American labor.


	When many of you first came into this business, the only job of American labor--and it was a tough one--was to organize workers and to bargain with employers. This is still perhaps your main job. But you also have greatly expanded your interests and broadened your horizons.

	One of the most significant developments in our national life is that the American labor movement is today much more than an instrument of collective bargaining. It has become a vital agency of a working democracy. Your purposes extend to making America strong in a free and a peaceful world, and to seeking all the democratic goals to which the government of this country is dedicated.

	I should like, therefore, to discuss with you how we can best make this relationship work--this partnership, if you please, between government and an independent organization like the American Federation of Labor, both devoted to the same ends.

	We recognize, to begin with, that in this partnership no partner can be allowed to dominate the other. Labor unions, like all private persons and organizations, must maintain an independence from government. Government, including political parties, must be independent of any private bodies.

	As spokesman for the Democratic party, at least for the moment, I put this in plain language, not because you of the AF of L misunderstand, but because others try to misrepresent. I am glad that the Democratic party and the American Federation of Labor have both been guided for a long time by the same stars--stars that have led us toward the realization of human hopes and desires.

	But our functions are different, and our responsibilities are different to different groups, even if these groups possibly overlap. The Democratic party is the party of all the people. Were it otherwise, it would be false to democracy itself.

We seek then a pattern for full cooperation, but one which recognizes our mutual independence.

	And what are the specific things we can do in moving toward the human goals we hold in common?

	We can start, because the opportunity is so obvious, by making the Department of Labor a more effective service agency. To mention a few specific responsibilities here is to suggest many others:

	1. Given sufficient funds, the Bureau of Labor Statistics could, it seems to me, better perform its essential service as keeper of the people's budget, and serve a much broader function than it now can.

	2. We should consider a labor counterpart of the Agricultural Extension Service to help train the men who make democracy work in the labor unions and around the bargaining tables.

	3. By retraining men who are replaced by machines and directing them to new jobs, where now we simply pay them unemployment compensation, we could save both manpower and tax money.

	4. Again the National Labor Relations Board, operating outside the Labor Department but in this same field, must be staffed to process cases in half the time it now takes, for in this field particularly "justice delayed is justice denied."

	5. Then there is the problem of the migrant farm laborers, over a million Americans who move north and south with the sun and the seasons, their lives often bleak cycles of exploitation and rejection. It certainly invites our compassionate attention.

	Strengthening the Labor Department is an old subject. Advocacy is always easier than action. But I lay what I hope is not immodest claim to at least a journeyman's qualifications. My apprenticeship was served in getting, and assisting to get, at least a partial labor program--over fifty bills--through a Republican legislature in Illinois.

	It will also be an important development in democracy when men and women will come in ever-increasing numbers from your ranks to positions of key responsibility in government.

	What you have to offer, in all of our essential governmental programs, has been perhaps best proven by the contribution that labor has already made on the international front.

	Your effective fight against Communism goes clear back to the time it was called bolshevism. You have licked it in your own houses, and you have gone after the roots from which it grows.

	I join with my distinguished opponent in saluting you for these accomplishments. One wonders why his party forgot them when, in 1947, they singled you out as peculiarly suspicious characters and required our taking a special oath of loyalty. I hope you don't misunderstand me--I am neither courting nor embracing--when I acknowledge and applaud the job you have done, not only through the International Labor Organization, the Economic Cooperation Administration, the Department of State, but through your own offices in rejecting the Communist World Federation of Trade Unions; pressing the case in the United Nations against forced labor in the Soviet Union; supporting free trade unions in Europe and Asia and in South America; helping build up popular resistance wherever the spiked wall of Russia throws its shadow over free men and women. Where men's minds have been poisoned against democracy, many will learn that America is free, and they will only learn it as they hear it from you when you say that you are free. To the workers of other nations, ours is today perhaps the clearest voice that America has.

	I am proud as a Democrat, that a Democratic administration has recognized this and I hope that more and more union leaders will be called upon to serve their country abroad. I think we need diplomats who speak to people in the accents of the people. Ambassadors in overalls can be the best salesmen of democracy.

	There are other tasks ahead, many of them here at home. President Truman listed the biggest among these jobs in his message to this convention, the priority jobs in making America still stronger and ever more healthy.

	How well we meet these problems together will depend upon, it seems to me, these three things:

	First, that we understand each other, and, second, that we exercise our powers always with firm self-restraint, and, third, that we hold fast to the conviction that only people are important.

	The understanding which flows between the party for which I speak and the enormous group you represent requires no detailing here. To remember the loneliness, the fear and the insecurity of men who once had to walk alone in huge factories beside huge machines, to realize that labor unions have meant new dignity and pride to millions of our countrymen, human companionship on the job, and music in the home, to be able to see what larger paychecks mean, not to a man as an employee, but as a husband, and as a father--to know these things is to understand what American labor means.

	Franklin Roosevelt knew these things. Harry Truman knows these things. But they are the imponderable human elements that some among us, unhappily, have never understood.

	Now--as to the exercise of our powers.

	The Democratic party has been entrusted for twenty years with the awesome responsibility of leadership in governing the United States. During these years, the labor unions have become strong and vigorous. So American labor, too, has enormous power today and enormous responsibilities. "Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown." It is cause for very real humility. It is the whole history of mankind that power lacking the inner strength of self- restraint will be eventually cast down.

	It is the history of the Republican party that it supported, and was supported by, those interests which believed that freedom meant the right to exercise economic power without restraint. And that party was cast down.

	It has been the basic belief of the Democratic party that only human freedoms are basic and that economic power must be exercised so as not to curtail them. We hold, too, that the power of government must be restricted to the point that government stands never as master and always as a servant.

	It is no less essential to the future of democracy that American labor walk wisely with its power. Your awareness of this has been shown in many practical ways. There is, most recently perhaps, the forthright and heartening manner in which you have attacked the problem of jurisdictional strikes. Your joint-board procedure in the building trades and your prohibitions upon picketing in support of jurisdictional claims are examples of sound self-regulation directed against the abuse and, therefore, the corruption of power.

	You have expressed your willingness to accept procedures which recognize the priority of the public interest in national-emergency disputes. You today accept the fact that, in the private free enterprise system which we all recognize as basic to our liberty and our prosperity, employees can prosper only as their employers do, and that irresponsible demands are only self-defeating.

	Yet American labor, like the Democratic party, faces new and uncharted tomorrows. You, as we, will be challenged anew to measure up to the demands of both freedom and power. The future of democracy, perhaps the future of our world, depends upon the exercise of power by America's private and public bodies alike with that self-restraint which separates power from tyranny and order
from chaos.

	American labor's role, its whole purpose has been to restore to people the status and dignity they lost when the sprawling factories reached out to engulf them. Hence, for example, your insistence that there be a community law of job rights--seniority rules--to stand beside the law of property rights.

	Equally has the Democratic party drawn its strength, I think, from the people. We have built our program on their hopes, stood by them in adversity and found the measure of our accomplishment in their welfare. We have written the laws of twenty years from pictures in our minds of men and women who are tired after a day's full work, who are defeated if a week's wages don't buy a week's food, who are out of a job, or who are sick or have finished a life's work. We believe in a government with a heart.

	Yet we are told that we have gone too far.

	What do they mean? Are they saying that our people are too well fed, too well clothed, too well housed? Do they say that our children are getting more and better schooling than they should? Have we gone too fast in our efforts to provide equal opportunities to working men and women of all races and colors? Are the 62,000,000 workers of America too healthy, too happy? Should fewer of them be working?

	The Republicans say they want a change. Well let them, then, speak out: Which of these things do they want changed?

	With mutual understanding, with a humbling sense of our power, with belief in our masters, the people, we shall see to it, my friends, that these things are not changed.

	I want, if I may, in closing to salute a tradition of leadership which embodies all I have been trying to say here today. The foundations of that tradition were laid by Samuel Gompers, and they have been built upon by William Green. You have held, sir, if I may say so, to the ideal of democratic leadership--the leadership which seeks the good of all, the leadership of him who wants only to serve.

HISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESMIGRANT WORKERSORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTESORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTES--FEDERAL MEDIATIONORGANIZED LABOR--INTERNATIONALWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITSORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     ÌG ˜G ’G ŽG †G
 yG tG jG bG ZG XG *G G	 Ö 	 ­ 	 ž 	 … 	 Y 	 ;   e: