Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1101.003.txtSPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)11/1STUMPCANTONOHIOOH1,754 WORDS
     Congressman McSweeney and my friends of Canton.  I am delighted to see so many of you here.  It looks to me as though something must be happening in Republican Ohio.  I think I learned, more years ago than I like to remember, that Canton is the home of one of Ohio's Presidents, William McKinley.  Now, I imagine I might differ with President McKinley on a number of policies, but there is one respect in which I have a great envy for President McKinley.  When he ran for President in 1896, he conducted his campaign from the front porch of his house here in Canton.  And, speaking as a candidate who is on the homeward stretch, thank heavens, after an intensive and interminable trip over the length and breadth of this country, I must say that the thought of campaigning from one's front porch has a very real appeal.  At this point I feel as though I had been on everybody's front porch but my own.  And I am sure that General Eisenhower feels the same way.

     Some, of course, may recall that President McKinley defeated Bryan and my grandfather in 1900, but I am very--quite prepared this morning to graciously forgive Canton, assuming that you do the right thing next week.  You know that except for an interval of 8 years in the Cleveland administrations, the Republicans were continuously in power from 1860 to 1912.  That is 52 years.  And while we hear a good deal nowadays about "time for a change," I don't recall from the history books that the Republicans ever recommended a change during that long interval.

     So I was saying that campaigning from rear platforms instead of front porches is a pretty tough grind.  But, in many ways it has been vastly rewarding and a satisfying experience for me.  Going around our country from Boston to Los Angeles, from St. Paul to New Orleans, a candidate learns vividly and sharply the many diverse interests that go to make up our country--and also, and most important of all, the fundamental unity among all of our people.  This is extremely important to any candidate, for the problem of governing this country is very largely a problem of achieving the right balance among all of the competing interests that seek legislation to meet their problems.

     You here in Ohio have vast industrial plants.  You also are one of the richest agricultural states in the Union.  My own state of Illinois is very similar, and I have learned there as Governor that we must everlastingly seek the common interest, the united objective, of all of the people of the state--farmers, workers, businessmen, those who live in the cities and those who also live in the country and the country towns.

     I have headed, I am proud to say, a clean, honest, and economical government in Illinois.  And I expect to do the same in Washington.  You know, I was in a Pennsylvania town yesterday, or the day before yesterday I guess it was, and I noticed as the train came to a stop, a sign hanging on a wall of an adjoining building.  It said, "Get a new broom.  Vote for Ike."  Well, that reminded me of a story of an old fellow down in southern Illinois who told me--he said, "a new broom ain't so good for cleaning.  It's best to have one that's broke in a little."  But more than that, I have headed a government in Illinois that worked for the good of the community. We saved money where it could be saved, and we spend money where it needed to be spent--on schools, for example.

     When I became Governor, I found the schools in Illinois badly underfinanced, run-down buildings, underpaid teachers, overcrowded classrooms; an during my three and a half years as Governor we nearly doubled the amount of state aid to the common schools, and we didn't raise our general purpose taxes either.

     Now this is pretty much my definition of good government--government that stays out of everything that it can, but when it needs to act, it acts efficiently, vigorously, and boldly.  Now that may be considered by many a conservative view of the functions of government these days, but whether it is liberal or conservative it is what I believe and what I intend to practice in Washington, because I have every intention of moving down there next year.

     If I could speak to you with the utmost sobriety for a moment, I would like to say that one thing our national government must be concerned with and must handle successfully is our foreign relations and our national security.  Everyone knows how serious the threat is.  The plain truth is that the Soviet Union wants to take over and dominate the whole world.  But not everyone in this country yet realizes what a long, tough, and expensive job it is going to be to stop Communist aggression and to establish a firm basis for a lasting peace in the world.

     We have been working hard on this job for seven years.  We have made a lot of headway.  Just remember for a moment how Europe lay shattered after the war and how rapidly the communists moved in to that vacuum.  But we didn't let that happen.  By our help through the Marshall Plan, we saved France and Italy and freed Germany and the rest.  And these countries are free toady, and standing firm because we had the courage to take action when the action was called for, and frequently you will remember over the opposition of those who said that spending money on foreign aid was like pouring money down a rat hole--and by the way, they were not Democrats.

     And then, my friends, came Korea.  And again we had the courage to take action when that was necessary.  We chose to fight a small war in Korea, because if we had not, it would have been only a matter of time until we had to fight a much bigger one.  We had to stop communist aggression where it began, or wait for it to lap up all of Asia and all of Europe.

     I think we were right to stand up and fight in Korea, that we were eternally right and every man who has fought there, every parent of a son who has fought there should be proud; they are entitled to this country's everlasting gratitude; for Korea is part of the same fight for our national freedom which began with the revolution of the American colonies and continued in France in 1917 and in Europe and the Pacific in 1944.  But this time we are not waiting until war has engulfed the whole world.  We have stopped aggression in its tracks where it started, in Korea,  and we are taking the bold and the necessary steps to prevent a third World War with all of its terrible threat of atomic destruction even to the heart land of our country.  I know this war is long and difficult and exasperating but it won't be made any shorter or any easier by any trick answers or speechwriter solutions.  The Korean--

     Evidently you folks read the papers around here.

     The Korean War will end, my friends, when the men in Moscow are convinced of the unshakable determination of the American people to stop communist aggression 

     One of the sad occurrences of this campaign is that the distinguished General's strained endeavor to make votes out of the fighting in Korea must have convinced the people in the Kremlin that there are people in this country, influential people, who are willing to compromise our moral position, because of all the delays in this country --an armistice for the repatriation of the fifty thousand Chinese and North Korean troops--many of them who surrendered voluntarily to us and who returned to their homelands only to certain death.

     And I tell you, my friends, if we were to yield to that insistence of many Republicans, to the implication that is the easy way out, we will lose our moral position in the world, and if we lost our moral position we have lost everything.

     This is one of the unhappy results of the General's willingness to play politics with war and with peace.  I say to you that there is no easy way to beat communism and bring peace to a troubled world by that device.  We must act as a united, determined people ready to resist this wave of tyranny which can only engulf us in the end.  We can stop it and we can achieve peace; we and the other free nations together have the brains and the resources to do it; but we must be ready to work and to sweat and to sacrifice if need be, to keep cool heads and our hearts warm, a policy of continued strength and of unity can bring us peace and it is the only policy that can.  And this is what we in the Democratic Party stand for, and it is the policy we will work for, if you elect my distinguished, able and genial friend, Mike DiSalle to the United States Senate.  And as you here in this District should well know, John McSweeney, your Congressman, wields enormous power in the Congress because of his membership on some of its most important committees, including the all important Rules Committee, a recognition of his ability and his worth and a position of influence which I am sure you in Ohio would not wish to lose.  I recommend him most heartily to your sympathetic consideration next week.

     And as far as John Sparkman and I are concerned, well, modesty forbids me to make any recommendations whatever.  But if you should want to, we are available.

     And now before we resume our journey, may I have the privilege of introducing to you the Vice-Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards of Washington, D.C.  And we also have aboard today the Co-Chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson; she has done so much to show the Independents the right way, Mrs. Edison Dick of Chicago; she, by the way, is a reformed Republican.  Well, you know, there is always a candle burning in the Democratic window for those who have strayed and want to come home.

     And I have with me my Aunt, Miss Letitia Stevenson, and finally, my youngest son, John Fell Stevenson.
EUROPEGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALKOREAN WARSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     ' Ú& Ô& Ð& È&
 »& ·& ²& ¬& ¨& ¦& ¦& ›&	 F 	 @ 	 % 	  e: