Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1009.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/09STUMPST. JOSEPHMISSOURIMO2,085 WORDS

	Congressman Welch and ladies and gentlemen: I am very much flattered that you should have come out here in such numbers to greet me this morning. I am also very grateful to you for this lovely day. It has been my hope if I got to St. Joe I might visit with you in a more convenient place, but I think you will understand we have been pressing hard against a very tight schedule. The fact of the matter is that the Republicans have been flooding the country with so much nonsense of late that I have had to get into an airplane to try to keep up with them.

	This business of getting in and out of airplanes all the time is a little harrowing, and I thought, coming down this morning, about the story a man told me once about the first time he had ever been in an airplane, and when he got out somebody asked him how he liked terra firma. He said, "Well, I like it all right. The more firma the less terror."

	Our task has not been easy, I am very frank to say to you. The Republicans can spend millions of dollars on trains, and even on confetti, and on balloons, and on television, and on radio in an effort to persuade the American people to give them another chance.

	In our Democratic campaign, on the other hand, we don't know half the time if we will have enough money for postage stamps and for airplane fare, let alone for television appearances, but we do have on our side, I think, the advantage that can't be bought with money--and that I would much prefer to have than the other. Our ace in the hole, it seems to me, is a solid record of twenty years of Democratic achievement...

	[An airplane flies across the field.] 

	Do you suppose now that pilot is a Republican?

	...twenty years of Democratic achievement under President Roosevelt and under President Truman that I like to think of as a record on behalf of all Americans and of free people everywhere.

	If you ask whether the administration has made any mistakes in these twenty years my answer would be yes. At least in my opinion there have been mistakes, and there will be more in the ordering of any human society. It would have to be a very good Democrat indeed to say that we have never made a mistake, but when you think about the size and the range of the things we have done both at home and abroad in these intervening years, the miracle is that there have been so few mistakes rather than that there have been none.

	I was always taught that it is far better for a man or a party to spend their strength in great exertions on behalf of worthy aims. It is far better to strive for those aims and to get bruised up a bit in the process than it is to sit safe in the grandstand and shout criticism at those who are doing the work. By what right do these grandstand Republicans, of all people, find fault with the Democratic record? What have they done--these leaders done--for their country that entitled them to sit in judgment over us? What have they done except to throw pop bottles and to throw mud at the men who are really carrying on the fight to make democracy work in these past twenty years. Not everyone, as some of you well know, who cries, "Lord! Lord!" shall enter into the kingdom of heaven.

	We have all been taught that it is not given to mortal man to know the whole truth or to foresee the whole future. And any man, or any party, that speaks to the contrary is either a faker or he is worse. But it is given to all of us to decide with what sort of heart we shall seek the truth and how we shall face what is unknown in the future.

	By that test the Democratic party has served this country well for twenty years. We have approached the work of our era with hearts that are humane and, I think, humble. Where there was hate in the land we have brought brotherhood. Where there was despair we have brought hope. And where there was fear we have brought courage. Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman speak for the spirit of the Democratic party. We never ran from a fight in our internal or external affairs. We tracked down the enemy in his stronghold, whether it was the depression, whether it was Hitlerism, or whether it was Communism. And we have beaten these enemies one by one.

	Right now, not we, but the Communists, are stalemated. They are meeting in Moscow to try to figure out what to do next. And, make no mistake about it--our policy of resistance--of firm, implacable resistance--is working. Resistance in Korea has forced the Communists to abandon the tactic of armed aggression, which might otherwise by now have plunged the whole world into war. The building of strength in the free world has set Communists everywhere back on their heels. The Communist party in Italy is in serious trouble, and so it is in France. Just the other day, as some of you may have overlooked, in the vitally important Japanese elections, not a single Communist was elected to the Japanese legislature.

	Now, this is all good news--but it could change--and we must face it frankly--any moment. But I have never believed that war is inevitable. I know that the steady development of our present policy of collective security will reduce the chance of war, just as I fear that the initiation of the policies of weakness and of isolation, favored by the Republican Old Guard, will increase the chance of war. I don't think that depressions are inevitable either--or floods, or poverty, or hunger. All of these things can be controlled by men who have both the will and the foresight to take reasonable precautions against them. You know from your own bitter experience here in St. Joe, that when nature is allowed to take its course the results can be ruinous. The same thing is often true in the economic world.

	In the Republican party you face a set of men who seem incapable of grasping what it is that causes droughts and depressions and floods and inflation in the economic world. They seem incapable of understanding what sort of measures are needed to keep the economy on an even keel. It is true that they have a plan for everybody, but the plan might well keep you awake nights. Especially should this be true of you here in St. Joe where you depend so much on agriculture. The Republican platform on this subject reads, as you know--it says this: "We favor a farm program aimed at full parity prices for all farm products in the market place."

	Now it's all very well to aim at parity prices but everyone knows that there is a difference between aiming and hitting the target. The General of the Army may aim all he wants at the ninety percent parity target, but I think I should warn him that the Republicans in Congress have had several shots at that target in the past several years and they have missed every time.

	Perhaps I should warn him too that Senator Taft, the greatest living authority on what the General is really going to do, said recently in an interview that he--and I quote him--he believes that "General Eisenhower will be for a flexible farm support program after the present two-year agreement for ninety percent parity is over." So apparently even the General's aiming time is very limited.

	The writers of the Democratic farm plank had a much easier time. They didn't have to aim at anything, or talk about farm prices, "in the market place" whatever that may mean. They have said simply and clearly, so that no one could have any doubts, that, "We will continue to protect the producers of basic agricultural commodities under the terms of a mandatory price support program at not less than ninety percent of parity." And, lest any of you have any doubts as to where I stand, I stand on the Democratic platform. I need not remind you that the Democratic party has kept its pledges in the past. What interests me more is the record of Democratic achievement which will be continued, with your help, after November.

	Missouri farm ownership increased by fifteen percent in the last two decades. Rural electrification has brought electricity to 150,000 Missouri farms. New hospitals have been built. Home ownership has gone up to the highest peak ever. Your purchasing power, your investments, your savings--all have increased.

	There is a great deal of work still to be done. We have had our setbacks. You have had one here in St. Joe in that disastrous flood. Wars, even when we win them, have always been disastrous national setbacks. But even here, we are learning bit by bit how we can avoid them just as we have already learned how we can avoid floods.

	But a president can't do all of these things by himself. He must have the support of Congress and that's why I am glad that you in Missouri have a chance this year to send Mr. Welch to Congress, and also Stuart Symington to the Senate 

	[A voice says, Mr. Richardson to the Congress.]

	Oh, Mr. Richardson. I apologize, Mr. Richardson. I sometimes forget which congressional district I am in. And also Stuart Symington to the Senate. You should be glad too, because there are few men in America better qualified by experience and by character for a constructive role in the Senate in these arduous days. He will make a Senator of whom you can be proud. And I hope that--now I have gotten to the point in my script that I have overlooked--I hope you will also send Robert Richardson, another excellent candidate, to the House of Representatives.

	St. Joe was once, as we all know, a wagon and a supply depot for the thousands of people who passed this way on their way to California to conquer the western frontier. So must we all make our hearts a wagon and a supply depot for the long journey ahead of us to a life of peace and prosperity, which is the ultimate goal of all mankind. It isn't an easy goal. It is a goal that has defied our efforts from the dawn of time. It has never been attained in human history, but it is the only worthy goal--and, it is the goal, if I may say so, of the Democratic party, because the Democratic party believes in peace; it believes in mankind; it believes in you and me; it believes that we were made in the image of God. 

	We had over in Illinois long ago, you know, a wonderful old man. His name was Peter Cartwright. He was a pioneer carpetbag, saddlebag preacher who came up from Kentucky in the early days at a time when Illinois was admitted to the Union. And he used to preach the Gospel across the frontier in tireless fashion. In 1860, when he was an old, old man he was invited to come to Springfield to the annual convention of the Democratic party and to make a little speech. He spoke, I think, for about two hours and forty minutes. And when he concluded, he concluded with some words like these, that have always amused me, and I think will amuse you: He said, "My friends, for forty long years I have carried the Word of God; I have preached the Gospel at the remotest cabin on the frontier; I have traversed these endless forests and these trackless prairies; ten thousand nights I have slept upon the grass with nothing over my head but the sky. I have done it in the heat of summer and in the deathly cold of winter. I have forded the streams, and all these years, with all the courage and strength and all the power that is within me I have fought the devil, the flesh, sin--and all of the other enemies of the Democratic party.
AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTS     - Ó, Í, É, Á,
 ´, ¯, ª,  , ˜, –, –, ‹,	 p 	 K 	 " e: