Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1002.002SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/02STUMPJERSEY CITYNEW JERSEYNJCAMPAIGN PICNIC1832 WORDS
	Four years ago, I had the honor of helping dedicate an outstanding public housing development here in Jersey City--Montgomery Gardens. Before coming here today I read over what I said at that time.

	When I looked over my remarks of four years ago I felt I had misled you. I warned you that the Republicans would be against public housing. But I didn't warn you enough. They were worse than I expected. If I had warned you, as I should, you would have thought me an extremist. And the Republicans would have called me a "prophet of gloom and doom," and maybe something worse.

	If I had told you four years ago that General Eisenhower, if elected, would put the government's housing program in charge of an overt enemy of public housing in the Congress, you would have doubted me. And yet, that is just what President Eisenhower did.

	If I had told you that President Eisenhower would do far less for public housing than the late Senator Taft, you would have suspected me of exaggeration. And yet, President Eisenhower's proposals have been only one-fourth as large as Senator Taft thought was essential.

	You know the shortcoming in the public housing program is one of the few failures of the Eisenhower Administration that isn't blamed on someone besides the President. I guess the President really worked on this failure himself.

	Four years ago you might not have believed me if I had predicted that the amount of new public housing under Republicans would be only half as much as was built in the three preceding Democratic years. That has proved to be the case.

	Housing brings out a very marked characteristic of the President and the present administration. That is the contrast between words and deeds. The words are wonderful. And the deeds are missing.

	During the 1952 campaign, Candidate Eisenhower spoke with great compassion about the plight of those who live in the squalor and degradation of slums. I am sure he was sincere. I am equally sure that he did not at that time realize that what he was endorsing was what a great many of his Republican leaders had long condemned as what they called "socialistic" nonsense.

	Even after the election, Mr. Eisenhower kept alive--briefly, at least--the hope that he could lead his forces in a new direction. Shortly after his inauguration, he made a very fine speech. He called it a "moral obligation" to clear our cities of their slums. But then, the time for words came to an end, and the time for deeds began. And there were no deeds.

	Senator Taft, as I recall, proposed 135,000 public housing units a year. President Eisenhower proposed only 35,000 units. But even that was too much for the Republicans in Congress. Eighty-four percent of them voted against this program, and succeeded in killing it outright. And next day, Mr. Eisenhower told reporters he had no quarrel with the action of the Congress. He said he assumed the opponents of public housing were "voting their consciences."

	And that is what we have seen repeatedly ever since--Republican politicians loudly acclaiming their leader and cynically ignoring his leadership, without protest from the President. But talk is no substitute for action. We have had all too much of this failure to back up words with action.

	During the last campaign--in September 1952 in Los Angeles--the Republican presidential candidate spoke of the vital need for schools. He told of the 1.7 million children who soon would be without proper school facilities. He seemed very serious about it.

	But after he was in office, the school problem lost its urgency. Candidate Eisenhower spoke decisively in the campaign of an immediate school need. President Eisenhower decided that the whole school question deserved "further study." This is the Republican way of doing nothing. And for two long years the administration did nothing. While thousands of American children went to school in firetraps, while hundreds of underpaid teachers tried to cope with overcrowded classrooms of restless boys and girls, the Eisenhower administration "studied" the school crisis.

	Then in 1955, after the Democrats had regained control of Congress, the administration produced what it called a school program. Mostly it told states and cities how to borrow money. It was so feeble that no one can say with certainty that it would have built a single school. But this I can say: it would certainly have helped the bond brokers. This result is not altogether surprising, since the administration admitted that in drafting the bill, it had consulted with bond brokers "more extensively" than with school experts. In fact, one leading educational organization said that the Eisenhower school bill was "written with the tone of a mortgage banker lending money to a pauper."

	We had another school bill this year. It was a lot better. And the Republicans in Congress killed that one, too. One hundred and nineteen Republican congressmen voted against it--and then the next day the President said how sorry he was. Well, why didn't he say so earlier--when it counted--and why didn't he push for that school bill the way he did for a huge tax reduction for corporations?

	Decent shelter and decent education are important to all Americans. They aren't the only matters on which the President has talked but not acted, where he has preached but not led. Let me remind you of his position on the immigration laws.

	On this question, Mr. Eisenhower spoke very plainly in 1952. In this very state, where so many feel so strongly about the subject, he said: "The McCarran Immigration Law must be rewritten. A better law must be written that will strike an intelligent, unbigoted balance between the immigration welfare of America and the prayerful hopes of the unhappy and oppressed." Republican orators said things like this because they thought it would appeal to the people of Polish, Italian, Greek, Portuguese and Spanish descent in this state and to their friends and neighbors. They said it to get votes. Yet for nearly four years, the administration failed to propose to the Congress a single change in the McCarran Act. There was no sign of action of any kind until this election year.

	And while the administration was doing nothing to change the immigration laws, it was also stalling on the admission of the 214,000 refugees from tyranny for whom Congress had specifically provided in 1953. Today, thousands of persons, many of them refugees from Communist tyranny, look to America as a place where they might begin a new life of freedom. To them, America now turns a suspicious and unwelcoming face. To change this face, to erase the bigotry and discrimination from our immigration laws, is one of the urgent duties that faces the New America.

	Words--empty words--have nowhere been so damaging and nowhere so cruel as in the Republican discussion of foreign policy. Those of Polish and Eastern European origin will remember particularly how the Republican orators--how Secretary of State Dulles--talked about "liberation" four years ago. This talk of liberation also had only one purpose. It was to win votes from the gullible by creating hopes of rescuing friends and relatives who lived behind the Iron Curtain. And they know now how cynical and empty that talk was. Instead of liberating anyone, four years later half of Indochina is gone and Soviet influence is spreading even in the political and economic field.

	We are tired of Republican checks written during election campaigns that bounce when we take them to the bank; and this leap-year liberalism of the Republicans isn't good enough. 

	Why do these things happen?--Why are there words without action wherever human interests are at stake? The answer is as it has been for generations--the idea that the historic function of the Republican party is to represent the economic and social philosophy of the well-to-do and the privileged, of the big corporations, the big interests, those who are strong and actually need protection the least. This administration has performed that function well. The Eisenhower cabinet is composed of men of wealth and position.

	But, as we have seen repeatedly, even the leadership of this President, such as it is, of this Cabinet and this administration has been rejected time and again by the radical obstructionists and reactionaries who make up so much of the Republican party in the Congress and therefore of the Republican leadership in the country. In short, what these years of Republican rule have demonstrated again is that the Republican party is not a fit instrument to govern a nation that wants to make progress for the benefit of ordinary people, for the benefit of Joe Smith.

	The provision of schools, the clearing of slums, the development of a health program--these are not serious interests of this Republican party and the administration. On these matters the elephant worries about the people at four year intervals.

	We have had enough of this.

	We Americans are called to great tasks, both at home and abroad.

	We Democrats welcome these tasks. We do not seek to evade them with words. 

	We welcome the challenge to clear slums and give our people housing that is fit for Americans.

	We welcome the chance to build schools worthy of the citizens of tomorrow.

	We welcome the chance to move together toward a new time when all Americans, regardless of race or color, are alike in opportunity and dignity.

	We look forward to bringing better health to those who now suffer from preventable disease.

	We look forward to providing a better life for our older citizens. 

	We look forward to ending farm distress. And let me say to you people here in Jersey City--where few politicians talk about farm problems--that the troubles of our farm people under the Republicans are real and serious.

	We are prepared to face the challenge of a constructive foreign policy--one that will win us friends and win us peace.

	These challenges--the challenges of justice, of equality and of peace--can be met. They can be met with firm leadership. They can be met by a party with a heart as well as a head, a party that cares about people. They can be met by men and women who do not fear new ideas and new solutions.

	We have had enough of smugness and stagnation. The time has come to resume our onward march. The Democratic tide is rising across America. And Democratic success will mean far more than victory in November--it will mean a nation vigorous and united in its determination to found a New America on justice, freedom, and faith.
DISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALEDUCATION--FACILITIESHOUSING, LOW-INCOMEIMMIGRATIONURBAN AFFAIRS/AID     7* * ý) ù) ñ)
 ä) ß) Ú) Ï) Å) Ã) ´) ª)	 a 	 D 	 / 	  	  e: