Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1016.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/16STUMPBOSTONMASSACHUSETTSMATHE FIGHT FOR AMERICA'S FUTURE2,000 WORDS

	In a little more than three weeks, we'll elect a new president and vice president of the United States.

	And these three weeks will be three of the most important weeks in American history.

	The Republicans want to put you to sleep.  They're already celebrating; they're popping champagne corks in their penthouses.  But I've got news for them; we're going to be the ones celebrating on Election Night.

	Because we're in a fight for America's future, and you'd better believe I'm not going to walk away from that fight--and I'm not going to walk away from the commitments of a lifetime.

	I started this campaign 18 months ago as an underdog; and I enter the last three weeks of this campaign as an underdog; fighting for the values I believe in, the values that are at the core of this campaign.

	I learned my American values in our public schools; I learned them in military service; I learned them in public service.  But most of all I learned from my mother and father--immigrants who came to these shores without much money, but with a deep and abiding faith in the American dream.

	They taught me always to keep fighting for what I believe, and to fight harder than ever when the going gets tough.

	And they taught me that the real tests of character and commitment are not the easy questions you're asked in public; but the tough questions you're asked in private; where the easy thing to do is to go along to get along.

	I've been in public life for a quarter of a century--and I've been there when the tough decisions are made.  I know there are times when the three most important words a governor, a vice president--or a president--must say are: "This is wrong."

	I may not express my feelings as eloquently as some.  But does anyone doubt what I would have said if I was in the room when they made those decisions to sell arms to the Ayatollah, to put Noriega on the payroll, to veto civil rights and women's rights, or to choose people like Dan Quayle, Ed Meese, James Watt, and Robert Bork.

	I would have said three simple words, "This is wrong."  That's the test of leadership; that's the test of passion and principle; and that's the issue in this election.

	These aren't issues of right and left; these are issues of right and wrong.  And they are the measure of the character and the commitment and the values of a candidate for the presidency of the United States.

	I want to be president of the United States not because it's the next rung on the ladder but because it's the way to act on my values.  And I mean the commitments of a lifetime, not labels and buzzwords that score well in the polls.

	Because I believe in the spirit of America.

	I believe in the spirit that says we're all in this together; that regardless of who we are or where we come from or how much money we have or the color of our skin--each of us counts.

	I believe in the spirit that says, we won't settle for second place or second best; that America must meet new challenges and conquer new frontiers.

	I believe in an America that's in command of its destiny and takes charge of its future--because that's what this election's all about.

	George Bush sat on the sidelines for eight years while America got beaten in world markets, while they mortgaged our children's future to a mountain of debt; and a piece of America was being sold off every day at bargain basement prices.

	Mr. Bush says everything's fine; not to worry; this is as good as it gets.  He talks about "a thousand points of light"; he talks about "a kinder, gentler nation;" he even talks about being "haunted" by the lives of children in the inner city.

	But his record sends a very different message.  His record tells our industrial heartland: "Let it rust."  His record tells rural America:  "The fewer family farmers, the better."  His record tells the people in our inner cities:  "We can't see you; we can't hear you; stay where you are."  His record tells middle class families:  "The glory days are over.  Your kids may not do as well as you did."

	I believe in America too much to settle for any of that.

	I want to get America moving again; and bring everyone along--because I understand that America moves forward fastest when everyone moves forward together.

	And I believe in the value of work.

	I've worked every day as Governor to provide the citizens of our state with good jobs at good wages; jobs you can support a family on; jobs you can build a future on.  The cynics say that's just a slogan; but ask someone who needs a job, and ask a single mother who's struggling to support her family on poverty wages.

	And I say it's time that every job provided basic health insurance.  That's what we're doing in this state; and that's what we're going to do for America.

	George Bush says he believes in the dignity of work.  But Mr. Bush saw nothing, said nothing, and did nothing while his Republican colleagues in the Congress used every trick in the book to keep the minimum wage a poverty wage.  And he thinks providing health insurance for working families is "socialized medicine"--the same thing he called Medicare twenty-five years ago.

	Ask Mr. Bush if he can look a woman in the eye who scrubs floors for a living to support her family on $3.35-an-hour.  Ask him what he'd tell a steelworker who lost his health insurance when he lost his job and has to deliver pizzas for a living.  Ask him what he'd say to senior citizens about the vote he cast in the Senate to cut Social Security.  Ask him if that's what he means by "a kinder, gentler nation."

	I believe America must keep its promise to all our people who work hard, live within the law, pay our nation's taxes, and fight our nation's wars.

	I want to be the president who stands up and fights for your right to decent health care.

	I want to be the president who stands up and fights so that young families can have the opportunity to buy a home.

	I'm going to be the president who stands up and fights for college opportunity for every young person in this country who's qualified to do college work--not just the children of the wealthy but every young man and woman.

	And if anyone asks you what's at stake, tell them to remember the only new idea Mr. Bush has offered in this campaign--a five year, $40 billion tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent of the people.

	While the rest of us get a new savings plan worth twenty bucks.  That's a new definition of old-fashioned Republican "trickle down."

	That's why I'm taking this campaign tomorrow to America's industrial heartland; and that's why we're going to win this campaign with the votes of Americans from all fifty states who want a president who's on their side and shares their values.

	Because I believe in liberty and justice for all.

	George Bush says he wants a court full of Borks.  And, if he says Robert Bork is a symbol of why you should vote for him, I say he's a symbol of why we cannot give George Bush four years to remake America in his image.

	The Senate rejected Mr. Bork--and the American people rejected him--because he had opposed civil rights; because he had opposed voting rights; and because he doesn't believe American citizens have the right to privacy.  And we rejected Robert Bork because we didn't want America to re-fight old battles and reopen old wounds and revisit old injustices.

	I believe in responsibility.

	I believe America's leaders must strive to do the right thing; but we must admit it--and correct it--when we do the wrong thing.  Because accountability is the essence of democracy.

	I've taken responsibility for my mistakes.  But Mr. Bush takes responsibility for nothing.

	When they racked up the largest deficits in history, Mr. Bush blamed Congress.  When the American people began raising questions about the prospect of Dan Quayle being a heartbeat away from the presidency, Mr. Bush blamed the press.

	When they sold arms to the Ayatollah, he went to 17 meetings where it was discussed--but he said he wasn't in the loop.  When they put Noriega on the payroll, "The New York Times" knew he was selling drugs, NBC knew, the CIA knew, and the National Security Council knew,--but George Bush said he didn't know.

	How can Mr. Bush be a leader when he's never in the loop?  How can we trust his values when he sees nothing, says nothing and does nothing?  How can we make him the man in the Oval Office when, for the past eight years, he's been the man who wasn't there?

	I believe in high standards; I picked Lloyd Bentsen.  George Bush picked Dan Quayle.

	And I'm going to set high standards for the men and women who serve in my Administration.  I'm going to set standards of public service; not self-service.  And I'm going to slam shut the revolving door between the White House and those lobbying firms that represent special interests and foreign interests.

	We're going to set high standards for teachers and students.  We're going to ask our young people to spend less time watching TV and more time doing their homework; to say no to drugs and yes to education.

	But how can Mr. Bush set high standards for America when he won't set high standards for the people around him.  How can he ask young people to study hard--and give us Dan Quayle; how can he ask people to respect the law--and condone Ed Meese; how can he ask us to cherish the environment--and praise James Watt?

	I believe in giving our children and grandchildren a better world. 

	Mr. Bush was a charter member of the environmental wrecking crew that almost destroyed the EPA.  I want to protect the people, and protect our air and water and forests and beaches and all of the wonderful natural environment God gave us--not as a gift but as something we hold in trust for the future.

	Two weeks ago, I met with several families in California who live near the Stringfellow Acid Pits.  I met a little boy named Donald White, ten years old, who suffers from recurrent brain tumors, and who is legally blind as a result of the toxic waste.  I met with the family of Charite Baca, who has trouble breathing and whose younger brother Mark suffers from seizures.

	I want to be president because I want to make sure that tragedies like that never happen again in America.

	And I care about our children--all our children.

	When one out of every five children are poor, including almost half of all black children and 40 percent of all Hispanic children; when 12 million children grow up in families without a dime's worth of health insurance; and when 40 percent of the homeless are families with children--it's not a time for complacency; it's a time for action.

	We Americans are an optimistic people, a restless people, a people who have always moved forward, determined to meet the challenges of change.

	With your help, we're going to wage this fight; with your help, we're going to win this election; with your help, we're going to conquer the next frontier.

	Because the best America is not behind us.

	The best America is yet to come.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--DECISION SKILLSCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEIRAN--IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIRMINIMUM WAGEPOVERTYSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSTOXIC WASTE     R, , , , ,
 , ü+ ÷+ ñ+ ä+ â+ Ä+ ¹+	 © 	 ‰ 	 k 	 P 	 8 	 , 	 % 	  e: