Speeches\1980\rep\S80R1002.002SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)10/02STUMPCHICAGOILLINOISILSenior Citizens Rally1389 WORDS
	Jimmy Carter's biggest domestic failure has been his total inability to control inflation. In 1976, inflation averaged 4.8 percent and he promised to reduce it to 4 percent. Today, it is three times that great--nearly 15 percent--and increasing rapidly. The producers price index--an indicator of what is to come--has shot up 20 percent the last two months. Prime interest rates are up to 14 percent again and today's credit crunch stands to get even worse.

	These are not mere numbers--they are an American tragedy. Inflation is eroding the very spirit of both the worker struggling to make a living while earning the minimum wage, and the senior citizen living on a fixed income, because inflation destroys the value of the dollars all of us earn.

	No American would long tolerate robberies in his neighborhood going unchecked and unpunished. Why is it, then, that this administration utterly refuses to take any effective step to control inflation--which just as surely robs each American? In fact, inflation has robbed all of us of more money than all the robberies that ever took place.

	Mr. Carter's response is that inflation is a complex problem, and that he's doing the best he can. That's just the problem. His best hasn't been good enough.

	The Carter campaign theme has been "Nobody can do the job, so you might as well re-elect us."

	I believe a new administration can do the job. I believe we can control inflation. And I can promise you this: we will not accept double-digit inflation as a permanent way of life.

	But look at what will happen if Mr. Carter is re-elected, and if inflation continues at the pace of the past two years.

	If your rent is now $250 a month, it will be $404 in 1984.

	If your electricity bill is now $32 a month, it will be $52 in 1984.

	If a visit to the doctor costs $62 today, it will cost more than $100 four years from now.

	Can you imagine the struggle you'll face with these drastically higher prices--especially if you live on a fixed income? I think this kind of inflation is intolerable, and we'll work--immediately--to end it in a Reagan administration.

	You probably noticed I haven't discussed food prices yet. If you've been to the grocery store recently--and who hasn't?--you've paid sharply higher prices. In fact, food prices in August increased at the unconscionable rate of 31 percent. If they keep up this pace, four years from now a $1.99 TV dinner would cost nearly $6. A 69 cent loaf of bread would cost more than $2. And your Thanksgiving turkey could well cost more than $40.

	Ask yourself: can we afford four more years of Jimmy Carter?

	Let the record show that this administration has presided over the highest peacetime inflation rate in history, a loss of two million jobs this year alone, a doubling of taxes from 1976 to 1981, a climb in home mortgage interest rates to 16 percent, and a nearly unprecedented decline in our respect throughout the world, and our ability to preserve the peace.

	This is a record impossible to defend, and this administration is not even trying to defend it. Instead, they've adopted the stealth theory of campaigning. They try to make their own record invisible, and then bombard their opponents with accusations, whether true or not.

	Perhaps the most irresponsible charge is that a new administration would undermine the social security system. The attack is not only inaccurate, it's not credible. It's only a smoke screen to hide the fact that this president, with his high inflation and low growth policies, has done more to damage the integrity of the social security system than any president in recent history.

	With inflation running at nearly 15 percent, your social security benefits are worth less and less. Even your cost of living raises are of little comfort in the face of ever higher inflation in the future.

	With eight million people out of work, too few people are paying into the social security Trust Fund. That means future benefits may be jeopardized unless we put America back to work.

	And now the President has proposed funding social security essentially out of general revenues, without sufficient assurances that your benefits will be protected in the future. That he took this clearly politically motivated step without evident concern or compassion for America's senior citizens is perhaps this administration's worst breach of the trust you offered him in 1976.

	There are also proposals being discussed in Washington to tax your social security benefits. As president, I will oppose, and--if necessary--veto any such attempt. You paid an income tax on the money you put into social security. You shouldn't have to pay again when it's returned to you.

	Let me tell you where I stand: I will defend the integrity of the social security system, a system absolutely indispensable to the retirement security of thirty million or more Americans today, and to millions more Americans in the future. And I will make sure that benefits are adjusted to reflect the cost of living. In a Reagan administration, we will make certain that no senior citizen will ever miss a social security payment.

	And then there is the question of Medicare. I know how vital Medicare is to senior citizens facing medical and hospital costs far out of proportion to their resources. I will work to strengthen Medicare--to make it more responsive to your needs--and to tighten its administration so that more of the funds can be used to help those in need.

	But instead of working to provide funding for these and other essential programs, the President and the Democratic-led Congress have been playing political games. For the past two days, we have been treated to the sad spectacle of Democrats rushing through emergency, stopgap laws to keep the government running while they leave town today for a campaign holiday.

	Essentially, the Democratic leadership, in conjunction with the White House, has held off discussions on the real budget so they can hide the awful truth from the American people: once again, they cannot balance the budget. And they aren't even coming close.

	Why are they engaging in this cynical charade? Simply because their re-election is, apparently, more important than running the necessary affairs of government. And the better they hide their record, the more they can try to mislead the people about their accomplishments.

	You know what the policies of this president and this Congress have done to you and your family, no matter how much the Democratic leadership tries to obscure their record. They are deliberately putting campaign above country in an effort to win votes. This practice must end, and soon, for the sake of social security, of Medicare, and of all of government's essential services.

	There is only one person in America with the power to solve these problems this week--Jimmy Carter. Either he should act like a real president should, and demand that Congress stay in session to produce a real budget, or he should confess to the country something many people have suspected all along: that he is unwilling to exercise the leadership necessary to get our economy moving again.

	In closing, perhaps you will forgive me if I take a minute to mention something Nancy has been doing. She is the nation's most ardent supporter of the Foster Grandparents Program. As many of you probably know, this program brings together those younger people who need help and love and attention, and those older people who love kids and want to help them. It is a great example of our senior citizens making a really important contribution to the well-being of our society. If any of you have taken part as a Foster Grandparent, you know how rewarding it is. If you haven't--I recommend it to you.

	And I have one more recommendation--if you've been discouraged by the economic suffering you've had to endure these past four years, don't give up hope. I am convinced we can control inflation, we can preserve the integrity of social security, and we can make Medicare work well for Americans.

	Beginning next January 20, we will start working immediately to achieve these goals.

	 
FOSTER CAREMEDICAREVOLUNTEERISM--SENIOR CITIZENSINFLATIONSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITY     ¡  ç  á  É  y 
 o  j  e  ^  V  T  ?  5 	 W 	 L 	 D  '     e: