Speeches\1968\rep\S68R1022.003SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/22STUMPDAYTONOHIOOHDAYTON RALLY2621 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Governor Rhodes, the next senator from the state of Ohio, Bill Saxbe, and my colleagues from the House of Representatives, and I want you to give them all a hand, to Bud Brown, Charles Whalen and Don Lukens. How about a hand for them.

	You know, I want to say right at the outset that one thing that our bearded boys in the back will learn, the difference between a Humphrey meeting and a Nixon meeting, in a Nixon meeting the cheers drown out the hecklers.

	My friends, I recall in 1960 a meeting right in this same place. It was one of the great turning points as far as Ohio was concerned. Some of you were here. You remember it was raining. It was a great crowd, not as big as this, but that crowd that came out in the rain convinced the national press that we were going to carry Ohio. And, my friends, what I see here today means that because of what you got in Dayton, this is a signal we are going to carry Ohio and carry America in this year 1968.

	And the reason we are going to carry America first is because out across through this land I see every place what I see here today. I see Republicans, I see Democrats, I see Independents, but most of all I see thousands of young people. The young people are with us this year. And the reason that the young people are with us this year is that the young people do not want to go back. They do not want to stay where they are. They want to go forward into a new policy in the future. And as I stand here I am proud to be going forward with men like our candidate for the United States Senate, Bill Saxbe. Send him down there. We need him. And with these splendid congressmen that you have, send them back. We need them.

	If we want to go forward, remember, it takes a team. And we've got the big team, the big kind of a team that is going in there and win. We are going to win like Ohio State has been winning. That's what we are going to do.

	My friends, I tell you also that the choice in this year 1968 is a clearer choice than we had in 1960--a clear choice because it is between one man who looks backward and another man who looks forward. It's between one man, and you know his record, who helped to make the policies of the past four years. Let me tell you why the young America wants Nixon, why they do not want Humphrey. Because young America says, we cannot afford four more years of Hubert Humphrey in Washington, D.C. And young America and older Americans as well recognize what the choice is. A man who says that he is satisfied with the last four years. And let me tell you what the answer of the American people is. It rings out across this land of ours. The answer is that when we look over those four years we find that America hasn't had a moment of peace abroad, we find that all over the world America in terms of foreign policy is worse off than it was eight years ago. We find that here at home that America hasn't had a moment of peace at home. We find our great cities torn about by riots and by crime. We find taxes going up, we find crime going up, we find that as far as respect for the United States of America, it goes down. And so the American people look at that record and they look at the man who says four more years.

	And I will tell you what our answer is. This is the home, my friends, as you all know, of the cash register and the American people, after they hear what Hubert Humphrey has to say, the American people are ringing up on the national cash register, no sale on November 5th. No sale. My friends, let me tell you, the American people are going to ring up no sale not only because they are against the policies of the past, but because the new policies of the future. And I am going to say in these last two weeks of the campaign, we are going to sock it to them all over this country. We are going to sock it to them because young America needs a better future than a policy that has brought no peace abroad.

	I pledge a new foreign policy that will end the war that we are in and that will prevent future Vietnams, and that's what young America wants and what young America stands for.

	I pledge a policy that after Vietnam we will have a volunteer armed services. Get rid of the draft. And that's what young America wants. I pledge a policy that will restore respect for America. I pledge to you that in our administration the American flag is not going to be a doormat for anybody at home or abroad, and that's what young America wants.

	I pledge to you a policy that will see to it that in the years ahead, we will negotiate for peace, negotiate from strength all over the world. And I am proud to have been part of an administration that ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's what young America wants, and that's what we are going to provide.

	And now, my friends, at home we had just as serious a problem, because if we are going to keep the peace abroad, America must prove that it can keep the peace at home. And here the choice is also clear.

	Look at America. I was talking to Governor Scranton just a few days ago. He had taken a trip to Europe for me, and, you know he told me something very disturbing. He said that respect for America in London, in Paris, in all the great cities of Europe, was the lowest in history. And I said, "Why?" And he said not just because of foreign policy, but more, because on the European television screen, night after night, they see pictures of America. Oh, it isn't a true picture, not a picture of the great majority of good Americans, but pictures of Americans rioting on the campuses, pictures of Americans breaking the law, pictures of Americans killing each other and hating each other. I say we are going to change that. We are going to re-establish respect for law and order and justice in the United States of America.

	My friends, we are going to start right at the top. The men at the top must set the example, and here we have a definite choice between the two candidates.

	On the one side a man who two years ago made the statement that if he had happened to have lived in one of our slums he might have led a revolt.

	Well, my friends, let me make one thing very clear. I believe in the right of dissent, I believe in the right of people to come out and shout as they do at this meeting. But, my friends, I say that in a country that provides as our great country does for a method to peacefully change what you don't like, there is no cause that justifies rioting or breaking the law in the United States of America. That isn't all.

	The man who is the vice-presidential candidate on the other ticket a few days ago stood and grinned while three scofflaws burned their draft cards. Now, my friends, we can disagree with the draft, we can dislike the draft, we can protest about the draft, but we should not say, as he did, that as far as an individual who does that, who breaks the law, that he is going to be willing to pay the penalty, that we have no disagreement with him.

	My friends, let me make one thing clear. This is a nation of laws, and as Abraham Lincoln has said, no one is above the law, no one is below the law, and we are going to enforce the law and Americans should remember that if we are going to have law and order.

	My friends, in order to re-establish that respect for law and order, we will do it with justice, with a new attorney general who will not downgrade the great threat of organized crime. Under my direction we are going to wage an all-out war against narcotic peddlers, we are going to wage an all-out war against crime in this country, and we are going to win it.

	And let me tell you one reason that all of you will appreciate. A recent poll showed that 43 percent of all the American people today in this great free country are afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night. I say let us make America free from fear again, and we will do it. Give us your chance, give us your vote give us your help.

	But that's only a beginning, my friends. We go then to the greater opportunities that we want for all Americans. As Jim Rhodes, your great governor, has said over and over again in Ohio, we are going to establish his principle at the national level. Rather than more millions on welfare rolls, we are going to put more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. That is what Americans want.

	That is why I stand for a program over the next four years that will create 15 million new jobs in America in private industry so that Americans can move from welfare to payrolls. And that is why we are also going to do something else. We are going to provide the means, my friends, whereby those on the payrolls of America, when they get an increase in pay, it will be a real increase.

	And now I am going to ask all the people in this great audience to listen for a moment to one singular point. Over the past three years the worker in the family will say that he has had an increase, maybe $11 a week, maybe $14 a week more. Then you go talk to his wife and she will say, "Oh, no, we haven't had an increase."

	You know what's happened? The budget keeper, the wives of America, of the working men, have $2 a week less than they had in the last--in the first year of this administration. American labor has been on a treadmill. They have been falling behind and I say it's time to stop the rise in prices and stop the rise in taxes and with your help we will do that, with new management of our policies in Washington, D.C.

	And think also of the older people, my friends. I am sure you have talked to them. You have seen the heartbreak, as older people that have saved their money all their lives trying to eke out a living on Social Security. And then they have seen their prices go up 20 percent over the last eight years. And that's why I stand for a program not only of extending Social Security, but I say social security should go up automatically if prices go up in America. Let's protect the older people in this country.

	My friends, that is not all. You are going to vote for--young Americans, old Americans--for a new policy in all directions. Today the exciting news has just come over the wire. The Apollo crew landed safely, and it all started right here in Dayton, as you know, with the Wright Brothers.

	My friends, as you also know, Mr. Webb, when he resigned as the Space Director, indicated that even with this achievement, the United States was second in space. I pledge to you an all-out effort to make America first in space all over the world. We are going to do it. Give us that chance.

	I pledge to you the new leadership that will not only provide jobs but the opportunity for all Americans to move up, to have a chance to go as high as their talents will take them, to have the best education that this nation can provide, and to move up to become owners and managers in this great country of ours. Bridges to Human Dignity, that's what we need.

	Rather than talking in terms of what government is going to do for people, we talk in these terms. Government should and will care for generously the aged and those in need. But for those who are able to help themselves, let's give them a chance, let's give them a chance to earn their own way. Because, remember, America is a great country not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years. And that is the way to greatness.

	Now, my friends, I think you can see from these brief comments on the differences between the candidates the choice that you have on November 5th. It is a clear choice. One, a man of the past. One, a man who says, "Elect me and we will continue for four more years the policies of failure"--failed to bring peace abroad, failed to bring peace at home--and we would have in the next four years doubling of the crime rate if we continue those policies.

	And then on the other hand, my friends, we have a man, and I lay before you our policy, a policy not looking to the past but the man of the future, a man who says we will not tolerate a foreign policy that has failed, in which America bears almost the sole burden of defending freedom around the world. It's time that other nations in the free world bore their fair share of the defense of freedom, and I pledge that kind of a foreign policy to the American people.

	I pledge a policy where instead of resigning ourselves to the rise in crime, we will restore in this country respect for law and order and justice. And with your help we will do that. And I pledge a policy in which Americans will have jobs, real jobs, with real increases in their income and not have their income eaten up by taxes and inflation.

	And a policy in which every young American can be proud of this country, proud not only because it is big, proud not only because it is productive, but proud because America is a good country. Because, remember, my friends, this is not a good country for any of us to live in unless it's a good country for all of us to live in. We have got to make a breakthrough, my friends. We have got to get off dead center.

	And so I say the choice is clear. We cannot afford to go forward with the men of the past and the policies of the past. It's time to move into the future. And with your help we will move.

	Let me put it quite bluntly to you. During the past four years we have seen a long night for the American spirit. And, my friends, it's time to let in the sun, it's time for a new dawn, it's time for a new day for the U.S.A. Let's go.
CIVIL DISORDERCOST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITY     .6 ˙5 Ù5 5 Ê5
 ›5 ÿ5 ”5 Õ5 …5 «5 ª5 ±5	 û 	 ê 	 Ç 	 t 	 U 	 5 	  	  e: