Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1020.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/20RADIOILGWU RADIO PROGRAM1,382 WORDS

	A few days from now you will perform one of your most important duties as an American citizen.  You will help choose your next president.

	You must decide:  What kind of president and vice president do I want?  Who can I trust to lead this country for the next four years?

	In this campaign, my Republican opponent has made two decisions which speak directly to the crucial issue of trust between the people and the president.

	First, he decided who should be his vice presidential running mate.  He said this would be his most important decision, and I agree.

	I picked the best man I could find in the Democratic party--Ed Muskie of Maine.

	Mr. Nixon picked Spiro T. Agnew--the man who will stand a heartbeat away from the presidency in the nuclear age.

	Mr. Nixon then made a second decision which reflects on the basic issue of trust between the people and the president.  He decided to say nothing else on any crucial issue for the rest of the campaign.  He has stayed in the shadows, stayed off the issues, and relied instead on a massive advertising campaign--staged TV shows, balloons and confetti.

	This is no way to run for the presidency.  The people, to trust you, have to know where you stand.

	You know where I stand on all the issues--on Vietnam, on civil peace, on human rights--Medicare, Social Security, education, cities, poverty, tax reform.  You know where I stand, because I have spoken out on the issues.  I addressed the nation on the crucial problem of order and justice in our society.

	Every American has the right to life--to live in safety--free from coercion, threat or violence.  The first obligation of government is to provide for the safety of every American in his home or neighborhood.

	To achieve civil peace and civil justice, I have proposed a detailed blueprint on crime control which would--with strong federal backing--help combat crime, lawlessness, violence and riots.

	Your president and your federal government can give your state and local officials desperately needed help in the battle against crime.

	When I am president, they will get this help.  I intend to take the offensive against crime.  We will help improve local police salaries, education, training and equipment.  We will help the courts reduce the backlog of cases.  We will pass legislation directed against guerrilla and vigilante groups, if the present tide of violence continues.  As president I will provide special training for National Guard Units in riot control, teamwork and planning.  And we will turn back crime and violence without endangering traditional American liberties or freedom.

	What of Mr. Nixon's crime proposals?

	In speech after speech, Mr. Nixon has played upon the fears and the emotions of the people.

	With much ceremony, he released a statement on crime containing four so-called "major" recommendations.  Three of those recommendations were already part of the government's crime fighting program.

	The fourth suggested a series of nationwide town-hall talks.  But we have had too much talk already on crime, and not enough action.

	On action and specific programs for crime control--as on so many other problems--Mr. Nixon remains Richard the Silent.

	What is the Nixon-Republican record on prosperity and economic growth.

	When the Nixon Republicans were through running the country in 1960:  three job-killing recessions in eight years; two million more people out of work than in 1952; unemployment at almost 7 percent; savings down by $4 billion; wasted production capacity running over $50 billion a year; Nixon Republicans seem determined to repeat these mistakes.

	A Nixon economic advisor just a few weeks ago, said Republicans are willing to accept a higher rate of unemployment than Democrats.

	Senator Muskie and I categorically reject such a cynical Nixon Republican economic philosophy.

	Humphrey-Muskie Democrats believe in solid paychecks--92 consecutive months of sustained economic growth, high wages , high profits, 10 million new jobs created in eight years, disposable income after taxes up by $187 billion, unemployment down under 4 percent--the lowest unemployment rate in fifteen years.

	Some of you are too young to remember when Republican presidents ran this country's economy into the ground.

	Some of you have never had to search without hope and without help for a job that isn't there.

	Many of you may not remember what it was to have a president and government in Washington hostile to labor unions and collective bargaining.

	Ask your mothers or fathers.  Ask your older brother or sister.  They will tell you how the Democratic Party stood with the American worker when no one else would.  That strong alliance exists to this day, we must strengthen it with your help and your vote.

	Nixon Republicans have voted against every measure to help the average workingman for thirty-five years, from being against the Wagner Act to being for Taft-Hartley, a bill which Mr. Nixon himself helped write.

	Nixon Republicans have been against laws to promote full employment.

	Nixon Republicans have been against most improvements in minimum wage.

	Nixon Republicans have been against Medicare.

	Nixon Republicans have been against every program to help the poor, the cities, and minorities.

	Nixon Republicans have been against federal aid to schools and colleges.

	A Humphrey-Muskie administration will stand for good programs and not against them.

	We will bring back safety to every neighborhood and community.

	We will work for an excellent education for every child from age four through college, a 50 percent increase in social security benefits, and improvements in Medicare.

	We will look toward tax reform and an end to poverty and urban blight.

	We shall stand for conservation of open lands and parks, and the restoration of rivers, and an end to pollution.

	And we shall seek a more equitable draft system.

	We must, and we will, find a prompt and honorable solution to the Vietnam conflict.  As president, I would move toward a complete de-Americanization of the war.  I would sit down with the leaders of South Vietnam to set a specific timetable by which American forces could be systemically reduced while South Vietnam forces took over more and more of the burden.  With an internationally supervised cease-fire, and supervised withdrawal of all foreign forces from Vietnam, there could be free elections including all those willing to follow peaceful process.

	My record on stopping the spiraling arms race is also clear.  I helped establish the first U.S. Arms Controls Agency.  I led the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty through the Senate.

	As president I would press for immediate ratification of the treaty to stop the further spread of nuclear weapons.  As president I would continue intensive efforts to cut back on the arms and missile race.

	I would take the dividends of peace and invest them in the works of peace and human renewal across the United States.

	Richard Nixon has never worked for peace in his entire public career.  He has never told the people what he would do to achieve peace in Vietnam.  Would he negotiate?  Would he escalate?  When and how?

	Nixon denounced the original proposal which led to a halt in atomic bomb tests in the atmosphere.  He called it "catastrophic nonsense" and a "cruel hoax".

	He helped stall recent efforts to approve the historic treaty which would stop the spread of nuclear weapons.  He has always been lukewarm to arms control proposals.

	And so the question arises--the question of life and death--is this the man to make the awesome decisions of the atomic and hydrogen age?  Is this the man who would devote his whole being toward peace?

	With John Kennedy, "I believe in human dignity as the source of national purpose, human liberty as the source of national action, the human heart as the source of national compassion, and the human mind as the source of invention and our ideas."

	You can trust me to seek peace.

	You can trust me to insure the protection of your life and property.

	You can trust me to help you share in our prosperity.

	You can trust me to lead this nation toward a New Day.

	I ask for your vote on November 5th.


ECONOMY--GENERALNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)VIETNAM WARWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITSCRIME--GENERAL     ! ê  ä  à  Ø 
 Ì  Ç  Â  Â  Â  Â  ¯  ¤ 	 { 	 k 	 < 	 1   e: