Speeches\1968\rep\S68r1017.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/17STUMPJOHNSTOWNPENNSYLVANIAPAJOHNSTOWN PENNSYLVANIA RALLY, CAMBRIA COUNTY WAR MEMORIAL4154 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, Governor Shafer, Governor Scranton, Congressman Saylor, my other colleagues from the Congress, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and all of those in this great audience here in Johnstown, the Chairman a moment ago referred to the fact that there had been a flood in Johnstown in 1889 and one in 1936. I have news for you. There is going to be another one in 1968. It's a flood of votes that's going to help us carry Pennsylvania.

	And before I comment on some of the matters that I know are of great interest to you, I want to pay a tribute to this city, to pay a tribute to it first from a campaigner who has been all over this country, has heard many musical organizations as they have welcomed us to the various towns and cities which we visited, and I must say that when I heard the band on my left and the one on my right and the one in the back, I think Johnstown tops them all. Let's give them a hand. I just wish I could take them all along for the rest of the campaign, because this great spirit that you have produced is something that we are deeply grateful for.

	And, too, I am aware of the fact that as I stand here I am in a city which for five straight years has the best record in terms of law enforcement and in terms of the crime rate, the low crime rate. I congratulate this all-American city for that.

	And I am also aware of the fact that Johnstown is the first city in the nation in which you have a partnership program with your state government under the leadership of Ray Shafer, a partnership program for the development of this city and particularly for dealing with the problems that we call urban problems, in the exciting new ways that we must develop if we are going to handle them.

	And as I told Governor Shafer and as I say to the mayor of this city, as I see here in this state what has been done here, as I see what is done in this city, you give us a pattern that we can carry to America. So that reason, too, is another one I am glad to be here in Johnstown.

	And while I am here to speak, of course, in behalf of my own candidacy, I want you to know that I am very proud to be here in the presence of others who are running for office. I stand proudly with all the members running on my ticket in this area. And, of course, particularly for your own Johnstown congressman, John Saylor. He doesn't need my help, but I want you to know that tomorrow night I am going to be making a national radio broadcast on natural resources and conservation, and the man whose advice I depend upon, I think the prime expert in the whole Congress in that field, is John Taylor, the congressman from the state, from this city and this state.

	And his other colleagues that we stood here with a moment ago, I know your affection also for them.

	And while I am speaking of that Congress and that Senate, let me tell you, when you elect a president, remember, he needs a team in the Senate, he needs a team in the House, and we need Dick Schweiker in the United States Senate.

	And now, my friends, having spoken of the need for the team, and you have already heard some indications from Governor Shafer and others with regard to this campaign, let me give you a report on it, let me give you a feel of the country and let me tell you why it is that in this particular district, in this city and in this state, there is the power right in this room to change the results in this state and in America.

	I want to tell you why this is so important, and as I give you this report, I want you to know that this is a different kind of a campaign than any I have ever seen in my many years of campaigning, twenty-one years, as a matter of fact, all across this land. Oh, I have seen big crowds before, I have seen great numbers of Republicans out cheering a Republican candidate. But, my friends, what we see this year is something different, different in many senses.

	You see part of it here today. I have never seen so many young people out. Look at the young people. Listen to them. And I want you to know, young America is on the march. Young America wants new leadership and new vision and new communication, and we are going to provide that for young America, because we know that's what you are going to vote for.

	And then a second factor is this. I have seen, as I have pointed out, many meetings in which Republicans are there cheering a Republican candidate. But never have I seen so many Democrats and Independents out. Let me tell you about the last three days. In Florida two days ago I was introduced by a congressman, a good friend of John Saylor's and mine, who came to the Congress twenty years ago, and that congressman who has voted the Democratic ticket for thirty-five years this year is voting the Nixon-Agnew ticket because we need new leadership for America, a Democrat in the state of Florida.

	Two days ago Senator Frank Lausche of Ohio, a Democrat, endorsed the Nixon-Agnew ticket in the state of Ohio. And then in the state of California Senator Hugh Burns, the President of the California State Senate, who for forty years had never before supported a Republican candidate, endorsed the Nixon-Agnew ticket.

	This shows you what is happening. My friends, what it means is this, that young America is on the march, and that Americans not just because of partisan considerations, Americans of--whether they are Republican or Democratic or Independents recognize that this is a different year. This is a year when we have to think of the country and not just of our party. This is the year when America must look to the record of the past and see whether we want that record continued, and as we look at that record, we conclude certainly that we need the change that we can provide in Washington, D.C.

	And then there is one other thing that leads me to talk optimistically today. You know, one way you feel you are doing well is to watch what your opposition is doing. When they start to attack personally, when they start to name call, when they start to panic, when they start to hit below the belt, you can be sure that they figure they are going to lose and we are going to win, and they certainly are right in that respect. I am not going to respond in kind.

	I have the greatest sympathy for Mr. Humphrey. I know he has a number of problems. You know, we were a little late getting in here to the airport today, and we passed his plane on the way. At least I thought it was his plane. He was just going around in circles, just like that, all over.

	But, my friends, the great issue before the American people, the reason that young America, the reason that Democrats and Independents, the reason that Americans in unprecedented numbers are calling for new leadership is that they know the choice. And the choice is between continuing for four more years what we have had for the last four years or a new direction, a new vision, a new purpose at home and abroad.

	Time will not permit an extended discussion of those great problems in which you are all interested, but, my friends, I say to you, look at America today, look at our problems at home and abroad, and then determine in your own mind, apart from your partisan affiliation, shall we continue or shall we go forward. And I believe we must go forward, because as we look over those past four years, we have not had peace abroad in those four years.

	And, not only that, as Governor Scranton reported to me when he came back from Europe, never has prestige and respect for America been lower in Europe, and I can also report in every area of the world, than it is today. I will put it more directly. When we look around the world today, there is not one area of the world where the cause of peace is not worse off, where the danger of war is not greater, than it was eight years ago when Dwight Eisenhower left office.

	And, my friends, I say that means we need new leadership. We need new leadership not only to deal with the war in Vietnam, if it is the responsibility--and I hope it is not--to have to bring that war to an honorable conclusion, but new leadership to prevent more Vietnams so that the young men in this band and the young men in this nation and in this audience will not have to be fighting four, five years hence. I have pledged that kind of leadership, but I want to indicate to you today in discussing that leadership the directions that it will take.

	And one reference only to the war in Vietnam. I am sure you have noted in my public statements, you have noted that I have pointed out time and again that at the time that the President of the United States has the responsibility and is trying to negotiate in Paris for an honorable end to the war, that we should give him every chance to bring that war to a conclusion before this election and before his term ends, and that certainly no candidate for president and certainly I will not make any statement that might pull the rug out from under him and that might destroy the chance to bring the war to a conclusion.

	And that is why with regard to a bombing pause I say today what I have said previously. If a bombing pause can be agreed to in Vietnam, if a bombing pause can be agreed to, one which will not endanger American lives, and one which will increase the chances for bringing a peaceful and honorable solution to the war, then we are for it. And the one man who can make that determination is the President of the United States. Let's let him make that determination, and if he makes it we will support him because we want peace and we do not want to play politics with peace.

	My friends, on the broader subject, the subject beyond Vietnam, the subject of the future for all the young Americans in this audience and all of those who are thinking about those who will--may serve in our armed forces in the future, remember the trouble spots around the world. And I say we need a new foreign policy, a new foreign policy that will strengthen our alliances that have been allowed to fall into disarray, a new foreign policy that will be based on the fundamental principle that the United States is a rich country and a strong country and a populous country--but that for too long we have not only furnished most of the money and most of the arms, but most of the men, to help other nations defend their freedom. And when we look at the world today and we see that there are 200 million Americans and two billion people that live in the free world, I say it's time for a foreign policy in which other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world, rather than the United States bearing that.

	My friends, I pledge that kind of leadership, a policy of strength but one because of its strength that will allow us to negotiate the peace that we all want with those who might threaten the peace. And I pledge to you also the fact that I have some credentials. You must judge a man on his background. The way to peace is not easy. It has often been said and very truly that preserving the peace is more difficult than waging war, but I had a pretty good teacher. President Johnson has designated this as Dwight Eisenhower week in celebration of the seventy-eighth birthday of a distinguished Pennsylvania resident. I studied under him for eight years, and I am proud that I was part of an administration in which we ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's the kind of experience that I think America wants today.

	And here in this great city at home, this city of Johnstown, with your splendid record on law enforcement, it is only appropriate in passing to mention another problem. Governor Scranton also reported to me that one of the reasons that respect for America had fallen so low was that on the European television screen, day after day, flashed the scenes of crime and riot and disorder in the United States of America. And on the European mind flashes the image of a nation, the richest in the world, that can't even manage its own economy and preserve the value of its own money. And as they look at America this great and good country, and they see that, they say, well, if they can't handle their own affairs, how can we expect America to lead the way to peace abroad.

	And so I say to you today, my friends, that the ground that we stand on is the most important ground, if any ground is more important than another, because unless we can handle our own problems, we are not going to be able to produce the peace, the rule of law, that we want abroad.

	And so we look at these problems and we see over the past four years crime, not in Johnstown, but in the nation, going up nine times as fast as population. And we see over these past four years that the result of all that has been that a recent gallop poll pointed out that 43 percent of all the American people are afraid today to walk on the streets of the major cities at night.

	Now, here's your choice on that score. On the one hand a man, the Vice President, who says that he defends the policies of the past, who defends the record of the Attorney General, who pledges in effect more of the same.

	Well, here is my answer. I say to you that when we see what the facts are and when if the present policies continue, crime will double in this country in the next four years, we need a complete housecleaning, a new attorney general and new respect for law and order in this country, and I pledge that kind of respect.

	And on that score, one of the reasons that my proposal for a national clearing house of information with regard to law enforcement will be workable is shown right in this city. The lessons that you have applied need to be known nationally, and this is one of the assistance that this city can provide to the rest of the nation.

	And then we turn to other problems that America has at home, and I touch upon them also because in this audience are people who are concerned about those problems that we face daily, the family budget, the planning for our old age, for our security. And we wonder which administration is going to give us the best chance. Under which administration can we have the chance not only to stay where we are but to move ahead, to have a real increase in wages, to have an old age with security which we can depend upon and which we can invest in?

	And on that score, my friends, I say that this administration has struck out.

	Let me be quite specific. This is a great area of productivity in America, and I know that in this audience are many who are aware of what has happened with regard to that particular situation here and in America. But look at the wage earners. You go talk to them as you do your precinct work and you will find the wage earner in the family, the man, telling you, well, that he has had an increase of $14 a week--that's the average--over the last three years. And that looks pretty good. But before you take that as an answer, then I ask you to do something else. Go talk to the budget keeper, talk to his wife, and she will say, "I don't have $14 a week more for the groceries and for the school and for the other expenses."

	Actually, what she will tell you is that over the last three years because of increases in taxes and increases in prices that those who are wage earners in America have less money to spend than they had three years ago.

	My friends, I say that's wrong. I say that we need an administration that will stop the rise in prices and stop the rise in taxes so that Americans can balance the family budget again in this United States of ours. And then when you are making your survey, go into some of the homes of some of our retired people and here you will find the truly forgotten men and women of America. Twenty million of them over sixty-five years of age. Yes, they've got some Social Security, maybe a little life insurance, pension or savings, but over the past eight years, 20 percent of everything that they have had has been eaten away by the decrease in the value of the dollars that they saved. If somebody retired eight years ago, for example, and had a total value of $10,000, and that's the average in America, in Social Security, life insurance and savings, that is down to $8,000 today, and it means we forced to the wall many of our older people who have worked hard all their lives and who deserve better treatment, and I pledge to you an administration that will say to you that the dollars you earn today are worth a dollar when your retire five or ten or fifteen years in the future.

	My friends, going beyond that, let's look at the basic problem that we are all concerned about--not just keeping the peace abroad and maintaining it at home. These are basic essentials that any administration ought to be able to meet, and not just maintaining the value of our money. This is something that from the early days of our whole nation any administration has had the responsibility to meet. But, my friends, let's look at the exciting road to progress. How do we move to a better life? How do these young people in this audience, how can we say to them, "The days ahead will be better days"? Not only better jobs and better retirement, but better opportunity, opportunity not just to be a worker, but if you have the talent to be a manager, to be an owner, to go up.

	And my answer is it can be done, but not on the road we have been. And I want to tell you what that road is. For four years we have poured billions of dollars into federal government programs, for federal jobs and federal welfare and federal housing. And what's been the result? We have reaped a harvest of frustration and failure and riot, and now Mr. Humphrey says, "Four more years, but we will spend more." He was our most expensive senator, and now he is going to be our most expensive president, and we can't afford four years of Hubert Humphrey in the White House. It's just as simple as that.

	My friends, there is a better way and the better way, that when you are on the wrong road is to take a new road, a road that will recognize the role of government. Government provides for education and generously. Government provides for the aged and the needy, and government will take the responsibilities in the great fields in the development of our resources, natural and otherwise.

	But, my friends, when it comes to producing that great progress that we all want, remember that America is a great country not because of what government did but because of what people did. We've got to give people a chance and private enterprise a chance to move ahead and to move this country forward. That's what America wants. And that's why the exciting programs in this state, our own governors have initiated them, and you have seen them applied in this particular city of using tax credits and the state and city partnership. That's why we need to apply that at the federal level. That's why I say we need programs that instead of producing more millions on welfare rolls will put more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. That's the kind of program that we want. Rather than more millions for public housing, let's have the tax credits and other devices that will have the private housing built that people can own if they want, either in high rises or in single family residences. And let's have the opportunity for every American, regardless of his background, to become an owner and a manager. This is the exciting new road that we can take.

	But we can only take it with your help. Here is the choice. It is the clearest that we have had in my belief in this century. It's between one man who honestly believes in the old way, a man who supported the policies of the past four years, who helped to make them, and who now offers to the American people more of the same, more money for the problems and more money for the programs that have failed.

	And I say, my friends, we can't be led into the seventies by men that stumbled their way through the sixties. We have to go forward with new leadership, and we offer that new leadership, new leadership that will give us a new chance to live in the next quarter of a century in a world of peace, new leadership that will restore respect for law and justice in this country, and new leadership that will march America on a new road to progress.

	This is what this election is about, this is your chance. It's bigger than whether we are Republicans or Democrats or Independents. This involves the future of America and that is the tone, that is the spirit, in which I ask this audience to consider our votes today.

	And now one final thought. I said a moment ago that in this room, just right here and at the airport, where I saw thousands more and along the street, perhaps we are talking about 15,000 people that I have seen on this visit to Johnstown. Right here among those 15,000 is the power to change the result of this election, to determine whether we continue on the same old road or take a new road. And I want to tell you why. I am not just speaking of your 15,000 votes. We have less than three weeks to November 5th, but if each one of you who believes as I believe that America needs new leadership will make a personal commitment now that this is so important that you are going to take some time from each day in those three weeks to talk to a friend or neighbor, and if you would talk to ten people that are on the fence and win some of those ten, that could make the difference.

	I believe you can do it. I believe you will do it. I believe we are going to carry this county, I believe we can carry Pennsylvania. But, my friends, the time to start is now, and I believe that these issues are so great that you are going to march forth from this hall, carry the word to the people of this city and this county, and as you carry that word, that great flood of votes will certainly flood the present administration out of Washington and bring a new team in, and it will be better for America and for people throughout the world.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHOME OWNERSHIPPARTY AFFILIATIONPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALRETIREMENTSENIOR CITIZENSVIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME     µW ÅW {W wW mW
 dW _W ZW QW EW CW 
W  W 	 ° 	 ì 	 Ö 	 p 	 b 	 Q 	 : 	 0 	 ! 	  e: