Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0903.002SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/03STUMPMERRILLWISCONSINWI2,210 WORDS

	Let's give a big hand to your outstanding congressman, Dave Obey.  There are none better.

	And your outstanding governor, and my friend, Tony Earl.  Let's give Tony a big hand.  To the speaker and all the good Democrats down here--let's give them a big hand.  As the governor pointed out, we believe that Mondale and Ferraro got a bigger crowd in Merrill, Wisconsin, than Ronald Reagan got in the whole state of California today.

	And that's not all.  As you know, we're fellow Midwesterners.  I grew up just a few miles from here.  And Gerry, you may not know it, but this rain makes us grow--it produces Democrats.  And whether it's hail or rain or snow or clouds, it's all the same:  The Democrats are going to win in 1984.

	When I heard the other day that Reagan was going to kick his campaign off in Disneyland, I said, "What could be more American than that?"  And it immediately occurred to me, "That's Labor Day and Merrill, Wisconsin," and here we are.

	I'd like to just pack you up and take you with me here.

	Today the campaign for 1984 begins.  Dozens of issues will be discussed.  But before the confetti becomes a blizzard, I want to tell you what I believe this race is all about.  It comes down to this:  In this election, we will decide what kind of people we are.  And let me tell you what I mean.

	Today there are fifty-thousand nuclear warheads on this planet.  One false move and human history is over.  What kind of people are we?  Well, we're a strong country, and we defend our freedom.  But we're also a smart country that knows that those god-awful weapons must never go off.

	On November 6, pick a president who knows that.

	Mr. Reagan has a thing about arms control.  He is the first president since Hoover not to see his Soviet counterpart.  He is the first president of either party since the bomb went off never to have negotiated any arms control.  He opposed every agreement by Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford, and Carter--every one of them--to control nuclear armaments.  He has conducted an arms race on earth, and now he wants to extend it to the heavens.  Of course, the Soviets challenge us, but we must meet our adversaries on the common ground of survival.  John F. Kennedy said something that speaks to us today:  "We should never negotiate out of fear, but we should never fear to negotiate."

	History speaks to us today.  A generation ago, fallout from open-air testing was poisoning our air, our water, our food, and our children's milk.  President Kennedy broke the deadlock by declaring a moratorium on such tests, and challenged the Soviet Union to do the same.  They did, and within two months we had a treaty banning all atmospheric testing.  And because of that, our kids aren't getting cancer from strontium 90 anymore, and we're living in a safer world.

	As president, I will follow President Kennedy's example.  I will push for annual summit conferences with the Soviet Union.  I will work to negotiate a mutual and verifiable nuclear freeze.  And I will challenge the Soviets with arms control proposals to increase our security and protect our future.  That's one of the big issues that divides us and tests what the American people want.

	Today, our hopes for the future are pegged to long-term economic growth.  Growth means jobs.  It means a rising standard of living.  And it means our children will do a little bit better than we did.  But today all of that is threatened by the deficit.  Right now, there's an obscene trillion-dollar debt building upon our children's shoulders.  Farmers and businesses see it.  Farmers are having the worst recession since the deep Depression, and all of these smaller communities are suffering.  And we need a president who gets the deficit down, gets those interest rates down, restores American farm exports, strengthens those farm programs, and gives our farmers a chance to have a decent income and a future for themselves.

	Young families see the importance of that deficit because these mortgages are out of sight.  Workers see it because this deficit have killed 3 million of our best jobs.  The only one who doesn't see it is the president.  Well, what kind of a people are we?  I'll tell you what:  We're a tough people, and this is a tough country, and we're willing to see our problems as they are.  We're willing to look them in the face.  And we're a no-nonsense country that demands straight talk from our leaders.  We expect it, and we demand it.

	On November 6, elect a president who will level with you.  Mr. Reagan has piled up the worst deficit in world history and is running on a platform that would double it.  He's presiding over the worst trade year in American history, and running on a program that ignores it.  He has put farmers through the worst recession since the Great Depression, and is running on a platform that denies it.  Let's tell the truth about the future.  Whoever is elected, this budget must be squeezed, and revenues must be restored.  But the question is whether it will be done fairly.  The question is, "Who will pay?"  And here is exactly what my approach is, because it contrasts completely with Mr. Reagan's.

	In the Republican future, tax increases and program cuts will fall heaviest on working Americans of average means, just as they did before.  And I don't think that's the kind of people we are.  I refuse to make your family pay more so that millionaires can pay less.  And I refuse to cut Social Security and Medicare and student loans and things that people must have for a decent life, so that big corporations can pay nothing at all.

	What kind of people are we?  I have traveled this nation, I think, more than any living American.  And I've talked to hundreds of thousands of people in my career.  And if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that Americans are not selfish.  We are a fair-minded people.  But today we know we have an administration that attacks Social Security, took away the payments of the poorest on Social Security, denied student assistance to the dependents of widows, took money away from school lunches of hungry children, and every way they could tried to cut money that was absolutely essential for the least in American society who have just that between themselves and disaster.

	In my opinion, the American people do not believe in that.  Just this past week, there was a story in New York about how fifty-thousand disabled Americans had had their benefits terminated by a computer.  These people are the sad people in the twilight of life--crippled and destroyed physically and emotionally, often unable in any way to care for themselves.  And all they have is the hope that the rest of us care just a little bit about their dignity, care just a little bit that they might have enough just to have a minimum life for themselves.  Mr. Reagan and that administration refuses to restore those cuts, even though a federal court order has required them to do so.  Let us end this uncaring, icy indifference to human need in American society, and get a president who will stand up and lead us in a humane and a decent course in America again.

	Working people are being pounded.  The big boys have been picking your pocket to line their pockets.  Well, what kind of people are we?  I think we're a fair country that plays by the rules, and I believe Americans believed it when Lincoln said government ought to be of the people, and by the people, and for the people in this country.  On November 6, pick a president who knows that.  I don't believe a president should just serve all the people in his country club.  I believe a president should serve all the people in our country--and that's what I'll do.

	To the ninety-thousand corporations who paid no taxes at all, my message is:  Your free ride is over.  To the polluters who threaten our health, my message is this:  Clean up your act.  To the big companies who send their best jobs overseas, my message is this:  Keep those jobs here, in America, for Americans.  To the defense contractors that charge fifty bucks for a fifty-cent lightbulb, my message is this:  The rip-offs are over.

	What kind of people are we?  Well, we're the most religious people, unintimidated.  Because we practice our faith free from the intrusion of government.  When I grew up in Elmore, just as you've grown up in these communities around here, we didn't need government to tell us that we believed in our God.  We didn't need politicians to tell us how to pray.  We had our parents, we had our church, we had our synagogues, we had our communities, and we learned our faith, and we're proud of our faith.  And I think those who seek to inject government and the politicians into religion lack confidence in the wisdom and the decency and good sense of the American people.  They seem to be saying that the people can't be trusted.  They doubt the sturdiness of our faith.  They misjudge Americans and America.  I want a future where government watches out for you--and not over you.  I want a government operating on your side, opening doors of opportunity, not looking over your shoulder, imposing dictates of conformity.

	As we start the final drive of this campaign, I can't help but be reminded of the story about John F. Kennedy's last speech in his successful '60 campaign.  It was late at night--as a matter of fact, the next morning--and he had arrived very late.  His campaign had fallen behind that day.  People had waited for hours to see him.  When he finally arrived, he started by summing up Mr. Nixon's key campaign argument.  Mr. Nixon, he said, had gone all over the country, saying that we never had it so good, that our prosperity had never been greater at home, and that our prestige had never been higher abroad.  Mr. Nixon was saying, in effect, that Senator Kennedy, because he was focusing on the problems that Americans had to solve, was somehow gloomy and unpatriotic.  The way that Kennedy answered that charge that night is the answer I give today.  He said this:  "I run as a candidate for the presidency with the view that ours is a great country, but it must be greater."  And so it must.  And so it must.  We are not a reckless people; we're a strong people.  And we can be the country that breaks the old deadlock on nuclear weapons and leads the way toward a safer world.  We are a principled people.  And when we stand before the world, let us see America standing for human rights.  Let us see America using our food, and our people, and our young people and the Peace Corps, and emphasizing that, rather than the sale of guns, and the rest, around this world.  We are not a fragile people; we're a mature people.  We can be the country that demands the truth about our economic future, and does what's necessary to make us competitive again.  We're not a people who steal from our children.  We're a people who invest in our future.  We can be the country that bolsters its schools, supports its scientists, unleashes its entrepreneurs, strengthens its farmers and its rural economy, rebuilds our roads and our bridges and our water systems and our transportation systems, and rebuilds this country, and creates a future of excellence and jobs and prosperity, and opportunity for the next generation.

	We are not an unfair people; we're an honest, above-board people.  We can be the country that works hard, plays by the rules, but treats everyone fairly.  We are not a selfish people; we're a caring people.  We can be the country that reaches out to the dispossessed, and lifts them to the high ground of dignity.  We're not an intolerant people; we're a people of deep religious faith.  And we can be the country that rejects coercion in our personal lives, and rejoices in the freedom of our spirit.

	Those are the stakes in this election.  And before you make your final decision, I ask you to do exactly what you do when you approach the railroad tracks:  stop, look, and listen.  This is your choice. It's your country.  It's your future.  Let's go there together.  If you will help us, we're going to win it.  I understand that this community is the home of H. B. Kaltenborn.  Is that correct?  A great newsman, but he misjudged who won the election in 1948.  He said, "Tom Dewey won tonight."  Now, I loved H. B. Kaltenborn, but he was wrong.  And these pundits that say that we're going to lose--they're wrong.  The people know what's going on, and we're going to win it.  Let's go get 'em.  

	Thank you very, very much.  Thank you.

BUDGET DEFICITDISABLED PERSONSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGSEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE     2 ‚1 ‹1 ÿ1 –1
 ≈1 ¿1 ª1 ¥1 ´1 ©1 ©1 û1	 Æ 	 † 	 ê 	 f 	 2 	  e: