Speeches\1980\rep\S80R1003.003SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)10/03STUMPLYNCHBURGVIRGINIAVANational Religious Broadcasters Association1409 WORDS
	It is an honor to be able to share my thoughts with religious broadcasters who bring the message of Judeo-Christian values into the homes of tens of millions of Americans.

	As you know, I have had a little experience in the electronic media profession and know personally the problems broadcasters face. Also, I know the impact that radio and television can have. They reach directly into the homes of American families and the automobiles of commuters. Those who have the power to teach, to inform, and to influence the lives of American families in such an intimate way carry the burden of a great moral responsibility.

	You, the religious broadcasters of the United States, recognize this responsibility. The dynamic growth of religious broadcasting in recent years is a tribute to your professionalism as broadcasters. It is also a tribute to the Judeo-Christian values that inspire your professional skills.

	And because you are professionals, I know how much you respect and strongly support--as I do--the separation of church and state. This is one of our most important traditions, and it must continue to be protected in the future.

	But there is one area where religious broadcasters and those of us in political life can work hand-in-hand. Along with all Americans, we share the responsibility to work for peace.

	Your responsibility begins with the "peace the world cannot give," the peace of the spirit that comes only through religious values. It is the bedrock of true peace.

	The responsibility of those of us in public life is toward the peace of the world, the kind of peace that demands our readiness to protect and preserve it. Our work is linked to yours in a fundamental way.

	Today, I would like to discuss briefly with you how your work as religious broadcasters and the work of those of us in political life can help to bring about peace for our nation and the world.

	Throughout scripture we see reference to peacemakers--those who through their actions--not just their words--take the material of this imperfect world and, with hard work and God's help, fashion from that material peace for the world.

	I am convinced this understanding of how peace is gained must guide and inspire this nation in the years ahead.

	We have to stop thinking of peace as just the absence of war or violence. We have to stop thinking of peace as something that is given, as something that is somehow dependent on what others do. And we must be certain that we do not mistake an illusion of peace for genuine peace.

	We must realize that what we do--as workers, as members of families, as active and concerned citizens--helps to build peace. Peacemakers exist everywhere, not just in diplomacy or government. In every home, in every classroom, in every factory, on every farm, there is an opportunity to help build peace, if only we will recognize it.

	Peace in the world is built by our actions and our prayers, not once and for all, but over and over, each generation making its contribution. It is built by thoughtful action based on our shared values.

	And this is why your work is so essential. Through your skills and your influence you help to build peace, because you contribute to the four kinds of peace the world needs.

	First, there must be peace in the human heart. Religious broadcasters can do what no level of government can do to achieve this goal, for the mysteries of the human spirit can be understood only in the light of the values at the heart of your message. Each individual must strive toward that kind of peace the world cannot give. And insofar as you help this kind of inner peace to be achieved, you are contributing to the building of peace.

	Next, there must be peace in the home. American families know that the family structure is under attack from many sides. The message you bring of love and concern for others and of commitment to moral values helps families to sustain and spread those values in their communities.

	And, of course, those of us in political life can help in this effort by doing all we can to stop actions that destroy confidence and trust in our institutions. Government can aid family life by reducing unemployment that is now a tragedy in so many American homes, and government has a solemn obligation to halt the dangerous inflation that is ravaging our society.

	Then, of course, there must be peace in our nation. Again, this refers not only to a diminishing of crime or violence but to support of a view of America that reflects the essential optimism and faith and hope and love of the Judeo-Christian message. In many cases, your broadcasts reach a national audience and your message must address national concerns. That message must emphasize the values that we share rather than momentary questions that may divide us. You do not hesitate to defend those values, and this requires the courage of leadership. And a presidential administration must demonstrate its leadership of the nation, because it is only through the cooperation of all Americans that the kind of domestic peace we want can be achieved, a peace in which creativity and imagination and patriotism can flourish.

	And then there is peace in the world.

	It is the first task of statecraft to preserve peace. Our commitment to peace is fundamental and enduring, and it must remain at the center of our foreign policy. The peace we seek to build must be principled; it must rest on our great strength and our dedication to freedom. That is why I believe the peace we seek must be such that freedom can flourish and justice prevail.

	What is done in the State Department and the Defense Department and other parts of the executive branch matters for peace. What is said over the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty matters for peace. And what happens in the Commerce Department and the Labor Department and the Treasury Department matters for peace.

	If I am asked what one contribution my campaign has tried to make, my answer is that I have attempted, in all I do or say, to show that peace is built by everything we do--not just by our national security measures, but by governmental attitudes toward the needs of hard-working men and women who pay their taxes and pay their bills. Not just by our commitment to defense, but by our compassion toward the powerless, to the very young and the very old, to all those in need, to those for whom the works of mercy are a daily blessing.

	But, as you know, and as I have tried to emphasize today, government alone cannot make peace in the world. It takes every American family, in the daily duties we are called upon to perform, no matter where--on the job, in the home, at school--to do the work of peace.

	The message of religious broadcasters--indeed, your message as concerned citizens--must reflect the truth of our values, and, at the same time, meet the highest professional and artistic standards in order to compete with other messages that bombard the average family every day through electronic media. Your task is not an easy one. But it is a vital one. And this opportunity to spend some time with you today has been inspiring to me.

	A few weeks ago I had the honor of addressing a meeting of B'nai B'rith. In my remarks, I quoted a passage from the Psalms.

	It tells of the vision of the psalmist, a vision of a world where peace reigns.

May our garners be full,
affording every kind of store... 
May there be no breach in the walls,
no exile, no outcry in our streets.
Happy the people for whom things are thus... 

	That is the vision that you can bring to millions of Americans. It is the vision that will inspire the next administration. It is an ideal worth the energy and the dedication and the prayers of all Americans.

	With your help and prayers, and with God's blessing, we will build peace, we will make peace grow.

	In all we do we must truly be peacemakers, for ourselves and for our children, for our nation and for the world.
CHRISTIANITYMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESBROADCASTING, RELIGIOUSPACIFISM       æ à Ü Ò
 È Ã ¾ µ ­ « € v	 A 	 5     e: