Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1027.009SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/27TELEVISIONNEW YORKNEW YORKNYBROADCAST AMERICAN BROADCASTING COMPANY RADIO NETWORK 21665 WORDS

	In the four broadcasts in this series, I want to talk about some of the urgent problems our nation faces--about Korea and our struggle for peace in the world--about high prices and what we must do to make the family budget dollars go farther--about the real meaning of this election.

	Today, I want to talk to you about some of the human problems of our democracy--about making sure that children are well fed and well educated, that there are hospital beds for those who are sick, that there is dignity for the older people who have done a life's work, that slums and the breeding grounds of delinquency and crime are wiped out in our cities.

	We in the Democratic party have worked hard to meet these human problems for many years. I think the central characteristic of the Democratic party--the point that distinguishes us from the Republican leaders--is that we Democrats approach problems from the human standpoint--we seek the welfare of people--working people, poor people, men and women with white collar jobs, old people who want a secure retirement, young people who want a fair opportunity to get ahead--as well as the more fortunate among us.

	The whole philosophy of the Democratic party is that the purpose of government is to serve people--to do for them, as Lincoln said, what they cannot do for themselves. Let me put it another way--we believe in government with a heart.

	We Democrats have been working for the last twenty years to help meet human problems--and I am very proud of what has been done. It was only fifteen years ago that President Roosevelt spoke of seeing one-third of our nation ill-housed, ill-clad, ill-fed. If you are the mother of young children, you can remember your own childhood in those days Roosevelt spoke of--and you know how your own children today are better fed, better clothed, better housed than you were. What we want to do is to continue this progress, because the American dream of a good life for everyone is still distant.

	There are still many, many families who would have real trouble paying the rent bill if someone in the family had an expensive illness--many families who cannot afford the clothes and things their children need--many families, especially in the country, who do not have doctors and hospitals close by--many families who are denied equal opportunity for jobs or schooling because of the color of their skin or the country their parents came from.

	We have made great progress in overcoming these human problems. We can make more. The Democratic party, which has led the way in the past, will lead the way in the future.

	Let me tell you of some of the things that we think need doing.

	First, consider the question of education for our children. All over our country today our schools are unbearably overcrowded. To cope with the overflow, the school boards in some cities have been forced to have children attend classes for only half a day. And in some rural areas the school boards are being forced to reopen schoolhouses that are a century old and were abandoned long ago because they were firetraps or in danger of falling to pieces.

	Furthermore, school teachers are still underpaid in many, many parts of the country; you still hear frequent stories of young women leaving the job of teaching our children because they can make more money as stenographers in an office.

	I know something about these problems as a state governor. When I became governor of Illinois four years ago, I found that our school teachers were underpaid, our classrooms overcrowded, many of our school buildings in ill repair. One of the first things I did was to ask the legislature to increase the state's contribution to common schools. Today the public schools in Illinois are in far better shape because we have nearly doubled the amount of state financial assistance and increased local revenue too. And I might add, we have not raised state taxes, either! We have not solved all our school problems in Illinois but we've made a start, a good start, if you don't mind my saying so, and we know where we're going.

	We most certainly do not want federal control of education in this country or anything like it. Teachers should be free to teach what they and their children's parents want them to teach. But to teach anything at all they've got to have schoolhouses and they've got to have competent teachers.

	Our democracy is built, really, on a single idea: The idea that intelligent educated free citizens can run their own government. And this in turn rests on another idea: That we are an intelligent educated people. Since the time of Thomas Jefferson we have recognized that in the long run the question whether America would fulfill her great promise would depend on how well America educated her children. And it is for this reason that anything less than the best in the way of education is not good enough in a democracy. I am, as you may know, strongly opposed to thrusting more and ever more responsibilities onto the federal government. In the long run you have to pay the bill just the same. And I think very strongly that the common schools should be managed and supported locally, at home, close to the pupils and their parents. But at the same time, if some local governments are unable to provide adequately for the education of the children, the federal government should help to the extent that it can without endangering our national solvency.

	A second area in which we need improvement is in our social security system. Social security has brought marvelous changes to our lives--providing retirement benefits to our older citizens, insurance checks to widows and young children, unemployment benefits to fathers who are temporarily out of work. Social security has changed the whole outlook of millions of our people who before had nothing to look forward to at the end of a working life but the poorhouse or moving in on their children. Social security has brought new independence and dignity to old age in the United States.

	Today we tend to take social security for granted; it has become a part of our lives. But I would remind you that it is only a few years since the Democratic party proposed and enacted the nation's first program of social security--and that at that time a Republican leader in Congress called it unconstitutional and in 1936 the Republican candidate for the presidency called social security a "cruel hoax" and campaigned for its repeal.

	Now we believe that social security should be extended to cover many workers who are not covered, and that benefit payments should be adjusted to the higher cost of living. The Republican record does not inspire confidence on these points.

	A third type of human problem on which more work is needed is health. I don't know if you have noticed, but there has been a remarkable program of hospital building going on these last several years. About 1,500 hospitals have gone up or are being built--all over the country--many of them in farming areas that have never had any hospital service before. These are local projects, started by local people, with the federal government helping to pay for the buildings but keeping no strings on the hospital once it is finished.

	But more hospitals will not solve all our health problems. There is a dangerous shortage of doctors and nurses, especially in small towns and rural areas. I think the federal government may have to help the medical schools turn out enough doctors and nurses.

	Then there is the problem of the cost of a severe illness, or a serious operation, which is often catastrophic for a family's budget. Too many Republican leaders simply say they are against socialized medicine and leave it at that. Well, I am against socialized medicine too, just as I could be against the socialization of my own profession, the law. But I think this is an area in which we should not throw up our hands helplessly, and we are all looking forward to the report of the President's Commission on the Health Needs of the Nation for guidance on what we can do. If we lay aside slogans and think about the real problem constructively and in good temper, I should think we could make real progress toward a solution of a vexatious problem which has, unfortunately, been much misunderstood and misrepresented. 

	I have spoken about a few of the problems we face in this country in education and social security. If I had time I could talk too about our problems of doing away with the terrible slums of our cities. I could talk about the problems of providing better guidance for our children, better parks and playgrounds and recreational facilities to help combat juvenile delinquency, problems which have interested me as a governor, a parent, and a citizen. These and many more problems are with us now, and are only another reason why I hope you will take an active interest in public affairs in your community, your state and your nation. Many of them are problems which local communities and states should take the lead in solving; some of them do not require any action by the federal government at all.

	But all of them are human problems that confront American families. And they will all be handled better if you have governments at home and in Washington that are concerned about the human problems that people face in their everyday lives.

	That is the kind of government you have had for twenty years under the Democratic party. That is the kind of government I think you want--and need--in the future.
EDUCATION--FACILITIESEDUCATION--GENERALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCESOCIAL SECURITYTEACHING PROFESSION--SALARIES     j& 6& 0& ,& $&
 & & &  & ø% ö% ¿% µ%	 n 	 Y 	 G 	 , 	  e: