Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0924.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/24STUMPPARKERSBURGWEST VIRGINIAWV1719 WORDS

	Well, my friends, I promise one thing, if you send down to Washington a bunch of Republicans of the stripe of these fighting West Virginians that you have got in this delegation there will be some clean up, and you got a governor here, the kind that can help you.  We need help, you know, everywhere.  We have got to have a Republican team, not just one or two men.  And that brings us to this point, the mess of which Senator Holt spoke.  You are not going to clean it up with a face-lifting job, you know.  They talk about refreshing down there.  Did you ever try to refreshen a bad egg?  
	
	When they get to talking about cutting a new front on this unholy mess, and remember it isn't us that said there was a mess first of all.  The Democrat nominee said that there was a mess in Washington and every Republican agrees with him.  But he would have you think that if you put a few new goods in the showcase that back in the warehouse the rotten goods will automatically become okay.  That is not so.  You have to change from front to back, from top to bottom if you are going to get rid of the things that this government has been doing to you.  Now what are they?

	Seven years ago the United States was the greatest military power on earth.  It has been for decades the greatest productive power, the richest and strongest in its industrial capacity, but it was also the strongest military power.  It was certainly in a position to lead all other countries of the world toward a peace, and toward a peaceful program that any other country could scarcely have resisted because of the great strength we then had.  What have we done?  Well, we got into an emergency in Greece and we had to send money, and the same in Turkey.  We got into a terrible thing in Berlin and the gallantry of our fliers, at the cost of a number of causalities, kept that outpost of democratic civilization in the heart of Europe.  We got into Korea after losing China.  All of that is the record of this government, and what it has done with the tremendous strength that 155 million Americans had produced.

	Then at home here we are supposed to be living in times of relative peace.  Now we are in a cold war and we are in a big war in Korea, but the government calls it a police action.  So when they gave us these expenditure programs they apparently expected us to carry them for some years.

	Just recently two departments of government had a quarrel about this.  One side said that we are getting along pretty well and that we have passed peak expenditures in our defense program.  And the Defense Department spoke up and said this is not so at all.  They said we haven't reached the peak.  In any event, we can still look forward, under the Democrat administration, to bigger budgets, bigger deficits and more taxes.  Here is a strange thing.  They say we are very prosperous: more people working, earning more money than ever before in our history; yet we can't meet our bills.  We can't pay our way.  What is going to happen?  With 12 billion dollars that we are incurring in expenses this year, we are not able to pay for them in spite of the highest income and the highest taxes we have ever had.

	This is reflected in our own living.  The Department of Labor announced just two weeks ago that in every city family in the United States, the average city family spent $400 more than that family earned just on shelter, food, clothing, the necessaries and conveniences of life and education during that period.  The ordinary family can't go along any further spending $400 a year more than it earns any more than the government can go ahead spending $12 billion dollars more than it earns.

	What is this great indebtedness doing to your savings, to your bonds, to your life insurance, to your savings account?  Well, I'll tell you; when the government has a 12 billion dollar deficit, what does it do?  Well, it prints some bonds.  Those bonds go to the banks and the banks then print more money.  You have more money, cheaper money and your prices go up and up and up.  You can now buy exactly 1/3 as much soft pine lumber for the same money you could buy 7 years ago in 1945.  That is one of the records of this administration.  "Well," you say, "I don't want to buy any soft pine lumber," but you are buying other things and that is just an example.

	As if all this weren't bad enough, concerning taxes, direct taxes, as if that weren't enough they are trying more and more to get in our business.  They send around inspectors to go into every little factory in the land.  They watch every farmer.  They want to give him the Brannan Plan and want to tell him what to plant and when to plant it, how much he ought to pay for feed and how much he ought to get for his products.  That is the kind of thing that is happening to you.  

	On top of that, after you have suffered all that, what are they doing?  They are cheating you.  They are not only cheapening your money and taking away your savings, but they are actually cheating.  The internal revenue tax collectors in Boston, St. Louis and San Francisco and 5 or 6 other places--some of them already jailed, thank goodness--have been enriching themselves with your tax money.  Let me point this out: in one case the existence of a crooked situation in this great collector office employing hundreds and hundreds of people to collect taxes, the existence of a crooked situation was pointed out in 1947.  It was 31/2 years later, at the insistence of Republican statesmen in Washington, pounding, pounding, pounding in order to get anything done and when convicted there wasn't any new evidence brought up.  They had the evidence all the time, and the same thing happened in San Francisco only not quite so long.
	
	I promise you this, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to charge me with this responsibility of the highest office in the land, if there is any evidence of crookedness it isn't going to take 31/2 years to get somebody behind the bars.

	I will tell you something more: we have heard coming out of Washington such cries as this, "We can't get good men to come to Washington to serve."  What rot!  Just bunk!  The Republican Party at least has got thousands of men and women ready to go down there and serve their country and do it.  Why?  To serve their fellow man, to serve their country like a soldier would serve it in war, like thousands here today have served, and do their job and not to go down there to get rich.

	By the way, I have got a book here that I have been reading all day long.  Do you know the title of it?  It is "How to get rich in Washington."  If you are slick enough, if you are greasy enough to know a bunch of cheap politicians and know how to collect 5% from and unsuspecting public, apparently you can get rich.  That is as far as I have gotten in the book.  But isn't it terrible that a book can be written and sold about our country, about our government.

	The only thing that I am pleading for, ladies and gentlemen, is this: you vote your own conscience, but vote so that you get the government you want, the government in which you are going to take pride, because the great privilege of the American citizen is to decide for himself the government he wants.  He judges governments on their records, men on their records, but he must help decide or he has not done his duty in getting the kind of country in which he can take pride--and if our American citizenry, 155 million of us, take pride in a government, ladies and gentlemen, it will be so respected abroad that it can lead us toward peace.  It can lead us toward the end of this Korea and the prevention of other Koreas, so that we do not have to live with the shadow of fear across all our doorsteps that our young sons or grandsons may be taken away to go in the armed services and across the seas.  It is high time that we got settled in a program of peace that will allow us to stay at home--and such a military force as we have to keep will be a disposable, flexible, powerful kind that can go to the help of our allies or those spots in the world where our interests are in danger, when we want to and not when somebody else makes us go.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, here is the one pledge that honest men can make about a future government; if you want to send a Republican Congress, a Senate and a House of Representatives and a Republican president to Washington they can promise to surround themselves with men who will keep honesty in government by preventing corruption from ever getting there.  They will have men of honor and integrity and prestige who will see to it that in all branches of government only honest people are employed.  They can and will and should promise you, as I do now, that every question will be approached from this one angle--what is good for the United States of America, not one branch of America, not one section, not just one state or one class or one group, but what is good for all of us.  What will prevent each of us from falling into disaster?  What will give the maximum of opportunity to each of us to better himself and his family and to live in accordance with the traditional American way, a free, proud citizen of the greatest country on Earth.
BUDGET DEFICITCOST OF LIVINGGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSREGULATION/DEREGULATIONTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     -% ù$ ó$ ï$ å$
 ×$ Ò$ Í$ Â$ µ$ ³$ ³$ ©$	 € 	 r 	 d 	 G 	 0 e: