Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0915.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/15STUMPPORTLANDMAINEMEEXCERPTS1849 WORDS

	An old Maine adage advises us never to talk unless we can improve on silence. And the only way a politician can improve on silence is to talk sense to the people.

	In New England, any other course is not only wrong--it is unlikely to work.

	New Englanders have always been experts at separating sense form nonsense.

	Your ancestors did it two centuries ago--when they turned aside the timid counsel of those who said that America should not fight for its freedom.

They did it again in 1861--when the men of Maine went off to war because they knew that it was nonsense to say that some human beings were more equal than others.

	And you did it again in the election of 1970--when you overwhelmingly repudiated an attempt to discredit a good and decent man, Ed Muskie.

	Indeed, n the closing hours of the 1970 campaign, it was Senator Muskie, speaking from Maine, who so eloquently brought the nation back to its political senses.

	So I have chosen this time and this place to discuss the latest outbreak of political nonsense--which has come, as we could have predicted, in the midst of the presidential campaign.

	Almost every day in recent weeks we have heard the charge that the Democratic party is radical and the Republican party is reasonable. But by any accepted definition of those words, the truth is just the opposite.

	If by radicalism we mean a sharp break with the essential principles of our free society, then the real radicals are the leaders of the Republican Party.

	It is a principle of our free society that the people shall determine their own destiny. Yet the Republican leadership has continued a war that they were elected to end four years ago. That is radical. What is reasonable is a decision to bring all our troops and all our prisoners home within ninety days--and that is the decision the next Democratic administration will make on Inauguration Day.

	It is a principle of our free society that government will not squander the people's hard-earned money. Yet the Republican leadership continues to pile arms upon arms, even though we already have twenty times what we need to destroy any enemy and deter every adversary. That is radical. What is reasonable is a military budget that spends the necessary billions for national security, but not one penny for waste.

	It is also a principle of our free society that those who can work should work, and only those who are unable to work should receive welfare. But the Republican leadership has stood by while six million Americans have become welfare cases. That is radical. What is reasonable is a guaranteed job opportunity as part of a plan to cut the welfare rolls by 30% in 1975.

	It is a principle of our free society that in a full employment economy public revenues should equal public expenditures. But largely because they did not even seek a full employment economy, the Republican leadership since 1969 has run up an $80 billion deficit--which is one fifth of the entire national debt since the age of George Washington. That is radical. What is reasonable is the commitment I have made and kept--to explain how we can pay for every program we propose.

	And it is a principle of our society that all our people should pay a fair share in taxes. But the Republican leadership has a secret plan for a national sales tax to take $200 more a year away from average families, without closing the tax loopholes of wealthy investors. That is radical. What is reasonable is a tax system where money made by money is taxed--the same as money earned by men.

	Finally, it is in the area of economic policy that the Republican leadership has been most truly radical. It was radical to deliberately un-employ millions of Americans in order to stop inflation.

	And after this heartless strategy succeeded in putting people out of work, but failed to hold prices in bounds, the administration made a radical shift.

	They moved from one extreme to the other--from an economy so unregulated that inflation became a way of life, to an economy so distorted by unjust controls that workers have been robbed of a decent standard of life.

	The current controls are radically unfair.

	While wage increases have been strictly limited, the Price Commission has been using a rubber stamp on most requests for higher prices. Out of five thousand price increase applications, the commission has turned down fewer than one in ten. In a single three month period, it approved $2 billion worth of rate increases of gas, telephone and electric companies. Every time you turn on a light or pick up a phone, you pay more to utilities which raised their profits by almost 12 percent last year.

	And even if the Price Commission followed its own regulations, prices could still climb to fantastic levels. If an incompetent management causes a company's operating costs to soar, it can legally raise prices. If a corporation maintains past price levels in a market where stiff competition gives it no other choice, it can legally impose substantial price increases in other markets that it controls. Why? Because the Price Commission sets a ceiling on the average of these companies' price increases, but not on price increases for individual products.

	It is as easy for most price increases to pas through the Price Commission as it is for water to run through a sieve.

	The current controls are also radically dishonest. The administration promised to stop inflation a year ago--just as it promised to stop inflation in 1969.

	And both promises have been broken.

	In the last three and a half years, the price of a pound of hamburger has skyrocketed by 30 percent.

	In the last year, prices across the board have increased 50 percent faster than the White House said they would.

	And what is the Republican response?

	They continue to insist that controls are working. Their theory seems to be saying this will make it so.

	But anyone who shops in a grocery store has known the truth all along. The difference now is that there is no longer any room for doubt.

	Yet I suspect that we will still hear rosy projections and ringing predictions from the White House. Bad months will still be explained away and good months will still be trumpeted.

	People cannot eat optimistic press releases. And we cannot accept an attack on inflation so inequitable, so unenforceable, and so unsuccessful that wholesale prices over the past three months have shot up faster than in any three month period since 1951.

	What the administration has done to the economy is radical. What they have said is even more radical. The men we have elected to lead us are instead misleading us. And official falsehoods deny a free society, because they betray the right of people to know and to decide the great issues.

	There is a reasonable answer to this Republican economic radicalism. It is the Democratic answer.

	I have said before that our highest economic priority is the lowest possible unemployment. There is nothing so costly and nothing as wasteful as unemployment. So I say here again today: whatever it takes, we will create a decent job opportunity for every man and woman in America who is able to work. 

	We will achieve full employment by stimulation of the private sector, by $10 billion worth of new government contracts with private industry, and by public service jobs for a million Americans who would otherwise be on welfare or the unemployment rolls.

	I do not agree with the administration that full employment is a myth. I believe it is a necessity.

	At the same time, I recognize that an effective policy to create jobs requires an effective attack on inflation.

	So today I am outlining the steps I would take as president to halt the inflationary spiral.

	The fair wage-price policy I am proposing can work only as part of an overall change in the economic direction of America. The policy must be linked to an all-out effort to achieve full employment. It would come into effect as the wasteful and highly inflationary Vietnam war comes to an end. And it would take its place in the anti-inflation arsenal along with a shift in budget priorities from inflationary military spending to more productive civilian purposes.

	An essentially voluntary guidelines policy of this kind is not possible in the context of Nixonomics. Indeed, inflation is once again on the rise as Republican economic failure becomes more apparent.

	Instead of emerging from a closed door meeting with a pre-packaged program to impose on business, labor, and consumers, I would ask them to lend me their expertise to shape the aims and details of a fair wage-price system. After all, the economy belongs to the people, not the government.

	First, we should set voluntary guidelines to restrain prices and not just wages. A promising beginning was made in working out effective wage-price guidelines under John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson--and much progress could have been made in the last three and a half years if Richard Nixon had not declared open season for wage and price increases.

	Second, we should set profit guidelines to more accurately reflect actual costs. This approach would reverse the current Price Commission practice of permitting firms to juggle their cost estimates so that they can increase their prices.

	Third, we should concentrate on those firms, markets and wage contracts which contribute the most to inflation.

	Fourth, we should establish a review board in the White House to advise the president and to marshal public opinion against excessive price and wage increases. The members of the review board would represent interests from outside the government--specifically, labor, business and consumers.

	Fifth, after the present controls lapse next April, we should provide the President with the power to reverse flagrant violations of the new guidelines. This power could be exercised only after full consultation with the review board.

	In addition, we should have a Department of Justice that enforces our antitrust laws with firmness and impartiality. We learned some months ago from a secret Federal Trade Commission report that firms which dominate the market have raised their prices far more than other firms. Now we must restore the free and fair competition that is the best defense against higher prices.

	We must put price stability ahead of special privilege and excess corporate profit.

	And we must stop telling only working people to ask what they can do for their country.

	Through the program I have outlined today, we can attain price stability not just in the forecasts of the government, but in the household budgets of the people of the United States. This is my objective. This is how I would attain it. On this, as on so many issues, I stand as the only candidate for president who has told the public what his program for the future is going to be. 
BUDGET DEFICITMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSSALES TAXUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWELFAREINFLATIONWAGE AND PRICE POLICY     o+ ;+ 5+ 1+ )+
 + + + + + + ü* ò*	 i 	 [ 	 C 	 : 	 %     e: