Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1008.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/08STUMPOAKLANDCALIFORNIACA1695 WORDS

	Governor Warren, ladies and gentlemen:  California has a reputation of saying to most other states, "Whatever you can do, we can do better."  At the size of this crowd today, I am not only forced to wonder but I believe possibly that saying has some real foundation in fact.

	I am proud to be associated in a crusade with the men who have just been introduced to you from this platform.  They and millions like them in this country believe that we have had in Washington some men who are too small for their jobs, too big for their britches and too long in power.  And we are determined to supplant them.  We intend to supplant them with a change in the political complexion of the United States Senate and the House of Representatives and throughout the executive departments.

	In introducing me just now, ladies and gentlemen, Governor Warren stated something which, in my heart, is a prayer.  He said, "This man can surely help us toward peace."  The most devout prayer in my heart, and I believe in the hearts of the American people, is that we may find some sure path through this swamp land of fear and doubt and indecision and expenditure and almost hysteria in which we live.

	Now, I am going to try to show you today a relationship between that ambition and the kind of decision that you people have to make in just four weeks.  On November 4, you must decide what kind of government and what government you are going to have for the next four years.  I believe there is a very definite relationship between the decision you will then make and register at the polls, and the success that we may have during the next four years in progressing constantly closer to the peaceful world for which we all hope and dream.

	The first essential to a peaceful world is a strong United States.  Now, I am not speaking of strength merely in terms of ships and planes and guns and tanks and regiments.  Far from it.  In the great power that the United States is today in the world, even in time of war, the armed services are nothing but the cutting edge of a great machine whose true power is found in 155 million Americans; their genius, their devotion, their patriotism, making use of our boundless resources and making us the most productive country on this earth.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, that true potential of all that strength in leading us toward peace can be realized only under one condition, and that is that all of us are united behind the great aspirations and purposes of the government.  That means, in turn, that we will unite, that we will be behind a government only if we respect it and trust it.

	Now, the bill of goods against any corruption in government, among tax collectors in the attorney general's office and all of the other places, does not find its true emphasis in the number of tax dollars it may take out of your pockets; not at all.  The true crime in dishonesty in government is robbing the hard-working American taxpayer of the one thing he deserves to have always; respect for his national government, trust in his national government; a belief, if you please, that that national government is operating with but one thought in mind:  what is good for the 155 million loyal people in America.  Now, this same consideration goes further into this question of peace.  The cornerstone of a peaceful structure in the world giving us assurance that the Communist atheistic doctrine cannot penetrate further into those areas of vital interest to ourselves is a strong United States.  If we don't respect our government; if we don't give it that loyal respect that it has earned from us by reason of its wisdom and its leadership then that government will not have the prestige abroad to lead us in the paths of peace.

	You see, just money and dollars will not buy allies.  They will not buy loyalty.  You get loyalty by reason of the intelligent, cooperative service; leadership that is born of a moral principle of right and wrong and is carried forward firmly in support of that moral principle.  If we then have a government that has destroyed our confidence by reason of any of its acts or any of its failures, we are not being adequately served in the world of peace.  Today our first and best chance of the kind of peace we need is to form among the nations of the world, those across the Atlantic and across the Pacific, a firm, cooperative, collective security.

	All of us must be bound together in an honest determination to stop Communism in its tracks.  And as we stop Communism in its tracks we hold out hope to those enslaved peoples of the world that they need not fear to keep alive the spirit of patriotism within their own countries; that they have friends outside that Iron Curtain who are ever-ready to shield them when they escape; to help them in any possible way in their efforts again to regain their own freedom.  In that way, not only will we contain Communism, but we will give Communism a terrible headache within its own borders, that headache that comes from the knowledge that each of these captive countries is trying to strain away from it, to pull away from Moscow, constantly exerting pressure and strain on the bonds that tie them to Moscow.  Then we will find freedom going up and up in the world, and the influence of Communism going down and down. 

	When we have gone that far in achieving our effort, achieving our objective, we will begin to see costs coming down.  I am not talking about the costs that must be immediately eliminated, those that come from duplication, waste and extravagance in government.  I am talking about the kind of expenditures that now must be made to keep adequate national security, those that can begin to come down when we have made progress in the world toward this peaceful settlement, when Communism is no longer riding the crest of a wave but gets down in the trough.  There is where it belongs.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, of course involved in this whole question is that of Korea.  Korea itself seems to have no immediately, tidy, neat answer that represents at one and the same time for the United States an honorable cessation of the war and still protection of the interests of the free world against further encroachment.  But throughout the world the United States has been trying to man defensive lines by helping the people living along those lines to defend themselves.  Every proud people, including the South Koreans, would rather defend themselves than to have troops from abroad doing it.  The South Koreans have announced time and again, "Give us the arms and we will do the job."  Only within the week, the Korean ambassador to the United States said, "Give us guns; save your sons."  The first thing to do, therefore, is to push all existing programs--programs which have been started--arming, equipping, organizing the South Koreans to hold their own front lines.  Let them have the pride that a free nation ought to have and let us not be shedding our blood in areas where it is someone else's pride and responsibility to take over the job. 

	Now, before I leave this question, ladies and gentlemen, we know this:  the real struggle in the world, the struggle between a religious civilization and an atheistic civilization, is one of ideas and doctrines.  So tonight in San Francisco I am going to devote my entire time to ways and means of winning this Cold War, of winning the war of ideas.  My own belief with respect to Korea is that if we should exploit to the full our opportunities there for carrying the truth to Asiatic Communists, the other side would find less interest in prolonging that war.  That is one place where we overfly enemy territory, and it would, therefore, be a very, very fine place to tell them the truth about America and about the free world, and the Communists don't like the truth.

	Ladies and gentlemen, in this brief appearance before you the simple and single message I want to leave with you is this:  if we are going to progress toward peace in the world, you must carefully select that government--those people to comprise your government in the legislative and executive branches--that you believe has the best qualifications to lead in that direction.  You must select people who understand the problems as well as they may be understood by human beings, but who above all will give you the kind of government at home that can unite you behind broad principles.  In short, it must be the kind of government you will trust.

	If you will make your decision along those lines, my friends, I will assure you of this:  I, for one, will not only be content with the results, whatever it may be, but I will be happy because I want to express this firm belief in America, that if America en masse will take its proper interest in its civic problems, make its own decisions on its election days and ascertain again the truth that the people are boss, I have no fear for the future of America--a glorious future for America--no matter what your decision may be. 

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, for the honor that each of you has done me by coming out here, taking this hour from your busy day to allow me to greet you, to express to you one or two of the thoughts on my mind as we pursue this political campaign, I am deeply grateful.  You encourage me by the mere fact that soberly and seriously you want to hear these questions discussed, that you are more interested in the truth than in wisecracks, that you are more interested in policy than in vilification.
COMMUNISMGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSKOREAN WAR     Í% ∂% ∞% ¨% ¢%
 î% è% ä% É% y% w% w% m%	 0 	 ' 	 
 e: