Speeches\1972\dem\S72d1103.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)11/03RADIO/TELEVISION2722 WORDS

	I want to talk with you tonight about two events that occurred last night. The first was President Nixon's paid political broadcast, in which he discussed the Vietnam negotiations. He admitted that he has rejected the settlement his own negotiator accepted nearly a month ago. He did not say when there would be an agreement. And he withdrew the latest promise of peace.

	So this past week has become another week when the war was not ended. We were told that peace was at hand. But then the hand that could have signed that peace pushed it aside.

	The second event last night occurred in Michigan. I was on television answering questions from people who called on the phone. After the program, we received a call from Mr. Charles Stewart of Gladstone, Michigan.

	His son, an Army enlisted man, was killed in Vietnam two days ago. He died on the day the peace was supposed to be signed. He was nineteen. He died on the day Mr. Nixon decided to continue fighting the war, while fighting over what he calls the "details" of peace.

	Charles Stewart, Jr., died for those "details." And he was not alone. This week twenty-two other Americans died for the same "details."

	For the sake of those "details," the bombs still fall, the guns still fire, and the terrible pain goes on.

	Even as I speak to you, human lives are being lost in a war that is wrong. More parents learn each week the terrible sorrow of burying their own sons.

	But now we have learned something else.

	Charles Stewart, Jr., and all the others, are not really dying for details, but for a deception.

	The President may say peace, peace, but there is no peace, and there never was.

	For it is not the details, but the central issues that are still in dispute.

	I know that many Americans were struck by the coincidence that after four years of fighting and dying, the administration announced just twelve days before the election that peace was in reach. We wondered why a settlement that was unsatisfactory until now was embraced at the end of this campaign.

	But, like you, I wanted deeply to believe what we were told. If you know my record of opposition to this war for more than nine years, through both Democratic and Republican administrations, then you also know that I would rather have peace than a campaign issue.

	So I welcomed Dr. Kissinger's announcement last Thursday. I welcomed the news that an agreement was just a few minor matters away.

	But now this hope is betrayed. We see now that when the President's most important adviser announced that peace had come, it was actually a deception designed to raise our hopes before we went to vote on Tuesday.

	This is blunt language and a strong accusation. I am sorry to say it, but I believe it to be true.

	I ask you to judge for yourselves. I ask you to hear Mr. Nixon's own words, to heed his record, and then to decide if he has been fair and open with the people.

	In 1968, the American people voted to end the war. Mr. Nixon was elected on a promise of peace. And since then, every measure of public opinion has carried a rising cry for peace.

	In 1969, the central issue was whether to seek a military victory for General Thieu or peace for the American people.

	The basis for successful negotiations was already there.

	The other side wanted elections, conducted not by General Thieu but by an independent coalition group.

	General Thieu wanted continued war to preserve his power unchallenged. He said he would never accept a deadline, that he would never allow a coalition, and that he would never permit peace until he had won.

	Mr. Nixon chose General Thieu. And he began his term with the same discredited policy that had failed before--that had failed for the French and failed for us. He thought peace could be won through more war, through invasions and incursions, through bombs and bullets and blood.

	With Senator Hatfield and other members of the Congress, Republicans and Democrats alike, I sponsored legislation to bring the peace that was promised. We proposed a deadline to end the bombing and to bring our troops and prisoners home, to leave Vietnam, and to leave it to the Vietnamese to work out their own peace.

	This proposal had the support of three-quarters of the American people. But when it appeared that it might pass, Mr. Nixon disclosed that he was engaged in secret discussions with the North Vietnamese. He told us he was searching for peace in the conference room, and that the Congress should not interfere.

	That disclosure did not hasten an agreement in Paris. All it did was to stifle the demand for peace at home. And that is why it was made.

	Mr. Nixon's policy did not change. He involved Cambodia to capture a central Vietcong command center that did not exist. He sent armies into Laos that were hurled back in defeat and despair. He bombed more relentlessly than ever. He mined North Vietnamese harbors, seeking an impossible victory through reckless acts of war.

	But to placate the American people, he pretended he was making peace. As the bombs kept falling, Dr. Kissinger kept traveling. The secret meetings suddenly became highly publicized meetings to make sure you knew they were taking place as the election approached.

	We have challenged that charade in this campaign. We have reminded candidate Nixon of his own words in 1968, that "those who have had a chance for four years, and could not produce peace, should not be given another chance." And I have set before the American people, not a secret plan, but an open plan to end the war.

	Mr. Nixon apparently feared that challenge. So on October 8th, Dr. Kissinger agreed in a closed meeting to accept the settlement the other side wanted on almost the same terms they offered four years ago.

	North Vietnamese forces would stay in the South.

	Elections would be arranged by a coalition--by Communists, by neutralists, and by representatives of the Saigon regime--to assure that General Thieu could not dictate the results.

	American bombing would stop, American forces would leave, and American prisoners would be freed--all within a period of sixty days.

	Mr. Nixon's representative agreed to all of this on October 8th. And he agreed, too, on when the settlement would be signed--October 31st, one week before the election.

	That was no arbitrary deadline, as Mr. Nixon pretended last night.

	It was an agreed-upon deadline, set by both sides together. Now it has passed.

	And there was no "major breakthrough" for peace, as Mr. Nixon also pretended last night.

	Instead, there has been a fatal breakdown on the central issues. Now this chance for an agreement is gone.

	Dr. Kissinger took the agreement to General Thieu. And General Thieu said no.

	Dr. Kissinger took the agreement to President Nixon. And President Nixon said no.

	What Dr. Kissinger accepted and what Mr. Nixon and General Thieu rejected was a coalition to set up the elections and American withdrawals without a mutual withdrawal by North Vietnam.

	Those are the conditions General Thieu has always rejected. And because they are not resolved, as Mr. Nixon admits, we have changed nothing in the last four years.

	Now someone must answer for 20,000 more American dead, for 110,000 more wounded, for 550 more captured or missing, for $60 billion more wasted in the last four years.

	And now someone must answer for the cruel political deception of these past several weeks.

	On October 11th, when the agreement was still secret, I addressed the nation on Vietnam.

	I spelled out what I saw as the greatest single roadblock to peace--Mr. Nixon's unfailing acceptance of General Thieu's orders--his willingness to place the power of this corrupt dictator ahead of freedom for our prisoners, life for our soldiers, and an end to the war.

	I also outlined my program for peace. It called for an end to the bombing, an end to the shelling, and withdrawal in ninety days' time. It accepted the North Vietnamese offer to free our prisoners as we withdraw.

	Republican politicians ridiculed that proposal. They said it was "unrealistic," and they called it "surrender."

	But that was not true, and they knew it.

	Three days before I spoke, Dr. Kissinger had already embraced the same principles in private in discussion with North Vietnam. But they called that "peace with honor"--the same results they called "surrender" just a few days before. So what can we conclude today?

	After four years of war, Mr. Nixon has closed the door to peace once again. If he escapes his responsibility now, do you think he will end the war after the election, once he is free from the will of the American people?

	We know, too, that the war can be ended in a matter of hours on the terms I have already proposed. If General Thieu says we cannot dictate peace to him, we need a president who will reply: "General Thieu, you are not going to dictate any more war for us."

	Mr. Nixon will never say that. I will.

	Mr. Nixon will never sign the agreement. I will.

	Mr. Nixon will not end the war. It will be my very first act.

	Now we must draw the painful conclusion that the events of recent weeks were not a path to peace, but a detour around election day. The officials who are sworn to serve us instead have sought to mislead us for their own political gain. Their strategy was designed to create the illusion of peace from Thursday, October 26th, when Dr. Kissinger made his announcement, until Tuesday, November 7th, when you will make your decision about the next president of the United States.

	In a campaign marked by falsehood, sabotage, secret funds, special interest deals, and criminal activity, this is the worst deceit of all. They have played politics with the Justice Department, the FBI, the Supreme Court, and even the Constitution. Now they play politics with our prisoners and our soldiers and life itself. It is they who treat our men like toy soldiers, to be knocked over by the hand that should protect them.

	What we are seeing in this campaign is the manipulation of our hopes by men who know how to get power and want to keep it but do not know what it is for. In politics, there are some things more precious than victory. One of them is truth.

	But these men will say anything to win.

	They will say that there is peace even in the midst of war. They will say that inflation is cut in half when in fact it is as high as it was before. They will say that the tide has been turned against crime when crime is at the highest tide in history.

	But the truth is all around us. Ask the families of our prisoners if the fighting has ended. Ask a housewife if the cost of living is under control. Ask yourselves if you feel safe on a city street at night.

	And ask yourselves if you really believe the incredible attacks on the Democratic party in 1972. They are part of the same technique of fear and innuendo Mr. Nixon has used so often before--against Harry Truman, Congressman Voorhees, Helen Gahagan Douglas, and Adlai Stevenson, against Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey, and John and Robert Kennedy. This year, for example, Mr. Nixon tells you that the programs I have proposed would mean a 50 percent increase in federal taxes. That is a lie--and the President knows it.

	He made the same charge at the Republican Convention--and when the press asked administration officials to prove it, they could not even explain it.

	I am tired of answering the same old lies.

	I am tired of the lie that my economic proposals will put half the country on welfare. The truth is that they will reduce welfare by 30 percent and put the nation back to work.

	I am tired of answering the lie that my tax reform will increase the taxes of working people and ordinary citizens, when the truth is that it will not take a single penny more from Americans who live on wages or salaries. Indeed, it will cut your property taxes at least by a third.

	Mr. Nixon knows what my positions really are. But he does not want you to know. Why do you think he is so afraid to come out of the White House and meet me like a man in face-to-face debate? Why is he so anxious to falsify my views? Why is he so unwilling to make his charges in front of me, where no distortion will go unchallenged?

	The answer is clear. Mr. Nixon and his campaigners are trying to trick you into voting against yourself. They understand how you will vote when you learn what I want to do, and what they have done.

	And what they have done with the war in Vietnam is the worst of their deeds.

	That is why peace remains the overriding issue. For without peace, there will be no reduction in the cost of living. There will be no full employment. There will be no renewal of our purpose as a nation. And there will be no life at all for so many among us.

	If Mr. Nixon disagrees with the main thrust of my remarks here this evening, I urge that we go together before the American people and clarify our difference on the issues tomorrow or Sunday, or even Monday, evening.

	At this late stage of the campaign, it is past time he quit hiding behind his so-called surrogates or aides like Mr. Kissinger. Mr. Nixon is responsible for his own policies. He is the one who should reply on these crucial issues--not Mr. Kissinger. He is the one who should defend and clarify the issues in public debate with me--not Mr. Kissinger or some other aide.

	I do not honestly know whether the war weighs as deeply on the minds of the American people as it does on mine. I do not honestly know whether the blunt words I have said tonight will help me or hurt me in this election. I do not really care.

	For almost a decade, my heart has ached over the fighting and the dying in Vietnam. I cannot remember a day when I did not think of this tragedy. I can remember every picture of a bombed-out school or a napalmed child, and every letter from a family in South Dakota who lost their son. I remember the campaign of 1968, when we heard of a promise of peace. And I worry that unless this country votes for peace now, in the next campaign, in 1976, we will still be working out the "details" of a war that has gone on four more years.

	I think of the words of Valerie Kuschner, whose husband has been a prisoner since 1967. "My husband," she said, "has already had his four more years."

	Yet many of you wonder whether there really is another choice. Millions are confused and doubtful and suspicious of any candidate who pledges peace.

	What can I tell you?

	I can only say that there is no way I could continue a war I have hated from the beginning.

	And this is the sharpest difference between Mr. Nixon and me. He has always supported that war. I have opposed it.

	He has called Vietnam our finest hour. I have called it the saddest chapter in our national history.

	He will not set a date for peace. As president, I will bring all of our troops and all of our prisoners home within ninety days of my inauguration.

	This Tuesday will be a day of reckoning for America.

	It will be the day when we decide between war and peace.

	The Scripture says: "I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing; now choose life so that thou and thy seed may live."

	Thank you and God bless you.
DEBATES, PRESIDENTIALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARSOUTH VIETNAMVIETNAM WAR     `< ,< &< "< <
 < 	< ù; ù; ù; ù; ù; ï;	 s 	 ^ 	 @ 	    e: