Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1028.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/28STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYEXCERPTS1285 WORDS

	One thing I have learned from this campaign is that there is not enough time to do all of the things I would like to do.  Ever since the Republican Convention in Chicago, I have been anxious to find a way to express to Americans of foreign origin some personal sentiments which lie very near to my heart.

	It has been my good fortune to meet with many of your leaders in the course of my travels across the country.  Now I take this opportunity to address a message to all of you.

	I fully recognize the extraordinary honor that has befallen me in being nominated for the office of president of the United States.  But I feel that it is a tribute not so much to me personally, as to the system which makes it possible for any American-born citizen of any national origin to aspire to this high office.  All Americans have ancestral ties with other lands; even American Indians were not indigenous to this country, but migrated here some centuries before it was "discovered" by our forefathers.

	I am very proud of my father and mother and of the sturdy line from which they were descended.  My father's family came originally from the Rhineland, from which they fled to Switzerland to avoid religious persecution.  From Switzerland, they migrated to Holland and in due course--in 1741--arrived on these blessed shores.  Some years before, my mother's forebears had landed here, having also come from Germany via Switzerland.  My father and mother were of that company of brave Americans who pushed westward, in the last century, into the areas of increased opportunity and expansion.

	The hardy settlers who came to these shores in search of freedom of worship, freedom of speech, freedom of opportunity and freedom to select their own form of government were venturesome and courageous immigrants, just as were those who later sought new hope and opportunity and freedom.

	From the great wisdom of those original immigrants came our Declaration of Independence, our Constitution, our Bill of Rights--documents that proclaimed the revolutionary doctrine of human freedom and human dignity.

	In the middle of the nineteenth century, there began a great wave of immigration to the United States.  Among them were the ancestors of something like one-fifth of the population of our country today.  Many were fugitives from oppression; they eagerly sought those opportunities our founding fathers had guaranteed here.  This influx of new peoples provided the qualities of strength and flexibility and extraordinary virility which have characterized the American people.

	Under the guarantee that in this land all men are created equal, your peoples have produced leaders in every field of endeavor--in business and industry, in government, in science and engineering, in medicine and agriculture, in education, in arts and letters.  You have furnished a large share of the manpower and brain power which have made our farms and factories the most productive in the world.  Your people have been in the vanguard of the evolution in this country of an enlightened labor policy.  You have fought to defend America and the principles for which she stands.

	No group in America understands better than you the great intellectual and moral struggle which now divides our world.  You know that this division into two great spheres of political and economic influence is due to the deliberate design of the Soviet Union.  Many of you have close family ties with nations now enslaved behind the Iron Curtain in Europe and Asia; others of you are concerned for friends and relatives in countries outside the Iron Curtain, but who are under the threat of Communist expansion.

	I have said many times that we Americans must make it clear that we look toward the eventual and peaceful liberation of all who wish to be free.  On this point, I have repeatedly taken issue with the policies of the present administration.  Its policy of containment concedes that the Kremlin can continue indefinitely to enslave peoples who respect human dignity and who love freedom as much as you and I do.

	Our goal, I repeat, must be liberation by peaceful means.  To nations now adjacent to the Iron Curtain, we must constantly reiterate our intention to stand shoulder to shoulder with them and to support--materially and morally--their efforts to maintain their independence.

	In Europe, continued freedom requires solidarity and cooperation.  This, it seems to me, depends upon some kind of federation--the reduction or elimination of barriers that now make the development of greater economic and military strength difficult.  We have seen the firm beginnings of this new era of European cooperation in the establishment of such organizations as the Belgium-Netherlands-Luxembourg Economic Union, the Schuman Plan for pooling coal and iron resources, and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  However difficult it may appear to be, I am confident that greater solidarity and strength can be attained--with the help and encouragement of the United States.  I know from my personal experiences in Europe that peoples of diverse interests and cultures can work out their problems together and achieve common goals.

	In attacking all of our international problems, we must face up to the cold realities of the Communist conspiracy.  We cannot be satisfied with the hesitant, irresolute and changeable policies of our government during the last seven years.

	We must confront the enemies of freedom with firmness and determination and a singleness of purpose, if our freedom is to be preserved.  The Communists are waging a relentless, coordinated fight against the free world.  Our response must be a well-understood cooperative program that commands the respect and allegiance of all peoples who wish to be free.  Such a program must combine adequate, coordinated military power with economic strength.  Our total program must include a steady, continuous effort to develop among the peoples of the world that human understanding on which all abiding cooperation is based.  It must include economic cooperation designed to make it possible for peoples everywhere, through their own efforts, to raise their living standards and support essential military establishments.  It must include firm support of the United Nations.  And it must include, as I have said, military cooperation for our common defense.

	I recognize that you are interested in domestic issues, just as are all other American citizens.

	We all want to stop the insidious inflation which threatens our entire economy.  We all want to restore honesty to government.  We want to stop waste and needless expenditures.  Above all, we want to find an honorable and speedy solution to the Korean problem.

	But in this statement, I have wanted to address myself primarily to those matters which are of special interest to you with your close foreign ties.

	And so, in closing, may I repeat the principal thought of this brief message.  We Americans are the most fortunate people in the world--fortunate because we live in a land of individual freedom--fortunate because we possess the spiritual, moral, intellectual, and physical strength essential to the preservation of freedom.

	The greatest glory of free America is still in the future.

	That glory will be shared not only by you and me, but also by countless thousands who, still living in other lands, wish to migrate to our beloved country.  An honest solution to this problem requires that we rewrite our immigration laws to take into account both the hopes of many abroad and the desires of our own people.

	We are the citadel of freedom in a troubled world.  All of us must march forward together in a great crusade to build and maintain the strength and honor of America, to cooperate with others for peace throughout the world. 

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMEUROPEIMMIGRATIONSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     § s m i _
 Q L G ? 7 5 - #	 } 	 m 	 d 	 F 	 , 	 & 	  e: