Speeches\1968\rep\S68R1028.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/28RADIOWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCCBS RADIO1950 WORDS
	In the course of two centuries, the free economy of the United States has waged the most effective war on poverty the world has ever seen.

	The American system has created more jobs, built more schools, staffed more hospitals, produced more goods, provided more services than any other economic system--all in a framework that provides unparalleled opportunity for individuals to enjoy the abundance of a free society.

	Yet in our midst there are people who have not been able to go share in this prosperity. Millions of people in America are still poor.

	To help those who are unable to help themselves--the sick, the disabled, the blind, the needy children and the dependent elderly, the mothers who must care for their children, and cannot work--we have maintained an ever-growing welfare system.

	To those who are helpless, welfare has been inadequate, in many cases, payments were meager enough to begin with, but the rise in the cost of living has made it even harder to make ends meet.

	There is another category of welfare recipient, however, to whom payments have been worse than inadequate; to them, welfare has become addictive, dulling ambition, penalizing initiative and reaching into another generation to perpetuate dependency.

	To some Americans, who are not helpless, welfare has become a way of life, Instead of a way-station to independence.

	To those in temporary need, the welfare system was designed as a half-way house along the road from poverty to prosperity. It was designed to alleviate the short-run effects of poverty, to ease the burden of temporary hardship.

	But the developments of the last thirty years have changed all this. The welfare system is today a dead-end street. For those who must walk it, the journey begins in dependence and ends in despair.

	In the Preamble to the United States Constitution, five words loom large: "to promote the general welfare." But the words that follow are equally significant: "to secure the blessings of liberty."

	By locking people who are not helpless into a permanent system of government welfare, we deny them "the blessings of liberty."

	It is time to reassess the politics of dependency, a politics which doles out its pittance to the poor and exacts in return their independence and their dignity.

	It is time for America to repudiate a political leadership which is more interested in faring well at the polls than in the welfare of human beings.

	It is time to admit that the maze of current federal, state and local welfare programs have alienated the taxpayers who support them, the social workers who administer them, and the poor who depend on them.

	It is time to admit that people on welfare regard the system as demeaning, depressing and inadequate.

	It is time to admit that our welfare system does not eradicate the root causes of poverty, on the contrary, it causes families to break up and the flickering spark of initiative to be snuffed out.

	It is time to start anew, to look hard and honestly at the nature, the purpose and the scope of our welfare program.

	What should a welfare program do?

	First, it should meet the immediate needs of those who cannot help themselves--the poor, the disabled, the aged, and the sick. And it should do this in a way that preserves the dignity of the individual and the integrity of the family.

	Second, it should offer opportunity and incentive, for those who can, to move off welfare rolls onto private payrolls.

	How can we achieve this?

	Some have suggested that all we have to do is expand existing welfare programs, but that would only take us further down the wrong road.

	Our present approach to welfare, born in the despair of the 1930's, is inappropriate to the 1960's, and would be disastrous in the seventies.

	Because of the irresponsible spending policies of this administration, our country is coming perilously close to an economic crisis that could affect the earning ability of every one of us. Economic trouble--whether it be runaway inflation, caused by government spending, or economic depression, caused by high, incentive-killing taxes and high interest rates--will hurt most cruelly those least able to help themselves.

	We simply cannot now afford more massive programs, not because we are heartless, but because we know too well what the end result would be.

	Others have proposed that we should completely revolutionize our current welfare system. They say that we should scrap all existing programs and replace them with some form of a guaranteed income; they suggest that the federal government guarantee everyone a certain level of income, regardless of his personal circumstances.

	The simplicity of such a plan lends it great appeal. But we must not allow the current crisis to force us along untried routes where the unanswered questions are many, and the risks are high. For the guaranteed income idea raises serious questions about our national goals.

	At the heart of the American approach to welfare is the idea that the criterion for help is need. Do we want to turn to a system where everyone is guaranteed an income to be paid for by taxpayers, whether the person needs it or not, whether the person is willing to work or not?

	The American philosophy of welfare is based on the idea of temporary help, a helping hand in time of personal difficulty. Do we want to establish a welfare system that would go far toward creating a class of people who are permanently dependent upon the government? Do we want to encourage teenage retirees?

	There are other questions.

	We are not sure how much a guaranteed income would cost--only that it would surely cost much more. We do not know how many people would stop trying to better themselves--only that self-respect and dignity is sure to diminish for those who receive payments and have no valid need for them.

	Income guarantees treat the results of poverty, but not the causes of poverty. They transfer money from those above certain arbitrary incomes to those whose incomes fall below this line. The result would be to pay the poor for an unobtrusive retreat to the back alleys of America.

	The welfare dilemma is this: We have to motivate the able-bodied to get off welfare, without shaming the helpless about accepting welfare.

	There are reforms we can make in the present system to bring an end to that dilemma.

	A man in need is still a man with self-respect. Ours is a work-oriented society, and most Americans--including those on welfare--seek employment. But there are times and there are circumstances when help is necessary.

	Need should be met without demeaning procedures, without flagrant invasions of the privacy of those on welfare. It is not in the American spirit to kick a man when he is down.

	To preserve the privacy of those on welfare, consideration should be given to the use of the "declaratory application" such as that used in the Medicaid and Food Stamp Programs. Under this plan, an individual establishes his eligibility by declaring his financial situation and the size of his family.

	Through the use of computer techniques, abuses could be limited, by random sample checks, as in our tax system. The time of professional caseworkers could be saved, freeing them for better and more extensive counseling. Since caseworkers would not be required to "investigate" eligibility requirements, counseling would no longer be a code word for snooping.

	Welfare payments should be large enough to meet reasonable needs. Payments which fail to cover minimal living expenses serve only to further frustrate the poor. Yet, for those who can work, welfare payments should not be so large, or exist for so long, that they in effect constitute a guaranteed income. Such a system only moves people away from self-sufficiency, and toward permanent dependence.

	Welfare payments now vary greatly across the country, and we should begin now to move in the direction of helping states and localities achieve greater standardization. When a great disparity exists in welfare programs from state to state, there is a powerful incentive for those on welfare to migrate to a state with higher payments. This tends to focus welfare demands on certain states, skyrocketing their welfare costs.

	This does not mean that welfare payments should be equal across the country. We all know the cost of living varies sharply from state to state, from community to community. Welfare payments that may seem inadequate for some states may be enough for other states with a lower cost of living.

	We should move to equivalent welfare payments, not equal welfare payments. Our criterion should be a level of assistance that matches the level of personal need, taking into consideration the unique circumstances of each case.

	Finally, we should make it possible for people on welfare to keep more of any money they earn as an incentive to work. This, and other efforts like job training, should be encouraged and extended.

	These are dramatic steps toward welfare reform.

	While we are taking these steps we must keep in mind one critical goal of a welfare program: Helping everyone capable of work to secure the blessings of economic liberty.

	Our emphasis should be on creating the conditions that will enable people to break away from welfare.

	Two basic forces that will accomplish this are education and jobs--and to these I would add a third, the opportunity to participate fully in our free enterprise society as managers and owners.

	We know that spending priorities must be set, but in setting those priorities, education cannot be shortchanged. We should concentrate on those who are just beginning to absorb the knowledge that will make them productive, independent citizens and expand programs like Head Start. For those on the way through our school system we need modern technical and vocational training that is attuned to the realities of the last third of the twentieth century.

	I have pledged to create 15 million more jobs in the next four years; to do this, we need economic incentives to get the forces of private enterprise even more deeply involved in providing training for the unemployed and underemployed. We need a National Skills Survey to pinpoint the skills that will be needed in the future. We need a National Computer Job Bank that will put computer technology to work for us, matching people with jobs.

	We need to get more people involved in free enterprise as owners and managers of property and businesses. But establishing businesses requires both money and business know-how. We should make capital available through loan guarantee programs which enlist private financial institutions. We should make know-how available by providing training in the techniques of business management.

	It is time for a new way, which yet is the oldest way of all--the way that begins with people, marshalling their own energies, moved by their own will, pursuing their own dreams.

	With new, imaginative job-creating programs we can, and will, deliver to the American economy those 15 million new jobs in the next four years.

	With effective, compassionate reform of our existing welfare programs, we can, and will, provide better for the helpless while stopping the spiral of dependency in the United States.

	The answer is not to guarantee an income by federal fiat, but to ensure every able-bodied person's opportunity to earn that income.

	More jobs and less need for welfare will mean more independence and less despair.

	Welfare in America must do more than help a human body survive; it must help a human spirit revive, to take a proud place in the civilization that measures its humanity in terms of every man's dignity.
JOB GROWTH/CREATIONJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGPRIVACYPOVERTYWELFARE     –. b. \. X. N.
 E. @. ;. 1. . . . .	 ? 	 , 	      e: