Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1017.005SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/17STUMPNEW BRUNSWICKNEW JERSEYNJ1832 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen, I have had a grand day in your state today, as I did yesterday.  You know, I am new in this campaigning business and I learn things every day.  One of the things I have learned is that New Jersey seems to take its politics seriously, but with a lot of enthusiasm, and I have seen a lot of it yesterday and today.  You can imagine how nice it was for me to come into New Brunswick this evening and the first person I saw was the motorcycle sergeant who took care of me during World War II, and he is now Trooper Spiegel of your staff.

	Of course, anyone from my section of the country is new, possibly rather raw and gauche from your standpoint, but in any event, when one from my section comes back here, he is struck by the historical significance of many of these places, and since I, in my profession, had to read much of our military history, you can imagine how much this place and this region means to me in terms of the Revolutionary days that brought us this great system of government.  I cannot help but want to try to express something that I think probably is in all our hearts, that continuing appreciation that we feel toward those people who gave us America, who gave us--did you ever stop to think of it--this privilege of meeting like this.  You can gather here this evening and I can criticize the administration, the party in power, and nothing happens to us.  It is our right.  We can accept it as such.  But, in many other countries, if we tried to do the same thing this evening, you people would be herded down to the railroad yards, thrown into stock cars or boxcars and you would be on the way to the salt mines before morning.  And I would be on the gibbet.  I would be hanged or shot.  So that is what they gave us.  That is just an example of what they gave us.

	Now, in our time, we again have to do something about this great thing we call freedom and liberty.  Ladies and gentlemen, maybe we don't have to sacrifice in the same way that they did.  Maybe we don't have to march through the winter's snows without shoes, our feet bleeding, tattered, cold, hungry, almost starving.  Do you remember that in Washington's army of seventeen-thousand he lost thirty-five hundred just from disease and cold and starvation alone?  An incredible price, it seems, that they paid for what we have, but they did not fail, and now we, in our turn, cannot quail.  And our threat comes primarily from without.  Its source is in the Kremlin.  But it is the kind of attack that attacks on a thousand fronts.  There is bribery, corruption, infiltration, every kind of subversion possible, and finally, economic warfare,the threat of force and actually force itself as we now see it in Indo-China and in Korea.  That is the kind of thing that we have got to be able to meet or we are not going to be able to do our duty.

	I am not going to talk about this subject in the terms that I spoke of last night in New York.  At the Alfred Smith dinner I talked for forty-five minutes on this.  Get me wound up and I can do almost as well as one of these Communist fellows who gave a lecture the other day for five hours and half.  I am still wondering what happened to his audience.

	But in any event, there are a number of things we can do.  First of all is to do our part in making America strong.  America has to be strong to be the cornerstone of this free world structure that will defend freedom against this communistic infiltration and aggression.  And what do we mean by strength?  We mean spiritual strength, the certainty that we know we are right, that we are not coveting anybody else's territory, but that we are defending just this one thing, the right of humans to develop themselves under some form of government.  Now, the next thing is this:  We must be intellectually strong and incidentally, let me digress a bit.  You know, there are probably some students here from a college of which I myself am an honorary graduate.  And to you young people, just a word.  I am sincerely trying to address these thoughts more specifically to you than I am to those of my generation.  If I am lucky, I own still about fifteen years worth of America, maybe twenty.  You own, let us say, sixty.  Now, that is the measure of our relative and comparative stake in the future of America.  Wherever America goes, you are going to be there.  You have got a right to demand from my generation certain things that I pass on with my associates of my time, some of the lessons we have learned from our experience.  And our experience hasn't been too bright.  We haven't been too successful.  But if we can show you what the errors are that we have made and help you avoid making them, as quickly as you begin to grasp that you had better begin to take over because you are going to have to live with this thing a long time.

	If you will pardon me a digression within a digression, let me say one thing more.  If you will never forget this one thing, that America's greatness is that it is a government founded squarely in a deeply felt religious faith, you will never go far wrong.  Our forefathers, in order to make this clear, in attempting to explain this form of government to the world said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights."  Unless they called upon the Creator to explain this government, it made no sense, and freedom doesn't make sense unless it has its roots very deep in some kind of religious faith.  If you never forget that, I would venture that on that one word of advice you will never go far wrong.

	Now to get back on the main track, besides spiritual strength and intellectual strength, we need to keep up our scientific strength, our productive and industrial strength, our financial strength to keep that economy sound.  We must stay solvent.  And finally, we must remain militarily strong during these days when that threat from Moscow actually has a capacity to use force against us.  But let us always remember that military force must be kept to the allowable safe minimum, not the maximum.  We mustn't break our backs trying to keep sterile things beyond the demonstrated need for them.

	Now, with that kind of strength we cannot only serve solidly as the bulwark of the free nations, but we can lead these free nations because they will respect us.  They will listen carefully to us--and we can lead them into the proper kind of collective security arrangements that will--with the least cost to ourselves and to them, the least cost in the sacrifices of our youngsters and in the sacrifices of payment out of our pocketbooks, result in a consolidated safety.  That is the present thing.  And from there we go on to establish a really fine peace by breaking away and helping to break away from the slave domination in which they now live, those peoples who want to be free of communistic doctrine.  When that comes about, our great expenses will come down; our great taxes will begin to be reduced; our money will stop running out of our pockets through the hole of inflation.

	What can you do about helping to develop all this strength to make these things possible?  Well, I will tell you.  The first thing that is necessary for the United States to be strong is for us all to be untied behind the aspirations and main purposes of our government, and we are not going to unite unless we have a government that you respect.  Government is a rather impersonal word, but it is made up of the men and women in Washington--in the legislative and executive branches and in the bureaus whom you people send there.  Those people in that government must be men and women of prestige in your sections.  They must be chosen without regard to race or color or creed.  They must be chosen on merit, on their reputation for honesty, probity, incorruptibility in your regions, for their wisdom and for their experience.  When we get men and women of that kind filling all of those main spots of government in Washington, we won't have to hang our heads in shame because of fearing that there will be more crookedness and more communism discovered in government tomorrow.  It won't get there, because those people will keep it out.  And this is certain:  They will be the kind of people who, if they find that some erring brother goes wrong and does give way to blandishments or to soft-headed thinking and goes sour on such a thing, they will root out that sore spot instantly.  They won't wait three or four years until Congressional committees force action.  Now, those are some of the things you can do, ladies and gentlemen.

	The hour is late.  You have been very kind to wait when our caravan was delayed along the road.  It gives me an additional reason to be grateful to you for coming out and allowing me to express these few thoughts.

	I am not here to make you specific promises to set one class against another or one action against another or to promise this to one state at the expense of another state.  Not at all.  I believe in the good of the United States of America.

	Secondly, I am not here to ask you specifically for your vote.  I just ask you to consider all of these questions of corruption in government, of communism in government, of wasteful expenditure, of lack of progress toward a steady peace, of lack of progress toward [missing text] the free nations of the world to go along with us as they should.  You can't buy friendship and loyalty, you know, just with dollars.  You have got to be worthy of loyalty and friendship.  You have got to earn it.  That is leadership.

	Now, you decide between now and November 4 what you want to do, what you think about these things.  But above all, you remember this:  You try to get the best government that you [missing text], the one you will most highly respect, because that will be for the good of America, which means for your good. 

	And now, again my thanks for coming out.  You have been very fine and for the warmth of your welcome, I am deeply grateful.  Good night.

COMMUNISMFREEDOM OF SPEECHGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSRELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY     ( ×' Ñ' Í' Ã'
 µ' °' «' ž' ”' ’' ’' ˆ'	 N 	 E 	 4 	  e: