Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1031.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/31STUMPCHICAGOILLINOISIL1545 WORDS

	My fellow Americans:  When I was coming to Chicago, they told me that I would have an invitation to lay a wreath on a monument to a soldier.  They told me it would be an unknown soldier of the Negro race.  I was particularly happy to accept that invitation because it is one special kind of a ceremony to the heroic deed of America in World War II in which I have never yet been privileged to participate.

	Incident to that, which is the real purpose of my coming down here, they said, "General, we would like for you also to bring a word of greeting to some of those who will be here."  Again, I was happy to accept.  But one of the things I was going to tell you about was the eight Illinois.  I didn't know my friend, Doctor Gary, was going to take most of my story.

	But he didn't tell you this.  In those days, colonels didn't often bother with first lieutenants, even if the first lieutenants were the technical and professional instructors in the regiment.  I had not been, of course, too long in the Army, but in that regiment, Colonel Franklin Dennison took me into his tent and sat me down and we discussed the problems of that regiment as if we were complete equals.  When I say that, I mean, I was terrifically flattered.  He wore a Colonel's eagles and in that army, before inflation set in--you know rank has been initiated along with everything else.  When I joined the Army, you could only get two stars; I quit it with five.  But when he sat me down and talked about the problems of that regiment as if I knew every man in it just as he did --he was a father to them--I felt as if I was getting along in the Army.  Some of you people here may have been in that old eighth Illinois and you may have known Colonel Dennison.  If you did, you knew a real man.

	I am not going to tell about some of the fights the 8th and the 7th used to get into.  That really was something.

	Finally, the war came along.  In the meantime, I had had other experience with Negro troops.  I was glad to hear Doctor Cary tell about the old 24th.  I commanded the 2nd Battalion of that for a while.  But we went to war, and in the Battle of the Bulge we got desperate for replacements.  We had large numbers of Negro troops in various kinds of auxiliary organizations.  Some of them were combat, like tank units, anti-aircraft units, and artillery units.  But in my particular theater, we had no Negro infantry.  I was desperate for it, and so I asked for volunteers--twenty-six-hundred Negroes volunteered for the front line at a time when front line soldiers were not lasting long. It was terrible.

	What I did with those Negroes, since obviously I did not have time to train a regiment, was to put them in small numbers in White battalions. I want to tell you why I bring up the story.  There was not a single one of those little Negro units that did not discharge its duty with credit to itself, with valor, and with as fine a record as any other unit in the Army.  That was made a special report by George Patton, and he knew a fighting man when he saw one.

	As a result of that service, because the Negro had again proved himself and his right to equality under different circumstances, there has been, as you know a rapid transformation in Army custom and tradition.  Now, so far as I know, there is nothing in the way of segregation in the Army, Navy, Air Force or Marines left--at least as a matter of official record.  If it is left, it is merely a residue that is being eliminated, and Negroes earned it and proved that they had earned it themselves.

	I tell these old soldier stories, you know, because like an old soldier, any other one, you get me talking about military things and I can tell these about half the afternoon.

	What I want to talk to you about in this political campaign is a little bit more pertinent.  We have an opposition party that has a record, particularly during the past seven years, that is indefensible.  So when they come before the electorate, they don't like to talk about that record.  Part of it is this:  they have not brought us nearer to peace. They have let us drift away from the peace we thought we had earned in 1945.  We then were the most powerful nation in the world--the richest, the most productive, and on top of that, militarily strong.  Where has all that strength gone?  We have had crisis after crisis.  We have lost China and finally we are at war in Korea.  Your sons, your brothers, your husbands are going just exactly as are the rest of us.  My boy is over there.  None of us like it.

	Now the record is this:  There has been a stumbling and a fumbling that has brought about that war.  When the war occurred, of course, we couldn't stay out of it.  There is--was--the honor of freedom, self-respect of freedom--indeed probably the safety of freedom was involved.  But it was the blundering that lead up to it.

	Now at home, what have they done?  Ask your wife what a basket of groceries costs in the grocery store today.  A basket of groceries that cost you ten dollars in 1939 costs you twenty-four dollars and fifty cents today.  What have they done about getting rid of Communism and dishonesty in government?  Someone brings up a Red agent and says, "You had better get rid of that fellow," and they say, "Red Herring."  And if you bring up evidence of dishonesty, they say there is always bound to be a little dishonesty among men.  Maybe there is going to be a little dishonesty, but you don't have to condone it and you don't have to shut your eyes to it when you find it.  You get rid of it.

	Now, the easiest thing I know of in other fields--one of them is in civil rights--is to promise a lot of things to get elected, and do nothing.  You can promise laws, promise laws that can't be passed.  Now, ladies and gentlemen, to make this short--because on a day such as this I don't want to talk too much politics--my associates and I, who are standing for places in our state and national government and who are leading this crusade, say this:  Whatever we say we will do--and one thing that we are intending to do--we are dedicated to doing--is the elimination of second class citizenship.

	The reason for my fighting it so much is no more for you than it is for me. I do not believe the United States can permanently endure if we are going to violate our own conceptions of why this government was set up and what it stands for.  I believe that unless I protect your freedom and your rights with all the strength that I have, eventually I will lose my freedom and my rights.

	So I don't come before you with a lot of trick ways with which I say this will be done but in which it probably won't be done, but I do say this:  I will work morning, noon and night as I have worked my life before this, but I will in this work dedicate myself to first-class American citizenship, to include and involve all American citizens.

	In doing this, I believe that the self-respect of America demands that her citizens be employed at good wages and that they be employed at high levels of employment--that we don't have unusual numbers of unemployed.  I believe we have got to have social security.  I believe we have got to have unemployment insurance.  All of those things are protection against disaster the individual cannot protect himself against.  So the government steps in and with the aid of private enterprise, the local community says "We will encourage each individual to help save for his pension," and all of that, but he knows now he is not going to be starving on a cold doorstep when he is old, so he will go out and work.  He will change jobs if he finds he can do better in another one.  He will try to better himself, his family and his community.  That is what social security is for, and we have got to have it.  It should no longer be in politics.  Both parties of good will should support these things:  Good jobs, good citizenship, and security for the individual and for our nation.  That, ladies and gentlemen, is the platform this crusade brings before you.

	I thank each of you for coming out here this afternoon, doing me the courtesy of letting me bring you a word of greeting and to express to you these few simple thoughts.

	May God be with you and good luck. 
AFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL RIGHTSCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEKOREAN WARSOCIAL SECURITYVETERANSWORLD WAR IIMILITARY PERSONNEL--DISCRIMINATION     U! !! ! ! !
 ˇ  ˙  ı  Ó  Ê  ‰  ‰  ⁄ 	 ç 	 | 	 p 	 O 	 E 	 6 	 .  " e: