Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1028.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/28STUMPWARRENMICHIGANMIMACOMB COMMUNITY COLLEGE2,529 WORDS

	I am so pleased to be here with you today.  I have been a great fan of community colleges all of my political life, and I want to tell you that there's one thing we want to do and Don Riegle made it crystal clear.

	We're going to make it possible beginning in January of 1989 for every young person in this country who's qualified to do college work to go to college regardless of financial need.

	Al Lorenzo, I'm very proud of you, very proud of the students and faculty of this college, very pleased that all of you are here today, very proud of some of the people who just spoke to you:  Don Riegle, who I hope and assume you're going to send back to Washington with an overwhelming majority.  Carl Levin, my old college buddy who's done so much to root out fraud and duplication and waste in the Pentagon.  Jim Blanchard, a dear friend, a good colleague, you should be proud that he is the Governor of the State of Michigan.  Members of Congress, the very good people up on this stage, and more importantly all of you.

	Let me begin with a quote.  A quote I like very much.

	"Stripping the TV makeup from the candidates, paring with a sharp knife the sugar coating of campaign promises, can we find anything substantive to guide us in the choice for president this November?  We say yes, and that choice is Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen."  That's from the Macomb Daily last Friday, you've got a great newspaper in this county.

	You know last night, Kitty and I had really one of the very special experiences of this entire campaign.  We had a town meeting.  One of a number we're having all over the country to take our case directly to the people of the United States of America.  And it was in Independence, Missouri, the birthplace, the hometown" of Harry Truman.

	There was a big banner on the front of the county courthouse that said, "Give 'em Hell, Mike."  Many of you are too young to be born when that campaign was going on.

	And there, too, they said that Truman didn't have a chance, that the other fella was way ahead, he was sitting on his lead.  As a matter of fact, I remember a famous Life magazine where they referred to Tom Dewey two weeks before the election as the next President of the United States.

	And Harry Truman went out all across this country, campaigned up and down and across America, and even election night, the "Chicago Tribune" in one the most famous front pages ever in the history of this country, put out an early edition saying, "Dewey Defeats Truman."

	My friends, it's not the pollsters who vote on Election Day, it's the people.  And I think the American people are getting a little tired of being told how they're going to vote.  They're going to make the decision.

	And I know the Republicans are already celebrating and popping those champagne corks in their penthouses, but let me tell you this; we're the ones that are going to be doing the celebrating on the eighth of November.

	They've run a campaign that's probably the most negative in history and I think we know why.  They want us to forget the red ink that they've piled on the books of this nation, over a trillion and half dollars in new debt that we're all going to be paying off for generations.

	They want us to forget about those millions of dollars that have been lost overseas, and those millions of jobs that have gone overseas.

	They want us to forget about a phony war against drugs, led by the Vice President of the United States that now has three times as much cocaine coming into this country as we had when it began.  As a matter of fact, about the only thing cheaper today than it was in 1981 is cocaine.

	They want us to forget about the sleaze and corruption that's been going on in this Administration, dozens and dozens of members of this Administration leaving under a cloud, indicted and convicted.  They want us to forget that.

	And they want us to forget what has to be one of the worst records on education and environment we've ever had in the history of this country.

	But there's a fundamental difference between Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen and George Bush and the other guy.  They want to help people that already have it made.  We want to help every American family make it.  That's what this election is all about.

	They want to help the people on Easy Street; we want to help the people on Main Street.  That's what we want to do.  We've gone from being the largest lending nation in the world to the largest borrowing nation in the world in eight years.  It's cost us five million jobs.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to turn that around, we're going to turn that trade deficit into a trade surplus in four years, and we're going to bring those jobs back to the United States of America and the American worker.

	We want to export American products, not American jobs.  We're going to bring down those unfair trade barriers.  We're going to work hard to bring management and labor together, so that the label "Made in America" once again is an international symbol of quality and value and durability all over this world.

	We're going to make America number one, in the classroom, in the research lab, in the workplace.  And we're going to do something.  We're going to be on the side of our workers in the fight for health and safety in the workplace of this country.

	We're going to have a National Labor Relations Board that believes in the labor laws of this country, and we're going to have OSHA inspectors who inspect plants and workplaces as if their lives depend on it.

	And we're going to have nuclear production facilities in this country that are safe, and well managed, and well run, and aren't a threat to their workers, and aren't a threat to people in those neighborhoods and communities.

	The Savannah River Plant is shut down.  The Rocky Flats plant doesn't know where to dispose of the radioactive waste.  In Fernald, Ohio, for decades the Department of Energy knew that the plant was contaminated, and that it was poisoning air and water, and the Department of Energy, still today, is resisting the release of medical records of those workers.

	I want to be the president of a government that is on the side of our people, not on the side of the people that are running those plants.

	Ten days ago I met with two families from Fernald, Ohio.  Ken and Lisa Crawford, whose drinking water is contaminated.  Herb and Karulla Kelly.  Herb Kelly worked in that facility for twenty-seven years, he now has lung cancer.

	Imagine feeling what they feel.  To live near a plant for decades, to find out it was leaking poison.  To find out that your government knew and did nothing.  That's a disgrace.  It's a betrayal of our national trust and our national security, and I'm going to make sure that kind of thing never, ever happens again in the United States of America.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to be on the side of America's working families.  We strongly supported that legislation that finally will give American workers and their families sixty days notice before they are laid off.  Opposed by the Vice President.  Opposed by Senator Quayle.

	We're going to go to work with Don and Carl and their colleagues in the Senate and the Congress, and we're going to make the minimum wage a living wage in this country, not a poverty wage.

	We're going to do something about the fact that women on average in this country make 65 cents for every dollar a man makes.  When they go down to the grocery store, they don't get a discount for that loaf of bread, my friends.  It costs the same.  It's time we got those wages up there where they belong for all of our people.

	And we're going to redeem a promise that Harry Truman made forty years ago:  basic health insurance for every working family in America.

	We're going to fight for good schools and for college opportunity.  And we're going to fight for working families.

	You know I yesterday had an interview on one of the national networks and Dan Rather said to me, "Do you regret now that you took that tank ride in Warren, Michigan?"  And I said to him, "Well, you know you do some interesting things in campaigns, and that was an interesting thing."

	I almost ran Sam Donaldson down with that tank.  But let me tell you why I was at that tank factory.  I care about those people.  I care about what they're making there.  I am deeply concerned about this Administration's plans to cut back on tank production while they're spending these billions and trillions on Star Wars.

	And I am very concerned when a Vice President of the United States who wants to be president comes back from Europe and says to the American people, "I'd like to bring some of those Soviet mechanics over here to tell the American workers what to do."

	I'm proud of those workers and so are you.  And I don't think we need any Soviet mechanics telling American workers how to produce a weapon we need.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are on the side of Social Security, and we're going to make sure that senior citizens in this country have a decent assured income that will make it possible for them to live their lives in dignity and in strength.

	We're going to have a real war, and not a phony war, against drugs.  We're going to enforce the law, and we're going to set as our goal drug free schools in America in the 1990s.  And we're going to work hard to achieve it.

	And we're going to be on the side of a clean environment, and a government that insists on a clean environment.  We want our kids to grow up in an America at least as beautiful and as healthy as the one we grew up in.

	We're going to have leadership in the White House, beginning in January,  that gives us clean air and gives us clean water, and that gives us clean government in Washington, D.C.

	And that veto of the bill Carl talked about, to give people in the federal government protection who were willing to blow the whistle on fraud and waste and abuse, that veto simply can't be explained.  And I wonder if the Vice President of the United States is going to stand up and tell us where he stands on that legislation, supported by Republicans as well as Democrats.

	But I guess of all the differences between me and Mr. Bush, the one that stands out most clearly is how we intend to provide the leadership to build an economic future that will make it possible for every single one of you, you young people, not so young people, people all over this country to get a good job at a good wage and enjoy the good things of life in this country.

	Mr. Bush's answer to the economic future, if you can believe this, is a five year, forty billion dollar tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent of the people in this country.  So if you're fortunate enough to make $200,000 a year, you're going to get a gift of $30,000.  If you make less than $40,000 you don't get a dime.

	And the other day he was in Detroit, and they asked him about it and he said, "Well..." he said, "It's a jobs program."  Can you believe that?  A jobs program!

	So I want this afternoon to take a little poll.  Can I take a little poll?  How many of you are going to benefit from Mr. Bush's plan to cut capital gains taxes by forty billion dollars over five years.  Any hands?  Okay.

	How many of you are going to benefit from our plan to make it possible for you to pay off those college loans over time through income withholding?

	How many of you are going to benefit when we turn that trade deficit into a trade surplus and bring those millions of jobs back home here to the United States?

	How many of you are going to benefit when we work to reach that goal of drug free schools in the 1990s?

	I better watch this poll; I'm going to get overconfident.

	You know, twenty-eight years ago, way back in 1960, another son of Massachusetts, and a son of Texas, were our nominees for president and vice president of the United States.  They were a great ticket.  They were a strong ticket.  And I think we can agree one of the best tickets that we ever put together.

	John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson won that race by a margin of 112,000 votes out of nearly 70 million cast.  They won Texas by 30,000 votes, won New Jersey be a percentage point.  They won Illinois by 8800.  Lost California by 30,000.

	Every single one of you counts in this election.  Every single one of you.  And John Kennedy said something that year, which is as good today and as right today as it was in 1960.

	He said, "You know, there are those who say that to call for greater effort and greater strength is to sell America short."

	But he said, "I do not equate criticism of Republican leadership with criticism of our country.  On the contrary, it is those who are satisfied with things as they are, those who are afraid to ask the American people for a greater effort, who are selling America short.  It is they," John Kennedy said, "who have lost faith in America and the American capacity to do great things.  That is why," he said, "no attacks, no attempts to discredit us will keep us from speaking up for a stronger America."

	That was John Kennedy's message in 1960, and it is my message today.

	Folks, this race is tightening up.  It's tightening up here in Michigan.  It's tightening up all over this country and you can know it and feel it and sense it.

	Mr. Bush is out there in his little cocoon.  They won't let him out.  We're going to take our case directly to the American people.  That's what we're going to do.

	And I want to make a deal with you, you go out there and work your heads off for us, as we will be all over this country, and we're going to win in Michigan.

	We're going to win all across America, and then Kitty and I are going to invite you to a party in Washington, D.C. on January 20.

	Thank you all very much.

CAPITAL GAINS TAXENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSMILITARY--CONVENTIONAL FORCESNUCLEAR WASTEWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     <7 7 7 þ6 ö6
 ë6 æ6 á6 Û6 Ó6 Ñ6 ¹6 ®6	 ¶ 	 ¥ 	  	 w 	 M 	 0 	 # e: