Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1101.002SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)11/01STUMPBUFFALONEW YORKNYEXCERPTS1362 WORDS

	It's great to be back in Buffalo again. The welcome you gave me four years ago was one of the high spots of the campaign. I will never forget it--nor this roof-shaking welcome tonight.

	Democrats are raising the roof everywhere this year.

	And the Republicans are looking on in wonder and amazement. But they haven't seen anything yet--next Tuesday they won't know what hit them. From coast to coast, from Maine to California, they're holding on to their hats, hoisting the storm warnings, pushing the alarm bells, and hanging up signs that say "Remember 1948." They've sent the president on more rescue missions in one week than he was supposed to make during the whole campaign. But the people have discovered that a Republican congress is a do-nothing congress and that a Republican president is a do-nothing president.

	Something has gone wrong that slogans can't fix. The people are making up their own minds and they are giving their votes to the party they trust, to the party that cares, to the Democratic Party.

	I'm proud to share this platform tonight with so many good Democrats and good friends:

	--with Buffalo's first Democratic mayor in a decade, Steven Pebkow

	--and with three able men whose help we are going to need in Washington next year to build the New America

	--your candidate in the Fortieth District, Thorn Hills

	--in the Forty-first, Edward Jehle

	--and in the Forty-second, James Kane.

	I'm proud to share the Democratic ticket with the fighting son of a fighting Liberal, your senator, Bob Wagner. No one else is so well fitted by inheritance and experience to step into the shoes of that champion Democrat, Senator Herbert Lehman.

	We are all honored tonight by the presence here of another great Democratic senator, a son of Buffalo, James Mead. 

	I'm proud, too, to have been introduced tonight by my old and good friend, your able and distinguished governor, Averell Harriman. He is a governor in the great tradition of Al Smith and Franklin Roosevelt.

	Bob Wagner and Averell Harriman are typical Democrats--men with toughness of mind and largeness of spirit and grandness of vision--the kind of men who keep the Democratic party true to its past by insisting always that we must push ahead, opening up new frontiers of social progress, doing the new things that need doing in a new day.

	I have talked earlier this evening over television and radio about the situation in the Middle East. Because this is a matter of such vital importance, foremost in all our minds, I want to say another word about this sad situation. I have traveled through those lands and met and talked with their leaders--Arab and Israel. I'm proud, indeed, of having had a part in the negotiation for the withdrawal of the British and the French from Syria and Lebanon in London just exactly ten years ago. And I'm proud to have had a part as an American delegate to the United Nations in the creation of the Jewish homeland in Israel.

	No one knows where the world stands tonight as a consequence of the conflict in the Middle East. The President said that America will not be involved in these hostilities. But, of course, the sun never set any longer on our commitment and on our interests. And in the Middle East our interests are enormous, moral, legal, and political--yes, and historical. There is Israel created with our help by the U.N. There are the vast oil reserves in which American interests are deeply, vitally involved. There are the great universities in Cairo and Beirut, founded and supported by our philanthropy, where so many leaders of the Arab world have been educated.

	And, of course, we remember that to say we are not affected reminds us of what we told ourselves when the Austro-Serbian conflict erupted in 1914 and again when Hitler invaded Poland in 1939.

	Let us agree to support the President in any constructive proposals he may advance. But let us not reject full discussion of what has happened to us and others.

	When the administration took office, the Western Alliance was absolutely solid. The Soviets had been forced out of Iran, and blocked from Greece and Turkey by the firm decisive action of Harry Truman. Since then, our position has been steadily deteriorating, not only in the Middle East but on a worldwide scale.

	On occasion after occasion, I, other Democratic leaders, and most informed foreign policy observers have warned against the administration's mistakes and arrogance, which have grown out of its misunderstanding of the forces at work in the world which have led directly to the present situation. But the administration has insisted again and again that everything is in hand, that our influence is at its peak.

	As the election draws near, there has been an intensified Republican effort to sweep the grave worldwide situation under the rug behind a barrage of misleading speeches and political broadcasts. On October 21st, Secretary Dulles claimed that relations with Britain and France were never better. The President at the last press conference said no one had informed him of differences with our Allies.

	Today, November 1st, the New York Times said:

	"Well-informed reporters have been sending reams of copy out of here for many months about this decline of United States' influence overseas, while the President has been proclaiming that Washington's influence was higher than ever before."

	The total bankruptcy of the administration's foreign policy which I have been charging for years is now demonstrated for the most skeptical. The NATO Alliance is crumbling, the Middle East is in shambles. No one knows what Russia, who has guaranteed to support Nasser, may do now. No one knows how this crisis will develop or how far or how fast the fighting may spread.

	This is a period of grave decision. We cannot retire into isolationism. We cannot abdicate our leadership. This would be absolutely fatal. Yet this is precisely what most leaders of the Republican party will advocate in the coming days. These isolationists already have a strong grip on the Republican party machinery and they have often exerted a veto power on the President, even in his honeymoon first term. If the Republicans should win on Tuesday, their control will become absolute. But far from withdrawing, America must now move boldly to end the war, to restore the Western Alliance and to seek a new basis for our future relations with the Soviet Union.

	But I'll tell you one thing you can be sure of: Having told us to reelect President Eisenhower because there is peace, the Republicans will now be telling you to reelect him because there is no peace. It reminds me of the retort of the old guy out my way who said "Don't tell me not to change horses in the middle of a stream. If it hadn't been for that horse we wouldn't be in this stream!"

	Our Republican opponents like to call themselves the party of tomorrow. Well, in a way they are right. In fact they are the party of "tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow." They are the party of "maÒana," the party of some-other-time-but-not-right-now."

	What happened to all the tomorrows of the last four years?

	We have had enough of Republican campaign-promise tomorrows that are always just around the corner but never here.

	We need more public schools and we need them now.

	We need more hospitals and we need them now.

	We need a program to save the small farmer and the small businessmen--we need them now.

	We need a program to stop this inflation--which has this month again gone higher than ever before--and we need it now.

	We've got to stop this giveaway of our natural resources, and we've got to stop it now.

	The only thing the Republican party has really and consistently offered the American people for tomorrow is Richard M. Nixon.

	We need a Democratic administration in Washington and a strong Democratic working majority in Congress. And we need them, not when it is too late, but now.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)MIDDLE EAST     ƒ ê ä Ü ~
 q l g ` X V N D	 6 	 &   e: