Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1024.010SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/24STUMPSENECA FALLSNEW YORKNY1571 WORDS

	Senator Lehman and ladies and gentlemen: I am very much flattered by Senator Lehman's entirely too generous introduction. And I am frank to say it worried me a little bit because I thought of the story of a politician years ago out in Illinois who explained about all of the things he had done for his country during the Civil War and subsequently. And as he wore on and on and on, an old man in the audience got up and walked forward down the center aisle, and he said, "You fought for the Union? You left your blood in your footprints walking over the frozen ground?" "Yes, yes, I did all of those things and many more besides." And finally he said, "My God, you have done enough for your country. You had better go home and rest."

	I was very much flattered, between Geneva and Seneca Falls, to have delegations from Hobart, from Keuka, and from Cornell come along on the train--representatives of the organizations of Students for Stevenson. The Cornell people even presented me with this magnificent scroll of names. I have been counting them very rapidly and there are seemingly a few omitted from Cornell. I presume they will get those signed up before the election. And, I am deeply grateful to these students for their activity. I think it is a very useful activity. I must confess I am afflicted, however, with a rather divided allegiance this morning, and it is a very unhappy predicament for a political candidate. After all, Princeton plays Cornell on Saturday and I might as well come clean and say, much as I love Cornell, well...

	But, I do think that this activity of younger people in political affairs is both as wholesome and as encouraging for their future as anything that happens. I don't know how many of you know the curious coincidence--and it was a bit of coincidence--that ever got me in politics. I happened to be, during the war, in Italy during the combat period on a mission, and there I read in "The Stars and Stripes" one day the result of a public opinion poll that had been conducted, I believe, by the University of Denver--I can't recall exactly--and it disclosed that seven out of ten parents in the United States did not want their children to enter public life. It seemed to me a very curious and anomalous thing that they could fight there in that bloody valley, in that cold and that mud, through those olive groves, in that awful winter, and bleed and die for something that we hold dear in this country, but to come home and work for it in peace time, no, no, they didn't want them to do that. This seemed to me a wholly inconsistent and irrational thing.

	Well, be that as it may, I do think it is as encouraging as anything I know that there are these groups that are taking positive action in public affairs in our universities. And that, in turn, causes me to suggest that from the reception we have had this morning traveling through New York State, I think the Democratic party is going to get a big surprise in November in upper New York State, and it is going to be a favorable surprise--and it seems to me it is about time.

	You know, out in Indiana, George Ade, the humorist, used to say that Indiana was always solidly Republican until they began to build the schools.

	I seem to be following this morning in the footsteps of Susan B. Anthony, a great American character. Back in Canandaigua, as many of you know, is the courthouse in which she was tried back it the 1870s. Tried for what? Tried for voting in an American election--and she was found guilty. That was the beginning of the suffragette movement, of course, which ultimately yielded the franchise for women in our country. And that wasn't too long ago. We forget that--and I suppose, by the way, that most of us men have forgiven the women by this time. Certainly I have.

	Now, I discovered that it was in Seneca Falls that she actually started the women's suffragette movement in this country. You know, I had a letter from a woman the other day through the mail and it said she was commending me on some speech I had made, and she said, "You know, Governor Stevenson, I am very easily swayed by emotion, until I think--which I occasionally do."

	It seemed to me a very promising and hopeful thing for the future. But it wasn't only women's franchise that Susan Anthony was famous for. I am told that it was here at Seneca Falls in this very town that she also started a fashion that existed for many years in this country in collaboration--in cooperation with a woman named Mrs. Bloomer, and I look about this audience and I must say that I observe the utmost disloyalty to the traditions of Seneca Falls--I haven't seen a bloomer all morning, around.

	I don't know how much to talk about; I could talk all day--and I kind of like it here, especially in the sun.

	I am glad the ladies have won the vote and I hope all of them will exercise their franchise, their right to vote. For our country faces, as you all know, very serious issues--issues involving our future, the futures of all of us; issues involving our hopes for prosperity and for peace in the world.

	Fortunately, I don't have to explain our Democratic platform to you in this all too brief talk this morning. You know what the Democratic party stands for and you know that one of the great advantages of being a Democrat is that you can stand on the Democratic platform; we don't have any termites eating away at our platform and we don't have any Old Guard hatchet men chopping down the pillars either. And what's more, our platform is strong enough to even hold the Republicans because about every other day they endorse something that we have done. Our platform, as you know, calls for carrying on the great gains of these past twenty years--gains in the field of labor relations, of agriculture, social security and civil rights. It calls for consolidating these gains and moving ahead to new accomplishments. My heart is very much in these programs because wherever you travel through this great land of ours you can't help but see how much they have meant to all of the people. And above all, our Democratic platform calls for action, action in the overshadowing, the all important unfinished business of our generation which is war and peace.

	Our party is pledged to a steady resistance to Communism and to patient and persistent effort to build a peaceful world.

	You also, by the way, get an honest label on the Democratic package. Our label doesn't promise any easy, painless, speedy solutions to problems that are exceedingly difficult, any easy relief from the problems that lie ahead of us. Our party does not believe in making promises unless it can keep them, and we are proud of our record in keeping promises that we have made in the past.

	There are men in our country of little faith who tell you that Korea is Truman's war; they say it is a useless war--and it is useless, unless you value freedom in this world. But if you do value freedom, if you do place a high value on stopping Communist expansion before it leads to the horror of a third world war, then the war in Korea is a necessary war.

	These men of little faith say to you that the Korean War is a hopeless war. I wish that these men could see America and talk to groups of Americans as I have in these past few weeks. America is a great, it is a strong, it is a rich, above all, it is a good country, and I believe with all my heart that with these qualities we can and we will safely not only preserve them but win our way to a peaceful future, if we have faith in ourselves, if we have confidence and if we have the courage and the will that we have had throughout all of our history.

	You have been very good to come here and I am deeply grateful to you, and perhaps I have kept you too long and perhaps our train is even further behind schedule, but I have had a good time; many thanks to you all.

	And lest you think that there are nothing but men only on this train, may I introduce my sister, Mrs. Ives.

	And I also have aboard here an enlightened Republican who is one of the many who have formed the Volunteers For Stevenson throughout the country--the national co-chairman, Mrs. Edison Dick of Chicago.

	I never know whether that is a Republican shooting or whether that is the train.

	We also have India Edwards aboard--the national vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee.

	You have been very good to us and I am very grateful and I would like to come back here and lie in the sun for about a month. 
KOREAN WARVOTING--WOMENVOTING RIGHTS     æ! ²! ¬! ¨!  !
 “! Ž! ‰! }! u! s! s! i!	 $ 	  	  e: