Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0920.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/20STUMPSPRINGFIELDILLINOISILLINCOLN HOUSE4,802 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Governor Shapiro. As I see these affectionate signs around the country saying Governor Sam--and that is the way we feel a warm, generous, compassionate human being with a great sensitivity to the needs of our people. Governor, I have not the slightest doubt, my dear friend, that the people of this state, who are known for their political intelligence, are going to elect you--yes, in a very real sense, re-elect, because you are in a great tradition--elect you the governor of the great state of Illinois.

	Now, permit me if I may to say a word about our candidate for the U.S. Senate, Bill Clark, distinguished lawyer, able, honorable, public servant, characterized by a sense of integrity, a deep sense of compassion--a man of peace, that speaks his heart and speaks his mind. I am very proud to be one of his friends and to be the leader of the party of which he is a member, and I want him to know that my hope is that he will be successful, and I ask you people to help elect him your next U.S. senator.

	Now, can one really feel totally at ease in a historic setting like this? First of all, we have all been presented here today by a very fine American, a young American, a servant of the people of this state, a man who in his own right has earned his own place in the hearts of our countrymen--the distinguished son of a very great and distinguished father--my friend and his father, my friend. I must say that my cup runneth over today in terms of gratitude and appreciation, and I want Adlai Stevenson to know that this is one of the finest moments of my public life, to be here on these steps of the Lincoln House with you--with you in this capitol city, the city from whence Lincoln left, gave his farewell remarks to go off to become the president of a divided nation, a troubled Republic.

	My mind has had literally flashing thoughts as I have stood here: First as I listened to the invocation by the Reverend Graebel, as I listened to the inspiring words that came from Lincoln and also from the Prophets and also from the Old Testament, as I listened to him speak of justice flowing like a stream, I was reminded of my readings of the Prophet Amos, whom I always called the original Liberal for all political and spiritual people, who feared not to speak the truth as he saw it and heard it. But as I stand here, I can't help but keep thinking how Lincoln said that we must meet new situations with new solutions. What is more needed now than that knowledge, because we are in an end of an era and the beginning of a new day, and new solutions are needed for new situations.

	What we had yesterday cannot be enough and what works, we will use and that which will not, we'll cast aside, because no man that seeks the presidency of the United States can afford to be bound by the past. He must be tied to the tomorrows and the future; otherwise, he would be unworthy of the high office that he seeks.

	I want this audience to know before I speak another minute that just as I said in my acceptance speech, I repeat now, that the solutions and the programs and the policies of yesterday may not apply to the needs and the critical situations of tomorrow, and I shall not feel bound by them, but I shall seek with Gods to help to find new ways and indeed, if possible, better ways to find solutions and answers to the problems of this generation and yet generations unborn, because every president is not only the president of his time but the also by his acts and his words and his deeds conditions the life of a nation for years to come, and indeed, his policies affect the lives of children yet unborn.

	So we come here today and speak from the steps of the home of the Emancipator. And we must be emancipated--emancipated from the yesterdays where there were wrongs; emancipated from the fears and the doubts that paralyzed a nation; emancipated from suspicion and despair which cripple a people. And if I can but do just a little of what is in my heart, we shall have a better nation, a freer nation, and a more just society.

	My friends, I know you have had many distinguished visitors. I even saw by the morning papers that Illinois had a distinguished visitor yesterday.

	Oh, no, I don't want ever a Humphrey supporter to boo anybody.

	Let me tell you, my friends, I say that in good humor and in sincerity, because there is one thing that I hope to address myself to a little in this meeting. That is our conduct as citizens.

	I want this America to be America the beautiful, and I will tell you something, you are never very beautiful if you are angry and you are never very beautiful if you are disrespectful.

	But let me get back. We had a visitor here, and my friend Adlai Stevenson made a suggestion. He suggested that Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace will be through the state, as long as some of our Republican friends had come here, and Senator Dirksen has been here, that might not be a good idea if we gathered together on these steps as good citizens and that we would have a few words with each other and a few words to the crowd.

	But I see that our invitation was not accepted, even though it was one delivered in full hospitality and generosity of spirit.

	I see that Mr. Nixon made sure to leave before the Humphrey campaign express pulled in last night. And I don't blame him.

	I am beginning to think that he is avoiding me.

	And I have looked at all those T.V. ads, and that is not the trouble. I have been taking my showers regularly.

	Now, had I not been campaigning yesterday in Massachusetts with Senator Tom Kennedy, and had I not been visiting--and had I not been visiting and campaigning in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, yesterday, with George McGovern--I would have joined Mr. Nixon in Peoria, for I have some questions to ask him and I think now that I will just sort of spread them on the record.

	I would like some answers to these questions, too. I believe the American people would also like some answers. I think it is time that we stopped passing like ships in the night and I think it is time that we discussed our differences openly, forthrightly, face to face, in Peoria, in Springfield, or on a network television. I think it is time for that.

	Now, Mr. Nixon is fully aware of the politics of our time. He is an old hand at it. He said he favors the treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons--in other words, to ban the bomb in countries that do not have it. But then he says that he opposes Senate ratification this year.

	He is the sort of fellow that says, I love my wife, but I am not going to give her any money.

	Yes, he is for the treaty, but...[missing text].

	He says he favors law and order, but he refuses to make any statement at all on the issue of controlling firearms.

	He says he is for law and order, and then he proceeds to attack the highest tribunal of this land, the Supreme Court, to which people look for justice. And he attacks the attorney general, who is the chief law enforcement officer of the land.

	I would remind him that Abraham Lincoln once reminded all of us as he spoke of the need for law and order that we have respect for the law and that we have respect for those who are responsible for the enforcement of the law.

	Mr. Nixon says that he admires Justice Fortas. My, he is so kind these days. It is hardly becoming.

	He says he is able; he says that Justice Fortas was an able and distinguished judge. He says the Senate should vote on his nomination. But Mr. Nixon refuses to say whether he supports or whether he opposes the confirmation of Justice Fortas.

	And more importantly, he refuses to repudiate his extremist allies in the Senate, led by none other than that Dixiecrat of old, Senator Strom Thurmond, who is blocking that vote on the nomination right now.

	It is a sad day in this country, my friends, when a man who talks about a new America, as does the Republican nominee, joins up with the remnants of the oldest and the world's worst part of the American heritage.

	Mr. Nixon goes into North Carolina and he says bravely and boldly that he supports the 1954 desegregation decision. That is fourteen years old. You can get pretty brave on that.

	But he opposes the implementation of that decision by the federal government. He is for it, but--

	Then he goes up North to rather safe country on a matter like this, up in Iowa, and says it is perfectly proper for the federal government to act when the action of a local school board is subterfuge for segregation.

	Mr. Nixon is having his own debate.

	I have a feeling, my friends, that the new Nixon and the old Nixon are going to go at it for sometime and you are going to find out who is the real Nixon, and you are not going to like it.

	Now, my friend, Mr. Nixon, goes into town. I was out at Jim Craven's farm this morning, a beautiful farm, lovely farm family. I could not help but reflect, as I did last night in Sioux Falls, that Mr. Nixon has a great knowledge of agriculture. He is the only man in the history of the world who has ever tried to plow a straight furrow with a corn picker.

	This is a honey. That is a beaut. You know, as Mayor LaGuardia used to say, when he made a blooper, it was a beaut. Well, I will tell you, I have seen many a corn picker, but they've never been used up in my country for plowing straight furrows.

	Then he says he is going to change the farm program. Well, they did it the last time they were in. They changed it to the cost of $3 billion to the American farmer. But he does not say how he is going to change it now.

	I think it would be nice for the people of Illinois to know what is he going to change about the soybean program?

	What would he change about the federal grains program? Would he repeal it? Would he modify it? Would he change the wheat program? Would he repeal it? Would he change the food stamp program? They did not give us much help in getting it in the first place.

	I think we have the right to know and I want him to answer. Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on the feed grain program, where do you stand on the food stamp program, Mr. Nixon? Where do you stand on federal aid to education? Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on expanded Medicare? Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on higher education? Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on the wheat program? Where do you stand on Justice Fortas? Where do you stand? Where do you stand? I must say he is elusive.

	He is the fastest moving target I have been since a bevy of doves and quail went out of the field. But I think I ought to let him know, I am a good shot.

	You know, many times, people have asked me about the vice presidential seal. It is hard for some of you unless you have twenty-twenty vision to see it from there, but let me explain it to you. I looked at it a long time and I got a little worried about that eagle, because he does not look too healthy.

	The presidential eagle has his wings up here like that--strong, clear-eyed, beautifully feathered bird. And in the claws, in one set of claws are the olive branches which represent the desire of this nation for peace; in the other set of claws, is a group or a bunch of arrows, representing America's constant preparation for national defense and national security, our strength. And they are balanced off. That is the presidential seal.

	I have got to looking at it so much, I am beginning to like it.

	Then I took a look at mine and some people think that it's upside down. It only reminds you that a VP has a lot of responsibility, but not much authority.

	And I looked at it, and lo and behold, I found that poor little, emaciated eagle had only one little sprig of olive branch.

	How can you expect me to be the number one peace man with just one little sprig of olive branch? 

	Let me have a handful, and believe me, you'll have peace. I want that made quite clear. 

	But now, you take a look over on that other side and you'll see there is that poor little vice presidential eagle with just one little arrow. Somebody said. "What in the world is that all about? Why just one? What are you going to do with it?" I said, "Nixon's the one."

	Well, my friends, if Abraham Lincoln could have a story to tell in the height of the tragedy of our nation in his time, I think maybe just a little levity once in a while in good taste is all right in this campaign.

	So I believe, Mr. Nixon, it is time for you to come out of the storm cellar so I can get an aim on you.

	I believe it's time for Mr. Nixon to make good on his promise.

	AUDIENCE: "Lay it on him."

	I'm about to do so. And I intend to tell it on him just like it is.

	I believe it's time for Mr. Nixon to make good on at least one promise. You remember what he said? He said he wanted to debate the opposition on television. Of course, that was his Republican opposition; they're rather soft touches--a promise that he made before and after the Republican National Convention.

	Now, Mr. Nixon, we both need a little time. Maybe I need it more than you do. My finances aren't so good. The networks are ready.

	Or does Mr. Nixon plan to take both sides of this issue too? He's sort of for it, but--

	Now, I have taken firm positions on the issues that I've mentioned here today, and I'm ready to defend each and every one. Yesterday, for example, I released a comprehensive ten-point program, for bringing the American farmer into the economic mainstream of this nation, and I know the difference between a plow and a cornpicker, too. I want that clear.

	And where does Mr. Nixon stand? Where does he stand when it comes to these specifics?

	He talks a lot about a mysterious list of 1967 issues on which he supposedly has taken a firm position. I want to tell you, Mr. Nixon's firm positions would make an ad for Jell-O look like concrete.

	I think the American people would be interested in learning what these firm positions are. So why keep it a secret? Unless he would prefer not to have the American people find it.

	And I thought we might begin those discussions in Peoria or Springfield in the tradition of the Lincoln-Douglas debates so that the American people could decide on the basis of the facts, not empty promises, not slogans, and that special brand of fence-straddling which Mr. Nixon perfected at least a generation ago. I think it's time to have the facts laid on the line, don't you?

	But Mr. Nixon scurried away and when last seen, was headed back East, to New York and the sanctuary of the Fifth Avenue apartment.

	Well, he can come out from either the apartment or the storm cellar. No one has said what I have said better that the late and beloved Adlai Stevenson, who said Mr. Nixon is the kind of a politician who will cut down a redwood tree and then get on the stump and give a speech about conservation.

	You know, he sort of reminds me of that fellow who was applying for a job teaching school. He wanted to be a geography teacher, he came into one of those counties down in Tennessee years ago where they had a difference of opinion about whether the world was round or flat. This poor fellow just wanted to please everybody, so he met with the school board. The school board said, "Now just one question; I just want to ask you, how do you teach geography? Do you teach that the world is round or do you teach it is flat?"

	He said, "I can teach it either way."

	That is it; that is it: for something, but--I'm for it, but not now. I like it a little bit.

	Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need a guessing game in the White House. We need leadership in the White House; firm leadership in the White House.

	Well, dear friends, we stand here today where Lincoln stood. May I say that standing here reminds me of the kinds of positions that have been taken in this campaign by Mr. Wallace and Mr. Nixon and by others. I have said and I repeat, I'm prepared to discuss these issues in good humor and good sense with any of these men. We stand at the moment of maximum peril for our nation. I'm set unaware of that nor are you.

	We are in trouble. Our people are tormented. There are passions amongst our people today that can be fanned into fire. There is a meanness in every society but there is also a goodness. The question is which shall come to the forefront?

	In November, the American people will make a fateful choice, just as they had to choose in 1860 and in 1864. And that choice is this: shall we as a nation move forward to fulfill the American dream of one society of opportunity, of justice, or shall we abandon this noble commitment out of fear, out of prejudice, and move instead forward a fractured and divided society--black against white, rich against poor, young against old?

	My fellow Americans, that is the issue in this campaign. That is the issue in this campaign. That is the issue not only in this campaign; more importantly, that is the issue in this country: will we be one nation? Will government of the people, by the people, and for the people be permitted to work?

	Can we be what Lincoln said we should be, the last best hope of Earth?

	I hope so, and I hope that somehow or other, as we listen to people, in the debate, in the discussion of a great political campaign, that we'll search deep into our souls and into our spirit and ask ourselves this question: what kind of an America do I want, not for myself but for my children?

	Because the decision we make this year will decide it for ourselves as well as for our children and for all those who have believed and sacrificed in building this, the greatest republic on the face of the Earth.

	You know, I'm sentimentalist. I'm often accused of it. I guess it's supposed to be a weakness. If it is, then I'm guilty. I'm a sentimentalist about this republic, about this country,...[Text Missing]...a man born in the plains, of humble parentage. yet I can stand before you as a candidate for the office of president.

	The same is true of Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace--none of them privileged, all of them from humble families, humble beginnings. It is a wonderful thing to live in a country that offers such opportunity.

	But, my friends, it hasn't offered that some opportunity to everybody. What Lincoln was trying to teach us was that we must open the gates of opportunity; that it wasn't good enough just to have some of us who have a chance, that every man must have a chance, every man.

	And he also tried to teach us that we must face up to the facts. There is no easy way out. Slogans will never do it. There are no panaceas. And I do not come to you to offer you an easy life, I come to you to ask you to live the life of a great people.

	I do not come to you saying that the federal government has a solution for everything; I come to you to tell you that this government will be no better than the people that inspire it. I come to you to ask you to be great people.

	I ask you these questions: Do the American people believe that the fears and the frustrations of life in this, the last third of the twentieth century, can somehow be made to vanish by papering over our problems and ignoring our shortcomings?

	Or are we made of sterner stuff? Are we better than so many of our pollsters and our commentators and our politicians give us credit for being?

	Are we strong enough, I ask you, to bear the responsibilities of power? And power is no privilege or luxury, my dear friends; it is a awesome responsibility and task of statesmanship is not merely the exercise of power, but it is restraint of the use of power is a powerful age.

	Can we find our way through, in other words, to the future which can yet be ours?

	As for myself, I must speak out on this issue. In Lincoln's words, and this was one of Adlai's favorite passages: "I must keep some standards of principle fixed within myself."

	Principle. Presidents do not need to be popular. But presidents must stand on principle and candidates must stand on principle.

	An America fulfilled, an America of equal justice and equal opportunity, you know as well as I do, has been the guiding principle that has caused me pain and suffering on occasion.

	But in the main, it has made me feel cleaner and better. And as a candidate for the highest trust of this nation, as a leader of my party, I shall not, under any circumstances, compromise with the principle of equal justice, equal rights, and equal treatment for every American.

	And it is because I trust the great unfrightened majority of Americans that I choose to speak not to their fears but to their hopes, to call forth not the bitterness and the resentment of life, but the vision of a new day for all of mankind; for what Lincoln called the family of man.

	Abraham Lincoln told the people of this city one hundred years ago this summer, a house divided against itself cannot stand. And that I say that this nation divided against itself cannot stand.

	I ask our nation not be of one mind, but of one spirit. It is because I trust in the firmness and the resilience of the character of the American spirit that I do not shrink from the hard decisions of the presidency. I seek that responsibility and I accept that burden.

	I have prepared myself for this honor and this day, and I want the chance to lead this nation with you.

	And in the words of that great statesman of this state, I am going to talk, and to talk sense to the people. I shall talk sense to them about the issue of law and order, order and justice, just as I did earlier this week with my comprehensive and specific program to stop crime and lawlessness in this country. I pledge support of our local police, but not with slogans and bumper stickers, but with leadership and federal resources, including money, money desperately needed for better salaries and more personnel and better training and better equipment.

	I pledge to stop riots by increasing the training of our local police so they are disciplined. And the National Guard in riot control, including the creation of highly mobile units which can act immediately to stop civil disorders in their earliest stages. We can do this, but we must teach our children what Lincoln said: "Love of the law, respect of the law; lawlessness starts in the home and law starts in the home."

	And it is at this point that I demonstrate with my followers. I have been the subject, as you know, of many times of harassment, of bitter attacks, of which I call bad manners, of demonstrations, and some of them that are ugly. Ladies and gentlemen, the right of free speech is too precious to have it destroyed by those who believe in nothing. You cannot have free speech destroyed either by government or a job.

	Listen to every man. Every man has the right to speak. He does not necessarily have to be taken seriously, but he has the right to be heard.

	We have the right to assemble, and let no government and let no mob and let no group of militant demonstrators break up that right to assemble. And every American of voting age has the right to vote. And let no government, no group of people, no mob in any way interfere with that precious right of popular sovereignty, the right to vote.

	Let's establish some standard here. I summon, therefore, my fellow citizens to the most urgent task of our time, with malice toward none, with charity for all; with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right. Let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds.

	I shall go forward with that firm conviction from these steps of this hallowed place. As Lincoln wrote in his first inaugural address written here in Springfield, in a room upstairs, over a store across the street from the old state house--listen to how timely these words are today: "We Americans are not enemies, but friends. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory will yet swell the chorus of the union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature."

	Beautiful words, prayerful words, and words so pertinent to today. I shall do this with humility more than of the knowledge, as Lincoln knew, that we cannot escape history, that we shall nobly save or meanly lose the last best hope of Earth.

	This is the issue then; this is the clear and conscious choice which I shall take to the American people.

	A great American general that fought with Lincoln said, "I shall propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all...[missing text]. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall propose to fight out this issue of one nation, a nation of respect and dignity, a nation not divided, a nation united, a nation in which Americans, black or white, rich or poor, can stand up in honor and say and proclaim proudly, and knowingly, that it is a fact: I am proud to be an American.

	Now, friends, let's take this case to our neighbors and our homes. This election will not be won here on these steps. This election will be won in the minds of the people. It will be won in the hearts of the people. It will be won when the American people know that pettiness is a trait of a weak and lost people.

	It will be won when Americans know that bitterness and passion are traits of a weak and lost people, and it will be won when Americans realize that goodness can produce greatness and that greatness can produce the kind of an America that our forefathers dreamed of and that you want to live in.

	That is my challenge to you and I ask you now on this platform to help me unite this America, help me bind up the wounds, help us make this a better country.

	Thank you very much.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTS     fe 2e ,e (e  e
 e e 
e ÿd ÷d õd èd Ýd	 ¬ 	 ˜ 	 Š 	 | 	 g 	 V 	 4 	  e: