Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1026.007SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/26STUMPStocktonCALIFORNIACA3,412 WORDS

	All right--you--it's about time, right? Right. We want real leadership from a real man in the White House. All right?

	Let me welcome you to this retirement party for Bill Clinton.

	As Dan said, California, of course, is a very, very important state. You've got fifty-four electoral votes. You need 270 to win, 20 percent right here. This is a big, big state and we are going to surprise Bill Clinton on November 5th in California.

	Because California understands what this administration has done to this state. Five hundred and twenty thousand Californians lost defense jobs--that's one thing. You pay about $3 billion in extra taxes because of illegal aliens. We don't protect the borders and we make you pay it. If we can't protect the borders, we ought to pick up the tab, not the taxpayers of California.

	And let me say, first of all--I think I--thank you. Thank you. Save that enthusiasm, we're going to need it.

	So--let me introduce you to some more real men. You mentioned real men. You know, you--we had introduced five Medal of Honor winners. These are, these are real Americans, Korean War, World War II, Vietnam War. I want them to step up here right behind me just for a moment, so you'll understand what America is all about.

	There are only 187--there are only 187 Medal of Honor winners still living. Twenty-one or twenty live in the state of California. You don't get these in Post-Toasties, you know. Risk--you risk your life for your fellow man, you lay down your life, you're willing to lay down your life for your fellow man. That is heroism, that is courage, that is America. That's what these men are all about. That's what we have out there.

	They, they provided the bridge to the future. They provided a bridge to the future. They provided a bridge to the future. And I know that others in the audience who've done, not the same thing--a lot of you have done a lot of things, you've done great service to your country, men and women. And I wanted you just for a moment to think about the greatness of America, and what makes it such a great country, because when the call comes, men like this are willing to say, "Okay, America calls. I'm going to serve. I'm going to do my duty for God and my country." And this is what it's all about. The greatest country on the face of the earth. Don't ever forget it.

	And we want to make it even better. I see a lot of young people here, a lot of $500 tax credits lined up here tonight. Yeah. Five-hundred dollars for every child under eighteen, 15 percent across the board tax cut, cut the capital, cut the capital gains rate in half. Thanks, fellas. Cut the capital gains rate in half. And where families work all their life and where kids help, you save a little money in your business or your farm or whatever, and somebody passes on. You shouldn't have to sell the farm to pay the estate tax. And we're going to start providing relief.

	That's only phase one, and phase two of our tax plan, our economic plan, is to have a flatter, fairer, simpler tax and end the IRS as we know it. End it, end it, end it.

	And how do we pay for it? Because some people may wonder, maybe even in this audience may wonder: "I'd like to have it, but how do we pay for it? The President said it's going to blow a hole in the deficit." Well, I said, well--I bet he had no...[missing text]...comment on that.

	But in any event--my view is this: the President wants to increase spending 20 percent over the next six years, federal spending. I want to increase 14, and give that little 6 percent back to the American taxpayer, back to working families. And we're going to do it without bothering Medicare. In fact, Medicare spending's going to increase 39 percent and Social Security 34 percent.

	Don't let President Clinton scare you. It's not even Halloween yet. They've been running negative ads--$35 million--nobody even knows yet--maybe $90 million in negative ads, trying to frighten seniors and veterans and students, saying "Republicans are going to take this away, this away, this away." We are going to strengthen and preserve Medicare because we know how important it is to many people in this audience, and many people in California.

	And don't forget who raised taxes on Social Security. It was President Bill Clinton. And not a single Republican member of Congress voted to increase your taxes on Social Security benefits. And he said, when he introduced his proposal, "If you're a senior citizen, if you're a widow, and you have $25,000 of income a year--you're rich and we ought to tax 85 percent of your benefits." Bob Dole will repeal that tax hike as soon as we're elected and get it done next year.

	It's a very simple principle. You know what it is? It's your money. It's not my money. It's not his money. And you should not have to apologize for wanting to keep more of what you earn. The government should apologize for taking too much of it in the first place.

	So, for a family of four, making $30,000 in stocks and anywhere else in America, you'd have a tax cut of $1,261, which is four or five months' day care, maybe mortgage payments, maybe a payment on a car, maybe a computer for your child or children, or maybe just take a little vacation with your family, take a little time off, because it's your money, it's your money.

	And don't let anybody tell you it can't be done, it can't be done. There's enough waste in the government to take care of part of it. You know, Hazel O'Leary flies all over the world--millions and millions of dollars. Why can't you have $1,261 to have a little vacation? We're going to make it happen.

	And before you ask, yes, former presidents will be eligible, and if Clinton leaves his change of address we'll send it to him next year. He'll get his tax cut next year.

	The government is too big and spends too much of your money. That's the purpose. Keep that in mind. If anybody here thinks the government's too small, the federal government--I don't think so. The government does--the government does a lot of good things. Don't misunderstand me. We're going to keep the safety net. Nobody's going to be left behind in a Dole administration. Some people need help in America. Some people will always need help. But we're reforming the welfare system to give people a chance to be in the mainstream, and regain their dignity and their self-esteem and get back into the mainstream.

	We passed welfare reform twice. The President vetoed it twice. We passed it a third time. He signed it, and then said it's the same, and in the next few days, well, he's going to change it all when he's re-elected, and take all the guts out of it. He's not going to be re-elected. We're going to put people back to work. We're going to try to get people to work in America.

	Now, if you're very young, or very old, or have a disability, you probably can't work. The government has a responsibility and the state has a responsibility. But the bottom line is this--we want to return power to the states in accordance with the 10th Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.

	And let me tell you what it says. It's Article Ten of the Bill of Rights. It's only twenty-eight words in length and our Founding Fathers had a lot of wisdom. They weren't Democrats or Republicans. They had wisdom. They had a lot of wisdom and they thought about the future, and they were worried about the government becoming so big and so powerful they might take away your rights. They might take away your property. They can confiscate all you have with high taxes. So, what they said in this twenty-eight-word amendment, a declaratory amendment that says, in effect, unless the Constitution gives the federal government the power or denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people, to the people, to the people. And we're going to send other programs back to the states and back to the people.

	And let me reach out here for a moment to any Perot voters who might be in the audience. We are the reform party. A vote for Ross Perot is a vote for Bill Clinton. Don't waste your vote. If you're a Perot voter or know a Perot voter--I haven't any quarrel with Ross Perot, but he doesn't have a chance. The only chance he has is helping Bill Clinton get re-elected, and we don't want Bill Clinton re-elected. We've had enough.

	So, let me just conclude with a little summary here--I believe in a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. President Clinton's against it. I believe if you listen to these Medal of Honor--look at these Medal of Honor winners--if you look at the flag, I want to protect the flag with an amendment to the Constitution. He's against it. I'm for it.

	I believe young people ought to have a, a right of voluntary prayer, not dictated prayer, but voluntary prayer, in schools.

	But if you send Bob Dole the partial birth abortion bill, I will sign it. I will not veto it. And let me say I recognize that people have different views on abortion. But on this particular procedure if you really knew about it, if you understood it whether you're pro-choice or pro-life, Dr. Everett Koop, for example--very pro-choice, said it's never necessary. It harms the health of the mother. It's virtually taking a life. It's a late-term abortion and it ought to be outlawed in America, and I will sign it and I will outlaw it.

	And President Clinton will tell you, well, it doesn't protect the mother. I, I know better. I offered the amendment to protect the life of the mother. It passed ninety-nine to zero in the United States Senate.

	Now President Clinton has this habit of looking you in the eye and walking right over the facts. I don't understand it. He'll tell you this--in fact, in our second debate--well, it wasn't really a debate, but he didn't want a debate. He showed up in San Diego--

	And he said, and he said--he looked at this lady and he said, "Beware of any politician who offers you a tax cut before the election." I mean, I couldn't believe it. That's what he did in 1992. He came out to California. He said the centerpiece of my first four years is a middle class tax cut. He turned around and gave you the biggest tax increase in the history of America--$265 billion.

	And it cost Californians in five years--do you know what it cost you? $37 billion is paid by California taxpayers. That's what he's doing for California--$37 billion. That's a lot of money out of the economy. Look what you can be doing with $37 billion in California. I know he likes to get haircuts out here. I know they are great haircuts. We're going to give him a haircut on November 5th that will last forever. Yet he talks about being the most ethical administration in history. Can you believe it? We--

	I didn't hear that. Anyway, let me tell you about outrage. I want to just recite a couple of things. I, I know you're outraged but I want the American people to wake up. This election's about to happen. And if there, there isn't a wake-up call, and he's counting on people not noticing, let me just give you a few examples.

	They've got a drug dealer down in Miami who gave $20,000 and gets invited to the White House dinner. That's an outrage. It's an outrage to have anybody dealing in drugs in the White House, period. Not even a cup of coffee for that guy. Out he goes. He won't be in a Dole administration.

	We have this--we have Vice President Gore, Vice President Gore, very stiff and very proper, going down to the Buddhist Temple in Los Angeles. Everybody there signs a vow of poverty--he comes out with $122,000. He says it was just--he thought it was just a community outreach program. Well, he reached it. He's got all they got. They had to reach pretty deep. They must have a laundromat next door, where the money goes in one door and out the other door. But--

	Then there's this guy named, named Gandhi, related to the late Mahatma Gandhi over in India. Remember him? Some of you do. I do. Very fine man, very fine leader, but Gandhi claims he's related. He gave the President a phony plaque, it turns out, took the President's hand. The next thing you know, $300,000 flows into the Democratic party. The trouble is the guy still owes $10,000 in property taxes and now Gandhi is gone. He's gone. They can't find Gandhi--Gone-dee, Gone-dee, Gone-dee--he's gone.

	And then there's this rich, rich, rich Indonesian family. And they wanted to plant a few people in this administration, and the price is right. $400,000--you get somebody to be secretary, assistant secretary of Commerce--something else, you get this $250,000--The L.A. Times got wind of it and they had to give the money back. That's painful for the Democrats. But--the bottom line is this. I never believed I would live long enough to see all this foreign aid coming to America. But it's coming to America.

	And that is an outrage. That is an outrage. And what about all the people in, you know--we're, we're a nation of immigrants, don't misunderstand that legal immigration is fine. That's how many of us got our start in America. But now they're trying to rush through all these immigrants, because they want to naturalize 1.3 million. They wanted to do it before the election, except they made one mistake. They didn't check criminal records. So about 10 percent who are going to be naturalized have criminal records. That's an outrage, Mr. President, and you know it's an outrage.

	And a lot of us have FBI files. Probably half the people here have an FBI file. You may not know much. It doesn't mean you've done anything wrong. But how would you like to have your FBI file down at the White House--and some guy who used to work in a bar as a bouncer, Craig Livingstone, as the White House Security Chief? He fits right in down there, and he's rummage, rummaging through your FBI files. That's an outrage, Mr. President. It's an outrage.

	And of course, then there's, then there's Whitewater. And this, this one person's in contempt. She's in jail right now for not telling what she knows about Clinton's involvement. And then the question of the pardon came up. Instead of saying, "No pardons," he said well, you know dah, dah, dah, dah, dah. In other words he, he sent a signal--keep your mouth shut. After the election we'll take care of it. That's an outrage, Mr. President, and you know it's an outrage.

	When you are elected president of the United States, when you walk into the White House, when you set foot in the White House, you have a public trust. You owe the American public, whether you're a Democrat or Republican, ethical conduct higher than anybody in America and anybody in the world, because you are the president of the United States, the greatest country on the face of the earth.

	And I can't believe what happened. I can't believe what happened. You're going to get him. All right.

	Thank you very much. And you're--you know--and that's very important. I want you to trust me. You can ask my colleagues in the Senate, Democrats or Republicans. They may not agree, but not a one of them would ever stand up and say anything except, "Bob Dole keeps his word." I keep my word. I keep my word.

	And there's one more difference--there are a lot of differences, and I'm going to stop in a second--there's one more big difference between me and Clinton. He's about ready to leave the White House, and I'm ready to move in.

	And finally, finally I want to thank you. I want to thank Ann Venamin...[missing text]...when I have any problems at...[missing text]...I'm going to look to Ann for leadership. And Clayton Yuetter, who's the former trade rep and secretary of Agriculture, has done an outstanding job. He's been with us all day. Clayton, thank you, and Chrisy, thank you.

	Chrisy's just a nice innocent--Chrisy's just a nice, innocent--Chrisy's right here. They've got her FBI file down there and old Craig's looking through it at night--having a beer, looking through the FBI files. Oh, boy--that's excit--oh, boy, look at this, yeah. Just like the old days at the bar, sitting down at the White House.

	All right. Enough is enough. I want the American people to be outraged. I want to wake up America. I want to wake up the liberal media. It's time we let the American people know what would happen with four more years of this outfit--four more years--

	We've lost prestige around the world. We're not respected by our friends. We're not feared by our enemies. We've cut defense spending too much. Ask these guys right over here. If we're going to make a mistake on defense, we're talking about liberty and freedom and the future of our children. If I'm going to have to make a decision, I'm going to...[missing text]...spending a little too much instead of not enough, but our liberty and freedom are at stake.

	And when I look at the young people in front of me here, and think about their future, and think about drugs in America, we're going to use the National Guard if necessary to stop drugs from crossing the border.

	Drug use has doubled in the past four years under President Clinton. We're going to cut it in half, as Ronald Reagan did in my first four years. We'll cut it in half. We owe it to these young people. Don't start, if you haven't started. Don't start drugs, don't start alcohol, don't start cigarettes. They're not any good for you. They don't do a thing for you. They ruin your life.

	Listen. It's your future, and your future is America's future. "We need you," I say to young people here tonight. Listen. It's very important. Twenty years from now one of you might be standing up here saying, "I want a better America." And we're going to have a better America. I want you to be proud of your vote. I want you to vote for Bob Dole and think about it tonight, and the next day and the next day. And call your neighbors and call your friends.

	Well, thank you very much for coming--I want to get all the local candidates up here--Jeff/Cliff...[missing text]...come on up here. Sue...[missing text]...candidates here. I also want to thank Bo Derek for coming along--Bo Derek or a different woman: thank you.

	Bo Derek's been on one bus, and everybody wanted to be on that bus. I don't know--I can't--we've got one guy who won't get off the bus. That guy named P. F. Bentley over there with Time magazine, he's taking her picture right now. We can't get him off the bus because that's the bus that Bo's on. He knows if he gets off we won't put him back on that bus again. But in any event, we've had a great time. We're very excited. We want a better America the next century and we can have it. Go to work.
ABORTIONBILL OF RIGHTSCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDRUG TRADE--GENERALFLAG/FLAG ISSUESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALILLEGAL ALIENSIMMIGRATIONINDIAINDONESIAINHERITANCE TAXMEDICARESCHOOL PRAYERSOCIAL SECURITYTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERALWELFARE     jJ 6J 0J ,J "J
 J J J J þI üI ñI	 >	 6	 (	 	 ç 	 Ô 	 Ä 	 — 	 | 	 n 	 c 	 ^ 	 U 	 F 	 > 	 1 	 " 	  	  e: