Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1028.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/28STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYMADISON SQUARE GARDEN2261 WORDS

	We are reaching the final hours of the long campaign voyage. A week from today you and millions of your countrymen will retire to the solitude of the voting booth for a moment of communion with your conscience. The blare of the loudspeakers will be silenced; the Republican air raid will be over; the all-clear will have sounded; the candidates, the politicians, the experts, the pollsters will all have slipped into the shadows, and the people will take the stage.

	As I speak here I am aware that the world will quickly forget what I say tonight, but it will long...

	Oh, yes, it will, but it will long remember what you do on next Tuesday. And I will long remember your welcome to me, a son of Illinois, here in New York tonight.

	To stand here in Madison Square Garden on this traditional occasion is to be enveloped with the memories of two great men of this state and of the Democratic party--Alfred Smith and Franklin Roosevelt. It was these men who led the Democratic party to its great revival. Picking up after a long period of Republican rule and ruin, they gave to New York State and then to this nation a whole, complete program of liberal social reform. They took up once more the spirit of the idea of an immortal American--that government must be of the people, for the people, and by the people. It is the principle immortalized at Gettysburg which animates and guides our party today--the principle of government with a heart--government not content with merely governing, but dedicated to reflecting and expressing the interests of people--their needs, their dreams, their highest hopes and aspirations.

	To travel this country as I have these past two months is to realize that there is a new force alive in America. People are looking for something more in the conduct of their public affairs. I sense at this midpoint of this great century of revolution a kind of driving desire in people to find a more exalted meaning in democracy. They are willing to do for their party more than they have done before, and they are demanding of those who would be their leaders some new, not wholly defined, imperfectly perceived element of uplift in the execution of democracy's purpose. The record of this election will be the record of the response of our two great parties to this new challenge of the people.

	The Republican party rose last spring from a generation of lethargy and caught for a moment the spark of this new desire and exaltation. They cradled the fire in the slogan of change. And then, as the nation cheered, the Republican party cast out its old and weary rigid leadership and turned instead to a man whose name has become a national symbol of high purpose.

	However, that spark which had been kindled in the higher desires of thousands of our Republican friends was then snuffed out in a sordid triumph of expediency over principle. These hopes and aspirations were shaken to their roots when the Republican crusader said "I do" to the lifelong cheerleader for a dear, departed, quiet past that is also dead. These hopes were wholly destroyed in the chain reaction of compromise which followed the first surrender of principle to expediency. Today there is the dreary dullness of disillusion; the stark realization that the venerable Republican party has within it forces of reaction once more unconquerable. It is in all ways proper that Democrats extend a warm, affectionate welcome to these thousands of courageous souls--these refugees from all walks of life who were thrilled by the general's victory at Chicago, and are now disheartened by this negotiated peace with the enemy. It has been part of the price of that surrender that much of the purpose of this campaign and of this election has been lost--for us as well as them.

	America faces today great questions of its destiny. This should have been a time, in this campaign, for the two great parties to lay before America their precise programs for America's future. I have tried to do this--for you, for the Democratic party, for the Independents who wear no label--to the fullest of my ability. I have enjoyed it. There have been great satisfactions in honoring as best I could my commitment to talk sense to the American people. But there has been no opportunity for actual debate, for evidently part of the price of the embrace on Morningside Heights has been to lay no affirmative program before this nation for its approval.

	The general headquarters of the great crusade are agreed upon what they are against, which is, in a word, Democrats. But, they are not agreed on what they are for. And the record is clear that most of what they are for is what most of the people of America are against--and have been for twenty years. So, speech after speech has come forth from Republican rostrums, always in the same pattern. Volumes of sound about all that the Democrats have done wrong, followed by an angels' choir--the angels in costume, of course.

	The biggest single fact before the American people in this election is that there is no Republican program for the future. It is not enough that they tell us they are against high prices. It is not enough that they cry out in alarm about false prosperity. They offer no facts to support their prophecies of doom and no evidence that they have departed from their 1930 patented formula of "let boom and let bust."

	It is not enough to be told that every decent Republican hates Communism. So does every loyal American. What we wanted to know was how the Republican leadership would meet this problem. And, of that we know nothing, except that the general gives us his assurance that we can do it justly and fairly and in full observance of the American system of justice. We do not know even whether the Republican program would include fighting Communism by helping our allies, as the general professed before he was a candidate; or whether he changed his mind when he took up Senator Taft's demand for tax reductions that could only be accomplished by halting virtually all aid to Europe.

	There is no point in going on. The pattern is clear on issue after issue. To recognize the problem, to engage in self-righteous denunciation, and then to present two offerings: one, unspoken but plain from the record, is the persistent answers of a group of Old Guardians who are once again in the places of decision. We have said in five straight elections that we don't like those answers--and we will say it again. The other answer which has come so often these past two months is the assurance that a great general will somehow continue to deal with these problems fairly and justly. It is in no disrespect that we say this is not only too little--it is dangerously too much. A democracy cannot afford to make its elective process simply a determination to rely on the unrevealed wisdom of one man. History offers too many warnings against that course.

	On July 12th, in Chicago, speaking to a group of old-line Republican leaders, the man who was then seeking the Republican nomination sought to reassure his listeners against their doubts about his political qualifications. Would he do, they were asking in effect, what they considered necessary to win the election? He gave them full and sufficient assurance, and these were his words: "In the military, when strategical principles conflict with the tactical, the tactical always goes. Which means that long-term programs are not nearly so important as winning the next battle." 

	Now, it isn't perhaps for me to argue before the bar of the American people whether a background of military or civilian experience is a better qualification for the presidency. Anything I might say would be misinterpreted as a denial of my unqualified respect for those who have served our country with courage and with devotion. Yet the Republican candidate, drawing upon his own military experience to explain his campaign tactics, gives those tactics he has subsequently employed a fuller meaning which the voters of America are entitled to have made clear.

	High prices, labor relations, farm programs, social security, Communism--are these in the general's view matters right now only of campaign tactics? Are America's long-term programs for meeting these problems of lesser importance than winning this election? Is this only a battle that we have before us? Do the tactics of winning it justify false fears and false promises? Is it all right to count the American people too ignorant to understand? Are no long-term answers necessary? Is it just bread and circuses, and if there has to be an answer, is it to offer fairness, justice and the services of a man whose familiarity invites respect? 

	In this record is the complete rejection by the Republican party of what I have called earlier the new force alive in America today, the desire of people to find a new, a more exalted kind of meaning in the public life of this democracy.

	Are we ready, we of the Democratic party, to meet this challenge? I say that we are. An awareness of it has been the guiding star of this campaign. I have spent--and my colleagues with me--two long, yes, hard months, spelling out a complete program of policy for the people to consider and to vote on next Tuesday. In any campaign there may be some words uttered that one wishes later had remained unspoken. I am not above reproach. I have not been able in the exigencies of time and circumstances to spell out every problem, every question in minute detail. But my conscience--that thing that usually feels so bad when everything else feels so good--my conscience does not trouble me.
 
	I have spoken my piece with candor, and often. I have been subjected to the solemn charge that I am being too funny, and at other times I have been accused of being too intellectual and somber. I shall have to let you judge whether I am too prone to invite people to laugh or weep. Both, in my judgment, are good for the spirit, and I hope the Republicans don't contemplate any legal prohibitions against them! 

	I can approach this day of the people's judgment with the confidence that I have never attempted to be different things to different men. There is only one candidate for the presidency on the Democratic ticket. It will never, I hope, be said that the governor of Illinois has ever whispered anything to the governor of South Carolina that he would not say aloud to the governor of New York. I have said the same thing about the great cause of equal rights for all men in Virginia and in Harlem. I have not been an isolationist in Chicago and an internationalist in New York. I have not praised my friend in one breath and then moved on quickly to grasp hands with those who slander him.

	We have talked to--not down or up--we have talked to the American people. This is the beginning of our answer to men and women who are saying, "We want no smallness of vision in those who seek our trust--no compromising with what some mistakenly think are our weaknesses."

	It was a great poet who said, "Not failure, but low aim, is crime." Those who aspire to the leadership of America, if they offer Americans something unworthy of their own beliefs and interests, will fail.

	I do not say to you that I, or any member of our party, has a vision of America large enough that its people will not outstrip that vision in a score of years. I say to you only that it is our purpose, our intent to work up toward the level of high purpose for America which you hold unspoken in your hearts. We offer you what we think is an awareness of your aspirations for our country as it turns into the second half of this troubled century. You want your public affairs to be in the hands of a government which is clean so that it may be strong. You want the tremendous affairs of America administered so that you can live in a world of plenty and of peace. You accept the obligations of leadership of the world of free nations, asking only that these obligations entail no more of sacrifice than is wholly essential and required.

	We have learned that to act with enthusiasm and faith is the condition of acting greatly.

	We have learned that to plan boldly is to make dreams come true.

	We offer for America, for leadership, no fear, no counsels of little cautiousness--nothing small and petty. Facing America, we offer an awareness of its call for something better, and nothing less than the finest which is in us.

	And finally, my friends, you have been very patient, and I have some good news for you. On Sunday last, the Chicago Tribune came out for the general, and Colonel McCormick is in the forefront in the great crusade, without any loss of rank. But the Milwaukee Journal came out for Stevenson--and guess who lives in Wisconsin? 
COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNENDORSEMENTS--PRINT MEDIA     ”2 ü2 ô2 ï2 ç2
 Ä2 {2 v2 n2 f2 d2 O2 E2	 a 	 X 	 7 	  e: