Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0914.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/14STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCGEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY / A STRONG AND SECURE AMERICA3,265 WORDS

	I'm running for the presidency to restore respect for American leadership in a changing world.

	The kind of respect that Franklin Roosevelt earned when he championed the Four Freedoms and crushed Hitler's armies during World War II.

	The kind of respect that John Kennedy earned when he forced the withdrawal of Soviet missiles from Cuba and signed the world's first nuclear test ban agreement.

	The kind of respect that America received when it served first as the arsenal and then as the breadbasket for the free world; when American goods reflected the highest quality and finest technology; when America put a man on the moon and a Peace Corps in the developing world; when people from around the globe looked to us for leadership and for hope.

	I'm running for president because I want to see our country get that kind of respect from our allies, our trading partners, our friends, and our adversaries.

	But to build and maintain the respect we need, we must meet not just one, not just some, but every challenge to our national security; the new challenges of tough global economic competition and of terrorism and of drugs that I talked about Monday; the challenge posed by the new leaders of the Soviet Union that I discussed yesterday; and the challenge of keeping America militarily strong, which is my subject today.

	And military strength--as we all know--begins with the men and women of our armed forces.  Our national defense depends on their skills and courage and commitment.

	During the 1950s, I spent sixteen months as a GI in the small Korean village of Munsan-Ni--not far from the demilitarized zone.

	I, and those I served with, didn't ask for much in the way of material comforts.  We had an obligation to serve, and we were proud to meet that obligation.  All we wanted--and all we expected--was to be well-trained, to have weapons that worked, a mission that we understood, and to know that we were being remembered and supported in the thoughts and prayers of those back home.

	That's not a lot to ask for, but for those on the frontline, it makes all the difference in the world.

	It's especially important in this election year; for the job of defending freedom is not a Republican job.  It is not a Democratic job.  It's a responsibility we all have as Americans.

	George Bush unfortunately forgot that lesson last month when he persuaded the President to veto that defense authorization bill--over the objections of the Secretary of Defense and the National Security Advisor.  Mr. Bush's pollster apparently had more influence than they did.

	That bill would have strengthened our military forces, provided needed pay increases to our military personnel, and given our armed forces a real role in the war against drugs.

	My friends, we can not play politics with our national security.

	We've got to have real leadership in this country.  Leadership that will put America's interests first.  As president, I'm not going to make decisions that affect the well being of our servicemen and women on the basis of what some poll tells me; and I'm not going to be looking for guidance on national security issues from J. Danforth Quayle.

	We need a president who knows how to make tough decisions.  A president who will call the shots.  Assemble a team.  Work with the Congress.  Replace officials who need to be replaced.  And take the heat when things go wrong.

	That's what governing is all about.  And that's what a Dukakis Administration will be all about.

	We're not going to have a laundry list of weapons systems; we're going to have a strategy for keeping America militarily strong.

	We'll use force when it's necessary to protect our territory, our citizens, or our vital interests; to meet our treaty commitments; and to deter or to respond to terrorist attacks.

	We're going to put our defense dollars where our defense needs are greatest; we're going to buy weapons that work; we're going to make certain that the men and women of our armed forces have the equipment, and the training and the support they need to defend our country; and we're going to clean up the mess in the Pentagon.

	Above all, we're going to keep America strong, because as John Kennedy said 28 years ago, "only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain without doubt that they will never be employed."

	Since the development of modern missile technology almost 30 years ago, the defense of our country has depended on strong and survivable nuclear forces.  Preventing a nuclear war is--and will remain--the centerpiece of our national security strategy.

	We must have--and in a Dukakis Administration we will have--strategic forces that are strong and modern and versatile.

	Strategic forces that will convince any potential adversary that they have nothing to gain and everything to lose by attacking the United States or our allies or our friends.  And we must do whatever is necessary through modernization, and, if possible, through arms control, to ensure an effective, credible deterrent.

	What does that mean?  It means that I support, and I intend to go forward as planned with the Trident II sea-based missile to offset the Soviet Union's highly accurate missiles, and with the Stealth bomber and the advanced cruise missile to counter improvements in Soviet air defense.

	We've had a lot of nonsense lately from Mr. Bush on the subject of national defense in recent weeks.  The fact is that the Trident II program began during the last Democratic Administration; and so did the Stealth.  The fact is that the B-1 bomber cost $27 billion, and there is now a serious question as to whether it can do the most important job it was designed to do.  The fact is that the Republicans promised in 1980 to make our land-based missiles invulnerable and today, after another $25 billion and 8 years of Republican mismanagement, our ICBM's are more vulnerable than they were in 1980.

	My friends, it's time for an end to Republican smoke and mirrors.  The MX, with its Pearl Harbor style basing mode, isn't the answer.  In those rail barns, it's a sitting duck.

	The strategic concept of the Minuteman is sound, but I question the value of spending 40 or 50 billion dollars for 500 additional land-based missile warheads--at three times the cost of the same number of new submarine-based warheads.  So I'm going to work with the Congress to find a sensible, affordable way to maintain the effectiveness of the land-based missile leg of the triad.

	But just as we must modernize to maintain an effective deterrent, so we must negotiate to improve the effectiveness of the deterrent we have.  And we negotiate, not for the sake of negotiating, but because it is in the interest of our national security to do so.  We negotiate to limit the ability of the Soviet Union to continue building new and more dangerous weapons, the ability to keep multiplying its arsenal of nuclear warheads, the ability to steadily increase the cost and the danger of the race for nuclear weapons.

	The INF agreement was a good beginning, but it was only a beginning.  Unlike Ronald Reagan, George Bush doesn't seem to understand that.  He wants to put START negotiations on the back burner.  I say we should build on the progress that Mr. Reagan and Mr. Gorbachev have made.  I say it is in our interest to forge an agreement--a mutual and balanced and verifiable agreement--that will make deep cuts in Soviet strategic arms.

	Even then, we must do more; because during the past eight years, the Soviets have deployed more than 3000 new strategic warheads.  Even if START is signed and ratified, the Soviets will have as many or more nuclear warheads targeted on the United States as they did the day the Republicans took office.

	As president, I want to challenge the Soviet Union to move beyond the limits of START to stop the development of new and more dangerous weapons that threaten world stability and our security; to stop developing fast new submarine missiles that can attack our bombers before they get off the ground; to eliminate all of their SS-18s, the most dangerous and deadly missile on the earth today.  And I will challenge the Soviet Union--as has every president since Dwight Eisenhower, with one exception--to stop the testing of nuclear weapons.

	And what about Star Wars?  My friends, if we're going to keep America strong: if we're going to increase, rather than undermine, the stability of the nuclear balance; if we're going to make our defense dollars count, we've got to stop pouring billions and billions into this program and do some hard thinking about what we're trying to achieve.

	There are those who would like to rip up the ABM Treaty; to extend the arms race into space; to undermine the effectiveness of the deterrent we have by pursuing a fantastically complicated scheme whose purpose seems to change every few months, and whose feasibility has been questioned by virtually the entire scientific community.

	I have a different view.  I want to protect American security, not by scrapping the ABM Treaty, but by insisting that the Soviets live up to it, and that they dismantle the Krasnoyarsk radar.  I'll request the funds to maintain a program of antiballistic missile research.  Because such a program will allow us to respond if the Soviets violate their obligations under the ABM Treaty, and it will allow us to make an informed judgment as to what the technology can and cannot do.

	What about George Bush on the subject of Star Wars?  I'm beginning to get the feeling that one of the reasons he is so reluctant to debate me is that he's so busy debating himself on this issue.  One day he wants to speed up SDI.  The next day he doesn't.  But even he admits that if we continue to spend billions on it, we will have to cut somewhere else.

	He won't tell you where those cuts will come.  But the fact of the matter is that we already know; they're cutting back on people; they're cutting back on tanks; they're cutting back on helicopters; they're already cutting back on ships.

	My friends, we pay a price not just in numbers, but in security, when we do what Mr. Bush wants us to do; to continue buying without planning; to continue writing blank checks to the Pentagon without setting priorities or making tough choices; to continue business as usual, instead of managing the Pentagon to get a dollar's worth of security for every defense dollar we spend.

	Today, only 55 percent of our Army Reserves are combat ready.  Our backlog of essential maintenance in the Army and Air Force is greater now than it was when this Administration took office.  If we went to war tomorrow, we would have a shortage of 7,000 doctors and 31,000 nurses in the military.  Maybe Republicans aren't worried about that; maybe the work that military medics do isn't very glamorous, but to the GI and the sailor and the aviator and the Marine, nothing could be more important.

	In Central Europe today, the most serious danger we face is the two to one Warsaw Pact advantage in modern tanks.  Yet the Republicans have already cut our tank production and want to slash it almost in half again next year.  And after 8 years in office, they have still failed to deploy an infantry anti-tank missile that can take out modern Soviet tanks.  A recent government report estimated that up to 851 of the infantry soldiers using today's anti-tank weapons to stop a Soviet tank attack in Europe would be dead after firing a single round!  And that round would bounce off the Soviet tank.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to keep tank production up and we're going to invest in the new technologies we'll need to stop Soviet tanks.

	Today, NATO's defense absolutely depends on air power--on the technological edge that we get from advanced fighters like the F-15 and F-16.  But the Soviets aren't standing still.  They're copying our technology, even stealing it--and trying to catch up.  And what is the Administration doing?  They've cut back so much on maintenance that a senior Air Force official said recently that at the end of this year, "We are going to see airplanes without engines."  And our very best pilots--the "top guns" of tomorrow--are leaving the military in record numbers.  Mr. Bush convinced the President to veto the bill that had new bonuses for our pilots aimed at keeping them in.  My friends, what kind of judgment is that?

	We can do better than that.  In my Administration, we're going to build on our technological lead with the Advanced Tactical Fighter to stay one jump ahead in the air battle.  On time.  And on budget.  And we're going to be sure that we have the money so that that fighter has engines.  And it has pilots too.

	Today, the greatest threat to our naval fleet is from Soviet submarines.  We need to invest in the best possible anti-submarine warfare capability in order to diminish that threat.  But the Administration has let our lead slip, while Soviet submarines are becoming quieter and more deadly with each passing year.

	My friends we can do better than that.

	As president, I'll challenge our scientists and engineers to recapture our commanding position in anti-submarine warfare, on which NATO's strategy depends.  We'll build the Sea Wolf, our first new attack submarine in 15 years, as quickly as possible.  We may not match Soviet numbers, but we must have superior technology.

	Finally, if we're going to meet our treaty commitments; if we're going to meet our responsibilities around the world; if we're going to maintain America's status as the number one maritime power on the face of the globe; we've got to have a fully capable carrier fleet.  And that means having enough planes to operate off those carriers; it means having modern munitions and well-trained sailors and aviators who have the opportunity to fly in time of peace the aircraft that their lives, and our freedom, will depend on in time of war.

	Today, as Senator Nunn has pointed out, the "Navy lacks the combat aircraft to fill its carrier decks in wartime because we built more carriers than we have aircraft to go with them."  One-third of our heavy A-6 bombers are grounded or restricted because we don't have the money to fix the cracks in their wings.  And this year, we decommissioned sixteen frigates because we couldn't afford to operate them.

	My friends, we've got to have leadership in the Pentagon that will take charge of our defense policy.  And we've got to have a president who will keep faith with the men and women we ask to defend freedom and liberty around the world.

	We have to keep faith with them because recruiting and retaining skilled people is the single most important element of any strategy for maintaining a strong defense.

	We have to keep faith with our service personnel by giving them fair pay, and decent benefits, and good health care for themselves and for their families.  And today, military pay is further behind comparable civilian wages than it was when this Administration took office.

	Finally, we have to keep faith with the men and women of our armed forces by making sure that every dollar we spend for defense goes for defense; not for weapons that can't do the job they were designed to do and not to line the pockets of some dishonest contractor or wheeler-dealer here in Washington.

	Defense fraud isn't just another crime.  When somebody cuts corners on quality, that's not petty theft, that's grand larceny.  When somebody skims off profits for himself that should be going to strengthen our national defense, that's intolerable.  When we have eight years of mismanagement, eight years of everything from $400 hammers to a $4 billion dollar DIVAD defense system that couldn't hit the broad side of a barn, it's not time for another study or commission, it's time for a new Commander in Chief.

	George Bush and his running mate have opposed every single effort aimed at Pentagon reform.  They opposed the creation of an independent Inspector General to investigate defense fraud.  They opposed establishing an organization in the Pentagon to test weapons before we buy them.  They opposed putting restrictions on the revolving door between the Pentagon and the defense industry.  And they opposed giving our field commanders more authority over what types of weapons we buy.

	We have what you might call a new Republican triad these days:  waste, duplication and fraud.

	Now, there are those who say that we can't possibly change the way we buy our military weapons and supplies.  The problem's too big they say.  It's out of control.  We don't know how to do it right.

	I don't buy that at all.

	We have thousands and thousands of dedicated and professional people in the Pentagon, in our armed services, and in the private sector.  They're looking for leadership that is competent; leadership that understands the problems our servicemen and women have to face every day and every week; leadership that cares about getting the weapons we need; when we need them; and at a price we can afford.

	And I can tell you that in a Dukakis Administration, we're not going to ignore the recommendations made by the Packard Commission; we're going to implement them.  We're going to increase competition.  We're going to insist on warranties and independent testing wherever possible.

	We're going to select experienced people to manage our military programs.  And we're going to give them the authority they need, reward them when things go well, and hold them accountable when things do not.

	You know, there was nothing heroic about the job my country asked me to do more than thirty years ago in South Korea.  My memories are not of combat missions, but of guard duty, cold nights, army food--and it was pretty good--friendships made, officers saluted, and thoughts of my family back home.

	But I also remember the pride I felt to be an American soldier on duty for America in a land in which the hunger for democracy was beginning to grow, and in which the strength of America had been felt on freedom's behalf.

	My friends, that pride has only grown stronger with the passage of time.

	And I'm running for president because I want to lead an America that leads the world; an America that does not settle for second-place or second best.

	An America that loves peace, but knows the cost of freedom.

	An America that has not wavered from the pledge that another son of Massachusetts made 28 years ago, a pledge to "pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, [and] oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty."

	Today, 200 years after the election of our first president; let us dedicate ourselves anew to the dream of those who founded our country; firm in our purpose; true to our principles; confident [missing text] us; that the best America is not behind us; the best America is yet to come.

AIR FORCEGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY--CONVENTIONAL FORCESMISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSNAVYNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS MODERNIZATIONMILITARY PREPAREDNESS     NK K K K K
 ýJ øJ óJ éJ ÕJ ÓJ  J •J	 ¯ 	 ¦ 	 – 	 y 	 b 	 ^ 	 *   e: