Speeches\1968\rep\S68R1029.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/29STUMPSOUTHFIELDMICHIGANMI3857 WORDS
	Governor Romney, Congressman Broomfield, Congressman McDonald, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform, and all of those here in this great audience here in Southfield at the conclusion of our motorcade of the Detroit area. It seems to me that this is a very appropriate time for me to discuss as we finish this campaign in Michigan, at least as far as my own activities are concerned, to give you a feel of it, feel of the nation, how much is at stake, what it's all about.

	Before doing so, however, I want to express some appreciation to some men who have done a magnificent job in this campaign, not only in Michigan but across the nation. As all of you are aware, Governor Romney and I kind of started this whole presidential sweepstakes in the snows of New Hampshire. It was rather significant that it snowed today for the first time in this campaign. But I want to tell you one thing. There hasn't been any man in this country, governor, senator or congressman, who has worked harder or more effectively for our ticket than George Romney, the governor of Michigan. I am mighty glad to have him on my side, believe me.

	And also in speaking of him, I am awfully glad to have Mrs. Romney on my side, too. And, of course, your own Senator Bob Griffen, I have known for so many years, and with you was so delighted when he came to the Senate. And I was trying to, as I heard outside the introduction that was given to him, I was trying to present him to you in a way that you perhaps could see it from a different perspective. Let me put it this way. I have been in Washington, in and out, I should say, I have been in and out of Washington for twenty-one years. I came there right after World War II as a freshman congressman when I was thirty-two years of age. I have seen many men come to Washington as congressmen and senators and many have had outstanding records. Of all the men that have come to the United States Senate over which I presided for eight years, I would say that no man has made a bigger mark or a bigger name for himself in the Senate than Bob Griffen because of his courage, his guts, in the state of Michigan, and we give him our appreciation.

	And I already at earlier stops have indicated my high evaluation of the Michigan delegation to the House of Representatives, particularly those on the Republican side, the ones who were elected in 1966 and the ones who preceded them.

	But that very gracious introduction that Bill Broomfield gave me and earlier that Jack McDonald gave me. This is an indication that, let me tell you, look at these men, they are young, they are vigorous, they are the men of the future, not the past. They are the ones that can lead the new America. That's what we want. That's why I am for them. That's why you are for them. And that brings me now to Michigan, the role that it plays and that you play in one of the great decisions ever made by any nation in the history of nations. It is that kind of a decision. It is that kind of a decision because of something that's happened in the world that never before happened in the history of America and never before in the history of the world.

	As I look over this crowd I see some who go back before World War I. I see many who go back before World War II. I see some who go back to the time of Korea and others, of course, who are in the age of Vietnam.

	This is the first time in the history of an American political campaign that a candidate could truthfully say to a great audience like this that what happens in America and in America alone of all the free nations of the world, will determine not only our future but the future of peace and freedom in the world for the last third of the century. We now enter, you see, the American era. It was never that way before. Before World War I the United States became involved in a war not because of what happened in Washington but decisions made in London and Paris and in Berlin, that got us involved.

	And in World War II, it was the same. The decisions made in Berlin, in Paris, in London and Tokyo, that became--those decisions that involved the United States in World War II.

	But today because of our power and because of what happened, the fact that the nations of Europe, although because of our assistance they are rich, they no longer have the power. There is no nation in the free world today, no nation that can provide the leadership that will save peace and save freedom. It's all here. And whether America meets that challenge, whether we are going to be big enough and strong enough and wise enough and patient enough, is going to depend on a number of things. It's going to depend upon the American people, not just the Republicans, the Democrats, the Independents, not just the old, the young, whether we've got the spirit, the greatness that a nation must have to meet such a challenge. It's also going to depend, of course, on your leadership in Washington, whether or not in the presidency and whether or not in the cabinet and whether or not in the Senate, in the House of Representatives, in both parties, we are able at this time to muster that extra edge, that greatness which makes the difference between succeeding and failing.

	In the next four years, my friends, as I analyze foreign policy, we will see a period in which we have the greatest danger of world war that could destroy the world, because in that next four years due to what I think was a mistake in American military policy the Soviet Union will acquire equality and perhaps superiority over the United States in certain critical areas. This does not necessarily mean there will be war. It does mean that the diplomacy requirements of the United States must be infinitely greater if we are to avoid it. Because what has kept the peace for the last twenty-five years has been the immense superiority that the United States has. The fact that President Eisenhower could speak with authority whenever he met with the other nations of the world, the fact that President Kennedy at the time of the Cuban confrontation knew that he had the immense edge that General Eisenhower left to him, that avoided world war at that time.

	And now today we have that danger. And then over in the future beyond that as Bill Broomfield, who is one of the most able men on that Foreign Affairs Committee in the House, a man who sees far ahead, and we must see far ahead if we are to survive, ahead of us lies Communist China, not yet a major nuclear power, in four years they will be.

	Why do I go into this detail at this time in this last speech in Michigan? Because I sense that we are here at a moment of history that involves far more than is usually involved in a political campaign. Let me be quite candid. In most campaigns what really is involved is who is going to be in or who is going to be out. In most campaigns nationally what is involved is either a local issue or an international issue, never the two. But today, you see, the United States is at a crossroads, and here we look at this great and good country, 200 million Americans. We have come all this way in 190 years. We are the richest country, we are the strongest country, and then not because we wanted it, because many Americans would prefer to live apart from the world, but here it is, all the action is here and the test is, are we big enough, are we good enough, are we wise enough? That is what is involved.

	And that's why I say at this time the voters of Michigan must think not in terms of registered Democrats, not in terms of the cheap party personality attacks that are being made by the other side on me and my running mate. That isn't what is involved. What you must think of is in terms of the men and their records, what you must think of is in terms of this nation and whether one man or the other has the ability to keep the peace, to keep it, not just talk about it. And that's what's involved here.

	And let's lay it right on the line in that respect. Yesterday Hubert Humphrey making a speech charged that he thought that I might endanger the peace. All right, let's be quite candid about it. I trained for eight years under General Eisenhower. He has trained for four years under Lyndon Johnson.

	In the four years of his administration we have never had a moment of peace. In the eight years of our administration we ended one war and had eight years of peace, and I think that's what the American people want today.

	My friends, I do not mean to suggest by that that it's easy. I do not mean to suggest by that that there are any easy answers to the problems. But I do know this, it takes more than talk, it takes more than a loose tongue, it takes more than being on every side of every issue, it takes more than being for a bombing pause one day and against it another day to bring a war to an end on a basis that isn't going to bring another war.

	It takes judgment and experience and background and guts, lots of things which you will only know when a man is there and has to do it. But I want to tell you what I think we need. I look at the record of the last four years and what is it? We have had the longest war in our history, we have had the worst crime wave in our history, we have had the highest taxes in our history, we have had the highest rise in the cost of living in our history, and respect for the United States of America has gone lower around the world than it's ever been in our history. And now they come before us and say, "Give us four more years."

	Well, I say no. The American people aren't going to let them have four more years.

	My friends, at this great moment in our history we can't be led into the seventies by the men who stumbled and fumbled and bumbled their way through the sixties. My friends, we cannot be led--we need a great new team in Washington. You saw that scraggly bunch in Chicago arguing among themselves. Can they lead America? Never. We need a new team.

	My friends, what we need is the kind of a team that we bring, and I am proud to say that I represent a team, every governor, and that's 26 of them, every congressman, every senator on our side is for us. But beyond that leading Democrats like Senator Lausche and others have joined us. And what I mean by that, we are going to have the best new team that America had, and we can't settle for anything but the best, a new team that can unite America, unite it north and east and west and south.

	And in that connection, speaking of unity, I would point out a rather curious thing about this campaign. Hubert Humphrey has written off the South and the West and George Wallace has written off the East. I am the only candidate that's campaigning north, east, west and south. I am the only one that's made it clear that whoever gets the most votes ought to be elected president. And I think that's the kind of a man you need as president of the United States at this time.

	My friends, we have got to unite this country. We can unite it with a great team but also we have got to have a policy, something to be for. And let me tell you the things you are going to be for; as Bill Broomfield indicated you are going to be for a new foreign policy, one that will bring to an honorable end the war in which we are engaged and then one that will rectify the mistake that we made in that war, and let me put it quite bluntly. The United States is rich and the United States is strong, and we have lots of people. But for the last twenty years we have furnished $150 billion in aid and also the lives of our young men in Korea and in Vietnam to save both of those countries. And in the future let us recognize that the aim of American policy in the event that we do come to the aid of somebody is to help them fight a war and not fight the war for them. Let's do that and then we can save young American lives.

	And the time to put that principle into effect, the time is in a new administration, that's why we need a new foreign policy that will strengthen our alliance in Europe, that's why we need a new foreign policy in the Mid East that will avoid the outbreak of a war there, that's why, as Bill Broomfield will tell you, today there isn't one area in the world where the danger of war isn't greater and the hopes of peace are not less than they were eight years ago: Latin America, the Mid-East, Europe, Asia.

	And they ask for four more years after that? We can't afford it. America can't afford it. But, more than that, what we need is a new leadership, not tied to the mistakes of the past. And I pledge to you we will bring to that task the qualities that I think you want, the qualities not only of courage, but of experience and of background, that will keep America out of a war, that will remain certainly and retain our responsibilities, but recognize that America cannot carry and should not carry the whole load ourselves when it goes around the world.

	These are some of the things that need to be said, and I am saying them because I think you also need to carry them on to your friends and neighbors that may be on the fence in this period.

	And one other thing. America isn't going to be able to lead the forces of peace in the world unless we are respected in the world. And when respect for the United States of America falls so low that a fourth-rate power like North Korea will seize an American naval vessel on the high seas, it's time for a change. Let's get somebody in to restore that respect. I can pledge to you that in our administration the American flag is not going to be a doormat for anybody, at home or abroad.

	So on this great issue of war and peace, the question is do you want the talkers or the doers, do you want those with a record of success or a record of failure--and we say it before you, you make the decision.

	Look at the problems at home. You are going to vote for some new differences here. On the one hand you have the choice of going forward with the policy as far as the problem of keeping respect of law and order in this country that has utterly failed, one in which crime has gone up nine times as fast as population. You know what the situation is.

	A recent poll, and this is hard to believe, but it's true, it was taken by the President's own commission, indicated that 43 percent of all the American people are afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night. Now, when that happens, my friends, I don't agree with Hubert Humphrey when he defends the attorney general who says there is no crime wave of significance in the United States. I say get that man out of there and get a new man in there and let's clean up the crime in the United States.

	And I say something else. I say that it's time that our courts backed our peace forces in some of their decisions, something they haven't been doing. My friends, we can have it. We will have law and order and justice. We can have freedom from fear in this country. But we need new leadership in order to do it.

	We are going to have some other things too. I noted the introductions and I noted that Governor Romney today has referred several times to what I call the pocketbook issue. And when I came all through Michigan here today, some of my friends were saying, "Look, you can't talk about that issue there. They never had it so good."

	Let's consider it for a moment. This is a great and fortunate part of the country, and the country is fortunate to have Michigan producing as it does our tremendous strength, not only in automobiles but in so many other areas. And we all know that the wage rates here are high and we hope that they grow higher. We all know that jobs now perhaps are plentiful.

	But let's look at some record with regard to what's happened to your family budget. The man in the family will tell me, any one of you around here, that he has had an increase of $14 a week over the last three years. The budget keeper, the wife, will tell me, oh, no, she will say she has $2 a week less than she had three years ago.

	Do you know why? Taxes and prices have completely eaten up the increase in wages for America's 70 million workers, and I think it's time to get the workers off the treadmill and on a road to progress. And we are going to do it. Give us that opportunity.

	Also I look through this audience, most of you are young. I see some that are a bit older, perhaps 65 and older. They are truly the forgotten men and women, 20 million of them--a little Social Security. Go talk to some of them sometime. Proud people. Worked hard all their lives. Saved their money. And what do they find? The money that they saved 20 years ago will buy half as much as it would then.

	What do they find? They find that over the last eight years of their own Social Security, the prices went up 20 percent and some of them have been driven right into poverty as a result, and that's wrong. That's why we not only are for Social Security, but in our platform we have a provision that should have been the law long before, that if prices go up, Social Security payments automatically go up. Let's not break faith with the older people of this country. Let's see that they are able to care for themselves.

	And I pledge a policy in which every American worker today when he invests his pension or life insurance or savings or Social Security can have the confidence over these next four or eight years that the dollar he saves today will be worth a dollar when he retires.

	My friends, you are going to be voting for some other things. I see some young people in this audience, fourteen, fifteen, and I am thinking of their future and you are thinking of their future. And that's one of the reasons why I think you will agree with me when I say that we need a new look at the manpower requirements of the United States.

	I have looked at it. I have studied them. We are going to do everything that is necessary to maintain the security forces of this country. But, my friends, once the requirements for Vietnam are down, I am convinced now that the draft is obsolete. We need a volunteer armed force, and that's what we are going to have for America. I don't think it makes any sense to pay a man fighting in Vietnam $90 a month and pay somebody in the Job Corps $200 a month. That's what I think. I think it's time to change it.

	My friends, you are going to vote for a new policy with regard to jobs in this country, 15 million new jobs in private enterprise so that there will not be unemployment, so that there will not be recession. That's the kind of a program we have.

	And a new policy with regard to welfare in this county. Let's be quite blunt about it. Every American is of good heart and we should have and we are going to have the most generous welfare for everyone who needs it. But when a man is able to work, then give him a job rather than welfare and we are going to have jobs. My friends, rather than more millions on welfare rolls, let's put more millions on payrolls.

	Let's train the unemployed through private enterprise for those jobs. That's the kind of a future we can have.

	And finally we are going to have government after forty years of its power flowing from the states to Washington, let's get the power back to the people. Let's give the people of the United States a chance to determine how to run their schools, how to determine their future.

	You have stood here a long time, but as I close this campaign in Michigan, I leave this one thought. This is a close state, always. In 1960 one percent made the difference in the state of Michigan. In 1968 one percent, one-half of one percent, one half a vote a precinct, could make the difference. In this room may be the difference. And among the five people that each of you could talk to in the next week, if you would go out and do it, could be the difference that would win or lose Michigan and win or lose new leadership for America.

	And, my friends, just remember this, this is a great country. The American people are a great people. The American people are ready for a change. They are ready to meet the challenge of the future. There is nothing wrong with America that a good election won't cure. Let's have it in Michigan and let's have it in America.
COST OF LIVINGFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN AID--SOUTH KOREAFOREIGN AID--SOUTH VIETNAMMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYRETIREMENTSOCIAL SECURITYSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)WELFARE     MP P P P P
 üO ÷O òO èO àO ÞO ÞO ÔO	 ² 	 ¤ 	 Œ 	 t 	 Z 	 ; 	 1 	 " 	  e: