Speeches\1968\rep\S68r0907.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)09/07STUMPOKLAHOMA CITYOKLAHOMAOKWILL ROGERS AIRPORT3575 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Henry Bellmon, and to the chairman of the party and to all of the distinguished guests on the platform and all of the members of this great audience at the airport. I want you to know how grateful we are for your coming out, right in the middle of day. We saw the cars parked for miles along the way, we know what a chore it was, but believe me, I am glad to be here for reasons that have already been mentioned.

	The fact that in 1960 Oklahoma did give me one of the biggest majorities in the whole country, and I want it again in 1968.

	The fact that on my many visits to this state, and I have been, of course, to all of the areas of the state, to Muskogee, and Tulsa and Page Belcher's area, and down to Oklahoma City. I can assure you that I have always had such a friendly welcome and a good feeling. The only thing I have missed is having the band play that great "Oklahoma" song. I guess they did it beforehand. But, in any event, I do want you to know that I am proud to be an honorary Okie, and I am going to wear this pin proudly when I come back in 1970, a campaign promise I made today on the plane to Governor Bartlett and to Senator-to-be Bellmon, that I would come back for the inauguration of the Arkansas River project when it is completed. I will be here.

	As I speak to you today, I particularly want to refer to my friend Henry Bellmon. You are here because of your interest, of course, in the election of a new president of the United States. I can only tell you that a president is not going to be able to do his job unless he has the support in the Senate and the House of Representatives that he needs. In the House you have got a couple of very strong men in Page Belcher, my long-time friend going way back; and you have a strong man in your Congressman Jim Smith.

	We need more. Give us more congressmen. I am sure you will do that. In the Senate of the United States, as my good friend Thruston Morton and Ed Brooke will tell you, we need more senators, senators that will stand with them for the new programs and the new leadership that I am going to describe to you here today.

	As I look across this great land of ours, I can tell you I know of no man in this nation who will speak more eloquently for America than Henry Bellmon. The man who will be the next senator from this state. Yes, he is down to earth, he remembers the people of his state, he speaks for the people of his state, he will speak eloquently for Oklahoma. I want you to know that as the president of the United States, if that opportunity will be provided for me, that I will count on him, I will depend on him. He will be speaking for Oklahoma, and I will be listening to him. I want you to know that, because that is the kind of a man that I think he is, because he will speak eloquently for the farmers of this state, for those who are producing the great oil resources, for the natural resources of this state, for its great defense facilities like the Tinker Air Force Base. Here is a man, and we want him, and I know you are going to send him to us.

	Now, if I could take you away from Oklahoma for a moment and take you across this nation where we have been in the last three days and give you a feeling of what is happening in America, there is a wind blowing here. I feel it as it comes across. It is a great wind, but I want to tell you, my friends, this wind is just a little breeze compared to the wind that is sweeping across this nation, the winds of change.

	There is going to be a change in Washington, D.C., a real change. Three days ago in the city of Chicago, just a week after the Democratic convention, 600,000 people were there calling for change, as we went into the city of Chicago. We are going to carry Illinois this year, 1968.

Two days ago in the city of San Francisco, 300,000 people were out. We are going to carry California in this year 1968.

Yesterday, last night, in Houston, Texas, we had a crowd estimated by the Democratic mayor of that city, of the delegates to the Democratic convention, at 45,000 people. We are going to carry Texas in this year 1968.

	What I am saying to you is that we are going to win, we are going to win big, and you are going to help us win big carrying Oklahoma in 1968. I want to tell you what you are going to win, what this victory is going to mean, what it is going to mean to the people of Oklahoma, all the people of Oklahoma, what it is going to mean to all of this country, what it is going to mean to the world, because that is why these people are out. That is why, regardless of partisanship--because Republicans, Democrats, and Independents alike are calling for change--that is why, in record numbers, people are speaking out who were silent before, because they know what the choice is.

	My friends, the choice in the year 1968 is the most critical choice and the biggest difference between two candidates for president of this country. It is a choice in which two men present themselves, each presenting his point of view, each honestly believing in his point of view, but they offer different roads for America.

	One says to the people of the United States as he did at the Democratic convention, "I like what has happened over the last four years. I like those policies. I have no disagreement with those policies. Let's have four more years."

	I want to tell you what I say, my friends. I say that four years of no peace abroad is enough. I say that four years of no peace at home, four years in which we have seen crime go up and we have seen also, as far as our income is concerned--we have seen taxes go up, the value of our dollars go down, four years which have led to a situation which for the first time in the United States has resulted in the fact that the president of the United States could not travel to his own convention in a major city without fear of a hostile demonstration.

	I say, my friends, if that is what has happened over four years, that is enough. They have had their chance. Give us a chance, and we will give you that leadership for the United States of America.

	My friends, I want to describe for you now what the prospects are for the future. We have heard so much about what is wrong about the United States. I want to tell you the promise of what new leadership can do for this great country.

	This is a great country. You go to any country abroad and you can be sure that whatever the faults of America, you want to live here. The traffic is all one way. They are not going any place else. They want to come back to the United States of America.

	My friends, yes, there are things wrong. There are problems that we have. But what is wrong with the United States is not the people of this country, it is the lack of leadership. We offer that leadership.

	A new foreign policy abroad. Looking, for example, at the war in Vietnam, as far as the candidate for the presidency is concerned, he will not and I will not ever say anything that might destroy the chance of bringing that war to a conclusion in the negotiations currently taking place in Paris. I hope they succeed. But, my friends, if they don't succeed, and if on November 5th this war is still going on, I say that if after four years when they have had this administration, all the power of the United States, all the wealth of the United States and the support of the local population, and they still haven't ended the war, give us a chance and we will bring the war to an honorable conclusion. That is the kind of leadership that we need.

	We need new leadership that is not tied to the mistakes of the past. New leadership that will strengthen America, strengthen it so that we may always deal from a position of strength in the negotiations that will take place in those next four years, in the next eight years, to keep the peace, to avoid a war.

	I pledge that kind of leadership to you.

	My friends, I say to you I pledge in terms of a new foreign policy a recognition of a fact. This is a rich country; it is a strong country; it is a populous country. But for the past twenty years, the United States of America has furnished most of the money, most of the arms and most of the men to defend freedom in Korea, in Vietnam and in other places around the world. There are 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world. I say that it is time for a new foreign policy that will enlist other nations to bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world.

We can have peace. It is not an easy task. The art of winning peace and waging peace is more difficult than that of waging war. But I have had some training in this field. I am proud to have been part of an administration which ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that is what we pledge we are going to do in your administration, the one that you are going to provide.

	My friends, if we are going to lead for peace abroad, we have to reestablish peace at home. A nation that is unable to keep the peace at home is not going to be trusted, is not going to be respected to provide peace abroad. We look at this great country of ours with all of its goodness and we see things that disturb us. We see crime going up nine times as fast as population over the last eight years. We look at our nation's capital where we found that crime went down 17 percent in the Eisenhower years; it has gone up 175 percent over the last eight years.

	As we look at this we see that, as far as this administration is concerned, that its record is one that leaves much to be desired. Here again you have a choice, a choice between continuing with what we have or new leadership. I say that what we have is not good enough. I say that instead of continuing with that leadership, we need a new attorney general, with backing by the president, to launch a major war on crime in the United States of America.

	We need to restore the balance between the peace forces and the criminal forces. I pledge that we will do that. We will stop the rise in crime. We will preserve the rights of all Americans, but at the same time we will preserve the first right of every American, and that is the right to be free from domestic violence. This I pledge, and you need new leadership if you are going to get it.

	My friends, beyond that, moving into the other area for the future, I see so many young people here today, I simply want to tell you that during the course of this campaign you will hear some of the things that are wrong about this country. Because we as candidates must point those out, so that you know what you must do, and what we must do, to change what is wrong without destroying what is right.

	But, my friends, I want you to know, particularly those here who are young, that this country is a great country, and that as far as our future is concerned, it is in your hands. I want to say that despite all you hear about the young people in America today, I know them. I know them well. Don't ever believe that, as far as our young people are concerned, that they are going to the dogs. I can tell you this. The younger generation--I speak for my own daughters and I speak for the scores, the hundreds of thousands that I have met on the campuses of the universities around this country--the young people today know more about the government of this country, they are more interested in politics, they know more about the world. It is the best younger generation. Let's give them an America that is worthy of the greatness of the young people of this world.

	Let me point out to you the programs for progress in your new administration. This is going to be yours because we are building for you, for your future.

First, we are going to develop the great natural resources of America, and we must remember that if we are going to develop those resources that you cannot have a strong nation without a strong agriculture. When you look at the farm community of America you find that farm income went down $2 billion last year. You find, for example, that the price of wheat is at the lowest in twenty-seven years. You find that people are leaving the farms because the farmer is getting the short end of the stick.

	Here is your choice. One candidate says, "I defend the secretary of agriculture." This is what he says. He says that we shall continue the kind of leadership that we have had. I will tell you what I say. I say that we need a new agricultural policy and the place to start is to get a secretary of agriculture who will speak for the farmer and not for the president in Washington, D.C. to the farmer. What we need, in other words, is to get this whole farm economy of ours on a sound basis so that it may move up with the rest of the economy. I pledge that kind of leadership with the kind of advice and assistance I will get from your senator and the congressmen as well.

	Take the development of your great oil resources for which Oklahoma is so just famous. Here again you have a difference of opinion between your candidates. One has been on both sides of the issue. Today, I do not know which side. As far as I am concerned, for twenty-one years I have said we shall not reduce the depletion allowance because I want America to be richer, and the way for America to become richer is to develop the great resources of this land, and I pledge that to you.

	Then, my friends, most important in terms of progress, we must think of how we develop not only the natural resources, the great Arkansas River Valley project that I saw today, but how we can develop the human resources of this nation. On that score again we have a difference of opinion between the two candidates. One says that we should go forward with the programs of the past. I will tell you what they are. Huge government programs for government housing and government jobs and government welfare. Billions of dollars more for programs of the past that have failed.

	I say to you, my friends, we need a different road. Oh, yes, government must play a role. Government plays a role in developing the great projects like the Arkansas River project which will enable this great part of the country to become a land of lakes rather than a dust bowl, which it has become and will become in the future. But government beyond that can play only a limited role. Remember, America is a great country not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves. We have to give people a chance.

	My friends, let us enlist private enterprise, private enterprise in building the houses that Americans need, that people can own their own houses. Let us enlist private enterprise in training the unemployed for the jobs that are in this country. Let us enlist private enterprise in providing the opportunity, the opportunity for Americans not simply to be workers but to be owners and managers of their businesses, to go as high as their talents will take them. That is the kind of leadership that we need.

	On that score, I would like to speak very briefly to you in a personal vein. In America today there are many of us who have been fortunate to have seen the American Dream come true. Most Americans have that equal chance at the starting line, and the only thing that will stop them is their own failure to go up. They can go as high as their talents will take them.

	But in this land of ours, as you know, there are many Americans--some of them are black Americans, some of them are Indian Americans, some of them are white Americans, some of them are Mexican Americans--who do not have that equal chance. I want a kind of America where every child in this country can have a chance to go as high as his talents will take them. That is what I want. That is what you want and that is the kind of America we are going to build.

	I had this brought home to me just a few days ago when my football coach in college came to see me at San Diego right after our convention. He is an American Indian, Chief Neuman. He was a great football star at the University of Southern California in the twenties. He came down to see me and he told me an interesting story about the time he was coaching high school football in California before he came to the college which I attended. He had a very talented football player, a Mexican boy, on that team. The boy was not doing well in his grades and the chief, as we called him, the chief said to him, "Son, what is the matter? Why don't you study more? You can do better." This boy replied to the chief, the chief recalled, in this way. He said, "Well, you don't have to know anything to be a lemon picker."

	In those days in California about all a Mexican boy could hope to be would be a lemon picker, so he had no incentive to study. I say to you that whether it is the Mexican boy or the Indian boy or the Negro boy, let us be sure that he has the chance and every other boy to go up, or every other girl, as high as they can go.

	Look at this man that we have on this stage here today, Ed Brooke. Let me tell you something. Ed Brooke was attorney general of the state of Massachusetts with a huge majority not because he is black but because he is a great lawyer. He is a senator from the state of Massachusetts in the United States Senate, as his colleagues will tell you, not because he happens to be a Negro but because he is an outstanding senator. He is an example of what can be done, and we must be sure that every person has a chance to go up as he has gone up. If a man can go up as Chief Neuman has gone, give him that chance. That is what he needs.

	My friends, I say to you today, give us the chance not to tell the American people solely what government is going to do to perpetuate the dependency that people who have not had that chance have had, but give us a chance to provide the new leadership so that all Americans may have the opportunity which is our birthright. That is the American Dream that I have seen in my life. It is the American Dream that you want, and I say to you, my friends in Oklahoma, as I stand before you today, I am convinced that these winds that are blowing across this airfield, and the great winds of change that are blowing across America are going to bring a new day for America, a day that will make us all proud of this nation, proud of our background, proud of our heritage; but proud particularly because America will again become the land of opportunity for all.

	This is our chance. This is your chance. I need your help. Let's go out and win it big.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCRIME--GENERALDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALEQUAL OPPORTUNITYNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSVIETNAM WARYOUTH     òI ¾I ¸I ´I ªI
 ¡I œI —I ŠI ‚I €I mI cI	 ¨ 	 ” 	 † 	 i 	 X 	 ; 	 % 	  	  e: