Speeches\1988\rep\S88R0907.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)09/07STUMPLOUISVILLEKENTUCKYKYTHE AMERICAN LEGION2514 WORDS

	Thank you, Commander Comer, for that wonderful introduction.

	It's a great honor to speak before the American Legion--2.8 million strong; and dedicated, in so many ways, to keeping America strong.

	You know, I spoke in New Orleans a few weeks ago about the kinds of organizations--volunteer organizations--that give America its big heart, its unparalleled generosity.

	Here's the American Legion's record:

	Over two million hours of community service;

	363,000 pints of blood donated;

	25,000 veterans assisted with finding jobs and training.

	The list goes on and on: contributions to cancer research, aid to handicapped children, your outstanding Boys State program, and of course, 63 years of sponsorship of my beloved game of baseball. Thank God that America has organizations like the American Legion.

	The American Legion is the nation's largest and fastest growing veterans' organization. I am proud to say that I hold a Legion card myself.

	As veterans, you know better than anyone the value of strength, the terrible costs of war, and the burdens that men and women have borne in the name of freedom.

	I believe that the nation owes a debt of gratitude to those who have carried that burden.

	As Abraham Lincoln said, "To care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan."

	Let me just touch upon a few of the ways in which I, as a president who is a veteran, will support our veterans.

	I will support the continuation, and the strengthening, of veterans preference in federal hiring.

	I will do everything I can to resolve the fates of our prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action.

	I will help our Vietnam veterans--to whom honor and respect is long overdue. And I will pay special attention to the needs of the six million veterans over age sixty-five. We must develop a health care policy for our older veterans that can serve as a model for Americans nationwide.

	Most of all, I want to strengthen the Veterans Administration. You've worked hard to pass a bill that would raise the VA to cabinet level status. I fully expect that, as one of his last acts in office, President Reagan will be able to sign that bill into law.

	But if for some reason he doesn't get that chance; that's one of the first things I'll do as president. In a Bush administration, we'll have the VA at the cabinet table.

	This past weekend was Labor Day, the traditional kickoff of an election campaign that poses the most important choice in a generation.

	Deep differences divide the candidates. Differences on the economy: my opponent has a record of tax increases. I favor the low-tax, high opportunity policies that have created the longest economic expansion in American history.

	Deep differences on values--my opponent vetoed a bill to require teachers to lead the kids in the pledge of allegiance in the schools; I would have signed that bill. We are one nation "under God."

	Deep differences on crime--my opponent let murderers, who had not even served enough time to be eligible for parole, out on weekend furloughs. I want to keep them behind bars. I think some crimes--such as drug kingpins killing police officers--are so horrible they deserve the death penalty. My opponent opposes the death penalty.

	But the issue which divides us the most is national security--how we would fulfill our responsibilities as the leader of the free world.

	It's not a responsibility I take lightly. Many of you in this room risked our lives to defend the values we hold dear. Freedom. Opportunity. The right to speak your mind freely and pursue your dreams to the end of the rainbow. "100 percent Americanism," as your constitution says.

	I, too, served in that cause as a young man. In fact, it was forty-four years ago this week, September 2, 1944, when I was just twenty years old, that my plane--a Torpedo Avenger--was shot down by enemy fire over the Pacific.

	People have asked me what it was that sustained me as I floated--alone--in that life raft, hoping that I might be rescued by a friendly ship. The answer is the same things that sustain me now, as I undertake this most important mission of my life: strength drawn from family, belief in God, and an unwavering faith in the United States of America.

	I think that a president has no higher duty than to protect and enhance the national security of the United States.

	Perhaps John F. Kennedy said it best: "Bad domestic policy could get us defeated; bad foreign policy could get us killed." Forty-nine years ago this week, the world was plunged into war--a war in which many of us ultimately served--when Hitler's Nazi Germany invaded Poland. We learned a valuable lesson then, one which we should never forget: it is that weakness tempts aggression, and aggression leads to war.

	Since then, Democratic and Republican presidents alike have known that to maintain the peace, America must be strong.

	Peace through strength is not just a slogan; it is a lesson learned through the years, sometimes with the blood of brave men and women. In a Bush administration, that lesson would not be forgotten--it would guide my defense and foreign policy. Peace through strength works.

	Today, the world is changing fast; and the lesson is being learned anew. Now, as Ronald Reagan's truly remarkable term of leadership comes to a close, we are presented with a unique opportunity. All around the globe, freedom is on the march.

	The Soviets are withdrawing from Afghanistan. The Vietnamese are beginning to leave Cambodia. The Cubans are negotiating to leave Angola. And the thunder of war has ceased, at least for now, in the Persian Gulf.

	We have begun a new relationship with the Soviet Union. It's a relationship that demands continued caution and realism, but we can say this: peace is breaking out all over--and it is no accident.

	It is happening because, over the last eight years, we have pursued a policy of strength. We have pursued a policy of consistency and patience in negotiations. And we have demonstrated our resolve in living up to our commitments.

	You have been our supporters in this cause. In supporting our program to rebuild America's national defense. In supporting the Freedom Fighters in Nicaragua. In supporting the development of a strategic defense. And for that, as the President said yesterday, we are grateful.

	Our success has been built on four pillars, the pillars that would guide my presidency. First, pride. We took a demoralized military, and restored a sense of honor, a state of readiness, and ethic of service.

	Second, realism. Seeing the world as it is, not as we wish it might be. Viewing the Soviets with hope, but also with caution. Looking for deeds, not just words.

	Third, strength. Modernizing our forces. Preserving deterrence. Developing strategic defense.

	Fourth, engagement. Taking up the challenge of our mission to lead. And defending the cause of freedom around the world.

	The clearest sign of the success of these four pillars is the event which it will be my honor to witness tomorrow. Tomorrow, in Marshall, Texas, before assembled leaders from the United States and the Soviet Union, a set of missiles used to deliver intermediate range nuclear weapons will be destroyed.

	For the first time in our history, we are destroying nuclear weapons, not just building them.

	But we're not out of the woods yet. The Soviets are now deploying two new ICBMs, the SS-24 and SS-25. So even with Perestroika, Soviet military modernization, including their own research into strategic defense, has not slackened. Soviet military spending continues to rise.

	What's the answer? Winston Churchill put it best. In 1946, after the war was over and the hard-earned peace finally at hand, Churchill said: "Before we cast away the solid assurances of national armaments for self-preservation, we must be certain that our temple is built, not upon shifting sands, or quagmires, but upon the rock."

	My friends, I will keep America's defenses "built upon the rock."

	I will never let America be made weak again.

	The key to future progress is continued strength. We must keep our nuclear forces--our land based missiles, our bombers, and our submarines--ready and up-to-date.

	That is what brought the Soviets to the negotiating table. That is what produced the INF treaty. And that is what will lead to further arms reductions.

	Only a willingness to modernize gives the Soviet Union the incentive to negotiate real arms reduction.

	We cannot defend ourselves if we allow our weapons to become obsolete.

	Soviet leaders would have no incentive to sit down and negotiate with us if we do the work of disarming America for them!

	For many years, my opponent supported the nuclear freeze, the freeze that ultimately would have made it impossible to reach the INF treaty.

	He has made proposals to cancel and delay our strategic modernization--with what amounts to an undeclared unilateral freeze.

	Just look at the record: in the past, he has called for cancellation of the MX, and he continues to oppose deployment of the mobile MX and Minuteman. He has, in the past, said he couldn't commit to deployment of the stealth bomber; although this may be changing.

	He has called for the cancellation of two carrier task forces.

	I favor these elements of our modernization program, for a simple reason: if the Soviets think that an American president will unilaterally gut our weapons modernization program, they will have no incentive to negotiate reductions. They would continue to modernize and we would be at an increased disadvantage.

	After all, if my opponent doesn't want to modernize his snowblower, that's his business. But if he doesn't want to modernize our defenses, why that's dangerous business for America!

	The fact is that we need those two carrier task forces to maintain our commitments in the Persian Gulf and the Mediterranean, where the Soviets are now building a new naval base in Syria.

	The fact is that we've had a bipartisan consensus in this country for both a strong nuclear deterrent and a robust conventional defense. Not just one, but both. Not just one at the expense of the other, but the two working together. That's what guarantees deterrence. Let's not abandon a guarantee that's worked for 40 years.

	One of the promising new tools to strengthen that guarantee--to ensure that it never fails--is the Strategic Defense Initiative. Let me tell you my position on SDI. I have consistently supported the President's vision of a world safe from attacks by ballistic missiles.

	We've made dramatic progress over the last five years. SDI is neither naive nor impractical; and it is certainly not a "fantasy," as my opponent calls it.

	Quite the contrary, I've seen the technology firsthand. I've seen the results of American ingenuity and scientific genius.

	We are now on the verge of being able to move from a force posture which relies on our ability to destroy our enemies in order to deter war--to one where we can deter war by protecting ourselves. How do we get there? By researching, testing, and evaluating the full range of promising SDI technologies. And then by deploying those that work best. But make no mistake: we will get there.

	My opponent opposes SDI But like you in the American Legion, I support it. We cannot leave America hostages to Soviet ballistic missiles.

	I'd like to mention one other key modernization issue. In the event of a crisis, a president would need the most up-to-date communications system in the world--so that he would have the ability to send and receive secret messages as rapidly as possible in the event of an attack.

	Our nation has designed such a communications system--which spans the continent. It's called the Ground Wave Emergency Network--or GWEN for short. Of the fifty-six planned GWEN sites around the country, fifty-two have been completed. Only one governor refused to have a site anywhere in his state--only one. The governor of Massachusetts.

	Let me be clear.

	I do not doubt my opponent's patriotism. But patriotism is not the issue. The issue is how best to deter war, to keep the peace, and to fulfill our country's special responsibility as leader of the free world.

	You see, I believe that America does have a special mission in this world; we are the flagship of freedom.

	We have a mission to lead.

	We led the mission to protect American citizens abroad, and to give the people of Grenada a chance to live their lives in democracy and peace. My opponent called it "a misuse of U.S. military power."

	I say we did the right thing in Grenada.

	We led the mission to combat terrorism by striking against Qaddafi in Libya. My opponent opposed the strike against Libya; I supported it.

	Today we have stronger cooperation in meeting the terrorist threat. And let me say this: if terrorists murder innocent Americans, and we have the irrefutable evidence as we did in the case of Libya, I would not hesitate to strike again!

	We also led the mission to protect the flow of oil to the free world through the Persian Gulf. Some, including my opponent, were quick to criticize our efforts. But look what's happened: the oil never stopped flowing, and the parties are talking peace.

	The point is that it is our responsibility to lead. We cannot and should not turn that responsibility over to the United Nations or some other multilateral force. Our job is to protect America's vital interests. No one else can do it.

	What it all comes down to is that the president must be a shrewd protector of America's interests. As Teddy Roosevelt said, "no public men have a right, whether for shortsightedness, from selfish indifference, or from sentimentality, to sacrifice national interests which are vital in character."

	In our changing world, full of both danger and hope, full of new technologies and old ambitions, the question I put to you is who should lead this great country--this last best hope of man on earth. Who is best able to be the shrewd protector of America's interests? Who should be that man at the desk?

	I think America wants tough, tested, and experienced leadership in the man who sits at that desk as we begin the 1990s.

	It's a pleasure to be here in Louisville, to speak to our great organization. This is bluegrass country, and I must tell you, I like a good race. So let me finish by telling you my strategy for that race. I mean to run hard. I mean to stand on the issues. And I mean to win.

	Thank you very much.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDEMOCRACYMISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS MODERNIZATIONMILITARY PREPAREDNESSVETERANS     : „9 ›9 Ÿ9 œ9
 «9 ¬9 Ω9 ≥9 ´9 ©9 ñ9 å9	 « 	 ¶ 	 ù 	 Ü 	 R 	 2     e: