Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1021.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/21TELEVISIONNEW YORKNEW YORKNYNEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE FORUM1602 WORDS

	Thanks to the coaxial cable and I suppose, other devices about which I know even less, I am able to be with the New York Herald Tribune Forum this evening--at least in one dimension. But I am still three-dimensional here in Chicago, in spite of seven weeks of campaigning!

	The subject, I understand, is "Building Leadership for Peace."

	Leadership is a word that we often use these days about America and America's role in world affairs. We mean several things by it, I think. We mean that the United States has become the strongest of the free nations. As the strongest, the task of leadership has fallen to us. And it has to be borne by us--or nobody.

	We mean, too, by leadership, that the United States has been the prime mover in many international projects. I could mention the United Nations, the Marshall Plan, the Point Four program, the collective resistance to the cynical assault in Korea, and our regional security arrangements, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Pacific Pacts. Our leadership in these projects grows out of our own self-interest in our security. But it grows, too, out of wider and deeper concern for the safety of the values of Western civilization--the ideas of freedom and equality and justice on which our nation was founded and which are rooted in friendly ground the world over.

	Above all, I think we mean by leadership that the United States has shown--and must show--responsibility in the use of its power and influence.

	Power means much more than military force. It means the sum total of a nation's ability to influence the course of history. Military force is only one element of a nation's power. It is a necessary element in the world we live in. We must have and we do have, together with our allies, formidable military force.

	We hoped that we could follow a different course after the war than we have had to follow. We dealt generously, helpfully and sincerely with our Russian ally in the war. And then we explored honestly and patiently the avenues of friendship and good faith. We were rebuffed.

	The Soviet rulers chose a different course. They have tried to achieve a position of preponderant influence and power, not for protection, but to control the course of history. They have certain real advantages, as a tyranny always does. They can organize and concentrate the whole economy of the vast Soviet empire on war and related preparation. They can build as large armed forces as their manageable economy can support. Bound by no moral standards of purpose or behavior, they can try to stir up disorder, and hate, and strife in other countries, knowing that Communism breeds best among the ignorant and the needy to whom elocution about democracy and freedom is meaningless. And I got no comfort out of Stalin's speech last week exhorting the Communist parties in the free countries, or what he called "the countries under the domination of capital."

	The Soviet decision to seek preponderant power as the means to its ends at last left the free nations no alternative but to redress the balance of power. And when we speak of America's role of leadership today, therefore, we mean our leadership in developing a coalition of free nations strong enough to remain the masters of their destiny.

	This course has already proven successful. With our help, the Greeks brought superior force against the Communist rebels and have succeeded in restoring order to their country. In Berlin, the Western allies refused to budge and over long months demonstrated their will and determination by mounting a giant airlift. And in Korea, too, the aggressor has been turned back. In each case, the combination of power and patience has been the key.

	The two all-important questions for the future are who is going to adjust to what, and how are the adjustments going to be made? As to the first question, there can be no doubt at all. Imperialism and conquest adjust to independence and freedom. As to the second question, there can be no doubt either. The adjustments must, if possible, be peaceful. In all likelihood that means they must be gradual, for there is only one way to bring about rapid, drastic adjustments--namely, by force. And we all know that the free nations must use force only in self-defense, for war--especially in the atomic age--would destroy what we seek to preserve--the spiritual and material foundations of free society. Moreover, freedom, unlike tyranny, cannot be imposed by force.

	This role of leadership is new to us. By and large the United States lived alone--and liked it--so long as this was possible, and somewhat longer than it was desirable. Until the last few years our entrances onto the world's political stage had been largely limited to moments of great crisis--like the First and Second World Wars. On these occasions, the addition of our power to that of our allies tipped the balance against the common enemy.

	With the defeat of Germany and Japan, the weakening of Britain and France as world powers and the rise of the Soviet Union, it has become impossible for us to be merely an occasional participant in world affairs. Without our full-time participation, no coalition of free nations could be built which would be strong enough to deal with the Soviet threat.

	Now I note a strange and disquieting aspect of this change to many people. Our past experience gave us Americans a somewhat exaggerated notion of the effectiveness of our power. We felt that victory was assured once we made up our minds--and indeed military victory in the immediate battle was assured. But many of us drew the conclusion that any cause that had our support was automatically assured of quick success. And this was not necessarily or even probably so, if the real cause, the real purpose, was not military victory but peace.

	For peace cannot be won as a war is won. Peace in the world, like good government at home, is a goal we approach but never finally or perfectly attain. Peace, like religion and the good life, is the task of each new day; it must be worked at in little things and in big things so long as breath we draw.

	Our power is now the steadying factor in the world. It would be a tragic error on our part to think that our power is less effective in this role than in the days when we used it to seal the doom of Hitler. Its effectiveness now is to be measured not in the dramatic conquests of war, but in the gradual progress toward a world which will not be afflicted by war and in which the area of genuine freedom and independence gradually widens.

	America has thus embarked on a role of leadership which is unique and which places a unique responsibility upon us. The United States is the first great power in history which has dedicated itself to use its strength wholly for peace rather than expansion. We have chosen the patient but fruitful triumphs of peace by which alone mankind can move toward freedom and justice.

	So we have these tasks.

	We must set a good example. The image we reflect to the world can only be our own image. We want that image to be an image of sanity, serenity and moral as well as economic and military strength, of freedom and justice and confidence. We want other peoples to aspire to the kind of society we have created here and maintain here.

	We must meet force when we are challenged by force. For freedom is worth defending and not for a day or a year or for a limited time, but for as long as it is necessary. We must, therefore, be militarily strong. As Cardinal Spellman put it--it is better to have strength and not need it, than to need it and not have it. We must, of course, keep our efforts in balance. There would be no point in setting a pace so fast that we or our allies would exhaust ourselves. But there can be no genuine relaxation of our efforts until means have been found to achieve honest and safe disarmament.

	We must, meanwhile, use our economic strength wisely and carefully to help other nations grow in well-being and thus to strengthen their free institutions. We must work politically to strengthen the unity of the free.

	And when we look backward to the weakness and despair and disunity in the free world only a few years ago, we realize how far we have come. Who would have thought only a few years ago that French and German and Italian and Lowlander would cooperate in a European army? Who would have thought, only seven years ago, that colonialism would now be almost eradicated from Asia without far more violence and bloodshed? Who would have thought that Western Europe would be actually discussing a constitution for a United States of Europe?

	Who knows now what economic cooperation and technical assistance can accomplish in Asia and Africa and Latin America? Who is so fearful as to predict that freedom has now reached its zenith and that once free peoples are enslaved forever?

	The future is full of promise if we are willing to take leadership, to use our power responsibly, patiently, persistently.
 	
	In the words of our Lord: "For unto whomsoever much is given of him shall much be required."
EUROPEFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)     ˜$ d$ ^$ Z$ R$
 E$ @$ 6$ .$ &$ $$ $ ý#	 U 	 O 	 7 	   e: