Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1027.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/27STUMPROCKFORDILLINOISIL1,888 WORDS

	We began this morning in Chicago, and that was a very inspiring place to begin because those of you who remember 1948 remember that famous Chicago Tribune headline, remember that one?  Some of you are too young to remember 1948.

	Remember that famous headline?  "Dewey Beats Truman."  Remember that one?  I remember President Truman being asked the following morning after he had won, what he had thought the night before when he was hearing these reports already that he was going to lose, and of course he was behind in the polls as Jack Kennedy was, and a lot of other people.

	And there was a radio commentator at that time, that those of you who are middle-aged and beyond will remember named H.V. Calvinborn, not Sam Donaldson, H.V. Calvinborn.  Sam, you weren't born then.  Remember H.V. Calvinborn some of you?  And, I remember the President's wonderful invocation, he said he turned on the radio and he listened to Mr. Calvinborn say, "Well, it appears that in the early returns Mr. Truman's ahead, but when it is all over, Mr. Dewey will be elected."  They asked President Truman what he did about it, and he said, "Well, I had a sandwich and a glass of milk and I went to bed."

	When we leave you here, we're going to be going to Independence, Missouri for a town meeting.  I don't have to tell you whose hometown Independence, Missouri was.  Harry Truman's, a tough fighter, a real fighter.

	Well, we have less than two weeks to go, and I know there are some Republicans around the country that are already celebrating, they're popping those champagne corks in their penthouses, they think they've got it won.  I want to tell you something.  We're the ones that are going to celebrating on the 8th of November.

	And they're doing in this campaign what they tried to do to Harry Truman and Jack Kennedy, distorting their records, trying to pin labels on them, and you know why.  Because they don't have any answers to the fundamental issues and concerns of average Americans across this country, they don't have any answers to the people of Rockford, communities that have gone through hard times and need a president who will work with you to bring back that growth to bring back those jobs, and I mean good jobs, not jobs at $3.35 an hour, I mean good jobs.

	But the only idea Mr. Bush has for the economic future of this country, if you can believe this, is a five year $40 billion tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent of the people in this country.

	Let me ask you something.  How many of you here are making $200,000 a year?  You're very lucky.  Sam, put up your hand.  If you make $200,000 a year under Mr. Bush's plan, the government is going to give you another $40,000.

	That's more than most schoolteachers make in this country.  More than most people make in Rockford, Illinois.  How many of you make less than $40,000 a year.  Under Mr. Bush's plan, you don't get a dime.  Not a dime!

	Of course yesterday, when he was asked about it, he said, "It's not a tax giveaway to the rich", he said it was a jobs program.  A jobs program!  Who's he kidding?  What are they going to be doing with the extra money?  Hiring a second butler, hiring a lifeguard at the pool?  This isn't a jobs program, my friends, this is Halloween come early.  A treat for the wealthy and a trick for the rest of us, that's what it is.

	So there's a fundamental difference between Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen, and George Bush and that other fella.  They want to help those that have it made in this country.  We want to help every American family make it, that's what we want to do!

	They want to help the people on Easy Street; we want to help the people on Main Street.  Those are the people we care about it.  We're on your side.  We're on the side of the average American family, the average American taxpayer, working hard, paying their bills, paying the nation's taxes, fighting the nation's wars.

	We were on your side on that bill to give American workers and their families sixty days notice before they were laid off.  Remember?

	And where was George Bush on that one?  Solidly opposed.  Where was Dan Quayle?  Leading the fight in the United States Senate against the plant closing law.

	We're on your side, when it comes to making the minimum wage a living wage, not a poverty wage.

	We're on the side of our family farmers like Vernadeane and John Alex who are entitled to a fair price for their crops, entitled to have a president who believes in the family farm, who understands how important the family farm is.  And, who wants to expand those markets, and expand those opportunities for our family farmers.  Republicans think the fewer farmers the better, I say, "the more family farmers, the better in this country."

	We're on the side of women in this country, who are only making on average sixty-five cents for every dollar a man makes.  Doesn't cost anything less when you buy that loaf of bread in the supermarket, does it?  We want to make sure that women as well as men are making a fair wage in this country.

	And thirty years after Harry Truman first proposed it, I think it's time that every job in America carried basic health insurance with it.

	Over the last eight years, this great nation of ours has gone from the greatest lending nation to the greatest borrowing nation.  It's cost us five million jobs.  And more than that, if it doesn't stop, it may cost us control of our own economic future.  We're borrowing billions and billions from foreign bankers.  Sooner or later, those bankers are going to be calling the tune.

	That's not the kind of future we want for America, is it?  It's not the kind of loss we want.  We want to be able to control our destiny, we want to be able to build the best America.  And we ought to be able to do it ourselves, in control of our future, in control of the kind of decisions that Americans ought to make.

	And we're on your side.  Because we believe that every workplace in America, every workplace should be a quality workplace, a productive workplace, and a safe workplace.

	And beginning on January 20, of 1989, we're going to have an Occupational Safety and Health Administration, whose inspectors make those inspections as if their lives depend on it.

	We're fighting for people like Stephen Golub a sixty-one-year-old immigrant from Poland killed by cyanide poisoning after a task force headed by Mr. Bush told OSHA to ease up on the kinds of inspections that would be made in plants like his.

	We're fighting for that factory worker in Colorado, killed in a grinding machine last year after Mr. Bush's task force delayed a regulation that would have required safeguards against dangerous machinery starting by accident.

	We're fighting for workers exposed to asbestos, because the Administration actually sat down and figured out how many people would die from cancer as a result of exposure to asbestos, set a price tag of $200,000 on each life, and decided it wasn't worth the price.  And they talk about a kinder and gentler nation.

	In a Dukakis-Bentsen administration, we're going to put safety first and people first.  We're going to have a National Labor Relations Board that understands what the labor laws are in this country and why they're so important.

	A president who stands on your side so that when you go to work in the morning, your kids know you're coming home safe at night.  That's what you have a right to expect from your president and from your government.

	We're going to be fighting for our children, for a quality education for every young person in this country.  How can we be satisfied when 25 percent of the young people in this country are dropping out of high school, less than 1 percent in Japan, and in some of our major cities 40 and 50 and 60 percent?

	We need quality education for our kids.  We have to open up the door of college opportunity that every young person in this country is going to be able to attend college.

	We want to set as our goal, drug free schools in the 1990s in every community in America.  We want our children to grow up in a country at least as beautiful as the one we grew up in.  And that means we're on the side of clean air, and clean water, and clean government in Washington, D.C.

	Twenty-eight years ago another son of Massachusetts and another son of Texas, were our nominees for president and vice president of the United States.  They were a strong ticket, a good ticket.  They won that election by a margin of 112,000 votes out of nearly 70 million cast, less than one vote per precinct.

	They carried Texas by 30,000.  They carried the state of Illinois by 8800 votes.  Don't let anybody tell you that you don't count.  That the work you're doing out there in your precincts and neighborhoods doesn't count.  And remember this folks, it's not pollsters that vote on Election Day, it's the American people.

	Jack Kennedy in 1960 campaigned all over Illinois and all over this country.  And yes, going into the last weekend he was behind in the polls too, but this is what he said.  Words that are as important today as they were 28 years ago.

	He said, then, that there are those who say that a call for greater effort and greater strength is to sell America short.  But he said, I do not equate criticism of Republican leadership with criticism of our country.

	On the contrary, it is those who are satisfied with things as they are, those who are afraid to ask the American people for a greater effort who are selling America short, it is they who have lost faith in America, and the American capacity to do great things.

	That is why John Kennedy said, no attacks, no attempts to discredit us, will keep us from speaking up for a stronger America.  I like that, don't you?  I like that a lot.

	That was John Kennedy's message in 1960, that's my message to you today, we're going to build a better America, we're going to build an America that extends the circle of opportunity to all of its citizens in every part of this country, and we're not going to do it with tax breaks for the wealthy.

	We're going to do it by working together and investing together and building together and creating those quality jobs, and I mean quality jobs.  Jobs you can support a family on.

	So let me make a little deal with you, okay?  You go out there and win this one for us in Illinois, and we're going to win all across this nation, and then, Kitty and I are going to invite you to a party in Washington, D.C. on January 20, 1989.

AGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMEDUCATION--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITSOCCUPATIONAL SAFETY     1* ý) ÷) ó) ë)
 à) Û) Ö) Î) Æ) Ä) Ä) ¹)	 ¢ 	 Š 	 x 	 N 	 6   e: