Speeches\1968\rep\S68R1027.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/27RADIOWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCCBS RADIO2088 WORDS

	A presidential campaign while delicate peace negotiations are in progress confronts our democratic system with a grave test.

	It demands of the candidates the utmost in restraint, discretion and patriotism.

	It demands of the people the utmost in perception, forbearance and common sense.

	The negations could be tragically upset, our hopes for peace dashed, by an ill-timed or incautious word.

	As long as there is a chance for an honorable peace through the Paris talks, candidates should offer nothing in the political arena that would risk undercutting our negotiators.

	I hope President Johnson can honorably end this war.

	I hope it can be done quickly.

	When the Paris talks began last April, I pledged that I would do nothing that might interfere. Two months ago, to my party's Platform Committee, I said:

	"Our negotiators in Paris represent not only the present administration, but the United States. In the spirit of country above party, as long as they have a chance of success--and as long as the administration remains committed to an honorable settlement--they should be free from partisan interference, and they should have our full support. The pursuit of peace is too important for politics-as-usual."

	Tonight, I reaffirm that pledge and that commitment.

	Clearly, these talks have entered a crucial phase. We all know that in recent days there has been a great flurry of official meetings in the White House and elsewhere. There is widespread speculation about a possible breakthrough--one which might cause the President to halt all bombing of North Vietnam, and might possibly involve even a cease-fire.

	An end to the bombing is the highest trump card in our negotiators' hands. It should not be wasted, or lightly played. Only the President can determine whether the guarantees Hanoi offers in return are credible and adequate, for only he has all the relevant information.

	My view is this:

	If the bombing can be ended in a way that will speed an honorable peace; if it can be ended in a way that will save American lives rather than costing American lives; and if the President determines that these conditions have been met by the North Vietnamese, then I will support his order to stop the bombing.

	We must all hope that the present initiatives succeed in moving this terrible war toward a swift settlement. But we must also consider alternatives if they fail--or if an apparent agreement is reached, then broken by the other side.

	Then new policies will be needed, both for the conduct of the war and for the search for peace.

	The history of America's involvement in Vietnam is a sad chronicle of misjudgment--misjudgments of the requirements of guerrilla war, misjudgments of the enemy's stamina and will, misjudgments of how best to use America's power effectively.

	It is a history of a lack of candor at home, and a lack of leadership abroad.

	Effective American leadership would have united the free world in support of South Vietnam's struggle. It would have isolated Hanoi, not Washington. This kind of leadership would have been worth whole divisions of troops.

	Greater candor at home would have spared our nation much of the bitterness and division that the war has brought.

	Militarily, our power was wasted by a misguided policy of gradualism. By inching up the ladder of escalation a step at a time, the administration gave the enemy time to adjust to each new level of force. As a result, our options have been frittered away, and the swift, decisive stroke that would have been possible two years ago is no longer possible today. Instead, we have been backed into a massive, grinding war of attrition.

	Strategically, the administration persisted in fighting the wrong kind of war. It consistently underemphasized the non-military aspects--political, psychological, diplomatic, economic. It ignored the urgent advice of counter-insurgency experts, who insisted that instead of concentrating on massive search-and-destroy operations, the primary emphasis should be on small-unit actions, on protecting the population, on such things as routing out the Viet Cong infrastructure and on police and patrol activities. The irony is that this more effective kind of war could have been fought with fewer men at less cost.

	The Pentagon pursued a business-as-usual policy, rotating combat commanders so rapidly that they barely had time to learn their jobs before being replaced.

	The administration neglected the training and skipped on equipping the South Vietnamese, with the result that American soldiers ended up doing fighting that Vietnamese should have done.

	The administration has not been outfought by a far weaker enemy. But it has been outthought.

	Never in four years--never in this whole chronicle of miscalculations--has Hubert Humphrey indicated that he has disagreed with anything the administration has done or failed to do.

	What began as a limited involvement has become one of the longest, most costly wars in America's history--with more than 30,000 young Americans dead, more than 100,000 seriously wounded and nearly $100 billion spent.

	We must end the war, and end it on an honorable basis, and by a negotiated settlement.

	Even if there is a breakthrough in Paris, the search for peace will continue to be arduous and delicate.

	The terms of an eventual settlement will have to be hammered out in the hard give-and-take of a long and difficult series of bargaining sessions.

	This requires the utmost circumspection by presidential candidates before November 5, and by the president-elect after November 5.

	When negotiations are in progress, an undisciplined tongue can be the worst enemy of peace. As President Johnson commented the day before yesterday that "I don't think it is good policy to try to handle all diplomacy in public." I agree.

	A president has to know when to speak, and when to keep silent; when his words will help, and when they will hinder, the process of negotiations. He has to think before he speaks, and know his own mind when he speaks.

	In recent weeks, Vice President Humphrey has provided a classic example of what a president must not do.

	He has talked too much and too loosely about Vietnam. He has been for a bombing halt, and against it; he has called for pre-halt conditions, and then no conditions; he has demanded "reciprocity," and then said he didn't mean it. He has held out hope that American troops could be brought home this year, and then backed away from it. He was against the minority plank on Vietnam at the Democratic convention, then for it, and then against it again--and now he seems bewildered and straddling.

	By trying to please every audience and appease every faction, he can only have sown consternation among our friends and confusion among our adversaries. A government cannot afford to negotiate and vacillate at the same time; neither can we restore America's leadership if we simply trade one credibility gap for another.

	Far more important than talking about peace is achieving peace.

	A candidate for the presidency gets a great deal of advice, and one of the most persistent pieces of advice I have gotten has been to spell out, in detail, the steps by which I would move toward peace in Vietnam, and the precise terms on which I would settle.

	From the standpoint of a political campaign, this could be very useful. But from the standpoint of the national interest, it could be disastrous.

	Consider what could happen if a candidate for the presidency detailed in advance--for the information of the enemy as well as of the American people--the steps he intended to follow.

	Immediately, every one of those steps that involved actions by the United States would become unavailable for bargaining purposes. The candidate would be trading for votes what our negotiators could otherwise trade for lives.

	A private citizen, an editor, even a senator, can spell out in public what he thinks the minimum terms should be. But a president has to negotiate those terms. Anyone familiar with the negotiating process knows that for a negotiator to tip his hand in advance is to give away the negotiations.

	But while the precise terms of peace have to be negotiated, certain fundamental points can and should be made clear.

	First, our aims in Vietnam have too often been clouded in expansive rhetoric that obscures their limited nature. What we seek is not to punish North Vietnam, but to end its aggression; not privileges for ourselves, but the basic right of the South Vietnamese to self-determination.

	Second, there are some so-called solutions which are no solution at all.

	Chief among these is the scheme to impose a coalition government on South Vietnam. Not only is this totally unacceptable to our South Vietnamese allies; it also would be an only thinly disguised surrender. To the communist side, a coalition government is not an exercise in cooperation, but a sanctuary for subversion. Far from ending the war, it would only ensure its resumption under conditions that would guarantee a communist victory--and by rewarding aggression, it would encourage further wars.

	Ruling out the imposition of a coalition government, however, does not rule out all participation in the political processes of South Vietnam by those who now may be in the National Liberation Front, provided they renounce the use of force and accept the verdict of elections. How this might be worked out is a matter that could be negotiated.

	The peace that we seek must be a just peace, and a durable peace--a peace that neither encourages aggression by its weakness, nor sows the seeds of explosive resentment by its harshness. Beyond this, we should be willing to offer a generous peace--one that invites Hanoi to share peacefully in the growing prosperity of a rapidly developing pacific community.

	The terms on which the war can be settled will depend in part on how broadly based the settlement is. Sometimes the way to break a deadlock is to go around it. By broadening the range of interests represented and of issues discussed, new avenues to agreement can often be opened.

	The Soviet Union is deeply involved in the war, and the other nations of Asia have a large stake in its outcome. Imaginative diplomacy would not limit the search for peace to those interests now represented in Paris. On the contrary, the conference table should be made broad enough to accommodate as many as possible of the powers and interests involved.

	Beyond the war, there is hope in Vietnam. This is a nation of vigorous, exceptionally able, highly intelligent people. Given at last the conditions of freedom and respite from war, they have the capacity to make their nation a showcase.

	Beyond Vietnam, there is hope in Asia. Despite the war's terrible costs, American resistance has strengthened the resolve of the other nations in the shadow of Communist China. It has bought time for their economic and political development, and for the consolidation of their strength.

	As a result, the years ahead may bring brighter prospects for peace in the 
Pacific than we have had in years--provided the war is settled honorably, provided the United States shows some diplomatic imagination, and provided the nations of non-Communist Asia now concert their strength so as to offer Peking no temptation.

	Asia today is much more than a place of peasants and pagodas. Half the world's people live in Asia, and the most dynamic changes in the world are taking place in Asia. To the strengths of ancient civilizations are being rapidly added the miracles of modern technology. Increasingly, we and the nations of non-Communist Asia are becoming linked in a broad pacific community.

	After fighting three Asian wars in a generation, our larger task now is to ensure that the Pacific will finally become the peaceful sea that its name implies.

	With regard to Vietnam, the question facing the voters is this: whether the war can better be ended by an administration hobbled by a legacy of past failure, or by a new administration neither defending the old mistakes nor bound by the old record.

	A Nixon administration will bring in a fresh team that can appraise with a clear eye and act with a free hand. It will conduct a thorough review of every aspect of the prosecution of the war and the search for settlement. It will spare no effort, it will be imprisoned by nothing past, in its determined pursuit of peace--peace in Vietnam, and peace in the Pacific for the balance of this century.
ASIAPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARVIETNAM WAR     …1 ï1 è1 ã1 Å1
 x1 s1 n1 d1 P1 N1 E1 ;1	 7  3   e: