Speeches\1968\rep\S68R1025.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/25RADIOWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCCBS RADIO2072 WORDS

	As we have crossed and recrossed the United States in this campaign year 1968, I have been impressed as never before with something we must always remember about America. This is an enormous country, a continental country. And though other countries have been large, America is something else. Its peoples, its Americans, are diverse. And there are enormous energies in that diversity. I have looked at America at night from our campaign plane, the Tricia, at the great cities of our nation--at New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Tulsa, Dallas.

	At night our cities seem almost to be made of electricity. The lights in the homes, the cars moving along the roads, the colors.

	During the day, the skyscrapers of our cities reach into the clouds. Their factories and offices, their millions of Americans, drawn from every nation in the world, sustain an economy, and a free society, that is one of the wonders of history.

	Between the cities there is something else that is unique in history. The flowing fields and plains of our Republic; an agriculture of unprecedented abundance.

	And the geographical diversity of America--from the deserts of the Southwest to the rich green delta lands, from our mountain ranges, the Sierra Nevadas, and the Green Mountains of Vermont, to the vast fertile plains of the mid-continent.

	And the more you see of America--its size, its diversity, and its energy--the more ridiculous, and the more dangerous, it seems that anyone should suppose that planners in a remote city could draw up blueprints which would be adequate guides for a continent.

	This is not a new feeling about America. In its earliest days, America was diverse and vast, and the most acute observers drew the correct conclusions.

	"However enlightened or skillful a central power may be," wrote de Tocqueville in his "Democracy in America," "it cannot of itself embrace all the details of the life of a great nation ... and when it attempts unaided to create and set in motion many complicated springs, it must submit itself to a very imperfect result or exhaust itself in fruitless efforts."

	He wrote this in 1835, and if he saw this truth about an earlier America, how much truer it is today.

	There has nevertheless been a tendency in our history for the federal government, during crises to preempt functions which it is not suited to perform, and to retain them when the crisis is past.

	As a result, the federal role in the life of the nation has continued to expand, and has expanded at an accelerated rate.

	Since the turn of the century, the gross national product in America has multiplied thirty-three times but the federal government is 234 times as large as it was then.

	I know that with the increasing complexity of our society, with increasing mobility and with urbanization, government must provide many services. Legitimate questions, to be sure, may be raised about some services. But the crucial question our history now poses for us is not so much what services are to be provided, but rather who should make the decisions. Should the decision be made and the priorities be set by the citizens and their elected local officials, or by the government in Washington and its appointed bureaucrats?

	The centralization of power in Washington has been a gradual thing. A few federal programs were launched during the nineteenth century, and a few others following the first world war. The really large increase, however, came during the Depression, when a dozen new programs were enacted. These were emergency times, and the programs often were necessary. Since World War II, we have seen a vast proliferation in the number and kind of federal programs, as well as an ominous tendency toward programs which by-pass the states, or else call for a minimal participation by state governments.

	Let me say that the men who have launched these programs have meant well. They wanted to solve a particular problem; it seemed to them that the federal government was the course of funds, and the place to go to solve it. As a result, whether measured in numbers of programs or in expenditures, federal grants have increased significantly in the last twenty years, substantially in the last decade, and very sharply in the last four years.

	The crucial question of the 1970s about who and at what level of government, should make the decisions, has become especially pressing because of the nature of the problems confronting us.

	In the earliest stages, federal programs were largely confined to disbursing money or to building physical facilities such a dams and highways. But in the recent activities the federal government has involved itself in matters of much greater complexity and delicacy--even the quality of life.

	As anyone might expect, Washington has increasingly found itself in far over its head. By their very nature, these modern problems demand diversity of approach, independent creativity, citizen participation and involvement, local direction and coordination.

	Even to think that a large, remote, impersonal bureaucracy could deal with them effectively strikes me as presumptuous.

	Let me be more specific. By latest count there are eighty-two separate aid to education programs, and eighty-six separate health assistance programs, and over 400 programs in all fields combined, twice the number of three years ago. Programs dealing with one type of problem are scattered among numerous federal agencies. There are, believe it or not, thirty-eight separate federal agencies involved in water resource programs. The city of Oakland, California made a count and discovered that it was involved in 140 separate federal aid programs, each with its own guidelines, matching fund requirements and reporting procedures.

	This entire approach has resulted in a tangled web of confusion, ineffectiveness, and tight federal controls. All too often, the result has been chaos.

	The Federal Agriculture Program is a classic and colossal example, but it is far from the only one.

	The Federal Housing Program is more eloquently condemned by its former advocates than by its opponents.

	The persistence of poverty in America gave rise to a flamboyant war on poverty, which has not made a dent in poverty, and actually bears witness to the fact that thirty years of expensive federal efforts to eliminate dependency have only succeeded in institutionalizing it.

	Urban renewal, another flamboyant slogan, has destroyed more low-cost housing than it has created, and instead of reducing tension has actually precipitated urban riots.

	Increasing centralization has siphoned top management talent from the state to Washington, handicapping the states in dealing with their pressing problems.

	Increasing centralization has created a situation of local fiscal poverty amid federal fiscal plenty. Our states and cities have the problems, Washington has the money.

	Increasing centralization has removed decision-making from the local level and helped to breed an atmosphere of alienation, made people feel that they have no control over their destiny or the quality of their lives.

	The idea behind all this is that a few men in Washington know more about how to spend our money than we do--know more about it than state government, more about it than local government.

	Even among some Democrats it is beginning to be recognized that we must go no longer down this road.

	Budget Director Charles Schultze put it in a nutshell: He said that "to be effective, we must decentralize."

	But Hubert Humphrey hasn't gotten the message. The federal program for a narrowly defined purpose has become the main instrument for building the so-called Great Society.

	His stock answer to a failing, stuck-in-the-mud program is to expand it. When millions of dollars have been spent ineffectively, he answers: quadruple the expenditure. He is unable to change; he is trapped in the attitudes of the generation before last. His campaign symbol ought to be the dinosaur, not the Democratic donkey. He has forgotten nothing. No, not one slogan, and he has learned nothing--and so all he can offer in response to the problems of the 1970s are the slogans of the 1930s. He would end by bankrupting the taxpayers, because he himself is bankrupt of ideas.

	We hear much talk of revolution these days. I think we should consider for a moment the French Revolution. No doubt it had many causes, but the main cause, as historians agree, was the rigidity and ineffectiveness of the central government. Years of waste and mismanagement, a cumbersome, encrusted, inefficient bureaucracy, a gigantic debt, and a king out of touch with reality, brought down the whole structure. The result was disaster.

	I believe that we can find new approaches, more effective and more responsive to the needs of the people.

	The main reason for the growth of federal power and the decline in home rule and self-government has been the proliferation of specialized federal grants-in-aid. I believe that there is a better approach than such proliferation of programs at the federal level. Instead, we should begin to return tax revenue to states and the local communities in the form of block grants, and thus allow them, within the very broadest possible policy definitions, to determine their own priorities in the allocation of resources.

	The initial distribution of funds should be to the states. However, the pressing needs of our cities and of other local governments require that any final plan must contain enforceable provisions to ensure that they receive a fair share.

	Revenue sharing will restore real partnership to American government. It will help to place decision making in the right hands. For we do not believe that a man sitting in an office in Washington knows more about the needs of the people than our governors and our mayors and our local leaders.

	We must have a vital and effective federal government in Washington. But one way to ensure that we do have one is to get the federal government out of matters it is not competent to handle, and allow it to focus on its proper business.

	The threat posed by increasing centralization to the traditional balance of governing authority in America is so great, and the problems of our cities, counties, and states are so serious, that we must not postpone this new direction in governmental policy. Unless we move in the direction suggested by revenue sharing, our fifty state governments, 35,000 municipalities and townships, and 43,000 school districts will be reduced to subdivisions which take most of their orders from non-elected federal administrators in Washington.

	Revenue sharing is an urgent and necessary step, but it is only one of the steps our new administration will take. We will also:

	Reverse the tendency to proliferate specialized federal programs--now estimated at well over 400--by a gradual consolidation of grants under more broadly defined categories, thus allowing for more discretion in setting priorities at the state and local level.

	Allow increased federal income tax credits for taxes paid at the local and state level, thus enabling state and local governments to increasingly finance their own activities.

	Press measures to relieve the financial strain on private institutions, such as schools, which perform public services.

	Place greater emphasis on the potentialities of the independent sector.

	Act promptly to increase cooperation and consultation between the governors of the states and the administration in Washington.

	And while we are talking about the governors of the states, I would like you to remember that the overwhelming majority of our new and creative governors have been Republicans. This is no accident. For we believe in the value and effectiveness of state government. In home rule rather than in federal rule.

	And so, after forty years of steady federal expansion, the pendulum is beginning to swing. I believe that we are on the edge of great rebirth of state, local and independent vitality. Everywhere, the recognition is growing that this great nation, with its diverse peoples and its complex needs cannot be run in every detail from Washington.

	This philosophy is right in the mainstream of the American tradition. The founders of this country, in the very beginning, rebelled against rigid, remote government--government "from the top down."

	They would not be ruled by kings--and we will not be ruled by federal bureaucrats.

	The first three words of the preamble to the Constitution place emphasis where it always ought to be in America: "We, the people . . ."

	That is the American tradition, and it's time we began to recover it.
BUREAUCRACYGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALPOVERTYURBAN RENEWALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEREVENUE SHARING/BLOCK GRANTS     –2 b2 \2 X2 N2
 E2 @2 ;2 12 2 2 2 2	 k 	 ` 	 E 	 >  1   e: