Speeches\1968\rep\S68R1028.002SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/28STUMPALBANYNEW YORKNYALBANY RALLY, STATE CAPITOL STEPS2743 WORDS

	Governor Rockefeller, Senator Javits, Senator Goodell, all of the distinguished guests here on the steps of the platform and all of the members of this great and huge throng here in Albany, I am honored to be here. I know that from these steps many of the great leaders of the United States have spoken on previous occasions. There is no state in the union that has furnished more leadership to America in both parties, going back to Grover Cleveland, T.R., Theodore Roosevelt, Franklin Roosevelt, Al Smith, Nelson Rockefeller, a great group from the state of New York.

	And today as I stand here to talk about the problems of the national leadership that we need to which Governor Rockefeller has referred, could I be permitted one word with regard to the problems of the state of New York, to the great progress this state has made under Governor Rockefeller, to the progress it can make with the new members of the legislature added to those already here. And I would like for all of those who are candidates on the state ticket here please to stand at the present time.

	My friends, I simply want to say that at this particular point in history, not only do we need a new team in Washington, but we need strong teams in state government. And in the state legislature we need those men who will support the new progressive programs that this state has now become famous for across the nation. I certainly am privileged to stand here with them. They are part of a great national and state team, because one thing that is going to change in the next administration is this: After a period of forty years in which power has flowed from the states and from local government to Washington, we now are going to recognize that because we have so many strong, progressive state leaders and state governors that it's time to reverse the flow and to have power flow from the federal government back to the states and back to the people of this country. Because I am convinced that the governor of this state knows better what is needed for the people of New York than somebody in Washington, D.C., and that kind of cooperation is what we pledge.

	I am also proud to be here on the platform with the national candidates, and I, of course, refer to the man who will lead the ticket in the state of New York, and a man that I have always had certainly the great privilege to run with and work with, that I came to the Congress with 21 years ago, Senator Jack Javits; his colleague, Charlie Goodell; and then on the candidate side, Congressman Dan Button, Congressman Carlton King and Hamilton Fish, Jr. Will you all stand?

	And I can only say to you that when Nelson Rockefeller talks about the need for a mandate for change, for new leadership, remember, we not only need a president, we not only need a new cabinet, but we also need the men in the House and the men in the Senate that will support the programs that will provide that change that America wants.

	And today in the few moments that I have to speak to you I have selected a theme not from a Republican but from a man that all Americans consider to be not only one of the great Democratic candidates but one of the great Americans of his time and of our century, Al Smith. He was famous for that phrase, "Let us look at the record." And today, as we enter the final week of this campaign, I think that it's time that we look at the record. I think that it's time that we get away from all of the personality charges that have been hurled. After all, we've got to recognize that what we are now voting on is the leadership that is going to either fail America or that will win for America over the next four years and the next eight years. And that is why this should not and has never been on my part a campaign devoted to the personalities.

	Let me say, as far as personal attacks are concerned, they don't need to be made. All we have to do is to tell the truth about them, and we will win, you can be sure of that.

	And so let us look at the record. The record is a clear one. We have nominated by the other party a man who has served for Vice President for four years, a man who has in that four years as Vice President spoken more words than any of his predecessors did in eight years. And a man in those four years who has never had a word of criticism or a word of difference with the record of the last four years. And so, my friends, in the words of Al Smith, if you want to know where you are going, all you have to do is to look where you have been. Let's look at the record. And here is what the United States and the people of this country must decide in this election campaign: whether they are satisfied with those last four years. And I say when we look at that record and what has happened in those four years, here it is: The longest war in American history, the worst crime wave in American history, the highest taxes in American history, the highest increase in prices in a generation, and the lowest respect for America that we have ever had any place in the world.

	When respect for the United States of America falls so low that a fourth-rate military power like North Korea will seize an American Naval vessel on the high seas, then I say, my friends, on that record it is not time to continue, it's time for new leadership for America that will restore respect, new leadership that we will provide.

	And I say to you, my friends, that is why as we come to this country, a country that has a great Democratic tradition, we ask not just for the support of Republicans but for Democrats and Independents as well. And we ask for that support because this is one of those elections when we must think as Americans, when we must look at that record and say, can America afford a policy in which we have had no peace for four years abroad and in which the prospects do not appear at this point that we may have it for the next four years, in which the danger of war, apart from Vietnam, is greater in every area of the world than it was eight years ago? Can we afford four more years of leadership by a man who was the most expensive senator when he was in the Senate, and a man who would be our most expensive president?

	Can we afford the kind of leadership that will raise our taxes and raise our prices and that will leave American respect low?

	And I say, my friends, we cannot, and we will not. And I simply want to say this as we enter this Halloween week, this is trick-or-treat week. And we are going to hear a lot of tricks this week, and they are going to try to lay all kinds of charges against us. And the reason that they are is that they are afraid. The reason that they are attacking, the reason that they are making personal charges, they are afraid they are going to lose. They are right.

	We are going to give them the licking of their lives on November 5th. And, my friends, here is what your mandate for change will be. It's a mandate for change for new leadership that can unite America. We cannot trust the next four years to that squabbling bunch that mishandled their convention in Chicago. We've got to have a united party.

	And, my friends, I say to you as an indication of the unity of our party, all of you millions saw on television the night I was nominated in Miami, you remember the first telephone call I got was from Nelson Rockefeller. And that's an indication. And I want you to know, no man in this country has worked harder for this ticket than Governor Rockefeller, and with his help we are going to carry New York and we are going to carry the nation. And that's the kind of unity we have.

	But let me say, every governor, every senator, every congressman throughout this nation supports our ticket. And we are going to bring that big team to Washington. We are going to bring the best men to Washington to give America the new leadership abroad and at home that we need. And so you are voting for a new team.

	And, incidentally, a party that can unite itself will unite America, and we need to unite this country. All of the division and the hate, the alienation of the races and the alienation of the generations, this we can deal with, but only with a new team. Give us that mandate for change and we will not fail you. Give it to us and I am sure that you will not be sorry because we can give the new leadership that Americans want.

	My friends, your mandate for change means a new foreign policy, a new foreign policy that will be dedicated to ending the war in which we are in, if that responsibility is ours. But, beyond that, just as important, a new foreign policy that will prevent other Vietnams. Because, my friends, let us never forget that for twenty years we poured out our money, $150 billion in aid, we poured out our men, our lives, in Korea and then in Vietnam.

	And the United States, rich as it is and strong as it is and populous as it is, we must recognize that we cannot and we should not do the job virtually alone. And that's why you are going to vote for a new foreign policy that will recognize a fundamental fact: There are 200 million Americans, there are two billion people that live in the free world, and we shall have a foreign policy in which other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around this world.

	We shall have a new policy at home, one that will restore respect for America, and I pledge this in our administration, the American flag is not going to be a doormat for anybody, at home or abroad. We shall restore respect for law, respect for order in this country, and the justice that is essential if you are to have respect for law and order.

	That's why I completely disagree with our opponent on the other side when he defends the attorney general and his record, because, my friends, when crime goes up nine times as fast as population, when 43 percent of the American people say they are afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night, then it's time for a housecleaning and it's time for new leadership. I pledge that kind of leadership to the American people.

	A new council on law enforcement, a new academy to train law enforcement officials, an all-out drive against narcotics, an all-out drive against organized crime. All this you vote for. Give us this mandate for change and we will provide that leadership, and also the kind of leadership that you want in those areas that involve your pocketbook.

	Look at what has happened. The wage earners of America point to the fact, as they should, that they have had an increase of $14 a week on the average over the last three years. But their wives will tell you no. She will tell the truth, that actually they have $2 a week less because prices and taxes have gone up. And I say, my friends, it's time to get the American worker off a treadmill and on a road to higher wages with real dollars rather than inflated dollars, and we pledge that kind of leadership.

	And to those 20 million forgotten Americans on Social Security, those on pensions, we say no longer will you be forgotten. We pledge that if prices do go up, Social Security automatically will go up. We pledge that the benefits will be extended. But, more than that, we will see to it that we do stop the rise in prices so that those who save money today, a dollar today, will be able to have a dollar and have it worth a dollar when they retire five or ten years from now.

	And then, my friends, in another area, let's look at the field of education. The need here for new leadership is clear. Leadership which is directed not only to higher education, higher education which received such a lift from the Eisenhower administration--and to its credit that has also been supported by this administration--but new leadership that will recognize that the current problem is between the grades of one, or should we say kindergarten, through the twelfth, and beyond that through the community college.

	The need for a new program that I have laid out in great detail in my education program, a new program to see to it, not only that our teachers' salaries are brought up to where they should be, but a new program that will recognize that it is not just the quantity but the quality of education that is involved.

	And on that point may I make one particular observation that I think everybody in this audience will agree with. I think we need leadership right from the top, from the president of the United States, that will make clear to the people of this country one fundamental fact. We have heard too much talk about permissiveness, we have heard too much talk that anything goes, we have heard too much talk that if it's in a classroom, you do anything.

	Let me make a couple of points straight. I say that the very definition of college or university means that the rule of reason prevails over the rule of force, and anybody that rejects that rule should be out of that college or university. And I say further it's time that we recognize that our teachers render a tremendous service to us, and our teachers, I think, should have the backing of the parents, the backing of the school boards. We have no right to ask a teacher to go into a classroom under threats of intimidation. Let's give our teachers the backing that they should have against those who might engage in such threats.

	What I am talking about, my friends, is a whole new attitude toward the problems of America, an attitude that recognizes fundamentally that this nation cannot continue to go forward down a road, a road that has led us to an endless war abroad, to no peace at home, a road that is leading us down a road to higher prices and higher taxes, one that has stopped the wheels of progress.

	There is a new direction, a new vision, a new purpose that the American people want. We can provide it, but we need your help and we need more than a plurality. We need a mandate, a mandate for change.

	And that's why I say to you, whether you are Republicans or Democrats, think in the words of Al Smith--look at the record. A record of failure. We do not reward failure in America. And let me say the American people have not failed. This administration has failed.

	Let me lay it right on the line, my friends. This is a great country. I have campaigned it all. I have seen the great crowds. I have seen young America on the march and young America wants a change. They are not going to tolerate what we have got. But, my friends, as I look at America, all of its wealth and all of its goodness, there is nothing wrong with America that a good election won't cure. Let's have a good election. Let's win.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION--SOCIAL PROBLEMSFOREIGN AID--GENERALNORTH KOREA--PUEBLO INCIDENTPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALRETIREMENT     v: B: <: 8: .:
 %:  : : : : : ê9 à9	 ¬ 	 ž 	  	 ~ 	 d 	 P 	 4 	 ! 	 
 e: