Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1027.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/27STUMPSANTA CLARACALIFORNIACAAPPLIED MATERIALS CORPORATION2163 WORDS

	This election is about many things. It's about keeping America free and secure for the next generation. It's about investing in our children, and building an educational system that rewards excellence and prepares our children for the next century. It's about keeping our streets safe from violent crime. It's about preserving the environment, not only to protect our health and safety, but to renew our spirit.

	But most of all, this election is about opportunity, and how to create more of it in the years to come.

	We've given America a running start on opportunity in these last eight years. Interest rates have been cut in half. Inflation has been cut from over 13 percent to 4 percent. Unemployment hit a fourteen-year low. And a higher percentage of Americans are working today than at any time in our history.

	Today, Uncle Sam is rolling up his sleeves to go to work, not to have his pulse taken.

	But I didn't come here this afternoon to talk about the past, I came here to talk about the future. And I thought it was especially fitting to come to California, to this valley, to talk about this subject of opportunity--because from the time of the Gold Rush in 1849, to the computer revolution that gave Silicon Valley its name, California has always been synonymous with opportunity.

	Today, and for the next 12 days, I ask you--and all Americans--to think about the roots of the opportunity we now have, and about the best path to greater opportunity in the future.

	Santa Clara County, and the state of California, are the home to one of America's crown jewels--the high technology industry.

	High tech was born right here in California. A San Franciscan, Lee de Forest, invented the vacuum tube before the First World War. A Californian working at Bell Labs developed the first transistor. Two Stanford graduates named William Hewlett and David Packard started an electronics company in their garage; and launched a great industry. And now the supercomputers of tomorrow are also being developed here.

	Today, 2,000 microcomputer producers and suppliers are located here--almost one-third of the nation's total. California is home to fully half of America's semiconductor manufacturers. Right now, electronics is a $35 billion industry in California, and aerospace accounts for another $20 billion. Together, they provide over 700,000 jobs for Californians.

	High tech is symbolic of America's success: It relies on superior brainpower, sophisticated production processes, and a growing, changing, and open world market.

	Applied Materials is a perfect example. As the world's leading independent producer of wafer fabrication systems, you're growing fast. But I'm told that half of your sales are overseas--in Europe, Japan, Korea, and even the People's Republic of China.

	So what are the keys to growth, for your company, for high tech, and for America? Well, one key is good schools and colleges--after all, it's no mistake that this entire industry has grown up close to some of America's best.

	Another key to economic growth is continued and growing investment. We've done well in that area: investment in plant and equipment is expected to grow by 10 percent this year. But we can do more, because creating new jobs requires new investment--and that's why I've proposed to cut the capital gains tax.

	Growth relies also on a commitment to basic research. That's why we've expanded the budget for basic research by 47 percent in real terms, adjusted for inflation, since 1981, and we proposed in this year to double the budget for the National Science Foundation by 1993. I would like to encourage a greater commitment--by both government and industry--so I have proposed to make the research and development tax credit permanent. The U.S. must remain the world's premier idea factory.

	And I will guard the rights of those who come up with the ideas. The trade bill the President recently signed is a start, but let me be clear--I will be very tough in the protection of intellectual property rights.

	You especially know that another critically important component of solid economic growth is open and fair world markets.

	We've just heard what it means to your company--but that applies to all of California, and all of America. California is America's number one trading state, with over $100 billion worth of goods passing through its ports every year. Over one million California jobs are export-related. Nationwide, better than one out of six jobs is trade-related.

	In the first eight months of 1988, U.S. exports grew at a rate of 29 percent.

	So it doesn't make sense to stick our heads in the sand, as some in the other party have suggested, and try and build walls around America. It doesn't make sense to launch a trade war and plunge America and the world into a recession. And it is beneath the dignity of the presidency, and of the voters, to try to incite fear of foreigners as a cheap means of winning a few votes.

	Our country has a long and proud history of diversity; one need look no further than to Vietnamese-American community in San Jose, the Japanese--and Chinese-American communities in San Francisco, or the Mexican-American community in Los Angeles to see countless examples of how the influence of other cultures and other countries has not undermined America's security, but rather enhanced our greatness.

	Perhaps my opponent should explain, for example, why his thinly veiled comments about foreign investment only mention Japan when Japan is not the largest source of direct foreign investment in the United States, or even the second largest. It happens to be third.

	My opponent knows better, and he should stop trying to scare people by putting Japanese flags on American television screens.

	Let me suggest a healthier approach. Not far from here, just over the Santa Cruz Mountains, is one link we have to the world's fastest growing nations, the Pacific Ocean.

	The nations of the Pacific Rim, many of them rapidly industrializing, are the world's fastest growing economies. They represent a tremendous opportunity for the United States, on many dimensions.

	First, these countries represent huge and growing markets for our products and services--if we don't turn and run away.

	When I served as the chief American representative in the People's Republic of China back in 1975, the volume of American trade with the PRC was only $475 million. We dreamed of--and began laying the groundwork for--the day when it might reach $1 billion. Today, in 1988, our trade with China is worth $13.5 billion.

	Look at what is happening right now, this year. American exports to Japan and South Korea are up more than 38 percent. Exports to China and Hong Kong have shot up almost 50 percent.

	The evidence is clear--given the chance, given a level playing field, American workers can compete with those of any nation in the world, and win.

	The answer is opening up markets, not retreating from the competition.

	We've worked to do that. As you may know, we launched an investigation--a so-called Section 301 investigation--of South Korea's trade laws, and as a result, their copyright, patent, and trademark laws were liberalized. We won a milestone agreement under which Japan will phase out quotas on beef and citrus. That alone could boost exports by $1 billion.

	We fought to prevent Japan from dumping semiconductors in the U.S. market--and the Japanese did sign an agreement to open their market to foreign semiconductors; although we've had to keep the heat on to ensure progress.

	With these efforts, and with the dollar stabilized at a level that helps our trade picture, no wonder exports are growing. But I will make sure that our trading partners continue to understand that our markets are vital to their growth as well; free trade must be fair trade.

	A Bush administration will keep the heat on--both against tariffs and against less-obvious non-tariff barriers.

	I will work for more bilateral trade agreements like the historic one we have signed with our largest trading partner, Canada. I will push for much faster worldwide progress in opening markets under the GATT. And perhaps we should explore multilateral agreements with smaller groups of nations.

	The point is that trade is an opportunity, and not a risk. And we should work to open markets, not move to close them.

	The second dimension of our opportunity in the Pacific Rim is broader. As economic growth has swept through these nations, so have the winds of democracy. This is natural--free markets and rising living standards must go hand in hand with greater political liberty. But it is a trend we should work to encourage.

	Just as our free market capitalism is the economic model on which the success of these nations is based, so too is our democracy the political model to which they aspire and to which they look for inspiration and guidance.

	Continued growth in the Pacific depends in part on its political stability--and America's willingness to maintain a strong defense is greatly responsible for it. But we must support the continuing trend toward greater democratic freedom--in a way that respects the particular national interests, history, and culture of each nation. So I will be a strong advocate of human rights and greater political freedoms in these and indeed in all nations around the world.

	There is no question about it--beyond the Golden Gate lies a golden opportunity.

	But I would like to close by returning to the central point of this election. It all begins at home. We are the engine that has driven world economic growth for these last few years. And our success, whether at encouraging a more stable world, marketing our products abroad, maintaining leadership in high technology, or building a better life for ourselves and our children, begins with creating an environment that allows our economy to keep growing and keep strong.

	We will not succeed in any of the goals I have talked about this afternoon if our economic growth is threatened by returning to policies that have proven to be a failure.

	At the core of my philosophy of economic growth is low taxes, minimal regulation, and free, competitive markets. At the core of my opponent's philosophy is more required spending, by government and by business, and--as sure as night follows day--higher taxes.

	My opponent has as much as said that he would repeal our 1981 tax cuts--the ones that unleashed the greatest period of economic growth in our history.

	At the heart of this election is this--more taxes will put the economic expansion that has fueled America's comeback at risk.

	And if that expansion is snuffed out, it will stop us from spreading its benefits to those areas that most need assistance. From helping those poor and disadvantaged Americans who are still struggling to make it in this society.

	My opponent's economic policies are identical to those of the last Democrat to hold the White House, Jimmy Carter; and just as Carternomics sent the incomes of middle Americans into free fall, Dukakinomics will obliterate their prosperity with a barrage of higher taxes, higher inflation, higher interest rates, and falling incomes.

	A tax increase which smothers economic growth will make it virtually impossible to cut that deficit.

	The reason for this was perhaps best explained by a previous Democratic president, none other than John F. Kennedy, back in 1962. "It is a paradoxical truth," JFK said, "that tax rates are too high today and tax revenues are too low, and the soundest way to raise the revenues in the long run is to cut the rates now."

	And here's the key point in JFK's speech: "The reason is that only full employment can balance the budget, and tax reduction can pave the way to that employment."

	I am a full-employment Republican. And I understand that the path to full employment is low taxes, spending that is under control, and a growing, healthy economy. As the experience of the last eight years has shown, this approach will create more opportunity for all Americans.

	My opponent's tax and spend approach will sound the death knell for the longest and strongest economic expansion in our peacetime history.

	Now is not the time to put America's comeback at risk. Now is the time to keep building a stronger economy for the next decade and the next century.

	In less than two weeks, America will face a referendum on opportunity.

	You can vote for more opportunity, or less.

	I ask you to choose the path of more opportunity, of a nation that is growing stronger every day, of a better America.

	I ask for your vote on November 8th.

	Thank you, and God bless you.
 
COMPUTER INDUSTRY/TECHNOLOGYDEMOCRACYFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALFOREIGN TRADE--JAPANFOREIGN TRADE AGREEMENTSFREE MARKET ECONOMIESINVENTION/INNOVATIONINVESTMENT, FOREIGNRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYTAXATION--GENERALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--ASIA--PACIFIC NATIONSHIGH TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIES     3 K3 E3 A3 73
 /3 *3 %3 3 3 3 ñ2 ç2	 M	 1	 (	 	 þ 	 æ 	 Ñ 	 ½ 	 ª 	 ’ 	 |  k  >   e: