Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1015.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/15STUMPSAN FRANCISCOCALIFORNIACACOW PALACE, FOR 8 PM RADIO RELEASE AND NEWSPAPER RELEASE NEXT MORNING2158 WORDS

	It is five weeks ago that I was last here in San Francisco. I have covered, since that time, thousands of miles and talked with people in many states. We have been talking about the biggest thing in the world. And I don't mean the Democratic party. I mean America.

	I want to tell you, despite all the Republican reports to the contrary, that America is just as strong, just as healthy and just as fine as it's ever been. And so is the Democratic party.

	I confess that the Republican campaign still fills me with something like awe. They have all that money, all those newspapers, all those advertising agencies, all those balloons, all those slogan makers and sky-writers, all that confetti for all those "spontaneous" demonstrations. It must be the biggest year in the confetti business since Lindbergh flew the Atlantic. Never have so many said so much so loudly--about so little.

	But I suppose elephants always were meant to travel in circuses!

	My object, in traveling around the country, has been somewhat less spectacular. All I have tried to do is to tell people what I stand for and what the Democratic party stands for. And I don't believe, as some say, that I've talked over anyone's head either. I don't believe I could if I tried. Besides, I believe that many things are revealed to the humble which are hidden from the great.

	The Democratic program is dedicated to two main objectives: achieving peace in the world, and continuing our well-being, our good times, here at home. We believe that the essential ingredient of both is confidence and self-respect; confidence in ourselves as free and fortunate people, proud and respectful of ourselves and our fellow men, and competent to deal constructively and successfully with the ponderous problems of our society and our world. We reject the negative, complaining, frightened attitude of the Republicans.

	Abroad, we want a free world growing steadily in strength and unity, and, therefore, security, for we know that the collective strength of freedom is the best bulwark against Communist aggression and atomic war.

	At home, we want a vigorous and expanding economy, solidly based on the broad foundations laid down over the last twenty years. To maintain our prosperity, we must maintain the buying power of the people; and the Democratic party has helped to do this--by minimum wage and collective bargaining laws for the workers, by price supports for the farmers, by social insurance for the elderly, the sick and the unemployed, and by a tax system which presses least heavily on the ones least able to bear the burden.

	These are tested and proven policies of twenty years. They were initiated by the boldness and vision of a great Democrat--Franklin Roosevelt. They ere enlarged and consolidated by another great Democrat--Harry Truman.

	The results of these policies are written in the power and might of this nation.

	They are written in all our lives and opportunities--so bleak and vacant twenty years ago, so large and hopeful now.

	The secret of our program--and of our success--is that the Democratic party cares about people.

	I do not mean to suggest that all our problems are solved. The world is complex and imperfect; and the day's business will never be finished.

	In five presidential elections the American people have backed the policies of our party which have meant strength and progress and confidence for the American people. But not all Americans have accepted them. A stubborn, obstinate group of men has fought them at every step along the way--men who have had to be dragged, screaming and kicking, into the 20th century.

	These men opposed our policy of strength at home. They opposed labor's right to organize and bargain collectively. They opposed effective supports for farm income. They opposed the whole conception of security in economic life. They wanted labor to be weak, the farmers to be weak, government to be weak--and only themselves to be strong. They never understood the central truth--that the strength of the nation resides in the strength of the whole, and not in the strength of one of the parts.

	I don't need to identify this group of stubborn men to you. They are fugitives from the days of Chester A. Arthur and William McKinley--the men who, like the elephants, which is their symbol, never forget. They are the Old Guard of the Republican party.

	A friend handed me, a few days ago, what he calls an Ode to the Old Guard. I want to read it to you.

	Nixon, Dirksen and Taft one night,
	Sailed off in a lead canoe;
	Freighted with cargoes of woe and fright
	Just like in '32.

	Oh what are you hunting as if you would bust?
	The Old Moon asked the three.
	We are hunting for issues all covered with dust--
	And national policies heavy with rust;
	To win this election it's clear that we must,
	Said Nixon and Dirksen and Taft.

	Here in California I hardly need labor the point that not all Republicans are political museum pieces. Any resemblance, for example, between the senator from Ohio and your own forward-looking governor is strictly coincidental. As a matter of fact, after that sanguinary struggle in the Chicago stockyard, the nomination of the General seemed to mean the triumph of the responsible Republicans who know the world is round over those whose single ambition was to undo all that has been done in the two great Democratic decades.

	Many of us Democrats welcomed the General's nomination. Not that we were enthusiastic about military experience for civilian tasks, but we had long hoped that the policies of strength at home and abroad would be accepted by both great parties--than then we could adjourn the increasingly sterile debates about the last twenty years, and move forward, a united nation, to grapple with the challenging questions of the next twenty years.

	Then the General launched his Great Crusade. And ever since, the whole nation has wondered what this crusade is about--except to replace Democrats in public office with Republicans.

	They told us in July that the General had saved the nation from Senator Taft. But in September the General handed over his sword to the man from whom he had just saved the nation. As for me, I started rereading Alice in Wonderland. I don't know much about politics and less about military strategy, but I do know and so do you who the honorary Republican candidate for president is.

	The General tells us not to worry. Government, he says, is just a matter of teamwork. But that doesn't encourage us, for we know the names and we have the numbers of the players on the General's team.

	At quarterback, Senator Taft. The senator from Ohio is a man whose sturdy candor commands our respect. We know, at least, where he stands. He stands in direct opposition to the policies of strength and progress, at home and abroad.

	He has one consuming conviction--it is that the government should not act at all, if possible, and not much if impossible. It should not act to stop rising prices. It should not act to strengthen the free world against aggression abroad.

	We know what "teamwork" would mean with Senator Taft in the lineup. He would carry the ball on every play. He would write our labor laws, review our economic reforms to death, slash our defense program, and dismantle our alliances. That's one series of plays we don't want Senator Taft calling for America.

	At left half--Senator Richard Nixon. You in California know enough about Senator Nixon already. I'm not going to bore you further.

	I can't help calling your attention, though, to Senator Nixon's proposal several weeks ago that the new Republican administration next January should investigate, among other things, the extravagant charges which have been made against General George C. Marshall.

	But I'm not worried by that statesmanlike proposal, and I don't believe General Marshall is losing any sleep either. What's more, I am confident that the American people will spare General Eisenhower the ordeal of watching his vice president harrying and tormenting his revered senior officer, because there just won't be any new Republican administration next January! As for Senator Nixon, we would take his enthusiasm for investigation and disclosure more seriously if he would do a more complete job on himself.

	At right half--Senator Jenner of Indiana. Only last week Senator Jenner boasted again that the General had endorsed his candidacy. "General Eisenhower and I," the senator announced, "are in basic agreement." What the General has been saying, the senator stated--and these are his exact words--is "What I have been saying throughout my six years in the United States Senate." You all know what that gentleman has been saying. There is no more consistent isolationist, no more profound reactionary in the Senate than Jenner of Indiana.

	And the General's team has a line, too--including some stalwart Western Republicans--men like Senator Cain of Washington, Senator Malone of Nevada, Senator Ecton of Montana, Senator Watkins of Utah. And there are a lot more who have fought every important measure for social progress and international security which has come up before the Senate. The General has called for the re-election of every one of them.

	Do you want these men on your team? Will they be good for the country? I could go on like this for a long, long time. But the point is plain.

	The General's team is not the forward-looking Republicans who fought for his nomination in Chicago. It is the Old Guard, and the Old Guard never changes--except for the worse. They don't even fade away.

	There are some who say that the General intends to double-cross his new friends after the election. I do not believe either that the General is so unscrupulous or that they are so stupid.

	Others say that the General can control this queer team of his. I would like to think that they are right. But, as the General must already have discovered, there is a mighty big difference between commanding an army and leading a political party. To issue orders is one thing; to win consent is something else.

	And also if you propose to lead a party, or drive an elephant, it's a good idea to know first where you want to go.

	It is not enough to talk about "the middle of the road" unless you know which direction the road is going--and how far you are from the ditch, and who those fellows are cheering from the gutter.

	No one can question the General's integrity or the excellence of his intentions. But does anyone think he would really stand a chance against this team of isolationists and cutthroat reactionaries?

	My friends, it is time for a change. It is time for Independents and understanding Republicans--and may I state my conviction that far more Republicans are rational than the Old Guard believes--to recognize the real nature of the General's candidacy. There is a great middle body of our voters, who will not be elbowed and hustled, who have wanted to listen to my opponent, whom they truly liked, and to me whom they scarcely knew, before making up their minds. Now they have seen and studied the Republican pattern of compromise--the compromise of principles for votes. From my mail, from the growth of the switch clubs, I have a hunch that a lot of people, Republicans and Independents, have decided that it is indeed time for a change--to the Democratic ticket.

	We Democrats have always fought for change--for change toward a new and better world.

	The issues, as I have said, are peace and prosperity.

	We promise no miracles. I guarantee nothing but hard work and dedication to our great objectives of a better life for all in a safer, saner world. As we see it the wisest policies to achieve these goals are not easy or painless. But they are far sounder than glib promises of a bargain-basement boom or a cut-rate peace. Our hope for prosperity and our hope for peace are at stake in 1952.

	You know now--with unanswerable clarity--what the choice is.

	You can have the Old Guard Republicans, who have said no to everything for twenty years--and to whom the General of the Army has now said yes.

	Or you can have a continuation and expansion of those progressive policies which have released the energies of the American people and enabled them to become stronger, freer and more productive than ever before.

	I think I know what your choice will be and I look forward to the job with no sense of elation, but confident that I will have your patient understanding, your help and your prayers.

CONGRESSFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     c2 /2 )2 %2 2
 2 2 2 ˘1 Ô1 Ì1 ®1 û1	 ° 	 ô 	 Å 	 X 	 6 	  e: