Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0920.003SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/20STUMPNORTH BERGENNEW JERSEYNJEXCERPTS FROM SENIOR CITIZENS LUNCHEON SPEECH1624 WORDS

	In the first flush of youth, or in the vigor of middle age, few of us can imagine ourselves growing old.

	Old age is something that happens to other people, such as grandparents. But suddenly we ourselves are grandparents. I am one myself.

	It can be one of the greatest ages in a man's life or a woman's life or it can be sheer misery.

	Some people, when they finish their life's work, can retire to their own home, live comfortably, if modestly, on their pension and Social Security and perhaps their life savings, and do the things they never had time to do when they were busy earning a living--travel a little, perhaps, or read, or leave the cold northern winters and go to Florida. And they can watch their children's careers flourish and watch their grandchildren grow up. They have entered a whole new world, a whole new life, and one as rewarding and self-fulfilling as their most productive years.

	But other Americans--far too many other Americans--are less fortunate. For them, old age means the awful curse of blindness. It means chronic ill health--bedridden with a hip broken in a fall, chronic wasting disease, the light of memory darkened, coherence becomes confusion. It means constant nagging worry over money that is always a little short of enough. It may even mean no home to live in, no money to pay the rent, eviction--and wearing rags, and eating cold suppers.

	For some, it may mean nearly all of these put together.

	There is not one of us alive today who can be absolutely certain he will be comfortable in his old age. There is not one of us who can be sure he will escape misfortune.

	In the 1930s we began trying to do something about the grim outlook facing the old.

	For under President Roosevelt, a new wind blew through the nation--a wind carrying the message that we are, all of us are, our brother's keeper.

	Nowhere was its message clearer than in the Social Security law--adopted under the leadership of President Franklin Roosevelt, despite the strenuous opposition of the Republican Old Guard.

	For the first time in American history, America said that it would not throw its older citizens on the scrap heap when they had finished their life's work. For the first time, Social Security gave older people back their dignity. 

	The second landmark piece of legislation to help older people was Medicare, enacted under Democratic leadership in the administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson--again over the stubborn opposition of the Republican Old Guard.

	The single most serious problem we can expect to face when we grow old is failing health. But older Americans could not afford the cost of good hospital care under Social Security alone. Medicare was designed to cover those costs. And it has been a healing blessing to millions.

	But what is the situation today?

	The terrible fact is that five million Americans are living in poverty right now--in the richest country on earth.

	Today 6.5 million older people whose incomes hover near or below the poverty line live in dilapidated, deteriorating or substandard housing.

	For the rest of our 13.5 million senior citizens, the cost of housing takes an enormous bite out of modest incomes--on the average, as much as one-third of what they have to spend on everything they need.

	But during the Nixon administration, the elderly housewife has taken her Social Security check to the supermarket and helplessly watched it eaten up by the skyrocketing price of hamburger, bread, and everything else she has to have to live on.

	Millions of Americans, during their working years, look forward to retiring not only on Social Security but on pension plan payments. Year after year they pay a part of their earnings into their company's pension plan.

	Then one day the company fails, or it moves to a distant city, or the worker decides to take a different job. Suddenly he discovers that all the money he paid into the company's pension plan over the years is gone. He may have ten years' service to the company, he may have twenty or more--it makes no difference if he is cut off without a cent. All those years, all those payments, wasted.

	Even those who collect pension payments benefit little. More than half receive less than $1,000 a year, with little or no benefits for widows and dependents.

	The tax structure bears especially heavily on older people, particularly the local property tax. As government services have increased in cost, and especially as the cost of maintaining public schools has skyrocketed, the property tax has escalated with a rapidity that can only terrify older people living on a fixed income. Many are threatened with the loss of their homes.

	Medical costs have become another painful burden, despite Medicare. Everyone knows what has happened to medical costs in the last few years as inflation swept the nation. A good public hospital I recently visited charges $146 a day. Very few of us could cover the costs of a major prolonged illness in that hospital. During the Nixon administration, medical care costs have risen at a rate twice as fast as other prices. And the nation's entire program of medical care is woefully inadequate.

	During eighteen months of campaign traveling, I have met elderly people in every area of the United States. I have seen senior citizens in Milwaukee who pay half their income in property taxes. I have seen old people in Miami who are forced to eat dog meat because they can't afford hamburger. I have met old people who must wait years for decent housing because the public housing program is stalled. I have visited nursing homes in Nebraska where I would not want to stay ten minutes, much less the rest of my life.

	It is time for basic reform.

	In order to provide older Americans with a decent income and productive life, I propose the following:

	A new supplemental income program, funded out of general federal revenues but administered by the Social Security system. This new program will assure that each aged, blind and disabled person will receive a minimum monthly income of $150. By this program we will abolish poverty for those aged, blind and disabled Americans who so deserve our support and attention.

	Increase the Social Security benefits paid to widows from 82 percent to 100 percent of the deceased husband's benefits. Today almost 50 percent of elderly women living alone or with non-relatives are living in poverty.

	Increase the amount of earnings elderly workers are allowed without reducing Social Security benefits. Under my proposal, it will be possible for a single retired worker to earn as much as $8,000 per year and still receive some Social Security benefits, and a retired couple could earn more than $11,000.

	Provide that men will become eligible for reduced Social Security payment benefits at age 62 on the same basis now afforded women.

	Make sure that the cost of living adjustment that was voted into law in 1972 by a Democratic Congress will continue to make my new income supplement program inflation-proof.

	Beyond these steps for income support, we must make immediate improvements in Medicare until we are able to enact the new Health Security Act introduced by Senator Kennedy, which I co-sponsor. I propose immediate expansion of Medicare to cover needed out-of-hospital prescription drugs. I further propose to terminate the monthly charge for doctors' bills. Medicare today pays only 42% of the health costs of older persons.

	We must reduce the crushing burden of property taxes which affect the elderly more than any other group. Seventy percent of older persons own or live in owner-occupied homes.

	Finally, we must provide guarantees that private pension plans do in fact pay benefits to the millions of persons who have contributed to them and who rely on them in retirement. We must have minimum federal standards to assure vesting and portability and be sure that the funds are insured to protect them for the beneficiaries.

	These are some of my priorities.

	But all of these issues grow out of some broader questions we must ask ourselves this year.
	
	We were founded on the promise of life, liberty, and happiness for each of our people. Regardless of income, regardless of station or rank, regardless of race, or age or sex, each one of us deserves a fair chance at life, the respect of his fellows, and the protection of his government. The dignity of the individual is the first premise of our patriotic faith.

	But we have strayed dangerously far from those values.

	When young people die before their time--and when old people die from neglect--then there is something wrong in America.

	When a widow can get tangled for two years in bureaucratic red tape to get the pension she deserves--then there is something wrong in America.

	When government lures older citizens to the White House with a promise to listen--and then locks their recommendations away to gather dust in the attic--then there's something wrong in America.

	When six million senior citizens live in poverty--in hovels instead of homes, without enough food, gouged by the high cost of drugs and health care, without decent clothing and shelter--when a society as wealthy as ours provides such treatment for those who worked to build it--then there is something wrong in America.

	So come with me and we will meet your needs, not because it is politically wise, but because it is morally right.

	Come with me, and we will call America back from a savage war abroad, and home to attend to her own people. 

HEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSMEDICAREPENSIONSPOVERTYPROPERTY TAXSOCIAL SECURITYSENIOR CITIZENS     x& D& >& :& 2&
 && !& & & & & ×% Í%	 ~ 	 c 	 A 	 9 	 1 	 * 	    e: