Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0923.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/23STUMPCOLUMBUSOHIOOH1956 WORDS
	Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, citizens of Columbus and of this great state: on behalf of my associates who have been traveling with me this morning, all great Ohioans, and on behalf of my wife and myself, may I first thank you for coming out this morning to give us a chance to greet you and for me to say a word or two about those things on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	As I was met by Mayor Rose this morning, he said to me, "You are coming to the heart of Republicanism."  He gave me certain statistics and facts to back up and to prove that statement.  Nothing was quite so impressive as this information, which I had not known before.  In 1860, Abraham Lincoln stood on the steps of this capitol and addressed his Republican compatriots.  At a great crisis in American history the Republican Party, only born a few years before, came into the breach and led the nation to victory and to solvency and, above all, to unity.  It is a humbling but a very inspiring thought to realize that it was here he announced certain of the principles that he was to follow during the next fateful four years.  And here we are almost in the shadow of the statue of McKinley, our president when America first became known as a world with great international relationships, when it became an international entity instead of merely a great power rising here on the American continent.

	Then he said to me, "And you know, next Saturday we play Indiana."  When I listened to the terrifying account of this modern Ohio State football team, I had a little bit of satisfaction in my age.  I think I would have dreaded, as a member of the West Point team of forty years ago this fall, to have come here and met these men, each of whom I am sure is at least sixteen feet high and comparably broad.  I should, of course, like to witness this game as a spectator, but since the Republicans are intent on taking both Ohio and Indiana this fall, I doubt that I could express a preference as to the winner.

	I have been going up and down this land, ladies and gentlemen, meeting with American citizens.  I started on a partisan basis, on a Republican basis, meeting my fellow Americans in Atlanta, Georgia--something that no Republican leader had ever done before.  I went into six cities of the South.  I have been in New York and I have been out in Idaho.  I have been traveling through the Midwest.  I have talked and I have been talked to about many subjects.  The principal one, and the way we can summarize it, is this: Americans whom I have been addressing are sick and tired of the mess in Washington.  All Republicans have a perfect right to label the situation in Washington a mess.  They speak on no less authority than the nominee of the Democrat Party.  And we all agree with him that that mess is there.
	
	There is another statement by a Democrat leader to which we all agree.  That statement was that the Democrat nominee must run on the record of the Fair Deal administration.  Indeed, we will force him to run on it.  We are certainly not going to let him run away from it.

	What is that record?  Let's first take the overwhelming problem of our times, peace and war, the position of the United States in the international field.  Seven short years ago, my friends, America emerged victorious from a shooting war, the most powerful nation on the globe, her word respected in every capitol--not only respected but listened to with the greatest care.  What has been the result?  In those seven years since then we have lost human souls from the free world captured by the Communist dictatorship at the average rate of 100 million a year.  We have had to move on an emergency basis into Greece and Turkey.  We had the Berlin airlift.  Finally we became involved as a result of a series of blunders in the Korean War.  There is not a home in the land where the shadow of fear and doubt and of the future doesn't hang over our heads.  

	That is the record of this administration in the great problem of producing peaceful programs that will lift from our hearts these shadows and these fears, that will give us assurance that our sons are gong to stay home instead of going to a foreign land in uniform, that will allow us to live the peaceful, tranquil and prosperous lives to which America's strength, genius and, indeed, America's purpose in the world entitle us.  Now, this mess in Washington has another facet, another face.  It is described broadly in the word corruption.  We have seen, we have read in our headlines about people appointed to prominent places in the Internal Revenue Organization who have been sent to jail for dishonesty.  I am not going to recite about all of the men in prominent positions in that and other departments who have been disciplined, had to be relieved for venality in office, but I am going to ask you this: what is the basis system that allows the appointment of such people?  Why does America have to be ferreting out and looking for corruption among its federal officials all the time?  Why do we not have a government that we can have faith that will not appoint them or if the occasion alone, my friends, escapes original scrutiny and gets into office, why, when the first hint of corruption appears is he not pursued until the facts are determined, and if guilty, punished instantly?

	We have had the cry, "We cannot get the best man to come to Washington."  My friends, since when has it been anything but an honor to serve or country in Washington in the highest posts in the land?  There has never been a more miserable confession of failure than the statement that we cannot bring good men to Washington.  There are good men in the Republican party, certainly, from Seattle to Miami ready and waiting to serve you people, to be your servants, to work for you and not just to work you.  When we get that kind of person controlling the Senate, controlling the House, filling all the executive positions of government, they in turn will be your watchful guardians of honesty and of your tax money.  Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, one lady wrote to me and said, "I will vote for you if you will just guarantee me one thing; that more of the taxes we pay actually get to Washington."

	Let us consider those taxes for a moment.  Two years ago an average worker's family, an average factory family, I read in the statistics, got about $3000.  Today, in dollars, that salary is measured at about $3500.  In the meantime, the federal taxes of that family have tripled and the purchasing power of the money so diminished that they are actually able to buy less bread, less clothing, less shelter or less gasoline than they were two years ago.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics says that last year the average city family in our country had to spend $400 more than the family earned in order to exist.  Yet we are taxed more heavily than we have ever been taxed in our lives.  The federal government will not only not live within its own income; it will not allow us to live within our incomes.

	The other day I pointed out to an audience that it is not the farmer who is responsible for high food prices.  He is getting on the average less than he got 4 years ago under a Republican Congress.  It is not the processors.  Each one of them is desperately attempting to shave his profit levels so that he can put articles on the shelves so that you can still buy them.  But he has this to face:  on one gallon of gasoline in one state there are 192 concealed taxes.  On a boiled egg on your table there are 100 taxes.  I don't want to spoil your appetite for eggs, but it is well to remember that you do pay those taxes.  The president of the Retail Association of the United States said to me the other day, "General, this is what the retailers of the country have become:  they have become Uncle Sam's collectors for all taxes you think you do not pay."  That is his job.

	So in spite of this great taxation which we hope will pay our bills, the federal government gives you a budget that leaves a 14 billion deficit, thus putting the pressure of increased inflation on your money and making certain that next year your budget will be bigger, your deficit bigger, and your prices higher if you continue that administration in office.

	We have had an administration--and it is certainly part of the mess--that when it has heard that there were probably or possibly disloyal or subversive influences in the government said, "Red Herring."  Why is the government afraid to have its own personnel examined?  Are they actually afraid of uncovering more disloyalty?  The people do not have to put up with that kind of thing.  They must not put up with it.  The times are too serious. The times are too critical to permit the luxury of subversive people in office.  We must have honest, loyal Americans who place one thing above all else--service to the country and to the 155 million people who constitute it.

	So, ladies and gentlemen, I am certain there is no disagreement among us here present today that it is time for a change--high time.  I want to point out that no refreshing job will do.  Have any of you tried to refreshen a bad egg?  This isn't merely a face-lifting job that is demanded.  This is a top to bottom clean-out and clean-up.  We must get rid of people who have proved that they are too small for their jobs, too big for their britches and too long in power.

	I come before you with this as my concluding thought: the decision is in your hands.  If you will, as Chairman Snyder urged, make sure you are registered, if you will vote on November 4th, then you are exercising both the rights and the responsibilities of citizenship.  Without such vote you cannot tell what will happen and unless you vote you can blame no one for what does happen.  It is your duty and your priceless right, a right that is enjoyed in far too few places in this world today.  You are the ones who must protect that right.

	My final thought is this: I come before you to make one pledge.  When a Republican Senate and a Republican House of Representatives has taken charge of the legislative branch of our government, there will be perfect coordination and cooperation between that body and the man in the White House.  Their sole purpose will be to devise every policy, to take every action, with this single view, this single aim: what is good for the United States of America.  Not any special part, not any special group, not any special economic class.  What we are saying is that we are going to do our best, all that honest, devoted, dedicated, loyal men can do to make certain that 155 million people in the United States get what they are entitled to, which is honest, intelligent, decent government.  

	Thank you very much.

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS--TAXATIONCOMMUNISMCOST OF LIVINGGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORS      + ì* æ* â* Ø*
 Ê* Å* À* ¸* ´* ²* ²* ¨*	 s 	 e 	 S 	 J 	 < 	  e: