Speeches\1952\dem\S52d1101.009SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)11/01STUMPCHICAGOILLINOISILCHICAGO STADIUM2375 WORDS

	Tonight we have come to the end of the campaign, and a long, long journey --and I have come home to old friends and to familiar surroundings. There's no place like home. 

	There have been times when I have wondered whether you, my friends here in Illinois, couldn't have found some easier way of getting rid of me. In fact, before the convention I wrote a song about it, only the Democratic party took the song and changed the words. My song was called "Don't Let Them Take Me Away." 

	It has been a great campaign. I have enjoyed every minute of it. It has been the most exhilarating and most heartwarming and most uplifting experience a man could have. 

	The story of this campaign is written in the record of the changing meaning of the Republican talk about change. It was, in its July form, the one thing they had to offer the nation. And what a different meaning it has in November can, it seems to me, be illustrated by one fact. Never once in this whole campaign, so far as I have been able to determine, has the general ever mentioned the name of Wendell Wilkie, who was really the founder of the modern tradition of progressive Republicanism. I can understand that it is difficult to mention him, for Wendell Wilkie placed the principles of the new Republicanism above compromises and expediency. And there are evidently a lot of Republicans who haven't forgiven him yet. 

	This stadium reminds me most vividly of Wendell Wilkie, for it was here, in March of 1941, and at my invitation--which I personally went to Rushville, Indiana, to extend to him--that he spoke eloquently to a great mass meeting on the life-and-death issue of aid to our friends abroad who were then sorely pressed by the Nazi tyranny. 

It was this kind of selflessness following so closely on the disappointment of political defeat that has kept, and will always keep, Wendell Wilkie's memory alive for all Americans, and especially for those of his party who wanted to perpetuate his tradition. 

	My friends of Chicago, it has not only been a great campaign for me--it's also a winner. There has been an electric feeling of victory in the air all the way home. 

	Well, that's the way it always goes with Democratic campaigns. In July the Republicans pull each other's hair and kick each other's shins, and practice up for the rest of their campaign by calling each other the names they are going to call the Democrats later on. This is known as creating unity in the Republican party. 

	Then, in August, the newspapers compete with each other in predicting Republican landslides. They tell us we might just as well save the expense of campaigning because we don't have a chance. The polls show that the Republicans will carry every state except Rhode Island and Georgia, and they're doubtful. This is the month, my friends, when the Republicans place their big orders for confetti and balloons. 

	In September the newspapers tell us that the Democrats are gaining a bit, but that no one needs to worry, for reason has prevailed and the Republicans are really truly united. In September the polls begin to worry them a little, so they accuse us of talking over people's heads. They even accuse us of having a sense of humor. 

	Then, by the first of October, the newspapers sense that something is wrong and they begin to get nervous. They accuse their own candidate of running like a dry creek. 

	By mid-October the pollsters begin to concede that the election will be fairly close. This is the time of year when the Republicans start to complain that the campaign is going on too long--it is too hard on the candidates, and, besides, the Democrats are socialists, Communists, crooks, or a little of each. 

	By the first of November the newspapers say that it's impossible to predict the outcome of the election; and now they say that the Republic is in danger and that they have documentary proof that all Democrats are dreadful and depraved, and that to find out how dreadful we are everyone should tune in on Monday night to hear the real low-down--although, of course, they disapprove heartily of such techniques. 

	And then, of course, on election day, the Democrats win. And so it goes, my friends, election after election. 

	I think you know and I know that they have never really been ahead at any time. They just throw so much confetti at each other, read so many of each other's editorials, and cheer each other's speeches so loudly, that they begin to think that everyone agrees with them. Well, they don't. And I think you can rely on the American people every time to tell who is really talking sense and who isn't. 

	And it's even more than a question of sense. It is, above all, a question of which party has faith in the future of America--which party has a program-- which party has earned the people's trust. The answer to this question is now, as it has been for these many years, the Democratic party. 

	Then this time, perhaps because the Republicans wanted discipline in their ranks, they chose a general to lead them. He and they have taken a bewildering variety of positions. And in the Republican choir the general has shown an admirable capacity to sing bass and baritone and tenor all at once. When he was here in the Middle West he identified himself with the most reactionary and isolationist wing of the Republican party. But he recognized that the songs he sang in what he mistakenly considered isolationist territory would not be music to the ears of Eastern Republicans. So, when he went East he summoned a new ghost from the Republican haunted house and asked for a new script. 

	Which general do you read? And which do you believe? Is it the one who is in agreement on all basic issues with Senator Taft in Taftland? The one who signs up Senators Jenner and McCarthy on his team? Or, is it the general who proclaims in New York and California his devotion to all the social gains achieved by the Democratic administrations in the past twenty years? 

	We have been offered a strange picture of an anguished, reluctant, respected figure reciting distasteful words, shaking hands that make him shudder, walking in strange, dark alleys, caught in a clamor of conflicting voices. And that picture, I fear, appeals not just to soft hearts, but to soft heads. 

	I do not ask you to withhold your compassion for my opponent in the ordeal he has endured. But I say, does he, therefore, deserve your confidence and trust? 

	It occurred to me last night, on Halloween, that the general who started out with a new broom has ended up on an old broomstick, and he is surrounded by a vintage collection of ghosts, of spooks and bogeymen. 

	Some still cling to the fact that he doesn't really mean it; that immediately after the election he will wave a wand and there will be a flash of fire and he will be transformed into what they call the "Old Eisenhower." And that will be the neatest Halloween trick of them all. 

	They say that then he will turn in righteous wrath upon those who have held his hands throughout this melancholy autumn. 

	Well, I don't believe it, and neither do they. This suggestion that he will double-cross his new found friends as soon as he gets into office does credit neither to the general's integrity nor to Senator Taft's vigilance. 

	Can Independents really believe that victory would strengthen progressive Republicans? Will Senator Taft, having laid down the general's program, be humbled and routed by the general's success? Will the big gun--the not-so-secret weapon of these last weeks of the Republican campaign--the junior senator from Wisconsin--will he be enlightened and chastened by the heady wine of triumph? The Wisconsin senator who told the country the truth for once the other day when he said that his power in Washington depends upon the general's election? Let's not deceive ourselves, because it is quite clear who will run the country in the event of a Republican triumph. 

	Many progressive Republicans, like Senator Wayne Morse, for that reason are fighting on our side because they know what the fate of the progressive Republicans would be under an administration like that. Hence, I have noticed as I have traveled in this autumn weather that the Ike buttons are falling faster than the leaves. 

	This, my friends, is the transformation that has been wrought in three months. And, as a result, instead of the hopeful, resurgent Republican party, the contrast between the two today is exactly what it has been for twenty years. The Democratic party remains the party which has fought for a strong America--a nation strong at home, strong abroad, dedicated to strengthening the purpose and the meaning of life for all of our citizens. 

	The Republican party, despite the honorable efforts of many individuals, remains the party not of a strong America, but of a little America. Its leadership stands for a rudderless and drifting economy, at the mercy of every gust and squall, careening recklessly between the extremes of boom and bust. 

	That's a change, my friends, we need just as much as we need a good attack of appendicitis. 

	And, abroad, the Republican party stands similarly for a little America--fearful to take its place in building the strength and the unity of free peoples. 

	We entered this campaign with a bipartisan foreign policy, virtually united except for a few stubborn men--united as the leader and the hope of the free. The campaign closes with an alarming chasm reopening between us. Here is change indeed--frightening change--that reflects a guiding purpose no higher than political ambition. 

	It was irresponsible politics first to hold out hopes of early liberation to those among us with families and close friends behind the Iron Curtain. 

	It was dangerous politics to promise tax cuts of tens of billions at the risk of endangering our own defenses and those of our allies in Europe and Asia. 

	It was sorry politics to urge the re-election of the few figures in public life who still preach unreconstructed isolationism. 

	And it was cheap politics to suggest that one candidate is more deeply concerned than the other about getting our sons home from Korea. And, on this let me add just one thing. Yesterday the New York Times published a poll taken among some of our troops in Korea--and the Democratic candidate got twice the votes of the Republican candidate. 

	I grieve, and so should you, that the Republicans have made an issue of war and peace when there was none four months ago, because this far transcends politics or the political fortunes of any man. The stakes are life and death; the stakes are civilization itself, and not votes in an election campaign. 

	It's time for a change. It's always time for a change. And we Democrats have accomplished tremendous changes despite stubborn obstruction and resistance consecutively for twenty years. But we are far from where we seek to go. So let's talk in these closing moments of this campaign about the future, and not about the past--about our hopes, and not about our fears. 

	The things we seek for ourselves we seek for all Americans: good education for our sons and daughters; the dignity of security in advancing age; the equality of opportunity for all, not just some of God's children. 

	The only guiding stars are those which reflect the needs and the aspirations of people--of living men, women and children. 

	Let us build our program for change not on fear, but on faith--faith which we know is rooted in the vast resources of this land and the unmeasured capacities of its people. 

	I wish you could all have made this two-month journey with me. No American could travel the long road I have traveled and not find his faith renewed, his faith in his country and its future. 

	I have traversed the New England hills, ablaze with autumn color, and felt the touch of the soft air of the Southland. 

	I have flown over the mighty mountains to the Golden Gate and the blue Pacific. 

	I have flown over the fir-clad slopes and the rolling wheatlands of the great Northwest, and over the lonely cattle lands of the old Southwest. 

	I have traveled the route my forebears followed westward to Illinois. I have seen the old stone houses in the Pennsylvania hills, and I have come home to the sweep and the swell of the free soil of our beloved Illinois. 

	I have seen an America where all of the signs read "Men at Work." 

	But we have much to do in this century in this country of ours before its greatness may be fully realized and shared by all Americans. 

	As we plan for change let us be sure that our vision is high enough and broad enough so that it encompasses every single hope and dream of both the greatest and the humblest among us. 

	I see an America where no man fears to think as he pleases, or say what he thinks. 

	I see an America where slums and tenements have vanished and children are raised in decency and self-respect. 

	I see an America where men and women have leisure from toil--leisure to cultivate the resources of the spirit. 

	I see an America where no man is another's master--where no man's mind is dark with fear. 

	I see an America at peace with the world. 

	I see an America as the horizon of human hopes. 

	This is our design for the American cathedral, and we shall build it brick by brick and stone by stone, patiently, bravely and prayerfully. And, to those who say that the design defies our abilities to complete it, I answer: "To act with enthusiasm and faith is the condition of acting greatly." 
ELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSISOLATIONISMKOREAN WARPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPUBLIC OPINION/POLLS     6 Â5 ﬂ5 €5 ”5
 ∆5 ¡5 º5 µ5 ≠5 ´5 ú5 í5	 ù 	  	 g 	 = 	 1 	 ' 	  e: