Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1024.003SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/24STUMPDes MoinesIOWAIAIowa State Fairgrounds3687 WORDS
	[Missing text] I'm glad to be here with Congressman Neal Smith and with Jean Lloyd Jones, your fine Senate candidate, and Elayne Baxter who's going to Congress from here. He's not here, but I want to put in a plug for my friend Dave Nagle who's running for Congress in another part of Iowa. I wish you to help him.

	You know folks, I just met with another group and I want to tell you what I told them. Tonight is probably going to be--this ought to be Mr. Bush's favorite day of this campaign, because today we turn our clock's back an hour and he's been trying to do that for four years. But no matter how much he turns the clock back, he can't change the time. As my running mate, Al Gore, said, it is still time for them to go.

	I never thought I would live to see the kind of incredible spectacle we've seen coming out of this administration in the last few days. In Washington, DC, they ask us to trust them with four more years, and look what all's going on. You've got the Justice Department and the FBI so busy investigating each other they don't have time to look into the crooks in this country. You've got the CIA and the Justice Department fighting with each other about which one of them lied to a federal judge about the Iraq scandal. Down in Atlanta they're fighting over that. They admit that the Bush administration lied. The CIA says the Justice Department did it and the Justice Department says the CIA made me do it. It's just awful.

	And now we find out that the State Department has not only been investigating me and my files, they've been looking into my mother. Now she's a well-known subversive. It'd be funny if it weren't so pathetic. I mean, these people took the time of three political cronies to set them over into a bunch of files in the middle of the night. They worked till 10 o'clock at night. The only good thing about that story is the first time any of those federal appointees for the Republicans had worked till 10 o'clock at night in the whole four years they were there. Rifling around and trying to find something on my mother. And then they wrote a memo about how disappointed they were that they didn't dig up any dirt.

	I'll tell you something. If they spent as much time investigating your life, your problems and your promise, this country would be a lot better off. That's what I'm going to investigate if you make president of the United States.

	For twelve years now, if you were a big Washington operator, this administration would hop to. But if you were a telephone operator or a lathe operator you couldn't get the time of day. If you want to pollute the environment, they'll do whatever they can for you. But if you want to clean the streets, they just want to raise your taxes and clean you out.

	Mr. Bush actually has the gall to go around telling people that they ought to watch their pocket if I get elected. The truth is he's already picked your pocket. Vote for me and I'll grow your incomes and your jobs.

	And can you believe it? A man using the power of the president to have political cronies look into the passport files of my mother. A man who says he should be trusted having the FBI and the Justice Department investigating one another. But no time to admit the hard truth that there have been no new jobs created in the private sector since this man has been president. In the last two years, there's been a $1,600 decline in the average family income. And according to the census completed in the Bush administration, over two-thirds of the American people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago, including most of you, right?

	A hundred thousand Americans. I'll say it again, in a year in which most advanced countries, all of our competitors have long since provided basic health care for all their citizens and found a way to control health care costs, over a hundred thousand Americans a month are losing their health insurance in America. And they want this election to be about whether they should have four more years.

	You know, I took a bus trip through Iowa and Wisconsin and Minnesota. I took a bus trip through southern Illinois and across the heartland of Ohio through New Jersey. I took a bus trip through south Georgia and a bus trip through Florida and a bus trip through east Texas. And I talked to Republicans and Democrats and Independents and former Perot supporters. I talked to an eighty-three-year-old woman in Orlando, Florida, who had never before voted. She said, I never voted once in my life and I don't know why, but I'm worried about my country and I'm going to vote for you.

	I talked to a woman the other day in one of the western states that I toured. And she said he mother lived in my home state and she hasn't vote since her father died, nineteen years. But she registered to vote because she was concerned about her country. I have seen people who have told me life stories that would break a thousand hearts, who only want to be rewarded for working hard and playing by the rules.

	In Cedar Rapids, Iowa, I had perhaps the most emotional encounter of this campaign, when I was working my way through the crowd and there was a woman there holding a baby of another race. And I grabbed this little four-year-old girl, and I said, "Whose baby is this?" And she said, "This is my baby. I adopted this baby from another state. This child has AIDS and it's my duty to keep this child alive as long as I can. But I want a president who'll talk about this AIDS crisis and get on top of it and face it, not just in election time, but all the time." All the time.

	My fellow Americans, I don't promise you miracles. But I do promise you action and progress. I promise you to get up and go to work every day and try to make a difference. And I ask you just to consider the facts. There are more than one choice in this election. But of all the people you could vote for for president, only one has ever balanced a government budget. Only one--only one has ever done anything to restrain the influence of lobbyists and special interest groups. Only one has ever passed a tough program to promote economic growth and educational opportunity through a legislature. Only one has never been part of the Washington establishment. And that's the same guy who made the best choice for vice president, Al Gore

	I want you to think of the real facts and the real choices before us. It is so inconvenient for this administration, you know, because they've been running the same old campaign for twelve years. If they can't say tax-and-spend and liberal they don't know what to do. You know, it's like a knee-jerk thing. It's almost like they need a shot to talk about anything else.

	But the truth is our state has the lowest state and local spending in the country, the second-lowest tax burden in the country, and according to this government in Washington figures, the highest job-growth rate in the country. And that's a lot better record than the Bush administration's made. I'd like to have a chance to see if America can do that well too.

	I believe that we can bring a new day to America, a victory not just of party but of principle and for people, a victory that can attract people from all walks of life. I have been so moved in recent days all across this country. Twenty-four retired admirals and generals, including the deputy commander in chief of Operation Desert Storm, and a man who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of our military under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsing the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want change in America and they want to see our country go forward.

	In California, the executives of twenty-one high-tech electronic and computer companies that together created more jobs in the last four years than the entire Bush administration has in the private sector, two-thirds of them were Republicans, they endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want a change.

	The other day we had, as I said, the attorney general, the prosecutors, Sarah Brady, who is the wife of Jim Brady, President Reagan's press secretary, endorse the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want a real war on crime, not just a bunch of words at election time--for somebody who'll fight for safer streets.

	I could give you example after example. The Portland Oregonian, for the first time in the 142-year history of that newspaper in Oregon, had never endorsed a Democrat, not one time, they endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want a change. My friends, we've got to have a change.

	I just want to say, very briefly, one more time to the people in Des Moines. The change I seek is this: I want to spur growth in the private sector the old-fashioned way. I want people with incomes above $200,000, yes, to pay a little more in taxes because their taxes went down and their incomes went up. I do want foreign corporations simply to pay the same taxes on the same income in America that American corporations do. I think that's fair. Over 70 percent of the foreign companies operating in America paid zero income tax last year. Under this administration--that's true. Under this administration and the one before it, their incomes have gone up 65 percent and their taxes have gone down 15 percent.

	Would your taxes go down if your income went up 65 percent? Would the company you work for have its taxes go down if its income went up 65 percent? No. All I want is fairness. And I want to take that money and give over a hundred billion dollars in incentives to help middle-class families raise their children, yes, but even more important, to tell people, you want to lower your tax bill, start a new plant, invest in new equipment, start a small business, invest in new agricultural endeavors, invest in new technologies, invest in new housing projects. Put the American people back to work. That's the way to lower your taxes, by putting people to work and raising their incomes. It works. It works.

	We've had more new jobs created in the private sector in the last four years than in the entire United States of America because we've followed an investment strategy. It will work everywhere in America, just like it works in other countries. You can't create a job without investment. You can't increase income without productivity. You've got to get people to put their money on the line, and it's not going to happen with trickle-down economics. It's only going to happen when you say make a million dollars by putting the American people to work.

	The second thing I want to say to you is, that no person running for president can promise you to protect you from all the changes in the world. We have to make change our friend, and not our enemy. No one can say to you that, vote for me and I'll stop the laws of change. That's not going to happen. You live in a world in which the average eighteen-year-old will change work eight times in lifetime, in which what we earn depends on what we can learn. And so, what I seek to do is make change our friend, not our enemy.

	If you vote for me, I will do my best to do the following: teach everybody in the work force with a job to read in the next five years and give them a chance to get a high school diploma. Tell all the young people who don't go to four-year colleges, if you don't go to a four-year college, we want you have two years of apprenticeship training so you can get a good job, not a dead-end job. And challenge the young people of America to get a college education by opening the doors of college education to all Americans without regard to income.

	But I will also challenge you to be worthy of that opportunity by paying the income back either as a small percentage of your income after you go to work, at tax time so you can't beat the bill. Or even better, consider this, what if every person from Iowa borrowed the money to go to college and paid it back by giving two years of work at reduced pay as a teacher, a police officer, in a rural health clinic program, working with people with disabilities to help them maintain their independence at home, working with the elderly, working with kids in trouble, working to make housing programs effective.

	Without a big government bureaucracy you could solve the people problems of America from the grassroots up and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	The last thing I want to tell you is we're not going to turn this economy around until we at last join the ranks of the other advanced countries and control health care costs and provide basic health care to all our people.

	Now let me tell you. I got tickled the other day. The Bush campaign said my health care program was socialized medicine. Now, I did a little research and I found out that that's what Mr. Bush said about Medicare when he was in the Congress and Medicare was put in. So he's consistent on this, one of the few things he's consistent on. He's been against medical reform all along.

	I'm telling you, folks, half of this deficit growth is in health care costs, outstripping inflation. We're spending 30 percent more of our income on health care than any country on earth. We've got 100,000 people a month losing their coverage. It's breaking manufacturing. Farmers can't get health insurance. Seventy percent of the small businesses in this country insure, but they can't afford to keep their insurance. And we've got to do something about it. Now, it's bipartisan, as many Republicans as Democrats, committee of health experts reviewed the Bush plan and Clinton plan, and here is what they concluded, not me. They concluded that my plan would save the average family $1,200 a year than the Bush plan by the year 2000. They concluded, listen to this, and keep in mind this was a 50-50 panel, 50 percent Republicans and 50 percent Democrats, they concluded that in the next twelve years, our plan would save $2.2 trillion that could be reinvested in American jobs and American opportunity and in American future. That's what I want for you.

	But, let me say this. We're all going to have to change, too. I have said to the corporate executives of this country, I don't think you ought to get a tax break for shutting our plants down and moving them overseas. I don't think you ought to get--I don't think you ought to get a tax break for unlimited corporate executive pay when executive pay went up at four times the rate of worker pay and three times the rate of profits in the last twelve years. But I think you ought to get plenty of breaks if you're investing in new jobs to put the American people back to work. And if you're making money, I don't care who much you make.

	I say to the working people of this country, I'll say it again, I cannot protect you from the changes in the global economy. And you shouldn't want anybody to try, it'll only drag this economy down. I want you to compete and win. So the opportunity will be there, but you'll have to make productivity the watchword. You'll have to be willing to be educated and trained and you'll have to be willing to make sure that every place that everybody works is competitive in the global economy. The president can't do that. The American people have to do that, every day in every way.

	I say to the students, again, I want you to go to college, but you've got to pay it back and give something back to your country.

	And I say to people on public assistance, I want to do more for people who are on welfare, who are trapped, investment in education, support for children's health care, support for childcare, but then you got to go to work when you can. We shouldn't make welfare a way of life. It should be a second chance.

	And finally, I have worked my heart out for years to make sure that people couldn't beat their obligations to children. And if you'll let me be president, I'll give you the toughest child support enforcement system this country has ever seen. People shouldn't be able to cross the state lines and get out of taking care of their kids.

	These are real ideas, folks. I'm campaigning on a platform of new ideas and new direction and new hope for the American people. And as you get down to the last 10 days, you'll see it's another clear choice. It'll be hope against fear, new ideas against proven failures, the courage to change against the comfort of the status quo.

	Every time this country's had to make a tough challenge, make a tough decision, there's always been two great crowds. There are the things-could-be-worse crowd and the things-could-be-better crowd. And you listen to the whole Bush campaign. It's, well, I know I've got the worst economic record in fifty years. And his own adviser, quoted in a major news magazine saying it doesn't matter what our plan is, we don't plan to implement it anyway. That's his people. But, he says, Clinton could make things worse.

	Where would this country be if we had listened to the things-could-be-worse crowd? Just think about when America became one country. That was a miracle. When Thomas Jefferson and George Washington and that old crowd said, you know, we ought to get together, there was a crowd that said, oh, no, we can't change. We've got to keep thirteen separate colonies, thirteen separate money systems, thirteen separate economies, thirteen separate armies. Things could get a lot worse. Thank goodness we listened to the things could be better crowd.

	And the Civil War. Abraham Lincoln literally gave his life for the Union. But there were a lot of people who said, give up on the United States, let it be divided, let it go away. He said, no. I think we're one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. And he died for it. And he didn't listen to the things-could-be-worse crowd. And the American people stayed with him.

	When Franklin Roosevelt was elected in the teeth of the Great Depression, one in four Americans was out of work. And in my state, one in two Americans was living in abject poverty. But people said, oh we don't want to elect Roosevelt. You ought to see all the things Hoover said about Roosevelt. He said he was for big government. He said he was for big government and he was going to do things that were socialist, and how awful he was. You know, things could be worse. And, Mr. Hoover was fine man. But he was a man out of his time. And it was time for him to go, because Roosevelt represented the things can be better crowd.

	And what I want today to say to you is, there've been a lot of harsh things said about me and my family in this election. Mr. Bush has had folks out snooping around in my mother's passport file. But this election not me (sic), and my mama's going to be fine. She's tough as a boot. George Bush hasn't met a person as tough as her.

	It's not about that. This election--we're going to be fine. This election is about you. And about this stage in the 1960 presidential election, John Kennedy said, at this time in the election the election is more about you than about the candidates--what your values and your hopes are, what you believe about our country, and whether you have the courage to change.

	I can tell you, folks, I am a proud, unabashed member of the things-can-be-better crowd. I'm tired of being told what we can't do. I want to be told what we can do. I want to be told what we can do. I want to bring this country together and not divide it.

	So, if you're sick of people that veto family leave bills because they tell you we can't afford it when seventy-two other countries do it; if you're sick of people who veto the women's health bill to pander to the extremists and undermine the best chance we had to find cures for diabetes and other profound illness and deal with the problems of women--cancer and osteoporosis and other problems; if you're sick of people like those that vetoed the motor voter bill because they didn't want enough chance to vote to turn the outcome of the election, vote for me. I'll say yes to America. I'll challenge America. I'll do my best to unite this country. And together we can make this country what it ought to be. Fight on till November third.

	Fight. Fight. Fight. And we will win it. Thank you. And God bless you all.

ECONOMY--GENERALENDORSEMENTS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     ŒP XP RP NP FP
 ;P 6P 1P 'P #P !P P P	 Ô 	 Ä 	 ¯ 	 ‚ 	 g 	 E 	 - 	  e: