Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1024.003SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/24STUMPLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACAST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL4,664 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Rabbi Nussbaum and my good friend, 
Reverend John Simmons, members of the clergy, ladies and gentlemen.

	I have looked forward to this opportunity of visiting with you.  I
shall try to divide our time so that we shall have an opportunity
for you to ask your questions and hopefully that I may be able to
provide you with some answers.

	This morning--I will talk a little louder.  I am trying to save
this voice for the last twelve days.  When we are out on the street
rallies, it gets a little rugged.  So I thought possibly in the
quiet of a church that we might be able to preserve the strength.

	This day is a most appropriate time for us to discuss
reconciliation, peace, and the reduction of tensions at home and
abroad.

	This is U.N. Day.  This is the twenty-third anniversary of the 
United Nations.  It is also a day in which we once again reaffirm human
rights--not only human rights here in America, which needs
constant reaffirmation, but the whole body of human rights as
conceived in the United Nations Charter and by those who have tried
to implement it.

	I might add very quickly that I have been one of those in the years
that served--in my years of service in the Congress--that had
diligently sought the ratification of the human rights conventions
because I believe that those resolutions or conventions, whatever
you wish to call them, would once again reaffirm America's moral
leadership on the basic issue of our time, which is the issue of
humanity and its survival and the enrichment of the lives of the
people of this earth.

	I have just left a breakfast, as Rabbi Nussbaum has said, with some
of your fellow citizens.  I will take just a moment to summarize
what I tried to say there about this election, because I am engaged
in the business of trying to get elected at the same time of
trying to show people why this election is important.

	We are really at a time--living in a time of crisis in this
country.  That doesn't need to be documented to those of you who
have to live with it every day.  A crisis in race relations--I
think a very serious crisis in the moral values of our nation.  We
are living in a time of unprecedented change and ferment.  I happen
to be one of those that believes, however, that the nation is not
sick beyond remedy.  As I have said from many a platform, I do not
think this nation has lost its way--I think it is trying to find
its conscience.

	This is not a new experience for America, because if you are a
student of the history of this republic, you know that we have gone
through many, many times, many, many periods of violent change, of
grave disorder, and of serious moral crisis.  And we have been able
to come out of each, I think, a little better.

	As a matter of fact, there may be some truth to it, that a great
people must do some suffering--possibly the anguish and the
suffering of our time, the suffering and the anguish as we make
decisions about how we want to live here at home--whether it is to
be a community, one community of Americans, or whether it is to be
divided on the basis of race, or economic status--that anguish and
that suffering I think can make us a better people, if we make the
right decision.

	And I am talking to men and women that have a great deal of
influence in this country.  I know that you are idealists, and so
am I.  I have been one all of my life.  I find myself in a rather
ironical and paradoxical situation.  Most of my critics for twenty
years of my public life have said that I was too far out, too far
ahead of my time.  This has been my political liability, according
to my best friends--quote--end quote.  And all at once the same man
is supposed to be devoid of ideas, lacking in vision, and lacking
in idealism.

	I just don't think so.  I asked my mother about that not long ago, 
and she didn't think so either.

	We are facing a time of election decision.  Every candidate feels,
I am sure when he stands for the highest office in this land, that
the time that he is up for election is the great moment.  But I
have said that I think we are at the end of an era, and we are
approaching the dawn of a new day.  I think that is true in matters
of international relations as well as domestic policy.  And it has
led me to say that one of the first requirements of the next
president of the United States, at least if I were president, will
be to reassess our commitments abroad as well as to reassess our
policies here at home.

	I think we have made very great progress here at home, in particular,
in recent years.  I think the indicator of that progress is the
fact that some people seem to be so upset by it.  When people see
possibility of hope, they become more restless.  It is only the
hopeless who are apathetic.  It is the people who never see any
chance for improvement who accept the intolerable conditions in
which they live as being inevitable.  It is people who see some
chance for improvement that refuse to accept the incredibly bad
conditions in which they live as being inevitable.

	And so we see now, I think, all over the world, a spirit of
emancipation.  I think we see it in Eastern Europe.  I think we see
it in the Soviet Union.  I think we saw it in Czechoslovakia.  I
see repression being used to put it down.  I think we are seeing
this spirit of emancipation here at home, amongst our black
Americans, amongst many other minorities--the so-called Mexican-
American, and the Puerto Rican and many of the poor.

	And I see people today who say let's stamp it out, repression,
Soviet mentality.

	But the spirit, the longing for individual identification, the
longing to be identified as an individual, to be needed, to be
wanted, to be a man, to be accepted as a person, to be free--that
longing cannot be put down.  You may temporarily subdue it, you may
temporarily oppress it, but the spirit--the will of mankind to be
free--or at least to have some hope of emancipation is one of the
dominant facts of recorded history.

	In this election we are going to determine, for example, what kind
of a Supreme Court you are going to have, ladies and gentlemen. 
And make no mistake about it.

	In this election you are going to determine whether or not you are
going to pursue policies that really will try to get at the root
causes of poverty--knowing how difficult it is, knowing the
mistakes that we will make.  But also knowing that we can have some
achievement and some success.

	In this election we are going to, I really believe, decide whether
or not we are going to revert back to a cold-war mentality, or
whether we are going to try to rise above it--not foolishly
ignoring the dangers of our time, but rather trying to create a
philosophy of peaceful engagement, where we are ever alert to
danger, but equally alert to opportunity.

	I believe that the arms race within itself is one of the
fundamental issues.  But before I touch on that, which I have in
some prepared remarks, let me say once again--the question before
the American people in this election, which I believe is more
fundamental than all the peripheral issues that most of us get to
discussing--bombing/not bombing--is whether or not we Americans
can live together in a community, as neighbors, as fellow citizens,
white and black, rich or poor, to be together in trust and in
confidence, or whether we are to live in a society that is divided,
a society of apartheid, a society of hate and suspicion and doubt
and fear, that is aggravated by cheap demagoguery, or even high-
class demagoguery.  If you are going to be a demagogue, I think you
ought to be a crude one.

	We are talking about human relations.  And with all of our desire
for peace abroad, my fellow Americans, let me suggest that we can
set an example here at home.  If we cannot find ways and means to
settle our problems here at home without violence, without
demagoguery, without pitting race against race, person against
person, what makes you think that you are going to be able to help
to settle it some place in the world where you can hardly spell the
names of the persons involved, or identify the areas
geographically?

	I think the best foreign policy, or at least the underpinning of a
great American foreign policy of moral leadership, is a position of
moral strength here at home, right here in our own communities.

	We are trying to make this great experiment that we call our
democracy work.  No people have ever been able to do it before--
under the complexities and the difficulties that we have.  Here is
the nation of every race, creed and color, as you know.  Here we
are with a mosaic of cultures, or should I say a variety of
cultures.  The question is, can we make it a mosaic?  Can we make
it America the beautiful--not just our hills and our valleys and
her mountains which God Almighty put here, but what about we the
people?  What about our relationships?  Divine Providence has done
very well by us--except where we have loused it up.  But what are
we doing to each other?

	This is the issue.

	And when I hear political leaders, or alleged political leaders, or
self-proclaimed political leaders, talk about our programs that we
seek to develop to help the poor as if somehow or another they were
a waste of effort and a waste of money, I wonder, then, what kind of
moral leadership do we have in this country.  And that is why we
need to speak out.

	No, government--the government of the United States is not here to
see that those who already have too much have more.  We will get
that without the help of the government.  The government of the
United States is here to be able to see that those who have too
little may have a chance to earn for themselves enough.  We are not
only interested in social security.  We are interested in social
opportunity.  I think we have, some of us, been the victims of such
a fear of insecurity that we fail to understand that the young
people of our time are primarily concerned about the visions and
the horizons of opportunity.  And I believe that the greatest
challenge of tomorrow is not security, which I believe we can build
into our structure, but how do we open the gates of opportunity,
how do we give people a chance, how do we release them from the
bondage of despair and hate and poverty and disease and illiteracy,
fear?  That is really what we are talking about.  And that is why
there ought to be a common bond between clergy and political leader
--at least on these areas.

	Now, the central issue that has concerned many of you, and on which
you have spoken, and, of course, you have all spoken on what I have,
and much more eloquently, and with great scholarly knowledge--when
you campaign, you don't have much time for scholarship, I want you
to know.  It is sort of like trying to give eight good sermons a
day.  Did you ever try that?

	And then may I say in the meantime trying to take up a collection
to keep the church open.

	I want to say just a few words about a paramount concern of all of
our people, and that is our desire for peace.  And that is the
desire of people.

	We have many ways of seeking it.  The first thing we know is that
we have been--we have suffered from the agony and the pain and the
terrible cost of a war that has lingered on in Southeast Asia.  So
we must end that war.  And as I speak to you now, there are
determined efforts underway by your government in the most
sensitive areas of diplomacy to find a way for a political
solution, a negotiated settlement.  And I have had to be extremely
careful these recent days with the press.  Any statement that a man
makes from a public platform that seeks to be president can either
encourage the enemy or discourage the negotiators, or cause
misunderstanding or confusion.  And if my reluctance to say
something costs me my election, but it can still bring peace, then
maybe I will have served my country better than if I were
president, because what I think is important is to find a way to
end this war, and to do it in such a manner that the peoples that
you have sought to protect are not victimized and not destroyed,
and at the same time that our own security is adequately protected.

	Now, I have spoken to the nation about this, from my own heart, my
own mind--I am somewhat knowledgeable in the area of forging
relations, having served for years in the Senate on the Committee
on Foreign Relations, and having been vice president for four
years, and serving on the National Security Council.

	I spoke at Salt Lake City, gave my message on Vietnam.  I noticed
in the paper this morning that one of your columnists called Mr.
Bill Henry, said that "First of all, the major objective, the
possibility of a halt of the bombing of the north, is not the
objective, it is just one step towards our major objective, which
as President Thieu of South Vietnam pointed out, is to stop the
war."

	Well, of course, the whole purpose of stopping the bombing is to
produce fruitful negotiations that might lead to either shortening
the war or de-escalating the war or stopping the war.  Then he goes
on to say, "Our secondary objective is in case of inability to stop
the war, to do what Richard Nixon described as to de-Americanize
the fighting.  De-Americanization of the war seems to be steadily-
developing success."

	Well, I might just suggest to you that the first man in public life
to talk about de-Americanizing this war in this part of the
campaign, since the two conventions have been held, was not Mr.
Nixon.  It was Hubert Humphrey.  And when that happened, I was
taken to task in many places.  But I have made it quite clear that
we can do it.  I appreciate that Mr. Henry doesn't know how to
spell my name.  But I want it quite clear, from this platform, that
it wasn't Mr. Nixon who said it.  He was taking a very
statesmanlike attitude of saying nothing--period.  And you know it
and I know it.  And I am here for straight talk.

	But it was Hubert Humphrey, the man standing before you, I was the
one that said that we should and we could reduce the force levels,
that we could de-Americanize and should, this struggle.  I pointed
out that the ARVN was being strengthened, it was being given
equipment, that it should provide more for its self-defense, and
that when I became president, one of my first steps, if there was
no peace by that time in Vietnam, would be to meet with the leaders
of South Vietnam and to work out a systematic program of reduction
of forces, the de-Americanization.

	If I haven't done anything else in this campaign, I have been able
to get Mr. Nixon to come out with one positive constructive
suggestion about Vietnam.  And I think that is a substantial
contribution.

	I also said that we needed totally free elections, supervised, with
all elements in South Vietnam.  I said that we had to have--that
we had to have withdrawal of foreign troops.  I have also pointed
out to you that during these years as vice president I have been an
adviser--I have been a member of the team.  The National Security
Council doesn't take a vote, and even if it did, remember what
Lincoln once said about the cabinet.  "The vote is eight nays, one
aye.  The ayes have it."

	There is one spokesman in this country in the field of foreign
policy.  There is one commander in chief.  The vice president of
the United States has a lot of responsibility, but very little
authority.  I don't know if they put that seal there, but they
generally do.  And if they have or haven't, I will just tell you a
little bit about it.  The vice presidential seal has an eagle just
like the presidential seal.  The eagle doesn't look as strong and
as healthy, and it is another way to keep the vice president
humble.

	The Constitution provides adequate ways of doing it, but this is
just an extra effort.  That vice presidential seal shows that
eagle, that American eagle, with one little old sprig of olive
branch, one little olive branch, just a kind of emaciated looking
one.  Looked like it didn't have very much growth.  And over there
is one little arrow, in the other set of claws.  I told a group the
other day that were hollering at me, "Peace, peace."  I said, "Well,
you give me as many olive branches as you have got in the
presidential seal, and I will get you peace."

	It is pretty hard to do it with one little sprig, just one little
old twig hanging out there.  And somebody asked me what that one
arrow was for.  And I told them that I hadn't made up my mind until
only recently.  Then I saw a billboard that said "Nixon's the one,"
and I thought maybe...

	Well, I will come back to you on this.  I merely want to say that
you must understand that the highest priority of the Humphrey-
Muskie administration will be to secure peace in Southeast Asia. 
We know that we must do that.

	But even as we do this--and this has become the symbol of peace--
let me tell you there is something even more fundamental going on,
and more dangerous.  If you had peace tomorrow morning in Southeast
Asia and every American were brought home, you live in a dangerous
world.  And you live in a world in which the area of danger or the
level of danger goes up every day.  In the Middle East, one of the
most dangerous areas of the world, where there is the possibility
of confrontation of the super powers--look what happened in
Czechoslovakia.  Look at what has been happening in Latin America. 
Plenty of areas of danger.  And I know that we become fixed upon
certain areas.  But let me assure you that you need to have a broad
vision, a vision of all of mankind.  Therefore I think that one of
the major objectives of the next president of the United States
must be to stop the deadly race in strategic arms before it halts
humanity.  And let me level with you: the next president of the
United States is going to have to make some basic decisions with
armament, because for years plans have been on the drafting board
in the Pentagon and in other pentagons around the world as to just
what the new level of armament will be, the new kind of
sophisticated weapons.  And they will cost billions.  And, more
importantly, they raise the level of danger.

	Now, for twenty years I have been a fighter trying to place limits 
on the momentum of the arms race.  And with the exception of a few of
you clergymen, I haven't had much help.

	It has been pretty hard to get a lot of people steamed up about
that.  I led the fight for seven years in the United States Senate
to end the testing of nuclear weapons.  The Nuclear Test Ban
Treaty.  And I took all the boos that a man ought to take for
leading a good fight.  I remember the man that turns against me in
this campaign, that called my efforts a "cruel hoax", a "catastrophic
nonsense".  But thank goodness President Kennedy and Vice President
Johnson didn't listen to Mr. Nixon--they listened to Adlai
Stevenson and Hubert Humphrey.  And when that treaty for the
Nuclear Test Ban treaty was signed, the President of the United
States gave me the pen and said, "Hubert, this is your treaty." 
Now, that is one of the building blocks of peace.

	You know, we say "blessed are the peacemakers".  It takes a long 
time to make peace.  Some of you have been preaching religion a long
time, and you still have got a lot of work to do.  You haven't
converted them all.  You haven't even got the basic message
through.  And neither have I.  We are working--we have got an
uphill struggle, not only politically but spiritually, I might add. 
But that doesn't mean that we don't keep at it.

	I led the effort to create the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,
and it is a fact, and it was the first nation to get one.  Today
there several others that have followed our initiative.  I have
been the representative of this government in three conferences at
Geneva on arms control, the representative of your government at
the United Nations in the crucial years of 1956 and '57.  And I
might say to you, Rabbi, at that particular time I was a friend of
the state of Israel.  You know, it is plain talk.  I didn't wait
until I ran for president to find my new incentives.  I have had
these incentives when it was so unpopular that about the only
people that I could come to and tell my story to were those of you
that were used to listening to confession, or willing to at least
give consolation.

	We have been working the last few years for another treaty--by the
way, one of the treaties that we signed was the treaty to prevent
the orbiting in space of weapons of mass destruction.  Now, when
did that--what was its genesis?  Its genesis was out of the
Subcommittee on disarmament of the United States Senate led by the
man speaking to you now.  I went around this country.  I spoke
right out here at the University of Southern California on that
matter in the year 1958.  We kept at it a long time--1960, in the
campaign of 1960.  And the treaty is a fact.  It was signed. 
Arthur Goldberg was our representative at the United Nations that
did the work there, a good deal of work.  It took us eight years to
get it.  Now we have a treaty now called the one to stop the spread
of nuclear weapons.  Its technical name--the Treaty on Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.  All it means is stop the spread
of the weapons, don't put them in the hands of anybody else.  Stop
the spread of nuclear technology.  Remember, your government since
the Baruch plan, since 1945, has been trying, because it knew the
dangers of nuclear weaponry, to get some kind of international
agreement to put a halt to this kind of arms race.  Now, that
treaty was consummated.  I went to Europe in April last year, not
this year--a year ago, to six countries, to work on Article 3 of
that treaty, because Article 3 is what we call the inspection
article.  And I am a knowledgeable man in this field having worked
with the Berkner Committee and with others on it and knowing a
little bit about it.  And we came out of those discussions with Mr.
William Foster, the head of our Arms Control Agency, with a treaty
that is signed by eighty nations today.  It was our idea, it was a
follow-up on the test ban, it was a follow up on the treaty to
prevent the orbiting of weapons of mass destruction.  And that
treaty came before the United States Senate and the leader of the
opposition party in this campaign said he was for it but not now. 
And when I appealed for a joint statement, as my being the leader
of the Democratic party as a result of our convention, and he being
the leader of the Republican party as a result of his convention,
I said, "Let's the two political leaders call upon our partisans in
the Congress to do something about it."  But the answer was, "No, not
now".

	The works of peace.  If we lose this treaty, which we may--we lost
the Versailles Treaty--and we stand with a great sense of guilt
for the failure of the League of Nations--if we lose this treaty,
we may lose the last chance we have to stop the spread of nuclear
weaponry, because there are between six and ten nations now that
within the next three years--six of them within the next two
years, another four within the next three to five years--that are
capable of nuclear weaponry development.  And as that spreads, just
imagine the peaceful world we would live in if Mr. Castro and Mr.
Nasser had a fistful of nuclear weapons this morning.  We almost
went to war to prevent it.

	I also believe that we need to, despite all the troubles in Eastern
Europe, proceed with the beginning of talks with the Soviet Union
to end the race in offensive and defensive missile systems.  Now,
the simple fact is that as you build your offensive capacity, the
other man builds his defensive capacity; as he builds his defensive
capacity, you build your offensive capacity, and the fact of the
matter is you do not gain more defense or offense.  What you do is
it is a mad race.  We have been trying to hold back on it.

	Beyond that, I favor worldwide, carefully supervised safeguarded
reductions in arms and military expenditures, so that man's
resources may be turned away from war to the work of human
development.  I think the next president of the United States must
have the courage--I repeat--have the courage to dare to seek
worldwide reduction in armaments.  This world of ours is today
being bled by the cost of the armament race.  Now, we cannot live
forever in a world where our safety and our security depends on the
precarious balance of terror.  This is really the balance of
insanity.  And what we are really talking about now is trying to
bring some moral purpose.  And I think that America must take the
lead.  And I am dedicated to that course.  The nations of the world
must find their way through he valley of the shadow of death.  And
we have a responsibility for the conscience of mankind to try to
find that way.  And it will not be easy.  It may even take years. 
But I ask our help.  And I ask your ideas.  I ask for your thoughts
and your prayers. I know that our goals must be moral ones, and the
first of these goals is to find a way to build the building blocks
of peace.

	Now, with that, I present you at least a synopsis of some of my
thoughts.  And I welcome your questions.

	Thank you very much.

DIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHUMAN RIGHTSNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARRACE RELATIONSSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS IN SPACEWEAPONS PROLIFERATIONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)VIETNAM WAR      d ìc æc âc Úc
 Îc Éc Äc ¹c ¯c ­c ™c Žc	 û 	 á 	 Ð 	 Ä 	 ° 	 ˆ 	 z 	 _ 	 O  :   e: