Speeches\1972\dem\S72d1006.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/06STUMPDES MOINESIOWAIAEXCERPTS1414 WORDS

	I am delighted to be here at this great people's fund-raising dinner.

	As I look around this pavilion tonight, I am more convinced than ever that we are going to have a great victory on November 7th.

	We're going to have a great victory because this year the pollsters and the pundits are wrong, and the people are right.

	We're going to have a great victory because we've got the people, and they've got John Connolly and his fat-cat friends--and I say that makes the score two for us and none for them.

	Now this is called a "people's fund-raiser." You've received a few pieces of chicken and an apple for five dollars. Unfortunately, there's not much money left over. After four years of Nixon's inflation, a few pieces of chicken and an apple cost almost five dollars.

	But five dollars a dinner is still a bargain. When Mr. Nixon finally emerged from the White House last week, he had a few fund-raisers of his own. Only they were $1,000-a-plate dinners. Now if you're asking yourself who would spend that kind of money, it's obvious: Those who want the best government money can buy.

	Most of our campaign is being financed by people like you, average people, who have contributed five dollars, or ten, or twenty, because they believe it's time for the people of this country to elect a president for themselves, not for the special interests.

	The directors of the Lockheed Corporation have a president. Mr. Nixon makes sure that Lockheed can keep its profits, but the American taxpayer will take care of the losses.

	Isn't it time we had a president? Isn't it time the small businessmen and farmers who run into financial trouble had a president?

	John Connolly and his oil-company friends have a president. Mr. Nixon makes sure they keep their oil depletion allowance and their oil import quotas even though they cost the American taxpayer seven billion dollars a year.

	Isn't it time we had a president? Isn't it time the people who buy the gas and oil in this country had a president?

	The executives at ITT have a president. Mr. Nixon makes sure that there are men running the Department of Justice who will drop an important antitrust case against this huge conglomerate just about the same time it agrees to underwrite $400,000 of the cost of the Republican National Convention.

	Isn't it time we had a president? Isn't it time the people who can't buy off government had a president?

	The big grain companies like Continental and Cargill have a president. And they also have a vice president. His name is Clarence Palmby, and he used to work for us at the United States Department of Agriculture. But he went to work for Continental Grain Company soon after he returned from Moscow where he headed the United States' negotiating team. It was not long before he was back in Washington, talking to the Russian officials who one week later made their largest purchase of wheat from Continental. And all of this took place before any announcement of the Russian wheat deal was made to the American people.

	Isn't it time we had a president? Isn't it time the people who produced all that wheat we are sending to Russia had a president?

	When Mr. Nixon submitted Earl Butz's name for confirmation last year, I joined with Harold Hughes and Oren Lee Staley of the N.F.O. and Tony Dechant of the Farmers' Union and most of the farm-state senators to oppose that nomination.

	We examined his career very carefully. It was clear to me then that he was thoroughly committed to the gentlemen farmers in agribusiness, who couldn't tell a chicken coop from a chain store.

	For a time, Mr. Butz's popularity increased as the administration tried to throw its election-year arms around farmers, after turning its back on them for three years.

	But the way Mr. Butz and the Department of Agriculture have handled the Russian wheat deal confirms something I suspected all along.

	You can take Butz out of the board room, but you can't take the board room out of Butz.

	If this administration is so concerned about farmers, why did they quietly telephone the Big Six grain companies and warn them a day ahead of time that the export subsidy was being lowered, but not call one single farm organization?

	If this administration is so concerned about farmers, why did they fight against a bill that I supported to compensate the farmers who sold their wheat early because those farmers did not know what the Department of Agriculture and the big grain companies knew?

	If the President and the Professor are so concerned about farmers, why did they work to defeat a bill introduced last year by your own Congressman Neil Smith--a bill which I supported--to raise price supports for corn by 25 percent? That defeat at the hands of this administration cost Iowa farmers $240 million.

	And if this administration is so concerned about farmers, why won't they back the bill in Congress that Senator Hughes and I support to prohibit giant non-farm conglomerates from taking over family farms?

	I'm afraid the answer is obvious: There aren't many farmers on that list of contributors to Mr. Nixon's $10 million secret campaign fund. But I expect there are a fair number of agribusiness executives on the list.

	I doubt whether the names of the two million men and women this administration has thrown out of work or the six million people this administration has thrown onto welfare are on that secret list of contributors either. They can't afford four more years of an economic policy that has meant freedom for big business to raise their profits and prices, and "freedom" for working people to walk the streets and look for a job.

	I doubt whether the names of many average housewives are on that list. They can't afford four more years of frozen wages, rising prices, and a shrinking dollar.

	I doubt whether the names of many ordinary American taxpayers are on that list. They can't afford four more years of an unfair tax system. There is something fundamentally wrong with a tax system that permits a business executive to deduct the cost of his $20 martini lunch, while a worker cannot deduct the cost of his bologna sandwich.

	I expect that it is not the victims of the last four years who are on the list of contributors to the secret fund, but the beneficiaries--the corporations who received an $80 billion ten-year tax break from this administration, the companies who have benefited from this administration's relaxation of the antitrust laws, the industries who have been permitted to regulate themselves.

	Favoritism toward big business is second nature to this administration. We see it in their "trickle-down" economics, which means you give big business the whole loaf and maybe there will be a few crumbs left over for working people.

	And we see it in their double standard of justice--one for their friends and one for the public.

	I think the people want some changes made in Washington.

	I think the people of this country want an end to the longest, the cruelest, and the stupidest war in our history.

	Four years ago next Monday, candidate Richard Nixon said to the American people--and I quote--"Let me make one thing clear. Those who have had a chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance."

	Ladies and gentlemen, I say: For once let's hold Richard Nixon to his word.

	I think the American people desperately want an end to this war, and they want it now.

	And I think the American people want a government once again that will tell them the truth, even if what is true is not what is popular. When was the last time this president told us something we did not want to hear? If there is so much good news, why aren't things better?

	And finally, I believe the American people want a president who will break the stranglehold the special interests have on our government. They want an end to government-for-the-highest-bidder.

	So together, let's reclaim our government from the power brokers and their servants in this administration.

	Together, let's declare a new Declaration of Independence--independence of government from the privileged few.

	And together, let's restore the passion for truth and simple justice to our national leadership.

AGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSBUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONCAMPAIGN FINANCEMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSVIETNAM WAR     m! 9! 3! /! '!
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ù  ï 	 · 	 Ÿ 	 u 	 P 	 3 	 # 	  e: