Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1015.006SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/15STUMPST. LOUISMISSOURIMOSTATE DEMOCRATIC DINNER1,415 WORDS

	I always like to come to Missouri.  I feel right at home here.  The people here are skeptical.  So am I--skeptical of public opinion polls, skeptical of candidates who won't speak out, skeptical of candidates who take the people for granted.

	The people here say "I'm from Missouri--you've got to show me."  That's how I feel.  I'll show you.  And I'll show the nation how to win an election and how to end the war and how to hold this country together.

	Since this is a political meeting, let me tell you a political story.  It's about a Democratic candidate battling with his back against the wall.

	Eleven of the public opinion polls said he was sure to lose.  So did the nation's press.  The financial contributions weren't coming in.  And the odds were long against him.

	His own party was deeply divided.  Its left wing had gone its own way.  A third party had arisen, lead by a Southern demagogue who was playing on people's fears and trying to throw the election into the House of Representatives.  And his principal opponent was riding a high-priced slick Republican steamroller to what seemed certain victory in November.

	But no one had consulted the people.  And when the people finally had their say--in the voting booths--Harry S. Truman went back to the White House for another four years.

	In 1948, it was uphill all the way.  Everything was against Harry Truman--everything but the people.  And in 1968, it's been uphill all the way.  But we've got the people again--Democrats always do--and we're going to win this election.

	But let's not kid ourselves.  We are up against a more than $20-million-dollar, computerized televised campaign blitz that hides its candidate behind tons of confetti, clouds of balloons, and millions of dollars worth of TV commercials.

	Mr. Nixon's public opinion polls have convinced him he has the election won--if he just plays it safe.  His managers have told him not to debate, not to speak out, to get plenty of rest, not to lose his temper, and just sit back and wait for Univac to tell him he's won three minutes after the polls close in Rhode Island.

	They have carefully manicured his image--cool, detached, clean-shaven, above the battle so far ahead he's almost out of sight.  And he himself has conducted a silent campaign.  He has made few speeches--and he has said very little in them.  He has refused to debate the issues before the people even though I'm willing to buy the time on national television.  

	All this is supposed to add up to the new Nixon.  The trouble is that there is no new Nixon.  He is the same old Nixon we've met before--and defeated before.

	If he won't tell the people where he stands, I'll tell them--and I'll start right now.

	In 1952, while Senator Joe McCarthy was openly vilifying Adlai Stevenson, Richard Nixon was slyly insinuating that Stevenson was somehow disloyal.  He was saying, "I do not question good intentions, but..."

	That year he was playing on people's fear of Communism.

	This year he is playing on people's fear of crime and violence.  While George Wallace is openly threatening to run down people with a car, Mr. Nixon is reading the crime news out of the daily papers to Southern audiences.

	In 1952, he used the code words of McCarthyism.  This year he uses the code words of fear and hate.  In 1960, he even said:  "I have no doubt whatever about Senator Kennedy's patriotism.

	We are told that the new Nixon would make responsible appointments if he were elected president.  Well, he's already made his most important selection--Spiro T. Agnew--the man who would succeed him if they were elected.  You can't trust a man who as a vacuum where his principles ought to be.

	It's the same old Nixon--and the people can't trust him any more in 1968 than they could in 1952, 1956, or 1960.

	In 1956 he called Adlai Stevenson's proposal to halt nuclear testing a "cruel hoax" and "catastrophic nonsense."

	This year he wants to postpone ratification of the treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons.  

	He was against Medicare in the 1950s and the 1960s--and presumably he is still against it.

	He was against John F. Kennedy's proposal for a Peace Corps and called it a haven for draft dodgers--and presumably he's still against it.

	He has made himself a master of the "yes, but" speech.

	He has said the Supreme Court should "not be dragged into politics"--but he signaled for Republicans n the Senate to drive the knife into Abe Fortas and the Court itself.

	He has sent a secret letter to reassure Wall Street traders he will protect their interests--but has explained the issue was too narrow for public discussion.

	Some issues are too big to be discussed, he tells us, and some are too small.  This leaves Mr. Republican little to talk about.  Some issues are under investigation, or being negotiated, or out of his jurisdiction--so Mr. Republican will not talk about them.

	With that kind of a record, it's no wonder Mr. Republican is ducking the debates.  It's no wonder that he's been insulated with balloons, confetti and staged TV interview shows.

	But in less than three weeks, the people of the United States are going to elect a president.  And he'll be their president for four years.

	So I say the American people have a right to know who they are electing--what he believes and where he would lead America in these perilous and difficult times.  The American people must have trust in the man who is to lead them.

	Mr. Nixon charges that I would increase the poverty program, that I would invest millions, perhaps billions, of dollars in our cities., in education, in health.   Mr. Nixon says I would take risks for peace.

	I would do all these things.  I would do these things because this country needs help--and many of its people need help.  I would do these things because I think time is running out now on the arms race.

	If we do not act, the time is near when fifteen or twenty countries will have their own tidy stockpiles of destructive nuclear explosives.  And--if we do not act--I think this country we love could be rocked with human explosion that would change the whole nature of our society and our free institutions.

	I propose to call forth not only the powers of the federal government and of the presidency, but of every level of government and every part of our private economy--right down to the house where you live.

	This open presidency would mean not oppression of responsible disagreement, but its encouragement.  The open presidency would mean not secrecy, but the widest possible discussion and ventilation of this nation's problems and their alternative solutions.

	This would be my presidency: an active presidency, an open presidency, a presidency calling forth participation by all Americans--especially the young.

	Our journey began more than 200 years ago.  We came to this country burning with the idea that one man was as good as another., that what was wrong could be made right, that people possessed the basic wisdom and goodness to govern themselves without conflict.

	Now we come to a new moment of crisis in that journey and we are called:  to heal the hatreds and divisions among us; to reaffirm the basic decency of spirit which lies within us as a people; to reassert this nation's moral leadership in a world that desperately seeks that leadership; to tell a new generation that what we have is good; that it is worth saving; that the dream of their parents is still a worthy dream.

	This is work for all of us.

	I seek to work through the presidency of the United States.  And if you will stand with me, we can complete that work.

	We need not be lost here in our own country.  We can build into reality the free and open society we all came to find.  That is the choice before us.  It is a choice among men, a choice among parties, a choice about our basic direction as a people.

	"Who shall speak for the people?"  Carl Sandburg asked.  And I answer: I shall speak and I shall act.

	I ask your help.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSOPEN PRESIDENCYWEAPONS PROLIFERATION     §  s  m  i  a 
 U  P  K  B  :  8  !   	 ¾ 	   	 ‹ 	 m 	 N 	 $ 	  e: