Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1014.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/14STUMPCASPERWYOMINGWYCITY COUNCIL BUILDING, FOR RADIO RELEASE AT NOON AND AFTERNOON NEWSPAPERS2253 WORDS


	This is a return trip to Wyoming. And return visits to Wyoming are an old habit with me. Ever since 1915 I've been coming to the Big Horn or the Jackson Hole country every time I got a chance, and I've persuaded a good many of my friends to spend their vacations here. It seems to make better people out of us--maybe one picks up some of the breadth of view, the courage and the spiritual health which seem to grow naturally in these mountains and sweeping plains. Speaking of vision, I can think of a lot of Republicans who would be helped by a long vacation out here.

	I have another very personal reason for coming back to Wyoming as often as I can. That is your senator, Joe O'Mahoney. I have come to know him as an unfailing source of wisdom and moral strength, and I value deeply every visit I have with him. I have never known any man who gave more unselfish devotion to the welfare of his country and to the people of his own state.

	Because Joe O'Mahoney is a modest and rather quiet man, I sometimes wonder how many people actually know all he has done during the last twenty years to build up the resources of the West. I suppose nearly everybody knows that in the last six years Wyoming has become one of the foremost states in oil production, and that Casper is now the oil capital of the Rockies. But how many people realize that this phenomenal growth is the direct result of a single law pushed through Congress by Senator O'Mahoney? That law is the O'Mahoney-Hatch Leasing Act of 1946, which encouraged private oil and gas operators to explore and develop the wealth lying under public lands.

	As a consequence, new wells were immediately started throughout the entire western public domain--land which had been closed to private development, you will remember.

	I can see some of the concrete benefits of Senator O'Mahoney's far-sighted legislation from this very platform--in the new Ohio and Shell Oil Company buildings, for example, and in the hundreds of new automobiles parked along your streets. The more important benefits, however, are being felt today in homes and grocery stores and schools throughout Wyoming. Because of that law, the amount of land under oil lease in this state has increased from two-and-a-half million acres in 1946 to 15 million acres today, and oil production has nearly doubled. Better yet, the royalty payments to Wyoming from oil developments on public land have more than tripled, to the great benefit of highways and schools throughout the state.

	It is this kind of development, as all of you know, which has made Casper one of the most prosperous cities in America--I understand that retail sales here are one of the largest per capita in the United States.

	I am particularly interested in methods you people of Wyoming have used to develop your natural resources, because you are working out a new pattern here which may well serve as an example for all the West. Under the wise leadership of Senator O'Mahoney and your other fine senator, Lester Hunt, you have developed a system of partnership between the government and private enterprise, which accomplishes far more than either partner could ever hope to achieve alone. Under this system, the government provides the incentives and sets up the conditions under which free enterprise can operate best--and then it is up to the individual citizen to do the rest of the job on his own.

	This kind of arrangement, it seems to me, represents American enterprise at its best, and Wyoming offers many instances of the way it works.

	One example of this partnership system is the Kortes dam, the site of the first power plant completed in the great Missouri basin development program. We all know that the West needs more electric power, and, like Senator O'Mahoney, I believe that there is plenty of room for both public and private power development, advancing together in a spirit of harmony and cooperation. Such an increase in electric output can serve as a foundation for the new chemical and aluminum industries which Senator O'Mahoney is working so hard to encourage.

	Here again the role of the federal government is an essential though a limited one. Its job is to provide new sources of electric power, as part of a comprehensive river basin development program which obviously could never be handled by private enterprise alone. Its job is to experiment with new methods of utilizing natural resources, as the Department of Interior research plant is now doing in Laramie.

When government scientists have once shown the way--and when they have demonstrated how our vast untapped deposits of aluminum and shale and soda ash can best be extracted and refined--then private capital can step in and build the plants necessary to finish the job.

	I understand that more than $17 million of private capital already has been invested over in Sweetwater County alone, to build up a new basic chemistry industry. This, I am confident, is only the beginning of an industrial development which may someday overshadow even oil and agriculture in the economy of Wyoming.

	Still another example of fruitful partnership between the government and its citizens lies in the field of reclamation. Even some Republicans discover this--usually in an election year. No private group could ever undertake such huge development enterprises as the Boysen, or Eden Valley, or Heart Mountain projects; only the federal government could handle the large-scale construction which has brought water to more than a quarter of a million acres of Wyoming land, and opened up opportunities for new, independent farm operations for thousands of farm families.

	The Democratic party understands these things because it has been working for twenty years to develop our natural resources and open them up to the creative vigor of private enterprise. And I doubt if any leader of the Democratic party understands these things better than Joe O'Mahoney.

	Because you have had the wisdom to keep him in the Senate, he has been able to work his way up to key positions on the committees of the Senate which deal with appropriations and resource development. In our congressional system there is, of course, no substitute for experience and seniority, unless it is diligence and persuasiveness, and Senator O'Mahoney has them all.

	For that reason, he exercises in Washington an influence that far exceeds his single vote in the Senate--and all of us can take pride in the fact that he has always used that great influence to promote integrity in government and to foster the sound development of the country's resources. He has risen to a place of national leadership; I think the people of Wyoming would do well to keep him in the Senate for many years to come, for the Senate of the United States will have much to do with the direction that Wyoming, the United States and the whole world travels in these years.

	I hope, too that you will send young Bob Rose to join the Wyoming team in Congress. He is my kind of candidate--a reformer who cleaned up Casper when he was mayor here. I know something about this sort of job. I have been sweeping up Illinois, after eight years of Republican rule that the Republicans don't talk much about just now. If we could only get enough men like Rose into the public service, the problem of corruption in government would be very much easier to solve.

	Now I want to say a few words to you about the basic national issues in this campaign. There are some desperately important issues although you would never guess it from listening to the Republican candidates. They don't like to talk about issues very much; they prefer slogans, emotion and confetti. It's easy to understand why. When you look at the voting record of the Republicans in Congress for the last twenty years, you can see right away why they decided that the less said about the issues the better.

	There are two fundamental issues at stake in this election. One is the issue of prosperity. The other is the issue of peace.

	From what I have seen of Republican isolationism in foreign affairs and inaction in domestic affairs since I was old enough to vote, I don't think you have much choice as to which party you can most hopefully trust to keep this nation prosperous, and to lead the way to an enduring peace.

	Of course I might be a little biased in my viewpoint, especially just now during the campaign. But the record on both of these questions is perfectly plain.

	At home, twenty years of Democratic government has wiped out unemployment and created 62 million jobs; it has transformed depression into the greatest era of prosperity America has ever known.

	And this was done over the opposition of the Republican leaders. For the last 20 years the Republican bosses have fought with blind fury against every measure designed to help the farmer, to protect our senior citizens, to encourage the expansion of industry, and to rebuild the prosperity of the nation. They even refused to see the shadow of the last war enveloping us.

	There are the Old Guard reactionaries who own the Republican party, hoofs, hide, and tallow. They control the Republicans in Congress; the Republican candidate for the presidency does their bidding, by conviction, persuasion or intimidation, I know not which; they have grabbed control of the Republican campaign--and they are quite frank about their plans to dominate the White House and the Congress if they ever get a chance. Endorsing Senator Jenner of Indiana, the defamer of General Marshall, Senator Taft said just last Friday that the General should have a Republican Congress "so we can control the committees."

	Do you have any doubt about what will happen to the programs on which American prosperity is founded, if the Republican Old Guard ever gets control of our government? As recently as this spring, a majority of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against extending 90 percent price supports for farm products. As recently as 1951, the Senate Republicans voted nine to one against expanding rural electrification; they voted to cripple crop insurance; they voted to cripple the conservation program. And these are the gentlemen that beseech you to entrust the prosperity of the national--and your own future--to them.

	In foreign affairs, our Democratic administrations over these twenty years have replaced a policy of isolation and national weakness with a policy of national strength and cooperation with other free countries. We know that strength and unity is the only way to peace, in these times when independence is under attack overtly and covertly in every quarter of the world.

	In foreign affairs, the Republican leadership has laid down another record you should have in mind before you decide its time for a change. The Old Guard reactionaries have opposed every measure to build up America's strength and America's alliances against the Communist conspiracy. Many of them have argued quite openly for a policy of weakness, a policy of abandoning our friends abroad, a policy of retreat in the face of Soviet imperialism. They have hurled lies and slanders against great patriots, such as General Marshall, who have devoted immediate tax cuts which could only result in gutting the strength of our armed forces and our allies and opening the door for new Soviet conquests.

	Moreover--to my sorrow and dismay--they seem to have induced or forced the General to alter his own positive principles and to adopt equivocal and hesitant views that savor more of isolation and retreat than collective security and confidence.

	This country faces a long and difficult and bitter struggle to win the victory of peace and freedom over tyranny and war. We can win only if we follow the same type of imaginative, courageous policies that brought this country out of the desert of the depression, through an awful world war, and to our present unparalleled position of strength and leadership.

	There have been mistakes, yes, as there always are in the ordering of human affairs, but the basic directions have been right and we have not winced or flinched in the face of attack from all quarters.

	We are now a mature people--we have conquered a continent and built a new civilization. We have done that because we have been willing to dare the new and to face the unknown boldly. That is the spirit of enterprise and hope of the Democratic party--and that's why it has endured so long. That's why, in short, it has had the people's confidence so long. We believe the people of this country are a good deal more thoughtful and alert than the Republican leaders think. While we cannot afford to overestimate their information, we Democrats do not underestimate their intelligence. And that, in turn, is why we confidently expect to win in November.

	Then we can get on with the searching and exacting job of governing this nation well--the most formidable task that confronts the human mind and spirit. We will need all our courage, all our energy. And we will need the faith of the psalmist who said, "I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help."

AGRICULTURE--GENERALISOLATIONISMOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSRECLAMATION PROJECTSREGIONALISM--WESTNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT     æ4 ä4 Ñ4 Ä4 x4
 k4 f4 a4 [4 T4 R4 	4 ˇ3	 ç 	 y 	 m 	 W 	 B 	 .   e: