Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1020.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/20STUMPSPRINGFIELDILLINOISIL1,488 WORDS

	I see by the morning papers that Illinois had a distinguished visitor yesterday.  But I also see that Mr. Nixon made sure to leave before the Humphrey Campaign Express pulled in last night.  Frankly, I'm beginning to think he's avoiding me.  Had I not been campaigning yesterday with Senator Ted Kennedy in Massachusetts--had I not been visiting yesterday in Sioux Falls, South Dakota--I would have joined Mr. Nixon in Peoria; for I have some questions to ask Mr. Nixon.  I'd like some answers--and I believe the American people would also like some answers.

	I think it's time we stopped passing like ships in the night.  I think it's time we discussed our differences--openly, forthrightly, face-to-face--in Peoria--in Springfield, or on network television.

	Mr. Nixon says he favors the treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons, but then he says he opposes Senate ratification this year.

	Mr. Nixon says he favors law and order, but he refuses to make any statement on the issue of controlling firearms--even when he knows that 96% of the police officers killed since 1960 were killed with guns.

	Mr. Nixon says he admires Justice Fortas.  He says he is an able and distinguished judge--he says the Senate should vote on his nomination--but Mr. Nixon refuses to say whether he supports the confirmation of Justice Fortas, and he refuses to repudiate his extremist allies in the Senate led by Senator Strom Thurmond who are blocking a vote on the nomination.

	Mr. Nixon goes into North Carolina and says he supports the Supreme Court's 1954 desegregation decision--but opposes implementation of that decision by the federal government.

	And then he goes back to the North and says it's "perfectly proper for the federal government to act" when the action of a local school board is a subterfuge for segregation.

	Mr. Nixon goes into Iowa and says he is going to change the farm program. But he doesn't say how.

	Would he change the wheat program?  Or would he repeal it?

	Would he change the feed grains program?  Or would he repeal it?

	Would he change the cotton program?  Or would he repeal it?

	I believe it's time Mr. Nixon came out of his storm cellar and answered some of these questions.

	I believe it's time for Mr. Nixon to make good on his promise to debate the opposition on television--a promise he made repeatedly before and after the Republican National Convention.

	I've taken firm positions on these issues--and I'm ready to defend each and every one.  Yesterday, for example, I released a comprehensive ten-point program for bringing the American farmer into the economic mainstream of this nation.

	But where does Mr. Nixon stand when it comes to specifics?  He talks a lot about a mysterious list of 167 issues on which he supposedly has taken a firm position.  But he always neglects to identify the 167 issues.  I think the American people might be interested in learning what they are.  So why keep it a secret--unless he would prefer that the American people didn't find out.

	I thought that we might begin these discussions in Peoria or Springfield--in the tradition of the Lincoln-Douglas debates--so the American people could decide on the basis of facts--not empty promises, slogans, and that special brand of fence-straddling which Mr. Nixon perfected long ago.

	But Mr. Nixon scurried away, and when last seen was headed East--to New York--and the sanctuary of his Fifth Avenue apartments.

	No one said it better than Adlai Stevenson.  "Mr. Nixon," Governor Stevenson once remarked, "is the kind of politician who will cut down a redwood tree and then get on a stump and give a speech about conservation."

	You see, it's not a question of the "old" Nixon, of the "new" Nixon, it's just the real Nixon, and he's as hard to find as ever.

	Mr. Nixon has charged there is some collusion between my supporters and the supporters of Governor Wallace.  Well, that charge is patently ridiculous and Mr. Nixon knows it.

	But I issue this challenge:  Let Richard Nixon, George Wallace and me debate the issues on national television.  That way we'll soon find out who is in collusion with whom.  And it won't be Humphrey and Wallace.

	We stand today, as Lincoln stood, at the moment of maximum peril for our nation.  And in November the American people must make a fateful choice--just as they had to choose in 1860 and 1864.

	The choice is this:  Shall we--as a nation--move forward toward one society of opportunity and justice, or shall we abandon this commitment out of fear, and move instead toward a fractured and divided society--black against white; rich against poor; young against old.

	And the decision we make this year will decide it for us, for our children, and for all those who have believed and sacrificed in the building of this nation.

	Do the American people believe that the fears and frustrations of life in the twentieth century can somehow be made to vanish, by papering over our problems and ignoring our shortcomings?  Or are we made of sterner stuff?  Are we better than too many of our press and pollsters and politicians give us credit for being?

	Are we strong enough to bear the responsibilities of power?--smart enough, and tough enough, to find our way through to the future which can yet be ours?

	As for myself, I must speak out on this issue.  In Lincoln's words--and this passage was among Adlai Stevenson's favorites--"I must keep some consciousness of being somewhere near right.  I must keep some standards of principle fixed within myself."

	An America fulfilled--an America of equal justice and equal opportunity--has been the guiding faith and principle of my life.  As a candidate for the highest trust of my nation, as a leader of my party--I shall not renounce that principle now.

	I trust the American people.  It is because I trust the great, unfrightened majority of Americans, that I choose to speak, not to their fears, but to their hopes... to call forth not the bitterness and resentment of life, but the vision of a New Day for all mankind--for what Lincoln himself called "The Family of Man".

	Abraham Lincoln told the people of this city 110 years ago this summer, "A house divided against itself cannot stand."

	I ask our nation not to be of one mind, but to be of one spirit.  And it is because I trust the toughness and resilience of that American spirit that I do not shrink from the hard decisions of the presidency.

	I seek that responsibility.  I accept that burden.

	As that good and wise man Adlai Stevenson did--I shall talk sense to the American people.  I shall talk sense to them about the issue of order and justice--as I did earlier this week with my comprehensive and specific eighty-four-point program to stop crime and lawlessness in this country.

	I pledged to support our local police--not with slogans and bumper stickers--but with leadership and federal resources, including money--money desperately needed for higher salaries and more personnel and for better training and equipment.

	I pledged to stop riots by increasing training of our local police and National Guard in riot control, including the creation of highly mobile units which can act immediately to stop civil disorders in their early stages.

	I shall summon my fellow citizens to the most urgent task of our time, as it was the most urgent task of Lincoln's time--"With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds..."

	I shall go forward with the firm conviction that, as Lincoln wrote in his first inaugural--written here in Springfield, in a room upstairs over a store across the street from the State House--we Americans "are not enemies, but friends, though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection.  The mystic chords of memory... will yet swell the chorus of union, when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature."

	And I shall do so with the humility born of the knowledge that, as Lincoln knew, "we cannot escape history, we shall nobly save, or meanly lose, the last best hope of Earth."

	This is the issue.  This is the clear and conscious choice, which I shall take to the American people.  And, in the words of Lincoln's successor, "I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer."

	I ask you to stand with me on that line this summer--this fall--next January--and in the years beyond.


AGRICULTURE--GENERALCRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTS     €" L" F" B" :"
 ." )" $" " " " " "	 · 	 £ 	 • 	 € 	 g 	 V 	 4 	  e: