Speeches\1988\rep\S88R0914.002SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)09/14STUMPKINGSBURGCALIFORNIACASUN MAID GROWERS1351 WORDS

	I will be here in California again and again before November because this is a crucial state in this election--and because we have a mission this fall--a mission that will shape America's future into the next century.

	It is a mission of hope for a safer and more peaceful world, and for a growing, optimistic America. That's what's at stake in this election. That's why I'm running hard. Working hard. And I mean to win.

	Less than eight weeks from now, you're going to go to the polls and have a choice not just between two men, but between two very different philosophies, two ways of looking at the world.

	Look at what my opponent's been saying: He says we can't afford another four years of the economic policies which President Reagan and I pursued. He thinks that America's best days are over--that doom and gloom are just around the corner.

	I see a different America. I see an America in the midst of the longest peacetime expansion ever. Exports and employment are at record levels.

	I know that the Reagan-Bush administration is the first since World War II to reduce both inflation and unemployment at the same time.

	And I know this: Americans in every income category are certifiably better off than they were eight years ago. Real family income fell under Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. It has risen under Ronald Reagan and George Bush.

	Most of all, I see an America still on the move--an America whose best days are yet to come

	The America of a Bush administration is still growing, resurgent in world markets, leading the world in job creation.

	We've worked hard to rebuild America's economic strength--and we're not going to let them take it away.

	California agriculture is special--there is agriculture, and there is California agriculture--the number one farm state in the nation.

	The eighties have been tough years for some farmers, but there is strong evidence now that the '85 farm bill is working. You've benefited from the TEA bill; the targeted export assistance program which has helped us counter unfair trade practices abroad. Farm exports are up 30 percent, and this year California agriculture will set another cash income record. And we're going to keep setting records for California growers.

	Recently my opponent has been using the phrase "economic patriotism." I'm not sure I know what that means. If it means making American products the best in the world, I'm all for it. If it means making a personal choice to buy American products, I'm all for it.

	But I suspect that it means something else. I suspect that, to the stealth candidate with the hidden agenda, "economic patriotism" is nothing but a code word for protectionism.

	No one knows better than you the dangers of protectionism. California is the gateway to the Pacific basin. Your future depends on free and open trade. You're not looking for a guaranteed market, just the right to compete. And let me say this, given a level playing field, American farmers, like American workers, can compete with anyone in the world.

	In agriculture, our productivity is our greatest strength--just 2 percent of our population feeding the other 98 percent--and much of the rest of the world as well.

	We need farm policies designed to help farmers sell everything they can produce. We need to open up foreign markets and develop new markets for our crops at home.

	My administration will help farmers export more, not force them to produce less. Those who call for stringent supply controls--including my opponent--have been proven wrong before, and they are just as wrong today.

	By lowering output and raising prices, they would make our products less competitive abroad and cripple our farm economy. That's a "can't do" attitude that would say to foreign competitors, "We give up."

	With our more competitive dollar, I am confident we can sell our products anywhere in the world. Our second quarter trade deficit was down 25 percent from a year ago, almost a $40 billion improvement on an annual basis.

	Just today, July trade figures are out showing that reductions in the trade deficit and in imports are the highest in two-and-a-half years.

	We need a president who understands both farm policy and foreign policy.

	Every year, the president meets with the leaders of the free world at an economic summit. Next year, I will urge that the summit focus on agriculture.

	I've met with our trading partners. I've sat at the negotiating table. I will be an effective voice at that table for America's farmers.

	I applaud the reduction of trade barriers within the Common Market, but I will oppose any attempt to create a fortress Europe that would close the doors to our products.

	I understand that the rice millers are filing a petition with the U.S. Trade Representative today asserting unfair trade practice by Japan. Under the law, the U.S. Trade Representative now has to decide whether to accept the petition and take action on this claim.

	We have had substantial success in prying open Japan's barriers of agricultural imports in recent years, including an agreement this year on beef and citrus products which should result in a billion dollars of new Japanese imports.

	I urge the U.S. Trade Representative to take action on the rice miller petition, so we can maintain the pressure against barriers to our exports around the world. If the USTR does not initiate action, we'll bring our claim to GATT, but that route should not be our only one. At our initiative the present Multilateral Uruguay Round offers a good opportunity to break down barriers to agricultural exports around the globe. We need to press the rice claim in that setting as well.

	As I said yesterday in Chicago, a Bush administration will work to knock down barriers that keep American goods and services out. No exceptions. No excuses. As today's trade figures continue to demonstrate, our more competitive dollar, combined with our active policy of negotiating market-opening agreements, is turning the trade deficit around through becoming exports--not protectionism.

	Let me also say just a word about immigration. I recognize how important guest workers are to you in harvesting your crops, and I support the provision in the immigration reform bill that allows you the workers you need.

	A word about water--my opponent wants federal interest in allocating water rights in the West. Like you I want the states to have control of water rights.

	I support what Governor Duekmejian has said about the grape boycott. Unlike my opponent, I do not support the grape boycott. That is another difference between us.

	In the next eight weeks, you'll see my opponent going around America, sowing seeds of pessimism. But I'd advise you to put your faith in "Republican futures."

	We've spent the last eight years laying the foundation for a better America. We've strengthened the peace, and we've ushered in a new era of economic growth--and we're not going to let them take it away.

	You have a choice this fall:

	Between low tax policies pioneered by Ronald Reagan and George Bush, and high tax policies imported from Massachusetts;

	Between a commitment to peace through strength honored by Ronald Reagan and George Bush, and the untested foreign policy views of a man who's opposed every new weapon since the slingshot;

	Between leaders who would put criminals behind bars; and a liberal governor who let first degree murderers not eligible for parole out on furlough;

	Between a man who favors the death penalty and one who opposes the death penalty;

	Between a man who believes that the new pride we've built in America can carry us forward, and one who wants to change all that we've accomplished in these last eight years.

	Only one man can keep America strong and keep America growing in the 1990s.

	And ladies and gentlemen, I am that man.

	Thank you all very much.

AGRICULTURE--GENERALFOREIGN TRADE--JAPANMIGRANT WORKERSAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISM     Þ ª ¤   –
 Ž ‰ „ { q o _ U	 € 	 l 	 X  I  - e: