Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0906.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/06STUMPCHEYENNEWYOMINGWYSPEECH TO MCCORMACK JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL ON THE NEW WEST2,449 WORDS

	I usually think of Wyoming, somehow, as a vacation state. I have had a very happy vacation today. It started at 5:30 this morning in Denver, and since then I have been to Minneapolis, to Rochester, to Kasson, to Rochester, to Minneapolis, to Cheyenne. I think I am the only man in history who ever decided to go from Denver to Cheyenne by way of Minnesota. 

	This restful day suggests to me that I am not running for president of the United States but flying to an insane asylum. But it has given me an opportunity that falls to the lot of few people, to see something of the enormousness, the might and the grandeur of the United States. 

	I have come in the past four years to know every corner, I think, every crossroad of my state of Illinois, and now I have the privilege that should be everyone's privilege, and, unhappily, is the privilege of all too few, to see--if not every crossroad--at least the principal centers of virtually all of the United States. I can think of nothing that is better calculated to increase one's sense of pride, one's respect for his fellow American and at the same time one's humility. 

	I have been in Wyoming before. I came here first in 1915, as a boy, and I spent a number of years here in the summer. I even earned my board and keep, working on cattle ranches. I used to tell the folks back home that I was a cowboy, but my recollection--and I think it is accurate--is that I spent the greater part of my time shocking barley, making hay and repairing irrigation ditches. The last time I came here to Wyoming was exactly two years ago, I believe, this week. I went fishing with my three sons up on top of the Continental Divide, at Bridger Lake and around the headwaters of the Yellowstone River. I must say that at that time it never occurred to me that I should be back here two years later fishing again, but this time fishing for votes. I have even concluded, out of the wealth of generosity that is within me, that if you treat me as well as the cutthroat trout did, I will buy a Wyoming fishing license--after November 4th. 

	I came out here once after college with a classmate of mine. We were on a secret mission; we had solemnly decided that we were going to make our careers in Wyoming, but we weren't telling our parents. The summer wore on and I didn't come home. Then my father ordered me home, and the result was that Wyoming lost a great rancher and the American Bar Association gained a lawyer. I am not sure who came off better, Wyoming or the Bar Association; I have been loath to ask either. 

	I had an experience on that last journey to Wyoming that perhaps many of you have had. Up on top of the Divide, there is a creek that separates and forms the Pacific Creek, flowing down the western watershed, and the Atlantic Creek, flowing down the eastern watershed. Sitting there on a bright summer afternoon on top of the world, I couldn't help but think of what had happened and the symbolic significance of this lovely spot, there on top of the Continental Divide where the winds blow from all directions. I thought of how the center of gravity in world affairs had moved in the past three thousand years from the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates, to the valley of the Nile, to Athens, to Rome, to Paris, to London, and in our time and in our generation had jumped the Atlantic and had come to the Western hemisphere, had come to the United States of America. 

	Somehow, there on top of the Divide, with my feet in the creek--one in the Atlantic and one in the Pacific--I thought that this lovely windswept mountainside was perhaps the center of the center of gravity of the whole world--and just at that moment, in my reverie, I dropped my sandwich in the water. I don't know whether it went east or west but I went hungry for the rest of that afternoon. 

	I think one of the finest things you do out here is to keep alive the memories of the old West--they are such an important part of the American tradition--memories that are dear to all of us, whether we have ever been here or not. I wish I could have come here in time to see your Frontier Day. I am told that it captures most vividly the spirit of the old times. I used to try as a boy, there on the ranches of the Big Horn to ride steers. I even tried to ride a bucking horse. Someone told me it took a strong back and a weak mind and I could qualify on at least one count. I hope nobody makes any comparisons with the way I ride the Democratic donkey. 

	In Minnesota today, the cattle rustlers and the acrobats on horseback of the motion-picture version of the old West had to take a back seat because my distinguished opponent made off with the farm plank of the Democratic platform--in broad daylight. 

	You know, what hurt most, however, was what he did to our platform. We don't object to his rewriting the Republican platform, but if he wants to stand on our platform, we think it only fair to ask him to take it as it is. 

	The Democratic platform is strong enough and it is broad enough in its present form to carry all of the progressive Republicans in the land. The trouble is that some Republican candidates seem to be on the platform just for the ride from now until election day. They seem to be only interested in roping votes before the election, but they won't be doing any branding afterward. 

	But it wasn't my intention to talk to you about the old West, of course. I want to talk about the new West and only briefly. Of course, the two are closely related; both have evoked the pioneering spirit of the American people. The old West represented the challenge of new and unknown physical horizons. The new West has meant an exploration of less tangible frontiers--the frontiers of science, of technology and of resource development. Beyond these frontiers we can already see the outlines of a thrilling and exhilarating future. We know that increasingly the Western part of the United States is becoming a leading source of American food and fibers, of American power and American industrial might--and the West has always been a schooling ground of American venturesomeness and American ingenuity. 

	Speaking of the Republican platform, it reminds me of nothing so much as the Powder River. I don't say that the Republican platform is a mile wide. But you will be flattering it if you said it was an inch deep. And what is more, it tries to run uphill! 

	The new West is going to be more and more important to our national future. Every time I have come out here, everything seems to have doubled somehow in size. So far as I can see there are three main components in this staggering growth. 

	One is the energy and the resourcefulness of the people. Another is the wisdom of the people of the United States in determining that our natural resources be managed for the good of all of the people. A third factor is our free-enterprise system, which releases the creative energy and vigor of a people more effectively than any other economic system thus far devised by man. 

	People sometimes talk as if government and free enterprise were mortal enemies. In this part of the country you know that they are working together as partners. Land, water and minerals are the bone and the sinew of the West. It takes wise government policy to develop these resources in the interests of all of the people. The Democratic party knows, as you know, that sound public-conservation policies provide the best foundation for healthy, private enterprise both here in Wyoming and throughout the West. 

	Now, what are some of the ways in which we have seen this established--proven? 

	You here in Wyoming have seen that federal investment in sound irrigation projects will give individual ranchers a chance to own their own land and make a decent living. You have seen power from federal projects form the basis for greater farm output and new and expanded private businesses. 

	You have seen governmental research work demonstrate that coal and oil shale can be turned into liquid fuel by private enterprise. 

	These are not the actions of an arbitrary bureaucracy, my friends, seeking any socialization of our economy. They are the actions of a sensible government interested in creating the conditions under which free enterprise can thrive; under which private individuals can have greater opportunities to start farms and businesses, to get better jobs, to earn more money, to provide a more secure future for themselves and for their children. This is the kind of government I think you want to have in Washington. Certainly this is the only kind of government that I am interested in. 

	Now you might suspect I was slightly partisan, but I am frank to say I don't think the Republican party can give you that kind of government. Divided, quarreling and disunited, none of the Republicans in either of the Republican parties has yet offered a single new idea for meeting any of the major issues ahead of this country. They complain, they denounce, they criticize and they fairly burst with self-righteousness. But when are they going to get down to cases? 

	Here we are, a great industrial nation, seeking to achieve a constructive relationship between employers and workers in the interest of ever-growing production and ever-higher standards of living for us all. 

	Last week in Detroit I made some specific suggestions for moving ahead in this field. My very distinguished opponent so far has suggested only that we might be able to turn the problem over to a university for study. I suggest that the all-important goal of good labor-management relations is entitled to a higher priority on our action list. 

	We are likewise a great agricultural nation, seeking to develop farm policies that will give us abundant production with fair prices to consumers and fair living standards for farmers. Earlier today in Minnesota I offered a specific program for moving ahead toward this goal. It is a program which has been written into the Democratic platform and which has been supported by Democrats in and out of Congress. And I can tell you now it will not be realized if we turn the country over to a party more than half of whose members in the House of Representatives voted only two months ago to deny the farmers of this nation firm price supports. 

	We face real problems--hard problems--in this country. Labor relations and farm policy are only two of many that will not be solved by platitudes or pious goodwill or extravagant bids for votes. They will only be solved by concrete, specific, practical action. That is what I have been talking about and what I intend to go on talking about. So far, I am sorry to say, we have been getting very little of that kind of talk from our Republican friends. 

	Even in the field of foreign policy I have been disappointed. There has been much trumpeting by the Republicans to the effect that they were about to unveil a new, a positive and dynamic, streamlined foreign policy. Well, it was unveiled Thursday night by my most distinguished opponent. And what did it turn out to be? Three of the ten planks were "throw the rascals out." And the others turned out to be exactly the foreign policy this nation has been following. It is a good foreign policy. I am glad that the Republican candidate is for it. But does he not realize that this foreign policy has been bitterly fought and obstructed and sabotaged by prominent Republican leaders in the Senate and in the House? Many of the men who have been most indifferent to our allies, who have fought hardest against the Marshall Plan, against the Voice of America, and the Point Four Program and the other major pillars of our foreign policy are now running on the same Republican ticket with the candidate who endorses all of these measures. 

	What with the endorsement of all the social gains of the last twenty years, the adoption of our agricultural platform, and going us one better on this, I am beginning to wonder what sort of a shell game this is--what kind of razzle-dazzle is it? But I guess, after all, there is room for such a distinguished hitchhiker on the Democratic platform. I don't mind it. I welcome it; and so do you. It is just those one-eyed guys with knives in their teeth who are scrambling aboard with him that make me a little uncomfortable. 

	The Republican candidate on Thursday night repudiated the records of at least half of the Republicans who are running for the Congress, but he does not appear disposed to repudiate the candidates. I think the American people are too smart not to realize that a positive, constructive foreign policy cannot be carried out by a negative, destructive Republican majority in the Congress. I think the people of this country are grown up and I think they can tell oratory from common sense. I think people want serious issues discussed seriously. I think the people of this country know that the problems of war, of inflation, poverty, greed cannot be washed away by saying every day that we are for peace and prosperity. To solve such problems means hard, sweaty, back-breaking labor, pain and anguish and unhappiness. We believe that they can be solved, for we are ready to pitch in with heart and mind and soul to tackle the natural and human difficulties that confront us and stand in our way. 

	If we do that--if we buckle down to work with the fortitude and energy that our pioneering forefathers showed when they subdued this continent, then we can win through this stormy night to the dawn of a peaceful world. 

	But, my friends, I don't think I am going to wait that long before I come back to Wyoming to go fishing! 
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALREGIONALISM--WEST     ‚6 N6 H6 D6 <6
 /6 *6 %6 6 6 6 Þ5 Ó5	 x 	 d 	 F 	 )   e: