Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1001.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/01STUMPFLINTMICHIGANMIEXCERPTS1298 WORDS

	My distinguished opponent, when he was here in Michigan on September 1st, spoke highly of the late Senator Vandenberg.  He was, indeed, a great American, one of the greatest.  He saw that in the world of today, no nation, however strong, can win security by its own efforts alone.

	Enlightened self-interest demands that the free nation follow the way of collective security.  The fervor of his faith was so contagious and his expression of it so eloquent that he ended once and for all the old American belief in isolationism.  Differences still exist as to the best way to implement the concept of collective security.  Those differences are at times important, but such differences are inevitable and healthy so long as the principle of isolationism has ceased to be a political force.

	It was Senator Vandenberg's great contribution that brought that about.

	I regret that the administration candidate for the presidency, when he was in Michigan, did not give Senator Vandenberg that deserved tribute.  He felt it necessary to belittle Senator Vandenberg as an individualist who failed to give vitality to the principles which he espoused.  If my distinguished opponent were as candid as he pretends to be, he would have recognized the constructive record that the Republican Party has made and is making today.  This record, developed largely under the influence of Senator Vandenberg has been one of tremendous contribution to those foreign policy achievements which are now hailed by the administration as its own private successes.

	The record of the Republican Party in the Senate is remarkable, considering that throughout this post-war period the Republican Party has been the opposition party, without the unifying influence which the presidency can exert on party members.  It has recognized the duty, as Senator Vandenberg put it, to be "vigilant in critical exploration of administration foreign policy."

	The United Nations Charter was approved by the Senate by a vote of 89-2; the Security Pact for the Americas was approved by a vote of 72-1; the North Atlantic Treaty was approved by a vote of 82-13 and the Vandenberg Resolution was adopted by a vote of 64-6.  This was the resolution that charted a positive policy toward the strengthening of the United Nations and developing collective security.  The Marshall Plan was approved in the Senate by a vote of 69-17.

	That record is a distinguished one.  It should be remembered that the negative votes on the North Atlantic Treaty, the Vandenberg Resolution and the Marshall Plan included negative votes of the party in power.  That is a tribute not just to a man but to a party.  Senator Vandenberg, if he were living, would be the first one to resent the suggestion that the votes to which I refer represented a personal triumph.  Rather, they represented to him the dedication of a party which, although it was an opposition party, subordinated partisan considerations to the national welfare.

	Senator Vandenberg's principles are party principles.  They are not the transitory views of an individual.  His party has continued since his death to demonstrate national unity in foreign policy wherever genuine bipartisanship has been tried.

	The record proves that it is false to say that Senator Vandenberg was a man whose principles died with him.

	My opponent carried effrontery to the limit when he said in your state that the junior Senator from Michigan is Arthur Vandenberg's political heir.  It would be much more accurate to say that Senator Vandenberg's political heir is his son, who was his intimate political associate and now my trusted assistant, Arthur H. Vandenberg, Jr.

	What must be said, in truth, is that, despite the administration's artful words, the bipartisan approach to which Senator Vandenberg was dedicated, is being crushed by the abuse to which the party in power and its leaders are subjecting it.

	In 1948, in a gesture to promote national unity, the Republican platform omitted any criticism whatever of the foreign policies of the administration.  It commanded Republican members of Congress for their cooperation with the Democrats and proposed for the future "stopping partisan politics at the water's edge."  The Democrat convention, acting some three weeks later, rebuffed that cooperative approach.  Its platform gave no recognition whatever to the indispensable cooperation which had been given in foreign policy by the Republican 80th Congress under the leadership of Senator Vandenberg.  Administration leaders violently abused that Congress:  they claimed for the Democrat Party entire credit for the creation of the United Nations, for the Greek-Turkey aid program, for the Rio Pact of the Americas and for the Marshall Plan.  In actual fact, every one of these projects had been brought to maturity only with the active cooperation of Republicans.  They made major contributions and also voted overwhelmingly to enact these projects into law.

	This partisan treatment of foreign policy, this attempt to claim all the credit for what was a joint endeavor, deeply hurt Senator Vandenberg and deeply hurt the cause of bipartisanship.

	Nevertheless, the Republican platform of this year gives its complete support and endorsement to all of the foreign policy measures which had been the subject of bipartisan cooperation.  It attacks and criticizes only where there has been no such cooperation, as in relation to the Middle East, Africa and South America and China and Korea.

	The Administration party, in their convention this year, put on a repeat performance.  Again its spokesmen claimed the entire credit for all the good results, where there had been bipartisan cooperation.  Where there were bad results, as in Korea, they attempted to shift the blame onto Republicans.  Of course, some Republicans, seeking to serve their country, served under the Democrat administration, but they did not take part in the critical moves between June 1949 and June 1950 which invited the Korean war.

	I do not believe, and I know Senator Vandenberg would not have believed, that bipartisanship in foreign policy can survive such partisan treatment.  Wherever there is genuine cooperation, then the credits and the debits ought to be fairly divided.  It is not possible to have continuing cooperation on the administration basis of heads they win and tails the Republicans lose.  That is the way bipartisanship works today.  The Democrats claim all the credit for its good fruits and blame the Republicans for its bad fruits.

	Times like these demand that we present a united front to the outside world.  We must not encourage our potential enemies to believe that we are so divided that we are irresolute in purpose and indecisive in action.  Our friends must know that they can depend upon the continuity of our policies.  But national unity of this kind cannot be maintained if one party persists in attempting to use it as a political asset for its own self-perpetuation.  Decency, and regard for the national welfare, require that where the opposition has helped, that help should be generously recognized.

	The Republican Party is dedicated to the principle of national unity in foreign policy.  As president, it will be my purpose to cooperate with the Congressional leaders of the Democrat Party and to make them real partners in formulating our basic foreign policies.  If they should cooperate with me in anything like the way Republicans have cooperated with the administration, they will be entitled to recognition.  They will get recognition from the entire Republican Party.

	We Republicans will give more than lip service to the cause of national unity.  We shall create a climate in which national unity can thrive.  That is what Senator Vandenberg would have wanted.  All Americans, of whatever party, who feel the same way, should know, on the basis of past performance, that the Republican Party offers the best hope of achieving the national unity we need for peace, security, and world order.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALSTATESPERSONS--MICHIGANBIPARTISANSHIP     &  ò ì è Þ
 Ð Ë Æ Á ¹ · ¯ ¥	 = 	 %   e: