Speeches\1972\dem\S72d0921.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/21STUMPBROOKLYNNEW YORKNYEXCERPTS2608 WORDS

	Mr. Nixon will appear tomorrow at a customs checkpoint in Laredo, Texas to try to demonstrate his concern about stopping the international narcotics traffic. But the American people will not judge him by his election-year demonstrations. They will judge him by his performance. And he has failed. The Nixon administration has failed to stop or even slow the rising flood of narcotics entering this country.

	Last Sunday I issued a major statement on the international narcotics traffic. The day afterward, President Nixon delivered a major speech on the same subject.

	He did not rebut a single line in my study.

	The following day, a spokesman for the President bitterly attacked my study.

	He, too, did not rebut a single line.

	Pious pronouncements by President Nixon and his spokesmen cannot cover up the fact that the number of heroin addicts in the United States has almost doubled since 1968, that today one American youth in seventeen has used heroin, that more heroin is being smuggled into this country than ever before, and that approximately one-third of the heroin sold on the streets of America comes from the countries we are backing in Southeast Asia--Vietnam, Laos, and Thailand.

	Heroin addiction is the greatest single cause of crime, and crime has increased 33 percent under the Nixon administration. Heroin addicts spend more than five billion dollars a year on their habits, making the criminal narcotics traffic one of America's largest industries. That five billion dollars is paid by the victims of the millions of burglaries, robberies, and thefts committed by heroin addicts each year. It amounts to a "heroin tax" of $100 a year for every American family of four.

	The study of the international drug trade that I released Sunday is thoroughly documented. I am prepared to defend it point by point and line by line in public debate with the President.

	Or my spokesmen will debate it face to face with his spokesmen.

	For I believe that as the truth becomes known on this issue, it will be clearer and clearer that the truth is on my side.

	If Mr. Nixon believes otherwise, then he should answer the points I have raised.

	I am prepared right now to answer the points that he raised in his appearance on Monday.

	First, the President said, "Three years ago, the global heroin plague was raging almost completely out of control." Today, he claims, the war on drugs is "moving... on the offensive."

	The fact is that the "heroin plague" has nearly doubled in magnitude since Mr. Nixon took office. In 1969 the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs estimated that there were 315,000 narcotics addicts. Today, their estimate is 560,000.

	Actually, I was astonished when Mr. Nixon claimed that the problem is getting better. He has repeatedly admitted that it is getting worse. He said on June 17, 1971: "Heroin is a fact of life and a cause of death for an increasing number of Americans." He said last October: "Heroin, the most dangerous of all illicit drugs, is coming into wider use."

	Second, he said, "The number of arrests of drug traffickers in this last fiscal year was double the number in 1969."

	Although he did not say so, one reason that there are more arrests today is that there are more traffickers today.

	Today, Richard Nixon claims that the increase in arrests proves that the problem is being solved. During the 1968 campaign, he drew just the opposite conclusion from similar facts--that increases in arrests proved that the problem was growing out of control. He said on September 16, 1968, in Anaheim, California, that "between 1960 and 1967 narcotics arrests in this country rose 15 times as rapidly as the population," and claimed that this showed that the problem was getting worse.

	Third, he said, "Looking back over the three years since I declared total war on drug abuse and labeled it America's public enemy number one, I think that the depth of our national commitment is clear."

	I would like to compare that with a statement that John Finlator made Monday. As Deputy Director of the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, John Finlator was the nation's number two man in the area of narcotics enforcement until he retired at the beginning of this year.

	Mr. Finlator said, "That plateau of total commitment just is not there." He added, "The failure of the present administration to stop the flow of heroin into this country as well as to make formidable inroads in the demand side of our society is clear evidence that we do not yet have a total commitment to what the President calls the number one domestic priority of his administration."

	Fourth, Mr. Nixon said, "We have knocked some bureaucratic heads together because of my directive, which I gave in the East Room two years ago, that government agencies should quit fighting each other about this problem and start fighting the problem."

	This is a reference to a memo he issued giving the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs primary responsibility for narcotics enforcement. The memo was an attempt to end the long-standing jurisdictional dispute between the Customs Bureau and BNDD.

	It is obvious to all observers that this dispute has not been resolved. The dispute has repeatedly endangered important cases. The situation is so serious that the Chief of INTERPOL recently appealed to the two agencies to stop fighting and start cooperating.

	Richard Nixon's inability to control this conflict between two federal agencies reflects his failure to assign top priority to this issue.

	Actually, he has aggravated the problem of inter-agency conflict by creating new, overlapping narcotics enforcement agencies. John Finlator says, "President Nixon's programs have been fragmented and ineffective with the only visibility being a reorganization or shuffling around of responsibilities from time to time."

	Fifth, Richard Nixon said, "Very sharp increases in the price of heroin throughout the eastern United States indicate that the supply is drying up and that the pressure is on the criminal drug trade."

	Actually, a report issued by the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs shows that the retail price of a gram of pure heroin was $410 during the first quarter of 1971 and $435 during the second quarter of 1972--the most recent figures available. This is an increase of only 6 percent in fifteen months--just about half of the 12 percent increase in most prices in the last year alone.

	BNDD sources, asked by the Library of Congress to reconcile these figures with reports of heroin shortages, stated that the reports were probably exaggerated and any shortages were localized.

	Contrary to Mr. Nixon's claim that the supply of heroin is "drying up," more heroin is being smuggled into our country than ever before. The BNDD estimates that heroin is being smuggled into our country at the rate of six and a half to ten tons a year, compared to five to six tons last year.

	Sixth, Mr. Nixon said, "There are times that a great nation must engage in what is called a limited war. I have rejected that principle in declaring total war against dangerous drugs."

	But Mr. Finlator states: "If, indeed, the problem of narcotic trafficking and addiction is our number one domestic priority, its solution will require the bringing together of a massive amount of the brainpower, manpower, and resources of this country. In this we have failed and instead have putted around the problem in fragmented, piecemeal manner. If the problem is not one of high priority, then we have not done so badly."

	Seventh, Mr. Nixon said, "Our total federal funding for this effort has increased eleven times over what it was in 1969."

	But our total budget for drug treatment, rehabilitation, education, research, and law enforcement is less than one tenth the budget for the Vietnam war, and it is not enough to solve the problem.

	There are waiting lists in treatment programs. Treatment programs lack funds for job counseling and other supportive services. Methadone is frequently the only form of treatment available, even though for many people with drug problems, such as young veterans, methadone is not suitable.

	Mr. Nixon attempted to insinuate that increases for drug funding are something he must pilot through Congress. The fact is that pressure for an increased effort in assaulting the heroin plague has consistently come from Congress. And the new programs that Mr. Nixon is now claiming as his own as part of his supplemental appropriation request were developed in the Senate over administration obstruction.

	Eighth, he said, "France, Paraguay, Laos, Thailand, and Turkey are just a few examples of the many countries where the work of American officials ... in partnership with local officials has produced important breakthroughs--huge heroin seizures...."

	Actually, the White House issued in July a twenty- page document citing all of the drug seizures in Laos, Thailand, and South Vietnam in the preceding year. Adding up these seizures, one finds a total of twenty-nine tons of opium equivalent. This "breakthrough therefore amounted to 3 percent or 4 percent of the Golden Triangle's annual production of illicit opium--a smaller percentage than what a shopkeeper might lose through shoplifting.

	Ninth, President Nixon said, "I consider keeping dangerous drugs out of the United States just as important as keeping armed enemy forces from landing in the United States."

	In fact, the current budget of the Nixon administration for international narcotics enforcement is approximately 2 percent of spending for the Vietnam war alone. No one sees Vietnamese soldiers landing on our shores, but poisonous heroin is pouring in.

	Tenth, and finally, President Nixon pledged Monday to cut off military and economic aid to governments that fail to crack down on the narcotics trade.

	This was nothing new. Congress gave him the authority to do this over a year ago.

	The question now is whether the President will keep his promise, exercise his authority, and cut off aid to the corrupt governments of Laos, Thailand, and South Vietnam.

	The Deputy Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars for the Pacific Area wrote in June, 1971: "The dope traffic I do not believe is being conducted by any underground nor the VC. It is by the government we are aiding and abetting and its subordinates."

	The U.S. Army Provost Marshall reported at about the same time that "the powers behind the scene who can manipulate, foster, protect, and promote the illicit traffic in drugs" may be "high level, influential political figures, government leaders, or moneyed Chinese members of the criminal syndicates."

	A Cabinet-level report dated February 21, 1972 stated that "corruption, collusion, and indifference" in the governments of Southeast Asia was "the most basic problem" thwarting narcotics control efforts.

	A high-level CIA report leaked to the press stated, "A broad spectrum of Lao society is involved in the narcotics business, including Generals, Princes, high-level bureaucrats, and Province Governors."

	The House of Representatives has already overwhelmingly passed an amendment declaring that Thailand is not cooperating in the narcotics control effort and cutting off aid to Thailand.

	I say that the government of South Vietnam is totally hypocritical in its crackdown on drugs. They launch a new anti-corruption drive every few months for the sake of American public opinion. But they keep raking in the profits.

	The Nixon administration frequently dates the South Vietnamese crackdown on drugs to the spring of 1971, when Thieu announced a token anti-corruption drive.

	What they do not often mention is the man who was appointed to head that drive. He was General Dang Van Quang. A few months after he was appointed to head the anti-narcotics drive, he was identified by NBC News as "the biggest pusher" in South Vietnam.

	While the "crackdown" headed by General Quang was underway, a Republican Congressman charged that General Ngo Dzu, one of the top generals in South Vietnam, was a major drug pusher. Instead of following up on these charges, Thieu promoted Dzu after a whitewash investigation. The U.S. government participated in that whitewash.

	Thieu appointed as head of the National Anti-Narcotics Committee Admiral Chung Ten Cang. Cang had been fired as commander of the Navy in 1965 under charges of corruption.

	In fact NBC News reported last year that both Thieu and Ky were financing their election campaigns from the narcotics traffic.

	The State Department spokesman on Monday pointed to the fact that Thieu was demanding the death penalty for drug pushers to prove that he is serious about cracking down on drugs.

	He should know that Thieu demanded the death penalty for drug pushers a year ago. Nothing happened then and nothing will happen now.

	The State Department on Monday issued a document which they described as a "fact sheet." It praised as "candid" the administration's World Opium Survey, released last month.

	The World Opium Survey was not "candid." The most important facts were edited out of it.

	The Washington Evening Star obtained and published the intelligence summaries on which the public report was based. The summaries clearly explain that the Vietnam war is interfering with the war on drugs. They state, "Priorities relating to requirements of the Vietnam war may limit pressures that can be applied" to the government of Laos.

	Since he promised on Monday to cut off aid to governments that tolerate the dope traffic, Mr. Nixon has spent $20 million in aid to the governments of Southeast Asia.

	Every penny of that aid has been in flat violation of his promise.

	The governments of Southeast Asia are not cracking down on the drug traffic. They are protecting and profiting from the traffic.

	The war is the reason that President Nixon has not kept the pledge he made Monday and the war is the reason that he cannot pressure the governments of Southeast Asia out of the opium trade.

	There is already a precedent for the Nixon administration to cut off aid to the Thieu regime because it is abusing the money. In early 1971 we cut off some food aid because supplies were being stolen by government officials. If we can cut off food aid to hungry refugees because too much is being stolen, certainly we can cut off military and economic aid if this aid is supporting drug pushers.

	So I call upon Mr. Nixon to follow through on Monday's tough words, and to terminate aid to the governments in Southeast Asia--Laos, Thailand and South Vietnam--that are harboring and helping the vicious traffic in drugs.

	In conclusion, I repeat the challenge that I issued on Sunday.

	For President Nixon has spoken, but he has not responded.

	His spokesmen have attacked me, but they have not answered my charges.

	So I ask the President to address himself to these facts:

	Drug addiction has doubled since 1968.

	More heroin is entering this country than ever before.

	Crime has increased as much in the last three years as in any other three years under any other President.

	And I ask the President to address himself to the fact that Southeast Asia is fast emerging as the major heroin supplier of this country.

	Southeast Asian heroin is cheaper and purer than Mexican heroin. More and more of the heroin that reaches our country from Latin America originates not in Europe or Mexico but in Southeast Asia. The next shipment of heroin seized by the customs post that President Nixon will be visiting may well be one that was produced and smuggled by our allies in Southeast Asia.

	I have stated some of my explanations for these facts. President Nixon may have other explanations. If so, let him state them tomorrow. The American people have a right to know.

CRIME, DRUG-RELATEDDRUG ABUSE--TREATMENTDRUG TRADE--GENERALSOUTHEAST ASIADRUG ABUSE--HEROINDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESFOREIGN AID--SOUTHEAST ASIA     Ù> ¥> Ÿ> ›> “>
 ‡> ‚> }> u> m> k> c> Y>	 “ 	 € 	 k 	 X  J  8   e: