Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0814.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)08/14STUMPSPRINGFIELDILLINOISILGOVERNOR'S DAY SPEECH AT ILLINOIS STATE FAIR2,254 WORDS

	I notice from the program that today is still entitled Governor's Day. But I thought we had rechristened this as Barkley Day some two or three years ago. 

	So I welcome you all to Barkley Day at the greatest show on earth--the centennial of the Illinois State Fair. And we welcome for the fifth time running the noblest Kentuckian of them all, our beloved friend, Alben Barkley. What's more, Mr. Vice President, you have expiated the sins of omission of last year and we give you a double welcome this year because you have brought Mrs. Barkley with you. We Democrats think one Barkley is wonderful, but two are terrific. 

	You've heard so much about me today I think you should be spared hearing from me. Besides, this is the fifth year that you have listened to me too. I use "me too" in the grammatical, not the political sense. Which reminds me that there was a big meeting out here yesterday--a sort of bipartisan gathering with representatives from both branches of the Republican party. I don't know how the peace conference got along but they had a good time criticizing us for everything, as usual. They even accused me of the crime of visiting President Truman the other day--a crime that hasn't been committed since Rutherford B. Hayes, because the party in power has not nominated a candidate who was neither a member of Congress nor the Cabinet in seventy-five years. I thought I detected an explanation of their difficulty in finding something to say, however, when the orator of the day, Senator Nixon, revealed that out at the camp in Colorado, General Eisenhower's vacation headquarters, they ate fried mush most of the time. 

	I said this was the fifth year you had listened to me--an affliction that you have borne with admirable patience and fortitude. The Democratic days at the fair have been among the proudest moments of my life. And now I must go away in quest of an even greater office, and leave behind not only you, my friends, but also my work here in Springfield. It is not easy to say farewell to you or to that work which has been my total life. For all the sweat and tears I have been richly rewarded. 

	What we set out to do when I first talked to you from this platform as a candidate for governor in August, 1948, we have done in three and a half short years. We have eliminated the useless payrollers, put state purchasing on a businesslike basis, enacted a great road reconstruction program, raised the sights of the Illinois school system, put the state police on a professional nonpolitical basis, taken the Commerce Commission out of politics, put Illinois out in front in the care and treatment of our mental patients, amended the Constitution, extended aid to tuberculosis hospitals, reorganized many aspects of the state government, knocked out commercial gambling, enforced the truck weight laws to protect our highways, instilled a new sense of public responsibility among the state's employees--and I could go on and on. And in contrast to most all the other states, we have not raised taxes for the general purposes of the state. 

	You will forgive me for hurriedly mentioning these things. I mention them because they and many others have meant much to me, and, I think, to our party. It has been said that perhaps no state in our time has done so much so quickly. I don't know whether you call it a "New Deal for Illinois," or a "Fair Deal," or a "Square Deal," but I know that it has been a no deal state government. We have just been trying to give the people the right change, which seems to be a novel and appealing idea. 

	But the importance of this work is not measured by my personal interest or satisfaction or by yours. It is important because the states are important. We talk about and deplore incessantly the increasing centralization of power over our lives in Washington. But that tidal drift toward the capital will go on and on unless those necessary functions of government which don't have to be performed in Washington are performed, and properly performed, at the state or local level. The people will demand the services, and if they don't get them at home they will turn to Uncle Sam. And every dollar you send to Washington to pay for them will shrink before it gets back home. Because our enemies are big, because business and labor and agriculture are big, because everything is big and organized nowadays, our federal government has inevitably become bigger too. But it should be unencumbered in the discharge of its monstrous major duties by a lot of other jobs it need not do. And the states are the dikes which we can build more strongly against the flood waters sweeping toward the District of Columbia. 

	While I want you to sweep me down there, don't sweep any more government jurisdiction down there! Sometimes one must overcome a feeling of reluctance about changing jobs. But the reluctance I feel about bigger and bigger jobs for the federal government is a reluctance I won't get over! 

	Because what we have been doing here in Illinois is important to our citizens, because it is important to our federal system, because public confidence is important to our party, and because much remains to be done, I had wanted to stay here and have a hand in putting this business of good government on a more permanent basis in Illinois. But I have been assigned another task, an assignment, which, I gather, has been greeted with enthusiasm in some sections of Illinois. One of our United States senators, indeed, has said that I have been the worst governor Illinois has had since the turn of the century. But I'm not the only governor on whom he has poured his rich and reckless invective. I can well understand why he should look back with sentimental regret to the more bounteous days of my predecessor here in Springfield. 

	But because the citizens of the state will take a more charitable view of our efforts to give them the right change here in Springfield, and because you have a new leader exceptionally equipped by character and experience to carry on the work we have commenced, I am just as confident as I am standing here that Sherwood Dixon, Herbert Paschen, Eddie Barrett, Ben Cooper, Ivan Elliott and Fred Cain will all be elected next November. And I intend to be standing right here with them next summer--as president of the United States. 

	I am about to leave you on a long journey, and the route, by the way, won't be a military or political secret. I intend to cover as much ground as time and strength and our resources permit. And I won't call it a "crusade" to exterminate Republicans. I like a lot of Republicans, even some very new converts to that faith, whatever it is. Indeed there are some Republicans I would trust with anything--anything, that is, except public office. No, my journey won't be a crusade; we'll just call it Operation Victory. 

	And before I leave I want to say to you, shamelessly and sentimentally, that my heart will always be here in Illinois. Here five generations of my family have lived and prospered. My roots are deep in our prairies and I owe Illinois a great debt. I have tried my best to discharge that debt honorably and well. But in the process I have only increased my obligations. 

	Four years ago, when you entrusted me with the reins of state government, I found myself committed to tasks and responsibilities which were new to me and staggering in complexity and magnitude. I have learned more than I can say in these short years. It is easy enough to have bright ideas about the art of civil government in the abstract; but you never really can understand government until you are confronted with the concrete pressures and the day-to-day operating responsibilities. The essence of Republican government is not command. It is consent. The experience and training of four years in Springfield have given me a unique opportunity to explore and, I hope, to master in some measure the means by which competing parties, competing branches of government, competing groups in the community can be brought to common action for the common good. 

	I want to thank you all for the opportunity you have afforded me. The experience has vastly enhanced my self-confidence for the new and appalling assignment I face in the future. My greatest ambition is to discharge that responsibility in a manner that will preserve the confidence and respect of my friends in Illinois who have given me the courage to face a future limitless with danger and opportunity. 

	I have learned other things in the past four years too. And most recently I have been hearing a great deal about the need for a change. I had always thought that Americans liked change for the better and disliked change for the worse. But a new doctrine is abroad in the land--the doctrine of change for the sake of change. Whether that change is to be for the better or for the worse is apparently something we are to find out after the election. It is like buying a surprise package at a novelty store. Maybe the cigar is a good one, or maybe it will explode in your face. 

	This whole problem of the need for a change is very interesting to me in a family way. From 1860 to 1912--a period of fifty-two long years--this nation had only one Democratic president. I can say this with feeling, because, as some of you may remember, Grover Cleveland's vice president during his second term was my grandfather. I've read a good deal about that period and I don't recall the Republicans during those fifty-two long years saying very much about the sacred principle of change. Evidently "change" is a sound principle only when the Republicans are out and the Democrats in. 

	I've learned some other things of late. At the Republican Convention, an eminent party leader, a former president of this country, aged 77 years, made one of the main addresses. His speech was deeply melancholy in tone. This would probably be his last Republican Convention, he kept saying--a note of pessimism which we all sincerely hope will turn out to be wholly unjustified. He described the state of the nation in equally funereal language. The whole effect was one of black, unrelieved gloom. 

	In marked contrast to this venerable and melancholy figure of 77 at the Republican Convention was the stripling of 74 who stole the show at the Democratic Convention--and whom you are patiently waiting to hear today. Where the Republican despaired of the Republic, the Democrat exulted in the prospects of democracy, speaking with robust and youthful confidence about the exciting years ahead. Where the first wondered mournfully about whether he--or the nation--would last much longer, the second described how he spent last Christmas eating with the troops in Korea and looked forward to new travels and adventures. If the vice president had suggested that he might not be back in four years, the convention hall would have exploded with incredulous laughter. 

	There are many fine people in the Republican party. I am frank to say that I hope many of them will vote for me in November, as many of them voted for me here in Illinois four years ago. But it seems to me the leadership hardly does justice to the rank and file, let alone to the truth. They describe me as a "captive" candidate. They say I am a "captive" of the city bosses, and then of the CIO, and then of the Dixiecrats, and then of President Truman, and then of Wall Street, and then of an organization called A.D.A. Next week that will probably be a girl named Ada, but I haven't met her yet. Anyway I had no idea I was so popular, and I hope I can bear this multiple courtship and captivity with becoming modesty. 

	The fact that my captors generously assault one another reminds me of a story I heard about a scout who was captured by a group of Indian tribes, who soon began to argue among themselves about which tribe he belonged to. Tempers rose and so did the tomahawks. The rival tribesmen laid each other on the ground and Davy Crockett, or whoever he was, made his escape. Maybe there's hope for me! Meanwhile, it's not too uncomfortable to be captured by most everybody--except the Republican Old Guard! 

	But I have kept you much too long. Let me just add that I have often wondered how best to describe the essential difference between our two major parties. But when I think about the contrast between the speaker at the Fair yesterday and the speaker at the Fair today, the meat of the difference becomes obvious. The Republican party is the party which makes even its young men seem old. The Democratic party is the party which makes even its old men seem young. It is my pride and pleasure to present to you the youngest of them all, our beloved Vice President, Mr. Democrat himself--Alben Barkley. 
ELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALILLINOIS     Ÿ2 •2 ü2 õ2 ì2
 Ü2 Å2 |2 q2 i2 g2 ;2 02	 G 	 # 	  e: