Speeches\1988\rep\S88R0919.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)09/19STUMPBLOOMFIELDNEW JERSEYNJANNIN FLAG COMPANY1697 WORDS

	It's awfully impressive to see the operations of the Annin Flag Company--the oldest and largest flag manufacturer in America.

	When the National Geographic Society made it to the top of Mount Everest, there they planted an Annin Flag. And when Neil Armstrong took "one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind" he planted on the moon an Annin flag.

	Since 1849, an Annin flag has flown high on January 20th every four years, presiding over the swearing-in of the president of the United States. That's a ceremony I hope to be a part of next year.

	I have a small confession to make. As I've been going around this country, talking about the new pride in America--our renewed strength and our continuing economic growth--I've had the occasion to mention this company.

	I've pointed out that the 1980s have been good to the Annin Flag Company. Sales are up. You've added two plants since President Reagan and I took office. Today, I'm told you're turning out 7,000 three foot by five foot flags, and 30,000 miniature flags every week.

	I mention that not because I am overly worried about the success of the Annin Flag Company--although I am happy to see you doing well--but because of what it says about America.

	Woodrow Wilson, a former governor of this great state, once said that "the flag is the embodiment, not of sentiment but of history. It represents the experiences made by men and women, the experiences of those who do and live under that flag."

	My friends, flag sales are doing well. And America is doing well.

	America in 1988 is a nation with her spirit restored, her defenses strong, and her economy growing again. We are poised for a new era of greatness.

	I want to talk to you today about that, America's new era, because it will be shaped in great measure by the man you choose as your next president.

	A president can define the challenges faced by a generation. He can shape an era. So I want you to know something about where I would lead this country.

	My mission is simple. To build a better America--that simple and that big.

	As I see it, two issues stand out above all the others in achieving that mission: creating economic growth that will keep bringing jobs to all Americans, and securing the peace for this and future generations. Jobs and peace. That's what this election is all about.

	There are very clear differences between my opponent and me on these two central issues.

	I believe that low tax rates create economic growth--and I offer as evidence the greater period of peacetime economic expansion in American history.

	We cut taxes for America's families in 1981, and it worked. Today, more people--and a higher percentage of our workforce--are at work than at any time in our history.

	My opponent has said that these tax cuts were "one of the worst bills that Congress ever could have passed." His record--and apparently his beliefs--are quite different. He raised taxes several times as governor of Massachusetts, and I believe he will raise them again if you elect him president.

	So there is a clear difference. I believe we have found a successful approach to creating jobs on which we can build. The task now is to take that formula--a formula that works--and apply it to places which have not yet felt the full impact of the recovery, from the nearby city of Newark to my home state of Texas.

	I think Americans are glad to be working, glad that family incomes--adjusted for inflation--are rising, and glad that America is on the move again. They don't want to throw it all away with a sharp reversal of course, or risk it by returning to policies that didn't work the last time they were tried.

	Americans have new economic power, and I'm not going to let them take it away from you.

	Our differences on the fundamental issue of peace are just as sharp. I believe that America is succeeding today at negotiating arms reduction treaties with the Soviets, and succeeding in advancing the cause of freedom around the world, because America is strong.

	We've worked very hard in these last eight years to build that strength, and I'm not going to let them take that away from you, either.

	I have a record of support for programs that have built America's strength. I went to Europe in 1983, sat down with our allies, and helped negotiate their support for the deployment of Pershing missiles.

	Frankly, it was not universally popular at the time. But those Pershing missiles made possible a treaty that--for the first time in history--will destroy an entire generation of nuclear weapons.

	My opponent did not support that deployment; he supported a freeze that would have made that treaty impossible.

	I have supported rebuilding our Navy, and modernizing the three legs of our nuclear triad, recognizing that peace through strength works.

	The flags you make fly over an America that today is stronger and more prosperous than at any time in its proud history. But it is fair to ask: is that all there is? And the answer, of course, is no. America is that "shining city on a hill" today because we are a nation of dreamers, a compassionate nation, an ambitious nation to be sure, but also a kind and gentle nation.

	What is the end purpose of this economic growth? Is it just to be rich? What a shallow ambition. Is there really any satisfaction to be had in being the fattest country?

	The Americans of the eighteenth century were a revolutionary people--they invented a great nation. The Americans of the nineteenth century were a fearless people--they built that nation. The Americans of the latter part of the twentieth century--what will they say of us? That we were fat and happy?

	Well, let's hope not. "Purposeful and happy" has a nice ring. "Idealistic and happy" even nicer.

	Let's remember that prosperity has a purpose, and it's to pursue the "better angels of nature."

	That means making greater strides in the arts and the sciences and the things of the spirit--but it also means just giving a helping hand to a fellow citizen who needs it.

	I find myself almost haunted, as I get older by the lives being lived by the children of our inner cities. Children growing up, some of them, in a loveless environment. Children growing up amidst violence and horror. What will become of them?

	The answer is up to us. The answer is in each individual act of kindness, multiplied by thousands and tens of thousands. The answer is in a new engagement in the pains of others.

	Government alone can't solve the problem; we've seen that. I pledge that in a Bush administration we will be part of the solution. But government, when it tried to do it itself, made a lot of it worse.

	But the children are there, and they're waiting, and we've got to help. One of the things I intend to do as president is to see what I can do, as a leader, as a gentle persuader, to rally our people to help those children.

	Proper childcare. A good environment. Strong penalties for the criminals who threaten our neighborhoods. Good schools with rewards for good teachers. All with a strong emphasis on family values.

	These are my ambitions--and they are big ambitions.

	But they're the only kind to have.

	I have no illusions about the difficulties we face in this race. We have had eight years of Republican leadership, and it's very American to say: "Thank you, and now we'd like a change."

	It's our duty to remind the American people of what my friend Ronald Reagan said a few weeks ago:

	We are the change. And we are going to keep changing, keep moving forward, keep making progress, keep fighting for the little guy--and we are going to keep the gains we've made.

	We tend to think that the crises and challenges of our own times are unique to us, but I remind you that earlier generations of Americans had good reason to worry. When Francis Scott Key wrote the lines of tribute to the flag you now make, back in September of 1814, the British had already burned our national capitol in Washington, and if they had succeeded in taking Baltimore, that might have been the end of the United States of America.

	Instead, Americans then--as Americans now--prevailed. They built a better country, one that now serves as the flagship of freedom in this world--one that to this day serves as the model, the inspiration, and the hope for millions of people around the world.

	In one of your buildings here at Annin Flag, there stands on display a flag featuring 15 stripes and 15 stars--a flag of the vintage that inspired Francis Scott Key to call America "the land of the free and the home of the brave."

	Today, the flags you make still inspire Americans and those who love our values the world over. You can see that inspiration on display this week in the tears that flow down the cheeks of our Olympic champions. You can see it on display on porches of homes all across this land, or in the waving hands of families along the parade route.

	I want to build an America that is proud, yes. But more than that--much more than that--I want to build an America that inspires. Inspires people the world over to believe in liberty, to fight for freedom, to do justice, and to love mercy.

	I want to build an America that remains the last, best hope of man on earth.

	That is my mission. And I will complete it.

	Thank you very much. 
CHILDRENECONOMY--GENERALFLAG/FLAG ISSUESMILITARY PREPAREDNESSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)PATRIOTISMPOVERTYTAXATION--GENERAL     Œ% X% R% N% D%
 <% 7% 2% (% % % 
%  %	 “ 	 ‹ 	 { 	 k 	 V 	 " 	  	  e: