Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1030.006SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/30STUMPLANCASTERPENNSYLVANIAPA2211 WORDS

	Judge Bard and my friends of Lancaster: I like your courtesy to me this morning more than I can tell you--I even like those fellows that are holding up "I like Ike" signs. You know, I still think he is a good general. I have many reasons for profound gratitude here this morning, and among them is my gratitude to the intelligence of the Lancaster Journal for the endorsement of my candidacy. The thing that interests me most about the newspaper situation is that we seem to get so many good newspapers on our side. There was another journal that came out for us the other morning and that is the famous Milwaukee Journal of Milwaukee--and I think you know the name of the junior senator from Wisconsin.

	I am also very much flattered to find here this morning so many representatives of the Franklin and Marshall College. I am told that some two-thirds of the faculty of that college are enlisted in our cause, for which I am equally grateful.

	You know it always reminds me of what a man said out in my section of the country; he said, "This used to be solid Republican territory until they started building schools."

	And I am also very grateful for the red rose that somebody was good enough to present me here--a carnation--my Lord. I hope the Republican orators won't say that I joined the Communist Party in Lancaster. It has gotten so bad lately that the other morning up in New York state, they gave us a bushel of Northern Spy apples and I was almost afraid to accept them.

	Where I come from, in McLean County, Illinois, we used to boast that we had the best agricultural county in the whole United States, but let me confess right now, that before we ever made that boast, we usually had to look around to be sure that there was no one from Lancaster County present.

	Every agricultural community in the country looks with honest envy to Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. We all know about your carefully tended soil, and it looked so good to me for the last few minutes, coming in on the train, I almost thought I was in Illinois. We know about your skilled and your thrifty farmers and the close tie that you maintain between good farming and also good living. If time permitted, I should like to leave this train and drive through the southern part of this county, where, as Judge Bard was good enough to say, my great grandfather taught school before he moved to Illinois, more than 120 years ago, and as some of you know, he became a great friend of Abraham Lincoln and urged Lincoln to run for the presidency as the candidate of the then new Republican party, and here I am, I, his great grandson, reversing the process, coming back to Lancaster County as the Democratic candidate for the presidency.

	And you people from Millersville College, you might be interested to know that this same great grandfather of mine, who was born and nurtured and raised and taught in this section of Pennsylvania, founded the first Teachers College in the state of Illinois in the 1850's. I would like to say--but I wouldn't dare risk it--that maybe, it was even older than Millersville Teachers State College.

	I don't believe that he would disapprove of my being the candidate of the Democratic party although he helped to organize the Republican party in 1856 in the state of Illinois; but that party was organized at that time to meet the needs of the people. It was organized as a protest against the compromises, the inaction, the equivocation of the old Whig party. It was organized to meet the needs of the people in those anxious days before the Civil War, but in these, our anxious days, it is the Democratic party that does the job of meeting the needs of the people.

	Well, I am glad that there are so many people who agree with me here.

	Our great need in these times is physical strength, for weakness is a temptation which the Communists, which ruthless and vicious men can seldom resist. We are strong today, and one of the reasons is the vision caught by the people twenty years ago as we fought our way out of the Great Depression, a vision of a country in which no one group can be prosperous unless all groups are prosperous. Farmers didn't share--as many of you know and as we in Illinois knew so well--they didn't share in the phony prosperity of the 1920s. That economy that staggered to a halt in the early 1930s with such tragic consequence for everyone--the Democratic party is determined not to let that happen again.

	Our farm programs are well known to you--soil conservation, rural electrification, price support laws, crop insurance and all the rest; these are the programs which Republicans say they favor just before election and vote against in the Congress year after year.

	I think the warning to the farmers is plain--and the Republicans wrote the warning themselves--it is their record of opposition wherever these programs come to a vote. In detail, these Democratic programs for farmers apply with varying effect all over the country, but the one overriding philosophy that the prosperity of one depends upon the prosperity of all applies everywhere with equal effect. I'll bet there are more lights in Lancaster County chicken houses nowadays than there were in Lancaster houses twenty years ago.

	The farmer has been geared into our national well-being without any loss of freedom or any lessening of individual responsibility. The farmers in this area, I understand, have rejected the use of quota programs for wheat and tobacco. Well, I think that is fine. In other parts of the country, farmers have voted in favor of such programs and that is all right too. I am just saying that here in this area we see proof of the broad Democratic base on which our farm policies rest. My opponent should know about this. He is going around the country, telling farmers that they are in eminent danger of losing their liberties because of these Democratic programs. The opposite is the truth--the Democratic party has restored real liberty to the farmer by helping him become economically strong and independent. Now, we want to go on doing this. That is the essential foundation on which to build a nation strong enough to set an example and good enough to achieve real peace for ourselves and the whole world, for the first job is to be strong enough physically so as to make conquests and aggression both futile and dangerous. That is what we are doing.

	And then, in the long run--in the long run and in the long, interminable contest of ideas we must match, for all the world to see, the advantages of freedom, the advantages of individual opportunity, against the empty promises of Communism.

	It is our objective to move ahead on this path. If we reject the party of fear. If we remain loyal to the party of faith, there is no reason why our tomorrows should not be greater than our yesterdays. For we shall fight to maintain our good times at home and to achieve peace in the world. And we don't propose to entrust this responsibility to the Old Guard of the Republican party. You know, I call the GOP the Gloomy Old Pessimists. Their dour, unhappy view of the campaign and of our national destiny reminds me sometimes of that sullen foreman at the plant who caught one of his men laughing at his work and said, "What the devil do you mean by laughing on company time."

	If, my friends, receiving your confidence, I should become the next president of the United States, I should feel very humble indeed in the face of this awesome responsibility. However, I would know that I had the strongest people in the world, perhaps in all of history, beside me; and that there is a power above us--a power to light and guide us--a power without which no one can succeed and with which no one can fail.

	To carry forward the great work of these past twenty years I should need a strong, a sympathetic and understanding Congress. You have here a fellow citizen of this county, Judge Guy Bard, a candidate for the United States Senate. It is a pleasure--a pleasure that I suspect my opponent doesn't enjoy so often--to recommend him to you most earnestly for your consideration as a candidate for the United States Senate, where it seems to me that the state of Pennsylvania deserves and should have better representation.

	And I should like also to ask your support of Philip Regan. I think it is time for a change in the representation of this district in the United States Congress, which has been represented by the same party for 100 years. That is the kind of a change you don't hear the Republicans talking about very often.

	I am very grateful to you all for coming here and affording us this brief opportunity to talk with you about some of the problems that confront us all. And, before we resume our journey I should like, if you would, to introduce to you some charming ladies that are traveling with us on this train. First, I should like to introduce to you the Vice Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards. May I also introduce to you the Democratic State Vice Chairman from Lancaster County, Mrs. Holting. And we also have aboard my sister, Mrs. Ives, who is trying to keep me from getting hoarse. And one of the most important contributors to the success of this campaign is the national co-chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson, Mrs. Dick of Chicago.

	I am deeply grateful to you all. We also have a famous and beloved lady of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Emma Guffey Miller. You see they are not just hard-boiled politicians on that train.

	I wish I could stay here and talk--and particularly to some of these younger people. Well, if I did the conductor would hit me on the head because I am late. Your hope for the world that you want to live in, and our hope for the world that we want you to live in, is going to depend very largely on you. It has always seemed to me that in my generation young men and women were entirely too late, too tardy, in taking an active and positive participation and interest in our public affairs.

	I don't know whether this campaign is essentially different from previous presidential campaigns, but many people have commented on the fact that throughout the country we find more and more younger people participating in our meetings, taking an active part--and, am happy to say, most of them on behalf of the Democratic ticket. This, to me, is as wholesome, come what may, as anything that I have observed in my relatively brief life in public affairs. I hope you all stick to it. I hope you don't get discouraged, because from what you make inside, you will get outside the kind of government that you want. Bless you all for coming here, my friends.

	Thank you sir, thank you indeed. May I thank you for these lovely mushrooms. I think they are multiplying just about as rapidly as Democratic votes over there.

	It looks to me as though this is the biggest haul a politician ever made publicly. I guess we are going to have boiled mushrooms on pretzels for lunch. And we will serve them on Lancaster china. It think I would like to stay around here a while. I can't tell what else will happen. Thank you so much. You have been more than good to me. As far as the cigars are concerned, well, we still have a few politicians in the Democratic party.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIES     Í, ∂, ∞, ¨, §,
 ó, í, ç, Ñ, x, v, v, l,	 [ 	 G 	 ) e: