Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0922.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/22STUMPLOUISVILLEKENTUCKYKY1627 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen:  As my wife and I rode into Louisville just a minute ago, it occurred to us to wonder why the lawmakers could not have arranged things a little better and to make presidential campaigning, at least in Kentucky and particularly in Louisville, in early May instead of fall.  That way we would get to see possibly one Kentucky Derby, which has never been our privilege.

	There are among you people here gathered many who are my old comrades in arms.  Some of you may have served in the Far Pacific.  Some of you may have been handling jobs here at home during World War II.  But those who went across to the European Theater with me remember that I did my best as I met them along the road and in their camps and in their bivouacs and along the front to explain to them why we were fighting.  I tried to show what democracies had to do when they were threatened by a dictatorship such as Hitler's or Mussolini's.  And one thing I always promised those men and women--they were carrying out the orders that it was my responsibility to give them, and they were doing it in defense of freedom--that was the way I tried to explain it to them.

	And so, in turn for this great work that they did, I pledged that when we got back to the United States I would do my part so far as it was possible for me to do it in making certain that that America was going to be the America they thought they were defending-- an America of freedom, of opportunity, of the rights of the individual, of the right of the individual to lead his own life with the least possibly interference from government, man's right to worship as he pleases, to think as he pleases, to say what he pleases, and, above all, to earn and to save as he pleases, providing only that he does not trespass upon similar right of others, there were no limits upon a man's opportunity.

	I promised them that I would do my best to help preserve, maintain and assure that they in turn could pass on that kind of a country to their children.  Ladies and gentlemen, that is the kind of job in which I am now engaged.  I have been convinced in recent years and months that our government was, through incompetents or the arrogance and complacency of being too long in power, leading us into a situation from which there would be no return unless we took quick action.  In one direction, they led us abroad so that we found no peace.  Having come out of the war in 1945, the most powerful nation on the globe, militarily as well as economically, we have found ourselves ever since trying to gird up ourselves to meet crisis after crisis thrust upon us from the outside.  And so, we have had Greece, Turkey, the Berlin area and finally Korea--a war that by any standards prior to World War II would have been called a big, major, and certainly a cruel war.

	I am not going to take time today to recite the blunders that led us into that war; but I do say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is high time that we were developing means and ways in South Korea where there are twenty million natives to allow, permit and make it possible for those people to defend their own front lines, and get the United Nations troops out of the front.  It is not good enough to say that those men don't take easily to training.  The Communists have made good fighters out of the North Koreans and out of the natives in Indo-China.  We can do it with the South Koreans who are every bit as good.  And, there are twenty millions, I repeat, of South Koreans--plenty of manpower.  And we can provide munitions and training teams, organizational teams, and all the rest of it elsewhere; we can do it in South Korea and we should be doing it intensively this minute.  Over and beyond Korea, we have this great war of ideals.  Our safety, our future security, is threatened in the world by the inroads that the Communists make toward those areas from which we must get vital raw materials--the tin and tungsten of Southeast Asia, the manganese of India, the cobalt and the uranium of Africa, minerals, all over that whole region, natural rubber and drugs, in order that we may be a civilization that has tractors, railways, automobiles and televisions.  Without those imports, we cannot exist.  This broad-based attack of propaganda by subversion, bribery, corruption, force and the threat of force, we must be strong to meet throughout the world.  What does that mean?  That means a leadership by America that is sturdy and strong, not vacillating and indecisive.  It is high time that we had real and positive policies in the world that we understand.  We are tired of alibis.  We are tired of aristocratic explanations in Harvard words.  If we are going to exert that kind of leadership abroad, my friends, we must first have a government in Washington that we respect, admire and believe.  America can be truly united only by a government in which it believes, a government that respects the rights of the people and exists to serve them--not to serve over them.

	Since the one indispensable cornerstone of a peace structure in the world is a solvent, financially sound America, a strong America, a productive America, a unified America, it goes without saying you cannot have peace in the world--you cannot have intelligent programs leading toward peace--until you put in Washington a government in which you believe.

	We have had too much trouble abroad.  We have paid for it in the blood of our sons, long casualty lists, untold treasure.  We have the picture of the United States sending its armies, its navies, its air force around the world to pick up the broken pieces of the wreckage that the diplomats have made.  There is no way to win World War III except to prevent it.  The only possible calamity that could be worse than victory in the field in a global war would be defeat in the field.  There is no way in which civilization could retain its essential character of freedom, decency, individual rights and opportunities as we know them if we have to fight another global war of exhaustion with atomic bombs.

	Those things, ladies and gentlemen, we must stop.  We must stop the prospect of them so that we can live as tranquil, peaceful people, not diverting such a great share of our productivity to the sterile and negative things we call armies, navies, and air forces, but diverting our productivity to the welfare of 155 million people.  That is what we must do.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I am here, of course, as a political candidate and I explained to you at the outset the reasons that I undertook such a task.  It has its ridiculous sides.  The other evening I was at a television show and I was one of the performers and a man came around and said, "I must put some powder on the top of your head so it doesn't shine on the television."  He announced himself as a makeup artist.  Then he began to laugh and he said to me, "General, I was in your 101st Airborne Division.  I was a paratrooper that dropped...," and then he named all the battles at which the 101st fought--a magnificent division, as every veteran here will tell you.  He said to me, "Haven't you and I come to a pretty pass, you a politician and me a makeup artist?"  So ladies and gentlemen, this new chore of mine does have its occasional light moments.  Certainly it has its very satisfactory moments.  This opportunity of meeting face to face, and very informally, hundreds of my countrymen is the part of this whole political business that appeals to me.  I don't think I am too important, but I do think that what we are standing for, a government of honesty, a government made up of men and women who will not tolerate any hint of veniality, corruption and crookedness is important.

	When I come before a great throng like this and I tell them what I am trying to do, to help set up the kind of government that will lead us to peace, that will stop these back-breaking taxes, that will quit depreciating our money so that we can scarcely carry enough money to the grocery store to get a basket of groceries, I am uplifted, inspired, by the response I get.  They say, "Go after them, Ike," or, "Give them this, Ike," or, "Give them that, Ike," in words that I can't use over the television.  

	To each of you who has come out today, I extend my warm thanks.  You have paid me a great compliment and I make one pledge to you.  If you and the millions like you across this broad land of ours choose to place upon my shoulders the responsibility of the presidency, I make you this one pledge; my associates and I in the Congress, in the Senate, in the Executive Department, wherever they are, will be guided by one ideal-- what is good for all America; not just the northwest, not just one part, not just one class.  There shall be no second class citizens.  It shall be America.  And that administration will fight to the last drop of its blood for you, all of you.
COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEKOREAN WARNATURAL RESOURCES--FOREIGN COUNTRIES     «# w# q# m# c#
 U# P# K# A# 9# 7# 7# -#	 X 	 O 	 . 	 $ e: