Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1029.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/29STUMPSIOUX FALLSSOUTH DAKOTASD2,108 WORDS

	I'm grateful to you for all you're doing.  I know the Republicans are already celebrating and popping those champagne corks in their penthouses.  Well, I want to tell them something.  We're the ones that are going to be celebrating on the 8th of November.

	You know, a couple of days ago Kitty and I were in Independence, Missouri.  And I don't have to tell you who it was who came from Independence, Missouri.

	And I was reminded that night of a famous headline in the Chicago Tribune--some of you are too young to remember it--it said "Dewey Defeats Truman."

	And I remember the President at that time being asked the following day what he thought when he heard the news of the early edition of the Chicago Tribune.  He said, "Well," he said, "I ate a sandwich and had a glass of milk and I went to bed."  And the next day the American people had elected Harry Truman as President of the United States.

	It's not the pollsters who vote, it's the American people.

	They're the people that are going to make this decision.  And I think they're getting a little tired, don't you, of being told in advance how they're going to vote.

	But when Harry Truman went out across this country, the Republicans did the same thing to him that they've been trying to do to us.  They distorted his record.

	I understand the Vice President was in town the other day talking about grain embargoes.  He knows that Mike Dukakis opposes a grain embargo.  He knows that Lloyd Bentsen opposed the grain embargo.  He knows that Dan Quayle voted to prolong the grain embargo.  And he also knows that one of his top foreign policy advisors of this campaign is the granddaddy of the grain embargo.

	As a matter of fact, you know, two days ago Mr. Bush said that he was going to run a kinder and gentler campaign.  Remember?  12 hours later he was attacking me again.  I wish his handlers would make up his mind.  Don't you?

	Why these attacks?  They want you to forget their record.  Rural Americans have lost a lot, but they haven't lost their memories.  They remember.  They know what's happened over the past eight years.

	They want you to forget that when the South Dakota legislature flew to Washington they wouldn't talk to them.  Remember that?

	They want you to forget that the value of farm exports is down $15 billion over the course of the past eight years.

	They want you to forget that corn fell to less than a dollar in 1986.

	They want you to forget that we have 250,000 fewer family farmers in this country today than we had eight years ago.

	Now, they're threatening to foreclose on close to a hundred thousand more farms, but the notices aren't going to go out until the 14th of November.  No wonder Mr. Bush and his friends want to divert our attention.

	Remember the old saying, "The rich get richer"?  Well, Mr. Bush wants to make that the law.  His answer to the economic future of this country to our workers and farmers, if you can believe this, is a five-year $40 billion tax cut for the wealthiest one percent of the people in America.

	So, if you make $200,000 a year--how many folks do we have here making $200,000 a year? --you're going to get an extra $30,000.   That's more than we pay most school teachers in this country.

	If you make less than $40,000, you don't get a dime.  And the other day, in Detroit, Michigan, he called that a jobs program.  He called it a jobs program.  Who are they kidding?

	The difference between Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen and George Bush and that other fellow is they want to help people who live high off the hog; we want to help the people in this country who raise the hogs, that's what we want to do.

	They want to help people who already have it made; we want to help every American family make it; that's what this campaign is all about.

	They want to help the folks on Easy Street; we want to help the people on Main Street, that's what we're concerned about.

	We're on your side, we're on the side of the average American family, we're on the side of farm families in this country, and I mean farm families.

	We don't want agriculture in this country taken over by giant corporations.  We understand the importance of family farms.

	We understand what you bring to this country, those special values, and we want to strengthen the family farm and strengthen our farm families.  But you know what the Republican philosophy is, the fewer farmers the better.  Isn't that their philosophy?

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to measure our success as vice president and president of the United States by the number of farms and ranches we save, because every farmer and rancher in this country counts, and every small town is somebody's home, and we know that.

	We want fair prices for our farmers, prices that cover the cost of production and provide you with some return on your investment.  This administration has cut prices to the bone and it keeps cutting them and cutting them and cutting them.

	How does Mr. Bush think we manage supply?  Cut prices.  How to promote exports?  Cut prices.  How to respond to the problems of our dairy farmers?  Cut prices.

	What's he going to do with the farm bill in 1990 if he's elected?  You know and I know what he's going to do.  Cut prices.

	The farmers and ranchers I know don't want to make their living on deficiency payments.  They want a fair price in the marketplace.  That's what they want.  That's what they ought to have.

	Mr. Bush said the other day he was against mandatory supply management, but they have idled more land than any administration in history.  Prices are so low you have to participate.  What could be more mandatory than that?

	We have a new trade bill, thanks to Tom Daschle, Tim Johnson, and their colleagues.  That trade bill was designed to bring down barriers to American exports, because we want to export our products, not our jobs.  Don't we?  Isn't that what this country's all about?

	Yesterday, if the President had signed that bill, supported by Mr. Bush, what did they say to the rice farmers of this country?  No deal.  They won't bring down those barriers for rice exports.

	My friends, beginning in January of 1989, Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen, who by the way led the fight for that trade bill, are going to use it to bring down barriers to American exports.

	We want rural America exporting rice and corn and grain and soybeans.

	We want our farmers to have a fair shake in the international market, and we're going to insist on it.  We're going to insist on it.

	And we're going to invest in rural America.  In new farm and off farm jobs.

	We're going to strengthen rural health care.  You know and I know the number of rural hospitals that are closing down all over America.  We're going to turn that around; we're going to get some rural health care back to our small towns, to our rural counties.

	We're going to invest in Star schools and not Star Wars in our rural counties.  So that our young people can stay on the farm, stay in those small towns, raise their families, build a future--so they won't have to leave to go and find a job some place else.

	We're going to be on the side of the health and safety of our workers and their communities.  We're going to fight for people like the ones I just met today who work at Morell--Mary Tweet and Lyle Grate, Dave Twiddell, people that have been hurt, people that have been disabled.  And believe me, we're not going to wait until ten days before the election to do something about it.

	We're going to be on the side of our veterans.  We're not going to tolerate these cutbacks in veterans' health care.  We're going to do something about homelessness in this country.  One third of our homeless people in America are veterans.  They deserve better than that, don't they?

	And we're going to be on the side of our senior citizens, on the side of Social Security, and we're going to make sure that those cost of living increases go to our Social Security recipients, because they deserve it and they're entitled to it.

	This has been a long campaign.  I started with so many of you back in Iowa months and months ago, stayed with you, talked with you, listened to you, learned so much.  It's been a wonderful experience and I'll be a much better president for having come to know you and to love you and to be with you and to learn from you.  And I am grateful to all of you for this experience.  It's been just terrific.

	We're moving.  You can taste it, feel it, and sense it, can't you?  We're closing that gap.  This one's going to go down to the wire and it's going to be won by a nose.  And if this one is won by a nose, I don't have to tell you who's going to win.

	You're looking at the next president of the United States.  But let me say this to all of you.  Don't let anybody tell you that the work that you're doing in your communities, on your farms, in your states, in your neighborhoods, in your precincts, can't make a difference.

	28 years ago another son of Massachusetts and a son of Texas were our nominees for president and vice president of the United States.  They were a strong ticket, weren't they, Jack Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson.

	And they won that election, those two men who made such a difference in the lives of millions of people, they won that election by a margin of 112,000 out of nearly 70 million cast, less than one vote per precinct.

	They won Texas by 30,000, Illinois by 8800, lost California by 30,000.  Those were the margins of victory.  Every one of you counts, every American citizen counts, and they can't take that away from you.

	And in that election of 1960, John Kennedy said something which is as true and as good and as honest today as it was back then.

	He said "there are those who say that a call for greater effort and greater strength is to sell America short."

	"But," he said, "I do not equate criticism of Republican leadership with criticism of our country.  On the contrary, it is those who are satisfied with things as they are, those who are afraid to ask the American people for a greater effort, who are selling America short."

	"It is they," he said, "who have lost faith in America and the American capacity to do great things."  That is why John Kennedy said "no attacks, no attempts to discredit us will keep us from speaking up for a stronger America.  That was John Kennedy's message in 1960 and it is my message today".

	Now, I understand this is the largest political gathering in the history of South Dakota.  Is it?

	And I want you to go out from here fired up, stirred up, revved up, ready to go to work in the last ten days of this campaign.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to do everything we can to make you proud of us as your standard bearers.

	And I understand Senator Bentsen visited White the other day, a wonderful, wonderful visit--so we've got a South Dakotan on the ticket, haven't we?  Yes, we do.

	And we're going to be campaigning up and down and across this country over the next ten days, but you're the folks that are going to make the difference.  It's your effort, your work, that will bring this victory home.

	And I want to make a deal with you.  I can do that, can't I?  Will I get in trouble with the Attorney General?  I want to make a deal with you.  You go out there and win for us in your states and we're going to win all across this country.  And then Kitty and I are going to invite you to a party, in Washington, D.C., on January 20, 1989.  Thank you.
AGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMAGRICULTURE--FARM FORECLOSURESAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESRURAL DEVELOPMENTVETERANSAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     Š. V. P. L. D.
 9. 4. /. $. . . . .	 	 û 	 Ý 	 Á 	 œ 	 o 	 E 	 - 	    e: