Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1023.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/23STUMPAKRONOHIOOH2335 WORDS
	Mr. Motz, Governor Lausche, and all of the distinguished guests and my friends of Akron:

	I am delighted to observe that I seem to have some friends in Akron, but I won't claim them--I'll just say that the Democratic party has some friends in Akron. I know I am in the gravest jeopardy and the greatest danger and I might as well confess it here: If I go around the country much longer and I am greeted by these warm and cordial and enthusiastic receptions, like the one I just had here in Akron, I will be so conceited that I will be unbearable.

	I remember a sad story of a man who was running for governor of Wisconsin some years ago. His name was Julius Heil--and he developed an idea that he should become known to the people of his state as Julius the Just. So he went around getting more pious and pontifical--just the way I am too--and developed all the proper Justinian complexes and finally one day when he was speaking to an audience in the country, somewhere in Wisconsin, an old German came up and said to him, "Julius, if you don't begin acting like yourself you ain't going to be Julius the Just; you are going to end up as 'just Julius'."

	Well, I hope I can withstand the blandishments and the graciousness of groups like this in Akron. You have been more than good to me, and I am deeply appreciative. I am deeply appreciative also that you have foregone a beautiful fall evening like this to come here and listen to a political speech--and it might be that something I might say will have some relevance to politics, although this will be wholly unintentional.

	There is important business before this nation, and it encourages me that so many of you are willing to give it your attention. It encourages me, too, that evidently so many of you seem to feel that it is important that the nation's business remain in the hands of the Democratic party.

	It is hard, I confess after a long day on a beautiful evening like this to feel very critical or very harsh about anything, or about anybody. But it is also hard to ignore the fact that less than two weeks hence--the election is less than two weeks off and we still don't know what the Republican position really is on most of the important issues before us. And...

	Well, I will tell you, my friend, he isn't very hard to get.

	The trouble about this Republican position is that when we do know what it is, we don't like it. We do know, for example, where they stand on the question of a new labor relations law. They stand exactly where they have been standing for five years.

	You take the question of civil rights. We don't know just what the Republican candidate's position is on that, but I must say that at least we have discovered that he is agreed not to discriminate against the political supporters of Senator Taft. And I think that is progress, because he has agreed to do that in spite of the fact that practically all of them have opposed practically everything that he used to believe in.

	People have said about me many things many times during this campaign, but no one has yet accused me of changing my views to suit my itinerary.

	I must say it is a very well-coached audience, I think.

	On farm policy, the first thing we knew was that the General was trying to steal our platform--he did it in broad daylight up in Kasson, Minnesota; I was right there. But now Senator Taft tells us not to worry; that the General is going to give it back to us after the election. Well, that is all right; I was glad to have the General aboard our platform, at least for a while. I was glad to have him right for once.

	On foreign policy issues, the Republican aim seems to be to confuse us completely. And that is one target, by the way, that they might hit. Over in Indiana the other day Senator Jenner, the isolationists' isolationist, reported that he and the General saw eye to eye on foreign policy. In fact, according to Senator Jenner's words, the General has been saying just what Senator Jenner has been saying for years.

	Well, it was a little extreme but we have Senator Taft's word for it that there are only a few differences of degree between him and the General on foreign policy.

	Of course, in New York state--where I was last night--he does his best to sound like Tom Dewey and the Eastern internationalists.

	I must say I get confused. It all reminds me of that old shell game--and if you don't know what the shell game was, any good confidence man can tell you. The question is, under which shell do you find the Republican policy? Well, the answer is that that is a game that the people always lose, and the worst of it is that what is at stake is not nickels and dimes but the great human issues of our times. Basically, they are peace and prosperity.

	I don't say that the General is one of the operators of that shell game--he isn't. He is, I think, a fine and kindly soldier. He is not one of the boys in the back room. He is just the man out in front, urging the people to come and try their luck.

	Well, I would say to you, why take your chances with the Republican shell gang? For the Democratic party has a policy--and all of you know what it is--and the candidate of the Democratic party may not know very much, but at least he knows his own mind.

	Thank you. I hope I am blushing modestly.

	Our policy is to carry forward the program that we have been working on for the past twenty years, and with your support, we will carry it forward for four more years.

	This program has brought us in the past twenty years from the depths of our worst depression to a position of solid prosperity at home and of leadership in the free world.

	Speaking of prosperity, you might be interested in a telegram that Governor Lausche just gave me. It says this:

	"A study by the Department of Industrial Relations, in cooperation with the US Department of Labor, reveals the average wage payment to factory workers in Ohio manufacturing plants in the year of 1932 was $956 per year or $18.38 per week. In September 1952, last month, the average weekly wage of 1,298,000 factory workers was $77.08 per week."

	Well, we won't claim all of the credit for that, Governor. We will just claim 90 percent of it.

	Our Republican friends seem to have mixed feelings about this program of ours. Sometimes they claim it as their own or else dismiss it as something so well established, like the sun and the moon, that we don't have to talk about it anymore.

	Unfortunately, we remember--and all too well--what happened to these progressive programs the last time the Republican Old Guard got its hands on them. Other times they revile us and all of our good works, including even our present good times. I don't think that you will want to trust your prosperity with a party that says it is a false prosperity, for if this prosperity of ours is false, what do you suppose that GOP prosperity would be like--or maybe you have forgotten.

	We have only to look around us at the homes that we own, the farm mortgages that have been paid off, the jobs that we have, our savings in the bank to know that we are doing mighty well and that there is nothing false about it.

	The Republicans tell you that the dollar is worth less than it was when they were in power twenty years ago. They talk wistfully about the good old hard dollar. Well, it certainly was a hard dollar. It was hard to get and it was hard to keep, and it may be worth less now but at least we have some of them. And we are not just sitting back, counting our blessings, either. We are looking ahead to both the challenge and to the promise of our future. We are watching this problem of living costs, for example, very closely. The Old Guard has bored a lot of loopholes in the cost-of-living control laws, as no one knows better than the man who did such a superb job of administering those laws--your fellow Ohioan, Mike DiSalle.

	I think they have got to be plugged up if the cost of living shows any signs of going up further, and as I have said before--and I will say again--the Democratic party will do its very best to plug these loopholes no matter how much the Old Guard protests.

	And I think there is a major job of remodeling to be done on the labor relations law. Everybody knows--everybody agrees--that the Taft-Hartley Act has a lot of bad spots in it. Replacing that law with a new one, designed in the best interests of labor, of management and of the public is a first order of business.

	There are important improvements to make in our social system. We have got to work out a sound system of providing adequate price supports for perishable farm products.

	But it is high time, it seems to me, that we stop treating the problem of eliminating racial discrimination as a political football and get that worked out so that there is some real equality of opportunity for all Americans, regardless of their race and their color and their creed.

	And, of course, most important of all, is to continue relentlessly to drive toward the goal of a peaceful world--the goal of a great man who used to live here in Akron and who broke his heart trying to persuade the Republican party that this was the twentieth century and that the world was round--and I refer, of course, to Wendell Willkie. As he grew more and more to realize the fundamentals of survival in a divided and anarchic world, he grew further and further away from his party.

	The tragedy of the Republican candidate in 1952 is an opposite one. It is that the more he grows into the Republican party, the farther he grows away from the foreign policies which mean strength and unity for the free peoples of the world.

	This problem of the survival of these values of Western civilization, which we all take for granted, above all, hang over our country and our freedom everywhere. There can be no genuine relaxation until we have brought the Korean War to a complete and an honorable conclusion and until the free nations have developed such strength that the Soviet Union begins to respect the elementary principles of international order.

	I think every one of us knows that there is no easy, no quick way to establish peace with justice in the world. I ask you to beware when anyone insults your intelligence by promising quick and painless solutions because there is no patent medicine for peace. This job of keeping this country prosperous and strong is not a job for men who put taxes first on their scale of values; people who know the price of everything and the value of nothing. I don't like high taxes; you don't like them; nobody likes them. But we like them better than we like to be weak, in a dangerous time. As a famous churchman put it: It is better to have protection and not to need it than to need it and not to have it. And protection costs money. Who among us will say that freedom is worth defending, providing it doesn't cost too much? This is a pernicious doctrine which I think almost every American rejects.

	You can help. You can help by voting in November for candidates who are dedicated with all of their hearts to the purposes of peace and to the building of a strong and prosperous America, an America looking ahead, moving ahead to the promise of the future. And so I commend to you men who stand with me--I commend to you men like Mike DiSalle, Toledo's former mayor, and to Walter Huber, who represented you so well.

	And I am deeply gratified to welcome here on my train at Ravenna a while ago one of the greatest governors in the United States, who it has been my good fortune to see something of in the past four years when I was his fellow governor,--I mean Frank Lausche of Ohio. And of course modesty forbids me to suggest what you might do about me on November 4th.

	Our time is short; we are way behind our schedule, and I am obliged to leave you, but I expect this evening to speak on the radio and the television from Cleveland and I expect to say a thing or two, in case you care to listen.

	Before I go, may I have the privilege of introducing to you my sister, who keeps me out of trouble entirely too well. I have also with me the distinguished vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards. There is one other lady that I should like to introduce to you and that is the national co-chairman of the independent organization, the Volunteers for Stevenson--she is a Republican from Chicago--Mrs. Dick.

	You have been more than good to us; I am most grateful and I wish you all godspeed.
CIVIL RIGHTSCOST OF LIVINGDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALISOLATIONISMMANUFACTURINGORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALTAXATION--GENERALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME     Â1 ±1 ´1 ß1 ü1
 í1 ç1 à1 É1 1 }1 }1 s1	 è 	 É 	 u 	 X 	 L 	 ? 	 ' 	  e: