Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0919.002SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/19STUMPHOUSTONTEXASTXTAKING CHARGE OF AMERICA'S ENERGY FUTURE2,202 WORDS

	I'm here in Houston this afternoon because I believe that the future of this nation's energy industry is a critical part of our economic future; because it is essential to our national security; and because I think it's about time that the important issues--the real issues--are brought to center stage in this presidential campaign.

	I'm from Massachusetts and I'm proud of my service as the chief executive of that state.  Massachusetts is a consuming state, but I'm running for president of all the United States; and I know that we can't afford to wait another four years before we come to grips with the energy problems we face as a nation today.

	We have an energy crisis.  Here and now.  A crisis that has made things very tough on the people of Texas and New Mexico and Oklahoma and Louisiana.  A crisis that poses a direct threat to the national security of the United States.

	We all remember what happened when the Arab nations shut off their oil supplies to us in 1973.  We remember the gas lines and the cold homes and the closed factories and the inflation that sent our economy into a nosedive.  We all remember.

	Today, America's dependence on foreign oil is growing again.  Imports of foreign oil have jumped by more than 20 percent in the last two years, while domestic production has fallen by more than a million barrels a day.  With each passing month, we are becoming more vulnerable to another oil embargo; and less secure.  At the rate we're going, by 1995, the United States will be 60% dependent on foreign oil.

	That makes another embargo every bit as real a threat to our security as Soviet tank superiority in Europe.  And Soviet tank superiority is a real threat.

	The last eight years in the energy industry have been a roller coaster ride with the bottom knocked out.

	In 1981 the active rig count topped 4500.  Today it's less than 1000.

	Proved reserves are plummeting; production is down; consumption is up.

	Tens of thousands of Texans are working just as hard as they were then, but for smaller paychecks.  And they're the lucky ones.

	Owners of small businesses once dreamed of prosperity and planned for expansion.  Today they struggle to keep their doors open, if they're still in business at all.

	We see families all over Texas where both parents work hard from dawn to dusk and still can't pay their bills.  Mothers who can't afford to stay home with their children but don't have the money to pay for the kind of childcare they want their children to have.

	That is why the last eight years have been such a disappointment to so many Texans.

	And that's why we need an effective national energy policy for this country; just as we must develop effective trade and budget policies; just as we must meet the challenges that face our families today--the challenges of education and health care and crime, and the deadly scourge of drugs.

	It's a disappointment, to say the least, that the Bush campaign has not focused on these real issues.

	And I'm sorry Mr. Bush is not here today to discuss oil and gas.  But he couldn't make it, because he had a scheduling problem.  A former Texas oilman, and he has no time to engage in a discussion of energy, one of the fundamental challenges facing this nation.

	We need a president and a vice president who are concerned about America's energy future--and yours, too.

	That's the real question in this campaign, and we have a right to an answer; an answer that sounds the same in Texas as it does in New Hampshire; the same in Texas as it does in California.

	Remember the New Hampshire primary?  "I'm one of you," he told them.

	And he owes those New Hampshire Republicans a lot.  They brought his campaign back to life.  Remember how he did it?  Not by calling himself a Texas oilman.  He did it by attacking Bob Dole for supporting the oil import fee.

	Now, when he's in California, he says he's going to stop offshore drilling.  Here in Texas, he supports it.

	George Bush is like a coin.  They just flip him:  sometimes he lands on his head, sometimes on his tail.

	My friends, that's not my style.  I'll tell it to you straight today just as I have done from the beginning of this campaign.  I also oppose an oil import fee.  And I said so last year in Longview, Texas, not just in New Hampshire.  I believe that there are some environmentally sensitive areas along our coasts where we shouldn't be drilling for oil and gas; and I've said so in Texas as well as in California.

	But let me tell you what Lloyd Bentsen and Mike Dukakis will do to put America's energy house in order.  To protect our energy security.  To bring prosperity back to the oil patch.  To use America's energy resources, to build our economic future, and clean up American air with American energy.

	First, under Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen, America will use more natural gas.

	Natural gas is clean.  It's abundant.  Its price is reasonable.  And it's American.  Not Libyan; not Iranian; American.

	Markets from Maine to the Midwest want to buy more natural gas.  Producing states in the Southwest want to sell more.  For northerners, it means relief from acid rain.  And for the producing states it means 110,000 new jobs for every trillion cubic feet produced and sold.

	Yet our consumption of natural gas dropped from 22 trillion cubic feet a year in 1981 to under 17 trillion.

	If we could get production back to the level it reached in 1981, when the Reagan-Bush Administration took office, we could create a half a million new jobs in the gas-producing states.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to break the bureaucratic logjam at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that's been keeping buyers and producers apart.

	We're going to lead a government that actively encourages industries that want to use natural gas.  We'll have cleaner air, lower maintenance, and less acid rain.

	And we will promote new markets for natural gas.  Such as compressed gas for fleets of cars and busses.  That's not a daydream.  It's reality in Canada, in New Zealand and in Austin at the Texas Land Commission.

	Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen will fight to keep America's older oil fields producing.

	It costs $7 a barrel to lift oil in the United States and less than one dollar in the Mid-East.  But we can't just let our old fields be plugged up to die.

	The oil from the East Texas and the Panhandle fields saved our nation's freedom; they saved the world's freedom during the Second World War.  As Winston Churchill said, "The allies floated to victory on a sea of Texas oil."

	The same fields helped us survive the Arab oil embargo.

	And the 10,000 oil wells in the Panhandle field, the 9,000 plus in East Texas fields, and the 240,000 wells across this state are more than just insurance against another embargo.

	They provide a living for thousands of farmers, ranchers, and roustabouts.  They're the heartbeat of small towns like Borger, Pampa, White-Deer, and Kilgore.  If those wells die, those towns die.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I aren't going to let that happen.  In the short run, we're going to pay premiums or provide tax incentives for oil to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  We will expand the reserve and increase the fill rate.

	But we also need a crash research and development program into enhanced oil recovery (EOR) and we need it badly.

	If we can improve our EOR techniques and bring up 10 percent of the oil we know is there, we could double our oil reserves.  Overnight.  That would add decades to the lives of the oil fields, create thousands of good new jobs, and help hundreds of communities throughout the southwest.

	What's happened under the current Administration?  Research in oil and gas has fallen from more than 30 Percent of the Energy Department's budget, to less than two percent.

	It's going back up as soon as Lloyd Bentsen and I take office.  And we're going to make Houston the EOR capital of the world.

	America needs new oil and gas drilling.  Lots more.  And when the market alone won't provide the incentive to drill, a government led by Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen will.

	We need tax incentives to get the rig count up.

	Our national security is at stake.  We need the trained teams of geologists, engineers, and roughnecks in place now--not when another Ayatollah tries to hold America's economy hostage.

	Our economic prosperity is at stake.  Lloyd Bentsen and I are not going to leave oil patch communities twisting in the wind because of someone's economic theory.

	Sure there will be hard choices and hard work to do.

	But that's what America is all about.  And that's what the presidency is all about.  A president who will call the shots.  Assemble a team.  Work with Congress.  Replace officials who need to be replaced.  And take the heat when things go wrong.

	That's why we're going to have a bipartisan energy summit as soon after the election as possible.  We're going to put everything on the table.  And it will be chaired by the new vice president of the United States.

	I'm going to ask them to design a truly comprehensive energy policy; a policy that gives producers a fair price; and consumers a fair deal.

	One issue for the summit will be the question of deregulating natural gas.  Most of it already has been deregulated.  Deregulating the rest will require delicate balancing of interests.  The present system doesn't serve anyone well.  And I believe we can complete the process of deregulation in a way that protects the interests of both consumers and producers.

	That's a job for Lloyd Bentsen to lead on; because Lloyd Bentsen has been a leader all his life.

	Unlike either George Bush or Dan Quayle, Lloyd Bentsen has been a leader in Congress.  This year he hit the proverbial legislative grand slam--on trade, on health care, on plant closings.  The trade bill included repeal of the windfall profits tax.  And he did it with strong support from me--and over the opposition of Dan Quayle--the same Dan Quayle who voted against retraining laid-off oil workers; and who tried to cut the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

	Those votes say a lot about Mr. Quayle.  And they say a lot about the man who selected him.

	I chose Lloyd Bentsen.  And I don't have to remind you where he stands on the energy issue.  Or what kind of man he is.

	All our lives, Lloyd Bentsen and I have gotten the job done.  We've used the only approach that works.  We've found the common ground.  We've applied common sense.  We've built on our own strengths and we've gotten other strong people to help us.

	Sure, we differ on some issues.

	That kind of disagreement is healthy.  As Sam Rayburn said, "No two people anywhere, anytime, agree on everything.  If they do, that's proof that one of them is doing all the thinking for the two."

	What would have happened if Ronald Reagan had a vice president like Lloyd Bentsen; a vice president strong enough to think for himself and speak up for himself?

	Would Lloyd Bentsen have stood by and done nothing while the rig count dropped by 3000?

	Would Lloyd Bentsen have stood by and done nothing while oil imports went up?

	Would Lloyd Bentsen have stood by and done nothing while the government closed 194 Texas banks?

	When I set out to choose a vice president I wasn't looking for a yes man; I was looking for a strong man.

	I was looking for a vice president who will speak his mind and make a difference.

	We haven't had that kind of vice president for the past eight years, and I don't know of anyone who thinks we'll have him in the person of J. Danforth Quayle.

	My friends, together, we can take the sword of another oil embargo out of foreign hands.  We can take charge of our future.

	We can create an energy future that brings us together; that heals regional wounds; that puts oil field workers back to work; and that cleans up our air.

	For the next two weeks a team of fine young Americans will be representing us proudly and well in Seoul, Korea.  They'll be doing their best as individuals--and as part of a team.

	Ten days from now another team of Americans will put our manned space program back on track; not just a few individuals braving that frontier, but a team stretching all across America.

	That's the kind of teamwork we need in this country.  East and west; north and south; building together; investing together; taking charge of our future--together.

	And that's the spirit Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen will bring to the White House in January 1989.

ENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES--ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES--FOREIGN COUNTRIESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES--TAX ISSUESRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTNATURAL GAS INDUSTRY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     Z2 &2  2 2 2
 	2 2 ÿ1 ø1 ó1 ñ1 É1 ¾1	 Ú 	 Ã 	 — 	 n 	 L  4   e: