Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1011.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/11STUMPSEATTLEWASHINGTONWASEATTLE UNIVERSITY BUSINESS SCHOOL2060 WORDS

	It's a pleasure to be in Seattle today, but it's a special pleasure to be able to speak to a group of young people. It's a cliché, of course, to tell you that you're America's future--but it's true.

	Our mission is to build a better America, and we are counting heavily on you, who are just about to begin your working years. As business students, that should be your mission, too. I don't agree with the man who once said that business is the art of extracting money from other people's pockets without resorting to violence.

	The purpose of business is to provide a needed product or service, and a reasonable return will follow. As Plato said, "Virtue is not given by money, but from virtue comes money."

	It won't be too far in the future when my generation passes from the scene and leaves the reins of power in the major institutions in American life--in business, government, and elsewhere, to you. I care deeply about what kind of a society, what kind of a world, we will pass on to you. But today I'd like to ask you to think about what you'll do with those reins once you have them firmly in your grasp.

	If there is one constant likely to be a part of our lives, it is change.

	It was born twenty-six years ago today, around the time that many of you were born, that Pope John the XXIII convened the Ecumenical Council at the Vatican. Pope John was an elderly man, but he understood and welcomed change. He believed that if we understood each other a little better in this world, if we listened to each other, the world would be a better place.

	Understanding amidst change is not always easy. There have always been those who would prey upon people's fear of change. Frankly, I've been surprised at my opponent's recent turn to protectionist demagoguery. I don't think he really believes it--he ran against this so-called "economic nationalism" in the primaries.

	But now, for political reasons, he sees advantage in stoking fears about foreign influence. Never mind that we have an increasingly interdependent economy in this world. Never mind record American investment abroad. Never mind that foreign investment in the United States--whether it's in Wellston, Missouri or Marysville, Ohio or right here in Seattle--helps create jobs. Never mind that booming American exports are fueling our continued growth and cutting the trade deficit.

	My opponent needs an issue, and he's willing to scare people to find it. So like the Know-Nothing party a century before him, he's turned to fear of foreigners. He's not a Know-Nothing--he knows better--but perhaps he's a feel-nothing candidate. Or maybe, with this latest flip-flop, he's become a believe-nothing candidate.

	The fact is this: the economy you enter upon graduation is in far better shape than it was when my opponent's party last held the White House.

	Productivity is up by a total of 11 percent under our administration; it actually fell by a small amount under Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. The real income of the average family in America is up by 10 percent on our watch; it fell by seven percent when my opponent's friends ran things.

	The growth in government spending has been reduced, from an annual average 13 percent under his party to seven percent under our administration. Inflation has been cut from 13.5 percent in their party's last year in office to just over four percent during the last twelve months. And interest rates have been cut in half from the high of 21.5 percent the day we took office.

	America is stronger. It is growing. It is more productive. And it is at work. I don't think that you--who have so much at stake, who will come of age under the next administration--want to risk that new economic power on a radical change in course.

	Many Americans who worked--and in too many cases didn't work--under the Carter economy are still trying to forget the misery it brought. My opponent would give us an all-too-quick reminder.

	The economy you'll graduate into has been turning out jobs for a record time. We've created 18 million new jobs since 1982, more than all of Europe and Japan combined.

	That prosperity creates an opportunity for you as future business leaders, but it also presents a challenge, on two dimensions.

	First, despite this remarkable period of economic growth, not every corner of American society has benefited.

	We in government will do what we can. I've already pledged to expand Head Start to give poorer young children a place at the starting line. I've proposed a childcare plan targeted at low-income working families. Under the leadership of my running mate, Dan Quayle, we've revamped our job training program so that it actually helps the economically disadvantaged find jobs in the private sector.

	And to older Americans, we've continued our solemn pledge to protect social security--in fact, we've put it back on solid footing. Here again, my opponent is using what can only be described as irresponsible scare tactics--the same shopworn ones his party trots out every time they fall behind, usually about three weeks before an election. Our senior citizens need not be scared, but I wouldn't be surprised if they resent this political gamesmanship.

	But if we've learned anything in these last twenty-five years, it's that government can't do everything alone. That's where you come in.

	I don't have to tell you the image that many Americans, and many in the press, have of business students. Instead of recognizing that you're learning to help make our economy run better, they've painted a picture of a generation only concerned about quick and easy money.

	I know that's not true. I've heard that students from Wharton and Stanford spent their summers volunteering to build school facilities in the developing world. I know that volunteers are involved in everything from neighborhood watches fighting crime to "just say no" clubs fighting drugs.

	Here's your chance to prove the cynics wrong. The time is ripe for a new idealism in this country--and it is your generation that can lead it. I proposed one vehicle for its expression the other day--a program called YES, for Youth Engaged in Service to America.

	But I ask you to think what you can do, to consider the contribution you want to make over the longer term. Reading for a blind person. Visiting a lonely senior citizen. Rebuilding a city or restoring a park. As Thoreau said, "goodness is the only investment that never fails."

	The second dimension of our challenge has to do with those whose moral standards do not match our own. In any time of prosperity, with the creation of jobs and the accumulation of capital to invest, there are those who would take advantage of the situation.

	You've heard the names of those prominent rip-off artists--insider traders who undermine not only the confidence in our markets, but the basis of our free enterprise system.

	This cannot go unchecked or unpunished. We must not let Wall Street steal from Main Street. We must throw the book at white-collar criminals just as hard as we throw it at other criminals.

	The fact is that most of the people on Wall Street are honest hard working people. And beyond that, much of the money made there is recycled to foundations to help the poor, universities, and other worthy causes.

	But abuse will rear its ugly head without vigorous law enforcement.

	Anyone who knows the financial markets will tell you that under the Reagan-Bush administration, we have developed the toughest and most sophisticated approach to detecting and prosecuting insider trading and other crimes against honest investors.

	But if any potential for abuse exists, that's not good enough.

	Let's be clear:

	For every share of stock that is sold to someone with inside knowledge, there is an investor who has been robbed, because he or she did not know the true value of what was sold--just as surely as if they were held up on the street.

	For every share of stock that is bought from someone with inside information, there is an innocent investor who has paid too much for his or her goods, just as surely as if a product was misrepresented in a simple fraud.

	The cost of this activity is incalculable--for if people lose faith in the fairness of markets, they stop investing in them. And then capital needed to create jobs dries up.

	Let me tell you what I'm against.

	I am against business journalists who buy stock in a company just before writing a favorable story on that same company.

	I am against corporate executives who sell stock in their company just before announcing bad news about that company.

	I am against Wall Street firms who have not worked hard to create an ethical climate or who have not built in the procedures needed to ensure that catch and prevent unethical behavior.

	I am against corporate executives enriching themselves by bargain leveraged buy-outs which are created by inadequate disclosure of hidden values. A stockholder who sells to management who then doubles their money in a year has been cheated if those values could have or should have been realized when he was the owner.

	And I am against firms buying major competitors solely to reduce price competition in order to then steal money from consumers.

	Now you will hear a lot of rhetoric from the other side about the anti-trust record of this administration. But they won't tell you that this administration has filed twice as many criminal anti-trust cases per year as the previous administration. They won't tell you that we've obtained almost twice as many convictions per year as the previous administration in criminal anti-trust cases. And they won't tell you that a much higher percentage of those convicted in these cases have gone to jail.

	No, we've worked hard to crack down on criminal behavior. What I'm telling you is that in a Bush administration we will do even more.

	I'm telling you that we will throw the book at insider traders and other white-collar criminals.

	They may not carry guns, and they may wear fancy suits, but they are a real danger to society, and they should be hit with the maximum penalties of the law.

	I believe we should increase the penalties and sentences--and yes, that means jail sentences--for insider trading. And we should penalize those firms who fail to maintain systems to prevent insider trading.

	When Dwight Eisenhower was inaugurated president for the first time, he made a statement we should remember. "A people that values its privileges above its principles," Ike said, "soon loses both."

	We've come very far in this experiment called democracy. We've shown the value of free markets and free people. We've become a land whose name is synonymous with opportunity.

	Today, as many times before in our history, there are threats to that opportunity. Higher taxes are one of those that would smother our economic growth. The voices of so-called "economic patriotism," of protectionism that seems so out of place in today's international economy, are another. But there is this darker side to our prosperity--the stain caused by those who would abuse it.

	So today, I've come to Seattle not only to ask for your vote in four short weeks. I've come to ask for your help. Your help in launching a new idealism. Your help in building the spirit of our generous nation. Your help in building a better America.

	I know that the challenges we face in the years ahead won't be easy. Leadership never is.

	But I also know that if we stick to the policies that have brought us unparalleled opportunity, the hope that has given us unparalleled vision, and the values that have given us unparalleled strength, we can make it.

	I'm ready to help write the next chapter in freedom's remarkable story. I ask you to join me in this most important task.

	Thank you, and God bless you.

FOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMINVESTMENT, FOREIGNMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSBUSINESS--CORRUPTION/ETHICSBUSINESS--GENERALINVESTMENT--STOCK MARKET     z/ F/ @/ </ 2/
 */ %/  / / / / ë. á.	 œ 	 o 	 \  D  )   e: