Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1001.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/01STUMPMadisonWISCONSINWIThe Economy3,084 WORDS
	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. I am so glad to be back here in this wonderful city and at this wonderful state capital, back in the state that has been so good to me for a long time, since I first came to Stephens Point over five years ago. Now I have been in the last two years to Madison three times, to Milwaukee several times. I have been up the Black River on our wonderful bus trip. This is a gorgeous place, full of good, levelheaded, warm-hearted, determined, progressive people who can lead this country to a new future on November the third.

	I want to say to those of you who take some comfort in the present polls to remember how you feel about the Brewers. It's not over till it's over, and we need your help all the way to the end.

	Let me say also how grateful I am to be here with your attorney general and the leaders of your legislature and my friend of several years who ran such a remarkable campaign for the United States Senate, Russ Feingold, a person who will be a national figure.

	Russ Feingold makes me feel like an old man. But I'm proud of him, and I'm proud of being able to run on a ticket with someone like Ada Deer, and if you send the two of them to the United States Congress we'll have a lot better chance to change this country in the way that we ought.

	Let me say that once in a while the "read my lips," education, environmental, kinder, gentler, family values president says this election is about trust. I ask you to consider this: the President and I have only made one decision in common, a profoundly important one, the decision of who should be the president of the United States and have all this awesome responsibility if anything should happen to us. And my decision was Al Gore. Who do you trust?

	My fellow Americans, the indictment of this administration is not difficult. It is now widely known that not only has this administration and this president broken its major commitments to the American people in the election of 1988, but that its policies have produced the worst economic performance since the Great Depression, the first decline in industrial production in our history, an actual reduction in the number of people working in the private sector, and, as Senator Gore has said, even in states with relatively low unemployment rates, more than two-thirds of our people today are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago.

	I got into this race for president a year ago because I did not want my daughter to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents, because I was sick of the politics of blame and denial and paralysis that has gripped our nation's capital for too long, and because I thought as a people we're better than that, and we can do better than that.

	And so I ask the American people to join me on a journey to go beyond trickle-down economics, not back to tax-and-spend economics, but forward, toward the twenty-first Century, with a commitment to invest in our people, to educate them, to face the crises that the health care system and the AIDS epidemic, and all the other problems we have imposed on us and seize the futures that is rightfully ours.

	This has always been a "can do" country, and I am tired of being told what we cannot do.

	None of us would be here today were it not for the fact that our forebears refused to say "we can't." They always said, "we can." I can't help pointing out today, in this vast crowd, the large number of our fellow citizens with disabilities who are here. They are here because they have waged a courageous battle for decades for the right to say, we can, we can live, we can do, we can have a life, give us a chance. That's what the Americans with Disabilities Act is all about, and that's what this campaign is all about. We can do better, and we must.

	In the next few weeks, our opponents will do everything they can to divert your attention. They will run ads that apparently have not even a close relationship to remote facts. The ad now running on taxation would be funny if it weren't so sad. The very idea that an incumbent president of the United States, at the end of four years, with no record, no vision, no plan, could resort to the debasing tactic of running an ad that has not one shred of truth in it about my record and my plan on taxation is embarrassing for our country. But I say to you, we won't have to put up with it too long if you will help us seize the future.

	But what is more important, and what I liked about the way you spoke so loud and clear in this Senate race, is that the American people now, led by people like those of you who live in Wisconsin, are saying that what matters is what happens the day after the election. What are we going to do to make America a better place? What are we going to do to change the future and open it up? Well, you don't have to look too far. Al Gore and I have said what we're going to do. It's on that big banner there, and it's in this book. We call it putting people first.

	And I want to talk a little today, even to this vast crowd in ways that go beyond the slogans of a political rally. What is the difference between our position and theirs? First of all, we're never going to turn this country around until we create jobs and raise incomes. We cannot have the American people working harder for less. What the other side wants to do is to give you four more years of trickle-down economics. It's a simple program. It says cut taxes on the wealthiest Americans and get out of the way and see what happens. All the benefits will trickle down.

	Well, it hasn't worked. You know it hasn't worked, and I know it hasn't worked. Here's our program: raise taxes marginally and modestly on the wealthiest Americans, because we've got a $400 billion deficit, and because their tax rates went down while middle-class taxes went up.

	But then use the money--use the money to give modest relief to working-class Americans, especially those with children, and then to say to the wealthy, if you want to pay lower taxes, here's a tax incentive. Invest in new equipment and new plants, and start new small businesses, and put the American people back to work, and get rich the old-fashioned way. Then you can lower your tax bill by putting the people to work in this country. That is what we want, not trickle down.

	But invest and create jobs and put us to work. And we want to say that we want to invest more of your tax money. We have reduced the defense budget for three and a half years now, but all the money has been lost going into the S&L boondoggle and the higher health care costs. What Al Gore and I say is, let's take every dollar by which we reduce defense and invest it in an American economy for the twenty-first century, and modern transportation and communications, and environmental clean up, and other technologies that can create jobs for you and for people like you all across the United States. Let's build the American economy here at home.

	We say we want to be involved in the world, we want to trade more, we want to sell more, we want to buy more, we want a fair and open and just relationship with the rest of the world. States like Wisconsin and Arkansas are great trading states. We sell a lot of things around the world, but we want fair access to foreign markets. And we also want jobs here at home. That means that I am outraged at the recent undisputed report that under the Bush administration the Agency for International Development has spent taxpayer dollars to shut plants down in America, and move them overseas. That is wrong. Your money should not be spent that way. I am stunned to see that American taxpayer dollars have been used to pay for ads encouraging Americans to throw other Americans out of work so they can work people for 57 cents an hour in Central America. That is wrong. We're better than that.

	And now it comes out that we under this administration, this government spent more money to train workers in Central America than it did to train unemployed workers in the United States of America. We can do better than that, and if you'll give us a chance, we will.

	And we believe that it's not bad for the economy to help the environment. One of the reasons I put Al Gore on this ticket is that I wanted to make a clear statement that we believe with all our heart that having a sustainable, good, long term environmental policy is a precondition to a strong American economy, not an enemy of it.

	You think about the jobs we can make in America with a new energy policy, with more reliance on renewable resources, and natural gas, and energy efficiency. Think about the jobs we can make in America building light rail and high-speed rail. Think about the jobs we can make in America recycling our solid waste. There is a company here in Wisconsin, in Green Bay, that has a paper mill in my home state that takes newsprint and office waste paper to recycle to make products for the commercial market. They have saved us from environmental heartache, and helped to create economic opportunities for America. And Bill Clinton and Al Gore are going to do that for four years, for eight years, and, by your will, for even longer.

	We believe that we can never, ever reduce the government debt, restore health to the manufacturing economy, rebuild small business, or frankly provide basic security to the American people until this country joins the ranks of all other advanced nations and finally, finally moves to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans.

	During the life of the Bush administration, almost 100,000 of your fellow citizens a month has lost health care coverage. Think of it: almost a hundred thousand people a month. On our bus tours across this country, at every country crossroads, someone will come up to us with yet another heartbreaking story related to the absence of health care coverage, or the bankruptcy of a business, or the pain of having to stop covering employees, or the inability to change jobs because there's someone in the family who's been sick and you can't get new health insurance coverage. I tell you, my fellow Americans, it is the biggest problem with the deficit, it is one of the biggest drags on our economy. We spend 30 percent more of our income on health care than any other nation on earth, and we have less to show for it because we waste so much money on insurance, on administration, on bureaucracy, on the absence of primary and preventive health care.

	We have a plan not to pour more money down the same old system, but to revolutionize the American health care system to provide affordable health care to all. And only you can give us the chance to implement it.

	Lastly, in the home of this great university, let me say that we believe America needs a real education presidency.

	No candidate for president can promise you to reverse the march of time. No candidate for president can promise you to show the laws of change. The average eighteen-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. You live in a world where how well you do depends on what you can learn. It is time we had a commitment to educate people from preschool to all, to an education for a lifetime for every man and woman in this country. And we will offer you that sort of opportunity.

	What does that mean? What does that mean? It means if you could see the faces of the people we see, Al and I, as we go along the road on this bus tour, the people who have worked like crazy all their lives, who are now making less than half of what they were making three or four years ago, it is obvious that we must make a renewed commitment to educate all our people. What does it mean? It means first teach everyone with a job to read and give everyone with a job a high school diploma in the next five years. We can do that.

	It means, second, for all the young people in this country who do not go on to four-year colleges, make sure they get at least two years of apprenticeship training in a community college or a work program to get good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

	And finally, finally it means we must open the doors of college education to all our people.

	I want to establish a national trust fund out of which any American can borrow the money to go to college, without regard to income, and then pay it back as a percentage of their income after they go to work, or even better, by working off their college loans by giving two years of service to our country here at home.

	Think of it. Think if it here in Wisconsin. What if every person in this gorgeous state took a national service loan and said I will pay it off, I'll be a teacher, I'll be a police officer, I'll work with people with disabilities, I'll work with the elderly for in-home care. I'll work with children to keep them out of trouble. I'll work in a housing program to solve homelessness. From the grassroots up, without government bureaucracy, we could sweep away many of our problems, and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	That is our agenda for change. But we cannot implement it without your help. You must also support our efforts to change this political system, for both parties in Washington have contributed to the paralysis. We want to reduce the influence of political action committees, control the cost of congressional campaigns, open the airwaves to honest debate, limit the influence of lobbyists over legislation and require them to disclose their activities. We want to clean up the system and open it up so that it will work in the progressive tradition of Wisconsin. The United States deserves no less.

	And finally, we ask you to join us in challenging every American to be part of this change: challenging people on welfare to get more education and receive support for their children, and move to work; challenging people who owe child support not to cross the state line to get out of paying for it and setting up a system to collect it; challenging people in the work force to be constantly ready to be more productive and to change, challenging people who get something from their government to give something back to their country.

	It is time for all of us to be committed to change. Now we have just a little more than a month. In the next month, we will chart the course of America well into the twenty-first century. And there will be repeated pleas to you to remember that things could be worse. Appeals to your fears, to your uncertainties, to your doubts. But let me tell you something: I remember when I was the age of the college students here, when America knew that if we could behave properly and not make mistakes, that the future would always be unlimited. Now we are gripped, not by the dimensions of our problems, but by the dimensions of our disbelief. It has been so long since we had a government that was on our side, a government committed to really working, a government that was not trickle-down and was not tax-and-spend, but that was lean and effective and committed to being in partnership with people in their private lives, to create opportunity, provide education and solve problems, that many people do not believe it can be better.

	But I tell you, it can be better. The thing that will determine the outcome of this election is whether we can in the end keep our courage up. At every critical juncture in our nation's history, the things-could-be-worse crowd have been there carping on the sidelines. And this crowd that's in there, they've had a long time. Their record is clear. They're running this economy down and shrinking our future when it ought to be expanding.

	The end of the Cold War opens up unbelievable opportunities to all of you. I want your children and your grandchildren to be part of the American legacy, leading us to a freer, more democratic world, dealing with our global environmental problems, and giving richness and texture to the lives of every man and woman in ways that were never dreamed of before.

	But it all depends on whether you can keep your courage up. And so I ask you this, on this beautiful fall night in this wonderful place: when you go home tonight and you think about what you want for the rest of your life, and you imagine what America will be like on the day after the election, resolve to do everything you can hear in Wisconsin and with your friends around the country to say on November 3rd we're going to take our country back, we're going go claim our future, we are better than we have been, we are going to be better in the future. It is our country, and on November 3rd we're going to lift it up and move it forward.

Thank you very much, and God bless you all.

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESDISABLED PERSONSECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESRECYCLINGSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS     PC C C C 
C
 ÿB úB õB îB åB ãB ØB ÍB	 	 		 í 	 Ý 	 Í 	 » 	 › 	 ƒ 	 m 	 R 	 : 	   	  e: