Speeches\1968\rep\S68r1015.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/15STUMPKNOXVILLETENNESSEETNKNOXVILLE RALLY, JAMES WHITE MEMORIAL COLISEUM4354 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, Archie Campbell, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, all of the members of this great audience, those of you who are inside, those of you who are outside the auditorium, I think you should know a few moments ago when I was speaking to those outside, Howard Baker talked to the head of the Highway Patrol, and he gave as his official estimate for this crowd today 8,000 inside and 12,000 outside, the biggest crowd he has ever seen. And for all of you who are jammed in here, and I know some of you came as early as three o'clock, and those seats can get pretty hard. Just think of those outside that are standing up with no place at all to sit inside the auditorium. I can only say that as you see this kind of a crowd, as you feel its enthusiasm, you realize that a great tide is sweeping this district and this state, and it's going to sweep this nation on November 5th to a great victory.

	I am delighted today that I share the platform with so many distinguished friends and supporters in this campaign. Senator Howard Baker, who has not only been a great senator, but who has served as one of my surrogate candidates and has gone all over the country campaigning for our ticket most effectively. And your Congressman John Duncan and his colleague, Jimmy Quillen. I only wish my percentage was as good as theirs has been, and we would be a cinch, that's all.

	But I can tell you that you have there two strong men, and I am delighted to be here with them.

	I also want to pay my tribute to Mrs. Irene Baker and to all those in this audience and on this platform who over the years have given me such a wonderful welcome to Tennessee and who, incidentally, gave me such great support at the convention. And because I think she symbolizes that support, I particularly express my appreciation tonight to Sarah Moore Greene, the President of the NAACP, (National Association for Advancement of Colored People) who was a Nixon delegate at Miami.

	And so on this occasion, too, I want to express appreciation on your behalf for all of those who have entertained us. I couldn't listen to all of it, because I was waiting in the wings, but that wonderful chorus, a thousand voices--how about a hand for them, up above me. And that big orange pep band, how about a hand for them over there?

	I know that I am in big Orange Country, and incidentally, I was trying to think how I could identify--my friends, I think you should know, I have some relation; I was born in Orange County. And we are so delighted, too, to have all of the other groups that are here and to Roy Acuff, our chairman, for Citizens for Tennessee, and Tex Ritter, who flew all the way back from Europe to be here, we've got them all. How about it?

	Well, on such an occasion as this I know that this great audience is interested not only in the people that are here, the people in this traditional Republican area of Tennessee and the nation, but you are also vitally interested in what's happening across this country. And I think I can give you a feel of this country, what is happening. I can give you also an indication of what will happen on November 5th, provided we do our job in the next three weeks. You realize that we are now coming down that home stretch, only three weeks left, and then on November 5th we are going to make a great decision. I want to talk about that decision tonight with you, talk about it in terms of what it means to America, not just to the Republican party or the Democratic party or the Independents or whoever the case may be, but to America. But in talking about that decision, I think you will be interested in knowing what I have seen in America, not just this crowd tonight, but across this nation. I was in Miami earlier today in a great packed auditorium there. And then this afternoon we were in Greensboro, North Carolina, and there another great audience at 4:30 this afternoon, and then here tonight, one that tops them all.

	And then all over America are huge crowds. But, you know, it isn't just the size of a crowd that counts, it's what makes it up. It's the feel of it. It's why they are here. It's who they are. And I want to tell you some interesting things about them. These are not just the usual Republican crowds. I imagine there are more here in this particular area, Tennessee, than we would usually find. But let me tell you some interesting things that have happened in the last forty-eight hours. Senator Lausche, a Democrat from Ohio, endorsed the Nixon-Agnew ticket. Senator Hugh Burns, the president of the California State Senate, for the first time in thirty years, endorsed a Republican, the Nixon-Agnew ticket, in the state of California.

	Sid Herlong, who introduced me in Florida, in Miami, just a few hours ago, who has served in the Congress for twenty years and who has been working in the Democrat party for thirty-five years, endorsed the Nixon-Agnew ticket in the state of Florida. And you see what is happening. The Republicans are united, and that's vitally important. But it's more than that. Democrats and Independents are joining us all over the nation. And there is something else about these crowds, something very exciting. I see it here, and I feel it here in this crowd, as I have seen it all over the nation. It's the makeup in terms of age groups. We hear a lot about the fact that older people are alienated from young people, but here they are, all together and all over America it's this way. As I spoke in Greensboro, North Carolina just a few miles from where I went to law school at Duke, a school that used to lose now and then and win now and then from Tennessee many years ago, but as I was there, I realized it had been thirty years since I had been in law school, and just to prove a point, I'd like for all of those who were born since 1934 to hold up their hands here in this audience.

	Look at them. The young people are with us. They are moving out across this nation. So what we find, young Americans, Republicans, Democrats and Independents, joining together to get the new leadership that they believe America needs.

	This would not happen, my friends, unless you were concerned, as are other Americans, about what's happened to this country, and the great issues that are bringing Americans together today are not Republican issues or Democrat issues, they are American issues. The question of whether we have peace abroad is on the line in this campaign. Not only whether we end the war in Vietnam, but whether we are going to prevent future Vietnams. That's what is involved.

	The question of whether we have peace at home, that's on the line in this campaign. Whether we are going to be able to restore respect for law and respect for order, and whether we have justice in this land. That's what is a question.

	The question as to whether or not we can have progress without inflation, that's on the line in this campaign.

	And on those three great issues, on the issue of peace abroad, on the issue of peace at home, on the issue of progress without inflation, the administration of the past four years has struck out on every one of them. And now they are trying to send in a man, my friends, they nominate a man for the presidency of the United States who helped to make the policies of the last four years, who defends those policies and who tells the American people in effect if he is elected he will continue them. And when I say that when they have struck out on the big issues, it's time to retire the side and get a new team, and we will bring that leadership. And on that issue, let me lay it right on the line. If a great federal election were held today across this nation in which the American people had a chance to vote up or down, would they be for four more years of what they have had under Hubert Humphrey, it would be a resounding no, not only in Republican East Tennessee, but across this nation. It would be two to one, according to the polls.

	And, my friends, I want to tell you something tonight. There is only one way that he can win this election, and he cannot win it, there is only one way he can be elected. And that is if the great majority of Americans who want new leadership divide their forces.

	And I say let's not let it happen. Let us recognize that not only must we vote against what we have had, but let's vote for the new leadership that only a new Republican administration can provide for America.

	And on that score, I lay before you, therefore, the choice, the choice that must resound across this land, the choice that all Americans who want new leadership must consider. The choice as to whether we go forward for four more years with what we have had or with the new leadership in these areas that I have mentioned.

	And let's look at them, each of them, and you make that choice as others have made it. First, the issue of peace abroad. What do we find? I see a sign up here, "Win this one for Ike." Yesterday was his birthday. My friends, let me tell you, eight years ago, do you remember what was the situation in America when General Eisenhower left office? For eight years we had not had war, we had ended the war which we were in. For eight years we found that the United States was respected in the world. At the time that we left office, we were the strongest nation without question, we were respected in the world, we were at peace abroad, we were at peace at home. That was what it was eight years ago.

	Now, look what has happened. Over those past eight years and particularly as we look at the past four years, what do we find? Not a moment of peace in four years, but, more than that, there isn't one place in the world today in which the United States is not worse off than it was four years ago or eight years ago. Whether it's Europe or Asia or Latin America or the Mideast or South America, or any place that you name, you will find that the chances for peace are less, the danger of war is greater all over the world than it was eight years ago.

	And I say that when you look at that kind of a record, it's time to get new leadership, new leadership which will offer more than just four more years of the same, and I will tell you what that leadership should be.

	First, we need leadership which can take over the next administration on this basis. If we still have the war in Vietnam going on, and we hope that it will be ended before that time, but if it is still going on, then rather than going forward with the man who helped to make the policies of the past, who has defended those policies and never criticized them, who will be tied to those policies, I say it's time for a new man, a new team, and we will end the war on an honorable basis.

	My friends, we must go beyond that. We need the kind of planning that will defuse the trouble spots in the world. And I mean by that that whether it's the Mid-East or Europe or Asia, we have to think not only of what happens with regard to this war but how we can see to it that the young people here who might be called upon to serve in the future will not have to serve in some other war, in some other Vietnam.

	Let me put it quite directly. I mentioned the fact that I finished law school thirty years ago, and in these last thirty years we have had three wars, and I say we have got to do better and we can do better.

	And I pledge the new kind of foreign policy not only that will end the war in which we are in on an honorable basis, but that will reduce the chance that Americans will have to fight in another Vietnam any place in the world. That is the kind of leadership that we want.

	My friends, we shall restore respect for the United States of America. And I can assure you of one thing. The American flag is not going to be a doormat for anybody at home or abroad in the next administration. It is this kind of leadership that we need, leadership that will move on these policies with a new hand, with a new eye.

	Take, for example, the problems of the Mid-East. An exciting new development that your own senator has taken the leadership in, the Eisenhower-Strauss Plan, the development of the tremendous resources of that area through desalinization in which the TVA (Tennessee Valley Authority) can play an exciting role in developing that nuclear capability for desalinization plans. This is the kind of program that we have been talking about but that nothing has been done about and it's time to get off center and get going. Give us a chance and we will get America moving in all of these areas.

	And so I say on the great issue of war and peace, what a clear choice you have. Make that choice, not to continue with the policy that has failed, but go forward with one that gives some chance for success.

	And I point proudly again to this fact. The answer here is not easy because it has often been said, and it is very true, and I know it from experience, that preserving the peace is more difficult than waging a war.

	But I had a pretty good teacher, and I can assure you, my friends that as I look back on those eight years that we were in Washington, I am proud of the fact that in our administration we ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's what America wants today and that's what we can provide.

	We turn to the problem of peace at home and the choice there is just as clear. On the one side a man who defends the record of the past four years, a man who defends the positions and policies of the Attorney General of the United States and pledges that he will continue that policy with some minor changes apparently that he thinks might be perhaps helpful.

	And all that I can say is this. Let's look at what we have. Over the past four years listen to the figures. Crime has been going up nine times as fast as population. Look at the figures. We find that all over this nation we have had problems, problems with regard to riots, problems that have caused death and destruction in our cities.

	And most significant, we saw a poll just the other day taken by the president's own commission which showed that 43 percent of the American people are afraid, listen to this, in America, this great and good country, are afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night.

	My friends, I say that based on that record we need a complete housecleaning, a new attorney general and new leadership in that particular area. And, of course, they are going to say, "Well, give us the chance. We will provide it." But, my friends, I say that when you are in trouble you don't turn to somebody that helped to get you into trouble to get you out of trouble. It's just as simple as that.

	So we will reestablish respect for law, respect for order and we will have it with justice, that justice that is so essential if law and order is to be meaningful in this country.

	And then we will also turn, my friends, to the basic problem of progress. I saw a great sign as I came in, and I always like the signs of the opposition. It said in effect, "Vote for four more years of the prosperity that you have had over the past four years."

	Now, my friends, let's look at it for just a moment. There are many good things about this country in any administration. But let's also look at what has happened to millions of American families because of what the government in Washington, D.C. has done on some particular issues. Talk to some of your older friends, those that are sixty-five and older, people that have retired on a little Social Security, a little life insurance, a pension, and you will find that over the past eight years their income has stayed the same because it wasn't their savings, something they planned for all their lives.

	You will find the prices of their groceries and the prices of their clothing and everything else has gone up 20 percent and they have never had it so hard rather than never so good. I say that's wrong. That's why not only do I say that I am for Social Security and I have always voted for it, but I favor a plan in which Social Security will automatically go up whenever prices go up in America, so that our older people will not suffer.

	My friends, beyond that, let's look at the wage earners in America, and here we find, you talk to the wage earner of a family. He will say, well, over the past three years, and this is the average in America, that wages have gone up an average of $14 a week.

	But then you talk to the budget keeper, his wife, and she will say, "Not in my book," because what has happened over the past three years, that because of increased taxes and increased prices, the American worker has been on a treadmill and actually the budget keeper, the family household budget keeper, has less money today than she had three years ago. And I say let's get a new administration that will stop the decline in the value of the dollar, stop the rise in prices, stop the rise in taxes so that Americans can have a real increase in their income.

	We look to other areas in which we can have progress, and here we have a basic difference between the two candidates. On the one side one who says, "We shall go forward with the programs of the past," and look what they are. Over the past four years we have poured billions of dollars into programs for federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare, and what's happened?

	It hasn't solved the problem. In many cases it's created more problems by raising promises that couldn't be kept, and so we have reaped frustration and failure, and now they say four more years of the same, more billions for the same programs.

	Well, my friends, I say this, that when you are on the wrong road and you reach a dead end, the thing you do is to get off that road and to get on a new road, and we take you on a new road to progress. And there is a new road. Let me tell you what it can be--it's an exciting one. It is one in which your government recognizes as it should that it has a primary responsibility in the field of education, and in this area our administration will stand for those new advances that will see that America is first in education, first in research where in many areas we have fallen to second, first in space where we can be first, that's what we stand for.

	Give us the chance. We will make America first again all over the world.

	We recognize, too, the responsibility of government in those fields where private enterprise can't do the job. The building of great projects like TVA, the support of those who cannot care for themselves, for the aged, on a generous basis. All these we recognize. But, my friends, we also say this. Where government does have to act, let's finally begin to make a change that should have been made long ago, and it's this.

	For forty years we have seen power flow from state government and local government to government in Washington. And I think it's time to turn it around. In our administration we are going to have power flow from the federal government back to the states and back to the local governments. That is why we stand in this new Congress, if we get that Congress which you are going to provide, we stand for block grants to the states without strings so that a federal government bureaucrat isn't telling the state of Tennessee or a local government what to do. That's what you want and that's the kind of government we are going to provide.

	And, finally, in the area of training the unemployed and providing the housing, let me show you the exciting new direction. Rather than more millions on welfare rolls, let's have more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. Rather than more millions of Americans living in public housing, let us provide the tax credits so that they can have private housing that they can buy and own and get the dignity that comes from home ownership.

	My friends, let us also provide something else, bridges to human dignity for every American, for black Americans, for Mexican Americans, for white Americans that have not had that chance, and by that I mean something more than just having a job. But the chance for any American to see the American dream come true, as I have seen it come true in my own life, the chance for any American to move up, to become a manager, to become an owner.

	I say to you that as Americans get a stake in a piece of the action of private enterprise, they will be defending the system rather than attacking it. Let's give everybody a stake in the action. Let's give everybody a chance in America.

	These are some of the choices. Others could be given, but, my friends, I lay it to you very, very clearly here tonight. Never has the American people confronted a choice that was more clear. Never have they had two candidates that more diametrically disagreed on foreign policy, on the maintenance of law and order, on the road to progress, on the matters of what we should do with regard to maintaining a sound currency and a sound dollar than these two candidates.

	It's an honest disagreement, but I say to you as the American people make their choice, and I will put it to you quite bluntly, I don't think we can afford four more years of Hubert Humphrey in Washington, D.C. And I can tell you, I am just not talking about things. When he was in the Senate he was our most expensive senator. He advocated bills that would have cost $100 billion more if they'd passed and they didn't, and we would have been close to bankruptcy. And already in this campaign he has advocated new programs that would add $50 billion to the budget, and we are only two-thirds through the campaign already.

	All I can say, looking to America, there is a better way. The way that was laid out tonight. Let's take that way. And here's our chance. I know that in this district, a lady as we were coming up through the lines here said, "You don't have to worry about East Tennessee. You got it." Well, we better have it. 

	But, my friends, let's go further. I think you should know, what happens in East Tennessee can affect what happens in the whole state and what happens in the state of Tennessee can affect the country. In this audience listening to me, and outside listening to the public address system, are approximately 20,000 people. That 20,000 alone, assuming that they were all able to vote, might make the difference in Tennessee.

	But you can do more than that. If each person here would agree and make a personal commitment between now and November 5th in the next three weeks to talk to ten people on the fence and win them over, then you can make sure, you can make sure that we will have the biggest majority ever in East Tennessee, that we will carry Tennessee and that we will carry America. That's what you can do. That is the power that is in this room.

	And so I say to you tonight, we stand at a great moment of history. Those here who are young, some of you have never voted before, you are going to look back on this year and you will say, I was here then, in that exciting time when the American people, the American people, and only they can do it looked at what had happened to America, recognized that there is nothing wrong with America that a good election could not cure, and gave the country the best election that we can have, and that means victory in November.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALHOME OWNERSHIPPARTY AFFILIATIONPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALREVENUE SHARING/BLOCK GRANTSVIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEYOUTH     w\ C\ =\ 9\ /\
 &\ !\ \ \ 
\ \ Ú[ Ð[	 ” 	 † 	 x 	 j 	 Y 	 B 	 & 	  	  e: