Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0930.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/30TELEVISIONSALT LAKE CITYUTAHUTFOREIGN POLICY3,301 WORDS

	Tonight I want to share with you my thoughts as a citizen and as a candidate for president of the United States.

	I want to tell you that I think about great issues which I believe face this nation. I want to talk with you about Vietnam, and about another great issue in the search for peace in the world--the issue of stopping the threat of nuclear war.

	After I have told you what I think, I want you to think. And if you agree with me, I want you to help me. 

	For the past several weeks, I have tried to tell you what was in my heart and on my mind. But sometimes that message has been drowned out by the voices of protesters and demonstrators.

	I shall not let the violence and disorder of a noisy few deny me the right to speak or destroy the orderly Democratic process.

	I have paid for this television time this evening to tell you my story uninterrupted by noise, by protest, or by secondhand interpretation.

	When I accepted the Democratic party's nomination and platform, I said that the first reality that confronted this nation was the need for peace in Vietnam.

	I have pledged that my first priority as president shall be to end the war and obtain an honorable peace.

	For the past four years, I have spoken my mind about Vietnam, frankly and without reservation, in the cabinet and in the National Security Council--and directly to the president.

	When the President has made his decisions, I have supported them.

	He has been the commander-in-chief. It has been his job to decide. The choices have not been simple or easy.

	President Johnson will continue--until January 20th, 1969,--to make the decisions in Vietnam. The voice at the negotiating table must be his. I shall not compete with that voice. I shall cooperate and help.

	We all pray that his efforts to find peace will succeed. But 112 days from now, there will be a new president...[missing text]...a new administration and new advisers.

	If there is no peace by then, it must be their responsibility to make a complete reassessment of the situation in Vietnam--to see where we stand and to judge what we must do.

	As I said in my acceptance speech: the policies of tomorrow need not be limited by the policies of yesterday.

	We must look to the future. For neither vindication nor repudiation of our role in Vietnam will bring peace or be worthy of our country.

	The American people have a right to know what I would do--if I am president--after January 20, 1969, to keep my pledge to honorably end the war in Vietnam.

	What are the chances for peace?

	The end of the war is not yet in sight. But our chances for peace are far better today than they were a year or even a month ago.

	On March 31st, the war took on an entirely new dimension. On that date, President Johnson by one courageous act removed the Threat of bombing from 90 percent of the people, and 78 percent of the land area, of North Vietnam.

	On that date President Johnson sacrificed his own political career in order to bring negotiation that could lead to peace. Until that time, the struggle was only on the battlefield. Now, our negotiators are face to face across the table with negotiators from North Vietnam.

	A process has been set in course. And, lest that process be set back, our perseverance at the conference table must be as great as our courage has been in the war.

	There have been other changes during these past few months. The original Vietnam decision--made by President Eisenhower--was made for one basic reason. President Eisenhower believed it was in our national interest that communist subversion and aggression not succeed in Vietnam.

	It was his judgment--and the judgment of President Kennedy and President Johnson since then--that if aggression did succeed in Vietnam, there was a danger that we would become involved on a far more dangerous scale in a wider area of Southeast Asia.

	While we have stood with our allies in Vietnam, several things have happened.

	Other nations of Southeast Asia--given the time we have bought for them--have strengthened themselves, have begun to work together, and are far more able to protect themselves against any future subversion or aggression.

	In South Vietnam itself, a constitution has been Written, elections have been held, land reform and anti-corruption and refugee measures have been stepped up, and the South Vietnamese army has increased its size and capacity, and improved its equipment, training and performance--just as the Korean army did during the latter stages of the Korean War.

	So--in sharp contrast to a few months ago--we see peace negotiations going on. We see a stronger Southeast Asia.

	We see a stronger South Vietnam. Those are the new circumstances which a new president will face in January.

	In light of those circumstances--and assuming no marked change in the present situation--how would I proceed as president?

	Let me first make clear what I would not do. I would not undertake a unilateral withdrawal. To withdraw would not only jeopardize the independence of South Vietnam and the safety of other Southeast Asian nations. It would make meaningless the sacrifices we have already made. 

	It would be an open invitation to more violence, more Aggression, more instability. And it would, at this time of tension in Europe, cast doubt on the integrity of our word under treaty and alliance. Peace would not be served by weakness or withdrawal.

	Nor would I escalate the level of violence in either North or South Vietnam. We must seek to de-escalate.

	The platform of my party says that the president should take reasonable risks to find peace in Vietnam. I shall do so.

	North Vietnam, according to its own statement and those of others, has said it will proceed to prompt and good faith negotiations if we stop the present limited bombing of the North.

	We must always think of the protection of our troops.

	As president, I would be willing to stop the bombing of the North as an acceptable risk for peace because I believe it could lead to success in the negotiations and a shorter war. This would be the best protection for our troops.

	In weighing that risk--and before taking action--I would place key importance on evidence--direct or indirect, by deed or word--of communist willingness to restore the demilitarized zone between North and South Vietnam.

	If the government of North Vietnam were to show bad faith, I would reserve the right to resume the bombing.

	Secondly, I would take the risk that the South Vietnamese would meet the obligations they say they are now ready to assume in their own self-defense. I would move toward de-Americanization of the war.

	I would sit down with the leaders of South Vietnam to set a specific timetable by which American forces could be systematically reduced while South Vietnamese forces took over more and more of the burden.

	The schedule must be a realistic one--one that would not weaken the overall allied defense posture. I am convinced such action would be as much in South Vietnam's interest as in ours.

	What I am proposing is that it should be basic to our policy in Vietnam that the South Vietnamese take over more and more of the defense of their own country.

	That would be an immediate objective of the Humphrey-Muskie administration as it sought to end the war.

	If the South Vietnamese army maintains its present rate of improvement, I believe this will be possible next year--without endangering either our remaining troops or the safety of South Vietnam.

	I do not say this lightly. I have studied this matter carefully.

	Third, I would propose once more an immediate cease-fire--with United Nations or other international supervision and supervised withdrawal of all foreign forces from South Vietnam.

	American troops are fighting in numbers in South Vietnam today only because North Vietnamese forces were sent to impose Hanoi's will on the South Vietnamese people by aggression.

	We can agree to bring home our forces from South Vietnam, if the North Vietnamese agree to bring theirs home at the same time. External forces assisting both sides could and should leave at the same time, and should not be replaced.

	The ultimate key to an honorable solution must be free elections in South Vietnam--with all people, including numbers of the National Liberation Front and other dissident groups, able to participate in those elections if they were willing to abide by peaceful processes. That, too, would mean some risk. But I have never feared the risk of one man, one vote. I say: Let the people speak. And accept their judgment, whatever it is.

	The government of South Vietnam should not be imposed by force from Hanoi or by pressure from Washington. It should be freely chosen by all he South Vietnamese people. A stopping of the bombing of the North--taking account of Hanoi's actions and assurances of prompt good-faith negotiations and keeping the option of the resuming that bombing if the communists show bad faith. Careful, systematic reduction of American troops in South Vietnam--a de-Americanization of the war--turning over to the South Vietnam--a de-Americanization of the war--turning over to the South Vietnamese army a greater share of the defense of its own country. An internationally supervised cease-fire--and supervised withdrawal of all foreign forces from South Vietnam.-- Free elections, including all people in South Vietnam willing to follow the peaceful process. Those are risks I would take for peace.

	I do not believe any of these risks would jeopardize our security or be contrary to our national interest.

	There is, of course, no guarantee that all these things could be successfully done. Certainly, none of them could be done if North Vietnam were to show bad faith.

	But I believe there is a good chance these steps could be carried out. I believe these steps could be undertaken with safety for our men in Vietnam.

	As president, I would be dedicated to carrying them out--as I would be dedicated to urging the government of South Vietnam to expedite all political, economic and social reforms essential to broadening popular participation, including high priority to land reform, more attention to the suffering of refugees, and constant government pressure against inflation and corruption.

	I believe all of these steps could lead to an honorable and lasting settlement serving both our own national interest and the interests of the independent nations of Southeast Asia.

	We have learned a lesson from Vietnam.

	The lesson is not that we should turn our backs on Southeast Asia--or on other nations or people in less familiar parts of the world neighborhood.

	The lesson is, rather, that we should carefully define our goals and priorities...[missing text]...and within those goals and priorities, that we should formulate policies which will fit new American quidelines.

	Applying the lesson of Vietnam, I would insist as president that we review other commitments made in other times...[missing text]...that we carefully decide what is, and is not, in our national interest.

	I do not condemn any past commitment.

	I do not judge the decisions of past presidents when, in good conscience, they made those decisions in what they thought were the interests of the American people.

	But I do say, if I am president, I owe it to this nation to bring our men and resources in Vietnam back to America where we need them so badly, and to be sure we put first things first in the future.

	Let me be clear: I do not counsel withdrawal from the world.

	I do not swerve from international responsibility.

	I only say that, as president, I would undertake a new strategy for peace in this world, based not on American omnipotence, but on American leadership--not only military and economic, but moral.

	That new strategy for peace would emphasize working through the United Nations, strengthening and maintaining our key alliances for mutual security particularly including NATO, supporting international peacekeeping machinery, and working with other nations to build new institutions and instruments for cooperation.

	In a troubled and dangerous world, we should seek not to march alone, but to lead in such a way that others will wish to join us.

	Even as we seek peace in Vietnam, we must, for our security and well-being, seek to halt and turn back the costly and even more dangerous arms race. Five nations now have nuclear bombs.

	The United States and the Soviet Union already possess enough weapons to burn and destroy every human being on this Earth.

	Unless we stop the arms race, unless we stop fifteen to twenty more nations from getting nuclear bombs and nuclear bomb technology within the next few years, this generation may be the last. 	For twenty years, we have lived under the constant threat that some irresponsible action or even some great miscalculation could blow us all up in the wink of an eye.

	There is danger that we have become so used to the idea that we no longer think it abnormal--forgetting that our whole world structure depends for its stability on the precarious architecture of what Winston Churchill called the balance of terror. This is no longer an adequate safeguard for peace.

	There is a treaty now before the Senate which would stop the spread of nuclear weapons. That treaty must be ratified now.

	If this nation cannot muster the courage to ratify this treaty-- a treaty which in no way endangers our national security, but adds to it by keeping these weapons out of the hands of a Nasser, a Castro, and many others--there can be little hope for our future in this world.

	We must ratify this treaty.

	I also believe that we must have the courage--while keeping our guard up and fulfilling our commitments to NATO--to talk with the Soviet Union as soon as possible about a freeze and reduction of offensive and defensive nuclear missiles systems.

	To escalate the nuclear missile arms are is to raise the level of danger and total destruction. It is costly, menacing, fearsome and offers no genuine defense.

	Beyond that, if I am president, I shall take the initiative to find the way--under carefully safeguarded, mutually-acceptable international inspection--to reduce arms budgets and military expenditures systematically among all countries of the world.

	Our country's military budget this year is 80 billion dollars.

	It is an investment we have to make under existing circumstances. It protects our freedom.

	But if we can work with other nations so that we can all reduce our military expenditures together, with proper safeguards and inspection, then, it will be a great day for humanity.

	All of us will have moved further away from self-destruction. And all of us will have billions of dollars with which to help people live better lives.

	The American people must choose the one man they believe can best face these great issues.

	I would hope that Mr. Nixon, Mr. Wallace and I could express our views on Vietnam not only individually, but on the same public platform.

	I call for this because--on the basis of our past records and past careers--there are great differences between our policies and programs.

	Those views of Governor Wallace which I have seen reported indicate that he would sharply escalate the war.

	Mr. Nixon's past record reveals his probable future policies.

	In 1954--at the time of the French defeat at Dien Bien Phu--he advocated American armed intervention in Vietnam in aid of French colonialism. It was necessary for President Eisenhower to repudiate his proposal.

	Since then, he has taken a line on Vietnam policy which I believe could lead to greater escalation of the war.

	In January of this year, Mr. Nixon described as "bunk" the idea that free elections in South Vietnam were of importance.

	In February of this year, when questioned about the use of nuclear weapons in Vietnam, Mr. Nixon said that a general "has to take the position that he cannot rule out the use of nuclear weapons in extreme situations that might develop."

	Since then, he has indicated he has a plan to end the war in Vietnam, but will not disclose it until he becomes president.

	If he has such a plan, he has an obligation to so inform President Johnson and the American people.

	A few days ago, the Republican vice presidential nominee said there is not now and never has been a Nixon-Agnew plan for peace in Vietnam. It was, he said, a ploy to "maintain suspense." And then he said, "Isn't that the way campaigns are run?" I think we need some answers about this from Mr. Nixon.

	Mr. Nixon's public record shows, also, consistent opposition to measures for nuclear arms control.

	He attacked Adlai Stevenson and myself for advocating a nuclear test ban treaty--a treaty to stop radioactive fallout from poisoning and crippling people the world over. He called our Plan "a cruel hoax." We can be thankful that President Kennedy and the Congress did not follow his advice.

	Today, he is asking for delay of ratification of a treaty carefully negotiated over several years and signed by 80 nations --the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty designed to stop the spread of nuclear weapons.

	I speak plainly: I do not believe the American presidency can afford a return to leadership which would increase tension in the world, which would, on the basis of past statements, escalate the Vietnam War, and which would turn the clock back on progress that has been made at great sacrifice to bring the great powers of the world into a saner relationship in this nuclear age.

	On the great issues of Vietnam, of the arms race, and of human rights in America--I have clear differences with Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace.

	I call on both of these men to join me in open debate before the American people.

	Let us put our ideas before the people. Let us offer ourselves for their judgment--as men and as leaders. Let us appear together--in front of the same audience or on the same television screens, and at the same time, to give the people a choice.

	We must not let a president be elected by the size of his advertising budget. We cannot let a president be elected without having met the issues before the people.

	I am willing to put myself , my programs, my capacity for leadership before the American people for their judgment.

	I ask, before election day that we be heard together as you have heard me alone tonight.

	I appeal to the people--as citizens of a nation whose compassion and sense of decency and fair play have made it what Lincoln called "the last hope on Earth." I appeal to you as a person who wants his children to grow up in that kind of country. I appeal to you to express and vote your hopes and not your hates.

	I intend, in these five weeks, to wage a vigorous, tireless, and forthright campaign for the presidency.

	I shall not spare myself, or those who will stand with me. I have prepared myself. I know the problems facing this nation.

	I do not shrink from those problems. I challenge them.

	They were made by men. I believe they can be solved by men. If you will give me your confidence and support, together we shall build a better America. 
NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)SOUTH VIETNAMSOUTHEAST ASIAWEAPONS PROLIFERATIONPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARVIETNAM WAR     L ÁK ·K ›K ’K
 …K ƒK ∫K ¨K ®K ¶K òK çK	 í 	 c 	 V 	 H  3   e: