Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0929.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/29TELEVISIONCHICAGOILLINOISILSTATION WGN-NBC-TV4,086 WORDS

	I am grateful to the Volunteers for Stevenson for affording me this opportunity of visiting you in your homes as nearly as may be--perhaps I should say returning your visit, because so many of you were good enough to come out to see me during my recent travels around the country.

	First let me say that I suppose some of you have been curious about the presents that I have given some of my associates as governor of Illinois. I am frank to say, and modestly perhaps, that I am very proud of what we have accomplished in the state government of Illinois in these past four years. Most of the daily newspapers of this state--preponderantly Republican, of course--who have followed our work in Springfield, have expressed their approval. I cannot, much as I should like to, detail everything that has been done in Illinois during these past four years, but I should have no reluctance in matching our reforms and our progress in all of our state services in the same interval with any other state in the Union. While running for president I shall not deprecate my opponent's great services to his country as some Republican governors are now attempting to deprecate what we have accomplished in the state of Illinois. I am content with the record, and I am beholden to it, to men of both parties whom I induced to work for the state of Illinois when I came into office.

	In my inaugural speech in January 1949, I said: "It is obvious to all that many of the senior positions in the state's service do not pay enough to support, let alone attract, the quality of management and leadership these positions demand and the people deserve, except upon a basis of unselfish sacrifice. And too often, as many have noted, the reward for sacrifice in public service is not gratitude in lieu of dollars but abuse, criticism, and ingratitude. Government cannot, will not, and should not attempt to match the salary scales of private business, but government can and must, if it is to be good government, pay salaries which are not an invitation to carelessness, indolence, or even worse, corruption."

	Some of the men I brought into the state government did so at great financial sacrifice. Pending better salaries, I made gifts of money to a few of these men on my immediate staff from political contributions. At least four of these men, while serving me in Springfield, have had offers in private employment of double or more of their state salaries. Some have had financial worries known to me. None ever asked me for help, and none could have been improperly influenced by these gifts, because I gave them and I appointed them to their jobs and I could have discharged them at any time. Two of them have left the state service long since--one to become vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, and the other is now a justice of the Illinois State Supreme Court.

	I do not consider this public curiosity either a smear or a Republican plot. It was never a secret. Indeed I discussed the difficulty of getting competent people into state service frequently and publicly. Actually I think the public interest in the compensation of government servants is very healthy. It is a problem that perplexes everyone who holds major public responsibility in either elective or appointive positions. I am glad that I have been of some help to a few of the people who have been of tireless help to me, in a job of great difficulty to which I have given everything that is in me for the past four years. To attract and employ better people in state government is never easy. It has been my greatest satisfaction in Illinois. You will only get good government from good people. But I have no brief for the means I used except that I had no other. If it is wrong to give money to people in appointive jobs which could not influence them, then it must be wrong to give money to people running for elective office which could influence them. Yet, we give political contributions to candidates every day in the week.

	It is no simple question. But I hope I have not discouraged anyone from contributing to the Democratic party. However distasteful, public service makes you public property, and I have long felt that candidates for high office should make a full disclosure of their personal finances so that there can be no personal misgivings about the degrees of their independence. But it should be possible to do this through some confidential means without invading a man's legitimate privacy. No such machinery being available to me, I have made my income tax returns for the past ten years public, and Senator Sparkman, my running mate, will provide similar information. Actually, as few people seem to realize, President Truman proposed more than a year ago in a message to the Congress that high officials in all branches of government should place on record each year full information concerning their income from all sources as a step toward insuring the integrity of public service and protecting government officials against false charges.

	But I don't want, and must not spend all evening about the intricate and all-important problem of getting better men into government service. To get back to the campaign and to your choice for president and vice president in this fateful year, I have traveled now through some twenty states from coast to coast. I have expressed my views as clearly as I could on a great variety of public questions. Not that I am confident that my views are always right, or that I am particularly wise, but because I think you are entitled to know what my views are. I could not expect everyone to agree with everything--and there are many who say that too much candor is a dangerous way to campaign--that it is better to talk in generalities, capitalize discontents, and leave solutions cloudy or uncertain. But, I said when I accepted the Democratic nomination in Chicago that it would be better to lose the election than to mislead the people. So, I have talked about the cost of living, labor problems, farm policy, conservation--about civil rights, corruption and economy in government, and about the overshadowing issues of war and peace.

	I have expressed my views as best I could. I have done the best I could to keep my promise to talk sense to the American people. I had hoped that my opponent would also state his position on the issues so that we could debate them out in the American way. But he has chosen instead to insist that he and his running mate are the only candidates of sufficient integrity to assure the nation clean government during the next four years. I think that the object of opening the mind, as of opening the mouth, is to shut it again on something solid. But what the General now believes on most of the big questions that trouble us, I do not know. There is one exception, however--agriculture--where the General has jumped off of his platform onto ours. But he knows that the Republicans in Congress won't follow him.

	While talking a lot during this past month, I have also done some listening, and some reading from the thousands of letters that come to me. Among things that evidently trouble people most seem to be these four questions: Korea; how serious is the Communist danger in this country; is our prosperity in danger; and how can we get the highest integrity and efficiency in government. Now let us work backward up this list.

	A number of people have written in to ask, in effect; "You and your Republican opponent both say that you will give us an honest administration. How do we know?" It is a fair question. One kind of answer comes from a lawyer in Kansas who fills five pages of single-spaced typewriting indicating the graft, the thievery and the corruption under state and national Republican administrations during his lifetime. Everything he says is true, but this is not answer enough. No approach to the problem of corruption in government is good enough if it ignores the deeper problems of corruption in men--of men. We do not say that a bank is corrupt because the cashier embezzles. The problem of corruption--of graft in its simplest form--is a problem of individual morals, public and private.

	Behind every crooked tax collector is a crooked taxpayer. Although I have done so before, and on many occasions, I think this topic is evidently important enough to talk about it again at length, and I propose to do so. In that speech I will outline some ideas for a program of action. Tonight I would only remind you that the Democratic party is the party of Senator Kefauver, Senator Douglas, Senator Fulbright, Congressman Chelf of Kentucky, Congressman King of California--men who have distinguished themselves in the fight against evil in and out of government. With the help of men like these, and men who are like them, I have no doubt that we can keep the federal service clean. Now I want to turn to the question of whether this country is heading for runaway inflation, or for depression, or whether we can look forward to a continuation of the prosperity we have been enjoying for some years.

	Driving through Connecticut the other day, an older man came close to the car and said to me this: "Why don't you just tell people how good they have it and how bad it used to be?" And a little later, as we passed a mill town a man waved one of those homemade signs you see so often reading, "If you can't stand prosperity, vote Republican."

	There has been a real temptation to base this campaign on the plain and pleasant--on the fact that the Democratic party has been in control in this nation and has led it out of an awful depression into the greatest prosperity it has ever known, and through a world-shattering war and a great wave of social reform. It is a great temptation to point out that the Republican leadership has opposed us almost every step of the way. And now, while adopting everything and proposing to repeal nothing, at least publicly, their orators still sneer at everything we now have and shout about socialism, and call our lives of pride and dignity, "cradle-to-the-grave rides through the welfare state."

	Moreover, the Republican candidate has agreed to agree on all domestic matters with the Republican Old Guard. I don't know whether the Old Guard would take it away if they could, but I do know, on the basis of the record of the past twenty years, that if they had been in the saddle you would never have had it to take away.

	I think we can keep production and employment high in this country, and I think we can and must arrest inflation--the rising prices which make it so difficult for many.

	In Baltimore last week I outlined a program to stop inflation--a pay-as-you-go tax policy for the government; the strictest possible control of all government expenditures; restraints upon excessive private borrowing; and closing the loopholes in the present wage and price controls if these other measures don't work. I think if we have the guts to do it, this program will do this job. But it will be carried out only if you send to Congress men and women who have the courage to force through these measures over stubborn opposition. We will stop rising prices and wages which just eat each other up if you will do your part. We have laid out the lines of defense and you have got to support them if you really mean business about these rising costs of living.

	Now, about the questions regarding Communism, especially Communists in government, I think I will devote a whole speech to this, perhaps next week, but I will give you a brief answer right now. These mortal enemies cannot be permitted to get close to the bloodstreams of America, particularly its government. I don't believe oaths and affidavits are much good for a real Communist never hesitates to lie, nor is catching and punishing Communists after their treachery enough to end the hazard.

	I think generally that close screening of government employees and the quiet professional work of the FBI is the best way to turn over every stone in this country and face what lies beneath it. This is a job for professionals, and I think it can be done without slandering innocent people. I distrust those who have made political capital out of broadside charges discrediting hundreds of loyal government employees. I do not believe that we can jettison our processes of justice without endangering freedom for every American beyond this.

	I say to you that the battle against Communism in America is an infinitely tougher and harder battle than most of the Republican leaders have ever admitted or evidently understood. Why is it that these politicians that scream loudest about Communism in America have fought hardest against every Democratic program to fight Communism itself. They criticize our efforts to block the Communist invasion of Korea. They have opposed our efforts to make the people of Europe and Asia secure, in order to reject the false gospels. They have opposed making the people of America secure enough so that they will never turn again, as some did in the thirties, to the false prophets.

	The FBI figures show that we have in this country now only a fraction of the Communists we had twenty years ago. The point is that we have got to fight Communism, not just Communists. We have got to see to it that the soil is so healthy that Communism just can't grow and survive in it, and that means the creative and constructive work of assuring good jobs, decent homes, good education and free political institutions.

	These are some of the things I should like to talk about further.

	Finally, now peace and war. You know the kind of letters I receive; so many of you have written me about Korea and about your soldier sons. Every one of us knows in his heart why we have to stand up and to fight in Korea. We all know that when the Communists attacked across the 38th parallel that was the testing point for freedom throughout the world. The men in the Kremlin thought that they would be unopposed, and if they were, the whole question of the future could be settled in one blow. If they had been allowed to conquer free people in Korea, they could have picked away at the free world and engulfed more millions, piece by piece, one by one. Sooner or later we would have had to fight, and the later we made our stand, the bigger and the harder the war would have been. Stopping the enemy in Korea before Japan was threatened and before East Asia with all of its resources of manpower, rubber, tin, oil, etc., fell to the Communists was received with enthusiastic shouts of approval by the majority of the American people and even by the Republican leadership.

	Now, however, they attempt to make you believe that it was almost an act of treason, but what do you think they would be saying now if we had not stopped the enemy in Korea, if Japan was threatened and if East Asia was falling bit by bit to the enemy? Would they not be saying now that Harry Truman and Joseph Stalin were boyhood friends in Outer Mongolia?

	And another thing the Republican leadership is now telling us is that the danger to this nation is from within, not from without; the danger lies not with Moscow but in Washington; your enemy is not Joseph Stalin but Harry Truman--or even possibly Adlai Stevenson.

	A campaign addressed not to men's minds and to their best instincts, but to their passions, emotions and prejudices, is unworthy at best. Now, with the fate of the nation at stake, it is unbearable; with the darkest evil, the mightiest force ever gathered on earth arrayed against us and our friends, this is no time for such talk. It is not for me to stand in judgment upon the men who pilfered the truth and say such things, but for your sake and for mine--for the sake of my sons and your children, and the future of millions of our friends overseas, and the future of our nation and for those who languish imprisoned behind the Iron Curtain, we must know the truth and come to grips with the facts of life, look them in the face and stare them down, and in so doing, triumph over them.

	We are not, I take it, a race of whimpering adolescents who can't face the truth, but a race of men and women, proud, courageous and unafraid. I shall state the facts as they appear to me from some years of experience, not only in domestic affairs but in foreign affairs. The Republican leadership blows thin drafts of crafty words down your neck, but it fails to tell you the following things. Eighty-five percent of the federal budget goes for past wars and preserving our present and future liberty. The world has been at war almost continuously now for forty years. The intervals between the wars grow shorter; the wars increase in dimension and in destructiveness. The last war was man's first true world war. The revolutions of our times are man's first revolutions; their flames burn from one end of the globe to the other. The intercontinental airplane makes counties of continents; it makes lakes of oceans. In the words of the song, "There is no hiding place down there." 

	Much of mankind is changing its entire outlook upon the world; whatever was is cast out; whatever is, is questioned. Mankind and its hundreds of millions is on the march, toward what good and with what destruction on the way no man can foretell. Whole nations have sunk out of sight behind iron curtains; whole peoples have disappeared from view. Today there is less communication between the great, great groups of men than there was in the roadless world of a thousand years ago. So, we can no more communicate with half of mankind than we can raise the dead. While the anti-Christ stalks around, organized Communism seeks even to dethrone God from His central place in this universe. It attempts to uproot everywhere it goes the gentle and restraining influences of the religion of love and peace. One by one the lamps of civilization go out and nameless horrors are perpetrated in darkness. 

	All this is done by an enemy of a kind that we have never faced before. He is primitive but he is also advanced. He goes with a piece of black bread in his hand, but in his mind he carries the awful knowledge of atomic energy. He is careful, cool, calculating, and he counts time not impatiently like we do, not by the clock, but by decades, in terms of centuries. Much of what he is trying to do today his ancestors were attempting to do four hundred years ago. The problems of a tortured, convulsive humanity stagger the nation. Unprecedented times demand of us unprecedented behavior. The task that confronts us will try our souls. It will exact a high price in discipline of mind and in austerity of spirit. It will determine whether we are worthy of our high place in the world, whether we are worthy of our forefathers who converted a wilderness into a country, fair and free and left to us all the riches, material and spiritual, that they wrought in pain.

	Long ago we asserted a great principle on this continent: that men are, and of right ought to be, free. Now we are called upon to defend that right against the mightiest forces of evil ever assembled under the sun.

	This is a time to think, a time to feel, a time to pray. We shall need all of the resources of the stubborn mind, the stout heart, the soul refreshed, in the task that confronts us.

	It is the most awesome task that any people has ever faced. For we are become the leader and mainstay of one great wing of humanity in conflict with another wing of humanity. As such, we must play the principal part in saving ourselves, our friends, and our civilization.

	Whose task is this? It is inescapably your task. You and you alone will decide the fate of your family and your country for decades to come. You will decide whether you are to be slaves or free--to live gloriously, or perish miserably. You may seek comfort at the feet of false leaders who, like medicine doctors, beat drums to ward off evil spirits. You may listen to false leaders who tell you that there is an easy way; that all you have to do is elect them and thereafter relax in a tax-free paradise--the political equivalent of sending ten cents to cover the cost of postage. You may, fearing to face the facts squarely, be distracted by phony issues that have no bearing upon the life and death controversy of our times. But, so deluded, you run the risk of being beguiled to destruction, for there is no easy way.

	What is the lesson of history and of all human experience? What is the primary law of life? You struggle and you survive--you fail to struggle and you perish. The ways of the world are marked with the bones of people who hesitated. 

	Your salvation is in your hands; in the stubbornness of your minds, the tenacity of your hearts, and such blessings as God, sorely tried by His children, shall give us. Nature is indifferent to the survival of the human species, including Americans.

	I repeat, then, that the task is yours. Yours is a democracy. Its government cannot be stronger or more tough-minded than its people. It cannot be more inflexibly committed to the task than they. It cannot be wiser than the people. As citizens of this democracy you are the rulers and the ruled--the law-givers and the law-abiders--the beginning and the end. Democracy is a high privilege. But it is also a heavy responsibility whose shadow stalks you although you may never walk in the sun.

	I say these things to you not only because I believe them to be true, but also because, as you love your country, I love my country and I would see it endure and grow in light and become a living testament to all mankind of goodness and of mercy and of wisdom.

COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--PERSONAL FINANCEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCAL--APPOINTMENTSGOVERNMENT EMPLOYEESGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSILLINOISINFLATIONKOREAN WARSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     1V ýU ÷U óU ëU
 ÞU ÙU ÏU ÈU ÀU ¾U ¬U ¡U	 Ù 	 Ð 	 ¯ 	 ’ 	 i 	 U 	 6 	 . 	 % 	  e: