Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1013.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/13STUMPHamiltonNEW JERSEYNJRally1,866 WORDS

	We're going to talk just...[missing text]...a couple things about a couple words. One is "trust." I trust you. Bill Clinton trusts the government. In other words, in other words, he's here. I know...[missing text]...Clinton is way ahead ...[missing text]...if he's re-elected. And you're going to get this big health care plan and probably more taxes and more government, and more regulation--There's one bill that ought to be vetoed and that "bill" is Bill Clinton.

	Well, I'm saying to senior citizens--I don't see any in the audience but they didn't show up...[missing text]. Don't be frightened with all those TV ads. I helped save Social Security in 1983. We're going to save and strengthen and preserve Medicare. You've got my word for it, you've got...[missing text]...'s word for it ...[missing text]..., and we're...[missing text].

	Keep in mind this one thing: the federal government is too big and it spends too much of your money, your money. And a lot of ...[missing text]... works full-time for the family. The other parent has to work full time just to pay the taxes. And that should not happen in America.

	If both parents work, and it happens in a lot of cases, it ought to be because they want to, not because they're forced to just to pay higher taxes. You're paying about 40 percent of what you earn now in taxes. It's never been higher in the history of America. It's gotten high under President Bill Clinton, who tells you how great everything is.

	So what are we going to do? We're going to try to give you a little back. We're going to start, as I said, 15 percent across-the-board. And I see a lot of little $500 tax credits down here, too. $500 for every child under 18. I see a $500 here and I see a $500--well, right here. $500 right there. If you have ten, that's--you're probably too busy to worry about taxes, but--well, that would be $5,000 less, taken right off your taxes, whether it's $500, $5,000, $1,500--whatever.

	This is a family tax cut. This is a Main Street tax cut. This is not a Wall Street tax cut. Even President Clinton hasn't said it's a tax cut for the rich, because he knows it's not. It's for working families. People are out there working every day and every day...[missing text].

	And then to create more jobs and more opportunities, we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half, right in half. And if you sell your house, we're going to eliminate the capital gains tax for almost every homeowner in America.

	And I would say to those senior citizens when they arrive--Well, okay, there they are. I found one. Yes.

	Remember, President Clinton, or candidate Clinton came to New Jersey in '92 and promised you a tax cut? He gave us the biggest single tax increase in America. He raised taxes on Social Security benefits. Now you have to pay on 85 percent of your Social Security benefits if you're above a certain income. And he proposed--if you made $25,000, you're rich, if you're a senior citizen. I don't think that's the case, and we're going to repeal his tax hike on senior citizens.

	And if you work all your life and at a small business--small-businessman or businesswoman--the kids work, the father works, the mother works, you scrimp and save, and work and work and work and build up a little nest egg, and if something happens you have to pay--you'll sell half the property to pay the estate tax, We're going to start providing estate tax relief so you can keep the business or keep the farm or keep it in the family. That's what America's all about.

	And regulations cost the average family about $7,000 per year. We're going to have common sense regulatory reform. We're going to protect the land, and the water and the air, and the, the things we eat. We understand that. But when everything else fails let's try a little common sense in government, instead of more bureaucrats and more regulations and more red tape.

	We're also going to have litigation reform. And I don't want to offend any trial lawyers here, but I said the last place--some may have watched out in Chico, California, when the railing gave way and I went out over the top. On the way down my cell phone rang and a trial lawyer said, "I think we've got a case here, Bob." You know--they're putting people out of business, small-businessmen and small-businesswomen. We've got to put a cap on punitive damage. But it's going to be hard, because they give millions and millions and millions of dollars to Bill Clinton for his re-election. And he does everything they ask him to do, everything they ask him to do.

	We also care about the quality of our education, the quality of our schools, the most---And I assume you have good schools, but in some inner cities and other places they are not good schools, they are not safe schools. We need to turn education back to the parents and back to the teachers and take it out of the hands of the bureaucrats.

	So we have a little program called "opportunity scholarships." It's going to be a four- or five-year demonstration project. It's going to be in fifteen states. We're going to spend billions of dollars but we're not going to--it's not going to be new spending. And we're going to send money to the states and they're going to match it. And it's going to...[missing text]...a low income family, or a lower middle-income family, they take that money, they go to the school of their choice--maybe a better public school or maybe a private school. But the important thing is their child gets the best education possible, just like President Clinton or Vice President Gore, or anybody else in America.

	And I want to make it very clear that I like teachers. I like teachers--I'm a product of public schools, and my daughter is, my wife is. It's not a public school thing. We're trying to create choice and competition to make the schools even better than they are today.

	But the bottom line is this--and then I'll--I know you want to get back and watch the game. I don't know who you're ...[missing text].... So keep your eye on this game, too. This is a big game.

	Now you know the President's going to move his lips a lot between now and the election, and when he does, he ought to be careful of what he says, because sometimes he says things he doesn't follow through on, and...[missing text].

	Like he promised you a tax cut--as I said, you cut a big tax cut--now he's back saying, "Oh, well, I, I--this time around I'm going to promise a different tax cut. It's going to be targeted." Of course, it won't hit anybody, but it's going to be targeted.

	You won't get it, you understand, unless you do what he wants you to do. If you're good little boys and girls then you get a tax cut. This is the United States of America. We need to put more money back in your paycheck.

	And what does he say? He says the government can't afford it. Did they come around and ask you in 1993 when he raised taxes if you can afford it? No. I think it's time the government starts pinching pennies. Instead of you pinching your pennies, let the government pinch their pennies.

	So I'll be out in San Diego Wednesday night. We have another ninety minutes of Bill Clinton. Believe me, that's a long time to spend with him.

	Now, I'm going to ask you a question. Should I get tougher on Clinton? And you won't get mad at me if I get a little tougher?

	Well, I want to ask the President a few questions Wednesday night, if I get an opportunity. I'm going to say, "Mr. President, you were for a balanced budget and you vetoed it. You were for a tax cut and we got a tax increase. You were for less regulation and we got more regulation--and go right down the list. It'll take a while. You know, it'll take a long time. But I want to demonstrate that he doesn't keep his word, he doesn't keep his word. He tells you one thing and does something else. He promises you one thing to get elected and then does something a hundred and eighty degrees different. We're going to change all that because even he's going to get the tax cut if he leaves his change of address so we know where to send it after January of 1997.

	And, finally, let me just say one word, because we've talked a lot about the economy, tax cuts. It's regulatory form. It's a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, which President Clinton blocked. It's a balanced budget by the year 2002. It's sending all these job training programs back to Governor Whitman, and she can decide how to spend the money in New Jersey, instead of somebody who's never been to New Jersey, in Washington, D.C. Send it back to the states, back to the governors, back to the assemblies.

	And I also want to say a word about drugs. Now President Clinton said in the debate, "Oh, we ought to take drugs out of politics." Well, he hasn't done a thing to stop drug use the last forty-four months--he's been AWOL. Of course, he's, he's been AWOL before, but he's really been AWOL now.

	Ronald Reagan and George Bush cut drug use in half. Now twelve- to seventeen-year olds, it's doubled--and I want to say if anybody's in that age bracket here--don't start, don't start. And if you've started, please stop. It's going to kill your future.

	I've got a fellow up here that understands all that. He's an example for young people all across America. Robin, where are you? Right here. This young man--A great football player for the Pittsburgh Steelers...[missing text]...hold up those two--he's got two of those Super Bowl rings right there. And he knows--if you want to get ahead, you've got to have a strong body and a strong mind--and you leave that stuff alone.

	Whether it's alcohol or drugs or cigarettes, you don't need it; you don't need it. You'll be a lot better off without it. And we're going to cut drug use by 50 percent in the first four years of a Dole-Kemp administration.

	Well, finally, let me say that I appreciate--I know it's a Sunday afternoon. I know there are a lot of good football games on--or at least a lot of games on--and you may want to watch. But I want to ask for your help, and I want to apologize for Elizabeth not being here, but she'll be a great first lady and she'll do an outstanding job.
BUDGET, BALANCEDCAPITAL GAINS TAXDRUG ABUSE--MINORSEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDINHERITANCE TAXLITIGATION REFORMREGULATION/DEREGULATIONSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--GENERAL     +) ÷( ñ( í( ã(
 Û( Ö( Ñ( É( ¿( ½( ¸( ­(	 ð 	 à 	 Ï 	 ½ 	 ƒ 	 f 	 W 	 F 	 / 	   	  e: