Speeches\1972\dem\S72D1012.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/12STUMPBOSTONMASSACHUSETTSMABOSTON LABOR BREAKFAST1,510 WORDS

	At their convention in Miami, the Republicans took up the rallying cry, "Four more years." And that slogan clearly set out the decision before the country--a decision Mr. Nixon has admitted is the "choice of a century."

	The question facing working people is whether we want four more years of a president who plays an occasional game of golf with a labor official, but spends most of his time playing ball with big business--with the same people who want to dismantle the trade union movement in this country.

	And I say here today that those who demand four more years must first answer for the four dismal years they have already had.

	In four dismal years, Mr. Nixon has deliberately forced two million workers out of work. He has added six million people to the welfare rolls, because there are too few jobs to go around.

	Those are things an administration that truly believed in the work ethic simply would not do. For all the White House proclamations in the world cannot give dignity to a worker who has no job.

	In four dismal years, Mr. Nixon has achieved a dramatic shift in the tax structure--a lighter load on corporate profits, and a bigger slice from your paycheck. He wants to add another $6 billion in payroll taxes to pay for the Social Security improvements that are pending in the Senate right now. And he has a secret plan for still more taxes after the election--a national sales tax that will cost the average family at least $200 more every year.

	Those are things which an administration that cared about working people simply would not do. For if we respect the worker's toil, why tax his earnings more, and reserve special loopholes for the rich?

	In four dismal years, the Nixon administration has fought down improvements in the minimum wage--improvements designed to lift six million full-time workers out of poverty. Mr. Nixon insists on a welfare program that would penalize people who want to work their way from a welfare check to a paycheck.

	Those are things an administration which truly believed in the dignity of work would not do. For such an administration would see to it that work is a real alternative to poverty and not just a way for poor people to spend their time.

	In four dismal years, the Nixon administration has tried to kill Democratic initiatives to keep Social Security up with the Nixon inflation. Just a few days ago, the Republican White House helped scuttle a Democratic pension reform bill. Democrats in the Congress--and some Republicans--want to assure that workers who contribute to pension funds will no longer end up with empty hands and battered hopes at retirement.

	But Mr. Nixon fought to kill that bill.

	These are things an administration that cared about workers would not do. For such an administration would understand that respect for the worker includes protecting his right to live in dignity and security when his life's work is done.

	In four dismal years, this administration has loaded our public offices with big business bosses. The Secretary of Labor is a former executive of an aerospace company.  So is the head of the Mediation Service. The Under Secretary of Labor is a former management lawyer. So is the head of the National Labor Relations Board. The so-called "public members" of the Pay board came from big steel, from big oil, and from inside the Nixon administration.

	In four years will celebrate our 200th anniversary as a nation. We have a Bicentennial Commission to make plans for that historic event. It includes top business executives.  But there is not one single working man or woman on that Commission.

	Those are things an administration which cared about working people would not do. For such an administration would give workers a voice in the decisions that shape their lives. And such an administration would know that it was muscle as much as money that made this country what it is today. 

	And for four dismal Nixon years we have seen our men imprisoned our sons lost, and our treasure wasted to prop up a corrupt dictator in Saigon. It has been four long years of war since Mr. Nixon rode into office on a secret plan for peace.

	And that too, is something a president who cared about ordinary people would never do. For he would never seek to save his own face with the sacrifice of American sons.
 
	That is the record of four Nixon years.  And more than anything else it tells us what that slogan "four more years" really means. 

	Shortly after the Republicans took office, John Mitchell gave working people one piece of good advice. He said, "Watch what we do, not what we say." 

	And regardless of what they say, they want four more years to do you in.

	But these are not the only grounds on which I seek your help.

	I believe the American people should have a chance not only to reject what is wrong, but to choose what is right.

	And that is why I have tried not only to expose the failings of the Nixon administration, but to spell out my own programs for the country. 

	I have advocated a tax reform program to bring in $22 billion year that is now leaking out through loopholes for the rich.

	I have set out an alternative military budget that will deter any adversary and meet any threat, but that will also exert effective control, at long last, over the overkill, overruns, and overcommitments which have been bleeding our economy dry.

	I have shown how we can apply the money now used for military waste to the urgent domestic needs we have piled up through years of neglect. We can use those dollars for law enforcement, for decent housing, for education, for dependable transportation, for clean air and water, and for drug treatment and rehabilitation. And if we do that, we can guarantee a job for every, man and woman in America who is able to work--a job that does not depend on bombing Asia, but on building up our own country.

	I have set forth a plan for inflation control--a system that is no more gentle to the profits of big industry than it is to the wages of workers.

	I have proposed tough action to deal with the slaughter that is going on in the nation's plants, mills, and mines--to save as many as we possibly can of the 15,000 lives that are lost each year because of working conditions that are unsafe, unhealthy and inhuman.

	And I have offered not a secret plan for peace, but a public plan--a flat commitment that within ninety days of my inauguration, we will have every American soldier, every prisoner, every bomb and every bullet home from Indochina.

	I have taken some heat for these programs.

	I can tell you that there's a body of opinion on Wall Street that doesn't like my tax reform program at all.

	Neither do the oil millionaires who gathered with Mr. Nixon at John Connally's ranch in Texas.

	Or the people who contributed to that secret Republican campaign fund of $10 million.

	Or the people who coughed up another $4 million for the Republican campaign at the series of $1000-a-plate dinners they had a few weeks ago.

	 Incidentally, I have a suspicion that Mr. Nixon didn't see very many faces at those dinners. Considering the Russian wheat deal, the corporate tax giveaways, the milk lobbyists, Lockheed and ITT, anybody who contributes that much to this Republican campaign probably can't be seen from the podium. They're too busy looking for something under the table.

	But I think the American people are interested in a different kind of leadership this year.

	I think the American people have had enough of secret money, secret plans, and secret deals. 

	I think they're looking for leadership that will tell them the truth--even when it's hard. 

	I think they want an administration that is not for sale to any special
interest, at any price. 

	And I think they want a government that is committed to restoring the true ideals of America--the dignity of the individual, the right to pursue happiness, the determination to stand for what is noble and just in human affairs.

	We're in a tough fight this year. But the people represented here have never walked away from a fight--whether it was on a picket line or at the polls.

	So let us unite to cast off the doubts and decay of four dismal years.

	Let us pursue justice for the American worker, not just because it is good politics, but because it is right.

	Let us win this year--and we will earn as peacemakers a longer life for our children and, in prosperity, a secure life for all of our people.
CAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT APPOINTMENTS--GENERALMILITARY CUTBACKSSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSTAX REFORMVIETNAM WARWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     Q" " " " "
 ÿ! ú! õ! ï! â! à! Ê! ¿!	 £ 	 € 	 ` 	 O 	 8 	 . 	 # e: