Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1011.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/11STUMPKetteringOHIOOH3,335 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Well, I'm very honored to be here. I'm very honored to have some special guests. They were announced, but again I'm going to repeat their names, because they're an example for young people and I want to make certain you understand that they're up here, they're supporting us.

	Rod...[missing text]...Hauser was an Oakland Raiders former star. Rod--happy to have you here today. And Robin Cole, a former star with the Pittsburgh stealers. Robin, happy to have you here. John Keller played on the Olympic handball team--didn't get any medal but it's the best team we've had for a long time. Matt Gevar...[missing text]...this great big wrestler back here, got a silver medal...[missing text].

	And we're very proud to have them with us. They've, they've been with us part of the day and we're very proud of that, and I want to say to all of them we appreciate your taking a day off and helping us out. It's good to be at this big retirement party for Bill Clinton. I like it.

	And I want to say right up front--I want to thank Mike Gewyne...[missing text]...and thank all those who helped put this event together--you know, people just don't show up on the way home. Somebody probably told you something was going on--or maybe you arrived late for the Clinton visit yesterday. I don't know for certain.

	And he's going to get the tax cut, too--if he just leaves his change-of-address card when he leaves the White House we'll send it to him next year.

	I'm sorry my wife, Elizabeth, cannot be here. She's in Savannah, Georgia--about now she's probably leaving Savannah, Georgia. But she will be a great first lady--she's been in Ohio many, many times. Elizabeth is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her. That's how talented she is.

	And let me just make a little Ohio claim here. I know not everybody here was born in Ohio but I, I visited Montpelier, Ohio recently, where my grandfather was born, and I visited the grave of my great-great-grandfather, Michael Dole. So this makes Ohio one of my home states and I hope you're going to help a home-state candidate. That's what this is all about. And I'm quite happy I'm not here tomorrow when the Buckeyes are playing. Nobody would be here tomorrow. But I'm happy to be here today.

	I remember years ago, a long time ago, we had a tragic airplane crash which took most of the Wichita State football team. Richard Nixon was president at that time and he asked me to attend the funeral on his behalf and he asked me to stop and pick up Woody Hayes to be a representative. And I knew Woody Hayes, and he was a very colorful person. Now and then he said things like we do in politics, but he had a great career. He was a great football coach and a great tradition in the state of Ohio. And I've already got five Buckeyes for good luck. I've got a lot of good luck covered.

	I want to take just, I want to take just a few minutes to tell you about why we believe we're going to win this election. I said earlier--there are really two words I think we want to focus on in the last twenty-some days.

	One is the word "fear." One is the word "fear," and if you watched all these commercials, particularly if you're a senior citizen or a veteran or a student and you've been listening to all these commercials, watching these commercials from the Democratic National Committee and from the labor leaders, who put $35 million into the pot, they all sort of tell you one thing--that Bob Dole's going to cut your Medicare, Bob Dole's going to cut your Medicaid, Bob Dole's going to take away your student loan, Bob Dole's going to cut your veterans benefits. There isn't anybody left. There isn't anybody left--and don't believe one word of it. It's not going to happen in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	When you don't have any ideas, when you don't have an agenda, when you don't have a single bit of evidence on what's going to happen the next four years, not a single good idea or a single notion, you try to frighten America, you try to get re-elected by frightening Americans, particularly vulnerable Americans--senior citizens.

	I met a lady in Florida about a month ago, somebody was wheeling her in a wheelchair. And she wasn't very well at all and said, "Senator, don't take my Medicare." And the lady wheeling her said, "All she hears and watches all day long are these TV ads." One afternoon--they spent $45 million since April and probably another $10 million since September 1--but $45 million from April to September 1st, trying to frighten the American people. And it's not even Halloween yet. It's still two weeks to Halloween.

	Now, the other word is trust. The other word is trust. I don't trust people that try to frighten people. I think we ought to tell the American people the truth, and let them make up their minds, and I have confidence in the American people, regardless of their party--Republican, Democrat, or Independent, they will make the right choice if you give them the facts. And we will give you the facts, and you will make that decision.

	So on this trip, and on other trips around America, I've seen mothers and fathers who are struggling to raise their children the right way--they want better schools and they want safer schools and they want more opportunities for their families. And I've seen a lot of small-businessmen and businesswomen who are working to pay some of the highest taxes--in fact, the highest taxes in our history--38.2 percent. One spouse works for the family, the other spouse works to pay the taxes. And I've seen senior citizens who are worried about their Medicare, as I said, and their Social Security. And they want to know if they can count on us to keep our promise to them. And I can tell you flat out, and I'll stake my oath on it, I'll stake my life on it--we're going to keep our promise. I always keep my promises. My word is good.

	And most of all you see the young people, the people over here and some of the people behind me--and some of the people in front of me who deserve the best possible future we can give them. And that's why I'm running for president of the United States and that's why I intend to win this election.

	And Jack Kemp and I have one message for America. We believe the federal government is too big and spends too much of your money. It's too big and spends too much of your money. Now if both parents want to work that's fine, but it ought to be their choice. They shouldn't be forced to do it to pay the taxes. And let me tell you about our--it's really an economic package, it's not just a tax cut.

	Let me give you the six points. Point number one is a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. We lost by one vote in the Senate when I was still in the Senate because President Clinton twisted the arms of six Democrats who had previously been for it, and they voted against it. When I'm president of the United States we will send a balanced budget amendment to the states. It will be ratified. It will be part of the Constitution. That's number one.

	Number two--we are going to balance the budget by the year 2002. We've already started down that path.

	Number three--there will be a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut. There will be a $500-per-child, child credit. And I know there are a lot of little child credits right out here today. All--if you're under eighteen, you're a child credit. If you have two children, that's $1,000. If you have five, that's $2,500. If you have ten, you're probably too busy to worry about your taxes. But that's $5,000. And that's $5,000 or $2,000 or $1,000 you can spend better than any bureaucrat I've ever met in Washington, D.C.

	In fact, I said in the debate in Hartford--I said the former president's going to be eligible for tax cuts, too. And Clinton, who must be worried, said, "Well, I can use it." Now, if he's making $200,000 and can use it, I'll bet a lot of people making 25 and 30 and 35 thousand dollars in this audience can use a tax cut. And if you make $30,000--a family of four--you get a $1,261 tax cut. This is a Main Street tax cut--it's not a Wall Street tax cut--it's for families with children. And it's going to happen. And you're going to be better off.

	We're going to get the economy to grow, and we're going to balance the budget and cut taxes and cut the capital gains rate in half by 50 percent. And we're going to eliminate the capital gains tax for most homeowners in America, and repeal Bill Clinton's tax on senior citizens. He talks about Medicare and Medicaid. He's the one who raised taxes on 8 million senior citizens' Social Security and we're going to repeal it.

	And what about estate tax relief? Some of you probably hadn't thought about it, but if you work all your life--the husband works, the wife works, the kids work--you work six and seven days a week--you get a little property, a little nest egg. Somebody passes on, you've got to sell half the property to pay the estate tax. We're going to start providing estate tax relief so you can keep the farm, keep the business, keep people employed.

	And to low income parents and low middle-income parents--we have a program called "Opportunity Scholarships." We believe regardless of your income in America your children should have the same opportunity as everybody else to go to the best school possible. It's called "School Choice." It's called "Competition."

	And Governor Voinovitch...[missing text]...now has a program, an experimental program in Cleveland. Low income parents--I'd say to low income parents in Ohio and across America, and low-middle income parents--you know, the President sends his daughter to private school--I don't--I don't fault that. I applaud that. He wants his daughter to have the best education. Well, what about somebody with no power, and no prestige and no money in America? They should have the same rights--you shouldn't have to send your child to a bad school in America. It shouldn't happen.

	And I love teachers and I love public teachers, and I went to public schools and most public schools are good. But when 25 percent of our high school seniors are functionally illiterate, we've got a problem. And SAT scores are lower, and dropouts are up, and a lot of students who graduate from high school have to take remedial reading in college to pass, to get into college anymore.

	We need to change the system. President Clinton can't change the system because the NEAs and the union leaders in Washington, D.C. have a hammerlock on President Clinton. They won't let him do it. Educational reform will come from Bob Dole and Jack Kemp.

	Now, he'll tell you like he did in ...[missing text]. "Well, I'm for"--"I'm for school choice" but he won't tell you where. He'll tell you he's opposed--you know, he's against truancy, which I think takes a lot of courage--to be against truancy--He'll tell you he's for a curfew, but he's also for midnight basketball. How can you have both?

	Now, he also says--and I, and I, I don't dislike President Clinton. I mean--actually we've visited from time to time. We haven't visited lately.

	But he is a good talker. He's a good talker. He's a great talker. He'll talk your socks right off you sometimes. And now he's at it--and I'll tell you how good he is--he came out here in 1992 and he romanced a lot of people from Ohio, and he carried this state because...[missing text]...he said, he said, "You know what I'm going to do when I get elected? I'm going to cut your taxes." And everybody who got a tax cut, raise your right hand or raise both hands. Raise anything. I don't care what you raise. Nobody got a tax cut. You got the biggest tax increase in the history of America. That's what you got with Bill Clinton. I said that one day on the Senate Floor and Senator Moynihan, a Democrat, said, "No, not the history of America--in the history of the world," he said.

	Then he told you, "Don't worry about it--I'm going to fix health care." You remember how he tried to fix health care? He wanted to take it all over and turn it over to the government. That's the last thing we want to do with health care. He had seventeen new taxes. He had price controls. He had fifty new bureaucracies. He wanted to spend $1.5 trillion on all these health alliances. That's what he wanted to do but fortunately we were able to stop him in his tracks.

	Now remember--he hasn't changed. He hasn't changed. The only thing that changed--the voters got smart in '94 and elected a Republican Congress. That's what did it...[missing text].

	And now Bill Clinton's out there saying, "Me, too. Me, too--I'm for that, I'm for that. I'm for everything--everything in America I'm for."

	When he took that train to Chicago to go to their convention, it cost the taxpayers $12 million a mile. Every time the train slowed down, he dropped off another billion here and a billion there, and as the late Senator Dirksen said, "A billion here and a billion there soon ends up to real money." It cost you a lot of money to get him into Chicago. And it will cost you a lot more to get him out. And he's going to spend a lot of your money in the next twenty-some days trying to get re-elected. But I believe the American people understand--they want leadership. They want the facts. Give you the facts and you will make the right decision.

	There's only one---I carry around in my pocket--I know you can't this. It's a copy of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution. It's only twenty-eight words long. It's been around a couple hundred years. It wasn't dreamed up by me and Newt Gingrich. It's been around over two hundred years. And what it says in effect is this: because our Founding Fathers were worried about an all powerful central government that could literally confiscate your property through taxes, or invade your privacy, or do whatever--so they put this in the Constitution. It's Article Ten. It's part of the Bill of Rights. And what does it say? It says, in effect: "Unless the federal Constitution gives the power to the federal government or denies it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people. And we're going to give it back to the states and to the people."

	And let me say finally this--I know abortion is an issue some people don't want to even talk about. And whether you're pro-choice or pro-life, there's a procedure called "the partial birth abortion" that ought to be stopped, that ought to be banned, that ought to be banned. It's a very gruesome procedure--if you've ever seen it, nobody would support it. A lot of my pro-choice friends, Senator Moynihan again--says it borders on infanticide. We passed the bill. I put an amendment in to protect the life of the mother. President Clinton vetoed it. When I'm president of the United States I wills top it. I will sign that bill and stop it. [Audience applause and cheers]. Dole: what we need in America--what we need in America is a bridge to the truth--not another, not another toll bridge, not another toll bridge but a liberal, Democratic president who wants to spend more and more of your money. He's already got $400 billion in new ideas to spend money the next four years. Where does it come from? It comes from you. Remember, it's your money. It's your money. It's your money. It's not his money. And I want to give some of it back.

	And, finally, I would say to the young people here, if you haven't touched drugs, don't start. And if you've started, stop. It's going to ruin your body. It's going to ruin your future. You're not going to have any opportunity--when Nancy Reagan used to say, "Just say no," people made fun of her. But you know a strange thing happened. Drug use was cut in half in the Bush--Reagan and Bush years. Since President Bush left office, drug use has doubled in America because President Clinton has been AWOL. He's been on the sidelines. He hasn't provided leadership.

	And in a Dole-Kemp administration, if necessary, we'll especially train and use the National Guard to stop drugs from coming into America in the first place. They don't do you any good. They're not good for you.

	Now President Clinton said a lot--smoking's good for you to make, make that very clear. He...[missing text]...he discovered all these issues in 1996. He hasn't said a word about smoking--he hasn't said a word about drugs. He hasn't said a word about anything until about election time, and suddenly he discovered all these things he ought to talk about. Three million young people started smoking while he sat there. We passed a bill in 1992. It took his administration three and a half years--his administration implemented and they say 20,000 or a thousand kids start smoking a year--millions of young people have started smoking. It's time we take an account of what's happened. It's time we add up the assets and the liabilities of this administration. I you've got anything to fear, what you ought to fear is four more years of the Clinton-Gore administration. That's what you have to fear.

	And I know he loves--I know he loves being president, but that's not the issue. The issue is not what he likes, it's what you ought to have in America. He's talking about power. I want to, I want to be your servant--I'm talking about service to the American people, service to the American people, telling the American people the truth--give the American people the facts.

	Give us back a foreign policy instead of public relations policies. Give us back the prestige we had in the world that we've lost the last three years. Give us back leadership, give us back America. Give America back to the people. That's what our campaign's all about.

	So I want to thank you all for coming. You're all invited to Mike Gewyne's...[missing text]...house for dinner. It'll be a few minutes while they get it ready, right? Yeah, and right. He'll babysit with any of your kids, too.

	All right, so that's--well, I want to say thank you to the Oak Ridge Boys' great music. Thanks to the man over there--great music.

	Keep one thing in mind. I need your help, I want to ask for your help. Ohio--I can't get there without Ohio. The White House runs through Ohio. The road to the White House runs through Ohio. And we are going to win.

	Thank you very much and God bless America.

ABORTIONBILL OF RIGHTSBUDGET, BALANCEDDRUG ABUSE--GENERALEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSEDUCATION, SECONDARY--STANDARDSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDINHERITANCE TAXSENIOR CITIZENSSMOKINGTAXATION--GENERAL     ÙH ¥H ŸH ›H ‘H
 ‰H „H H vH rH pH eH	 ú 	 ò 	 ä 	 Ô 	 Á 	 ‡ 	 h 	 S 	 6 	 ' 	  	  e: