Speeches\1996\rep\S96R0919.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)09/19STUMPDENVERCOLORADOCOASSOCIATED PRESS MANAGING EDITORS ASSOCIATION2,265 WORDS

	There is a tendency to label every presidential election a watershed. Whether or not that's always true, I believe that the last election of the twentieth century clearly belongs in that category. Our people have a choice this year between two very different visions of America's future.

	It is part of my opponent's strategy to soften the edges of our arguments--to play down basic conflicts. But some distinctions cannot be blurred or hidden.

	I cannot recall an election where the choices on economic policy were so fundamentally different.

	I have based my entire approach on one idea: government has already taken too much of the American family's money, too much of the American community's authority, and too much of the American people's freedom--and it's time for government to give it back.

	I am convinced that growth always begins with freedom--freedom from higher taxes, freedom from higher regulations, freedom to pursue our dreams.

	My opponent starts from a different assumption. He has a million little plans how government can improve our lives by running our lives. Every program and tax break is contingent on the willingness of Americans to accept government's lead and obey government's rules.

	Jack Kemp and I have one big plan--to give you back more of your hard-earned money and more of your freedom, because we are absolutely convinced that families can run their lives better than any government bureaucracy ever can, or ever will.

	Today's young people are beginning their careers during the slowest economic expansion since the last century, yet President Clinton says we have the strongest economy in decades. Last year, the economies of sixty-six countries grew faster than ours did. Some may think that when it comes to economic growth, sixty-seventh place is good enough, but I do not.

	My greatest challenge in this election is to convince the American people that we can do better. My central goal is to raise our sights, raise our standards, and raise our expectations.

	Jack Kemp and I are going to get this economy moving again with a pro-growth plan that starts with a phased-in tax cut of 15 percent across the board. We're also going to help lower- and middle-income families with a $500 tax credit for every child they are raising.

	And in a move that will create more jobs and opportunities while giving relief to the homeowner, the farm family, the entrepreneur, and the small-businessperson, we're going to cut the tax rate on capital gains in half.

	That's just phase one. Our goal in phase two is to make the tax system flatter, more fair, and more simple, and to end the IRS as we know it.

	Our economic plan will lower the federal income tax bill of a family of four making $35,000 a year by about $1,300. That would cover a few months' day care, a personal computer for a child, or several payments on the mortgage or the car. If you're self-employed, you can keep your $1,300 and maybe take some days off to spend time with the family.

	But lower taxes and a balanced budget are not the only key to a better America. We also need to restore the sense of security and personal safety that once allowed communities in all parts of our nation to thrive. And this, too, points to some differences in this election that cannot be spanned by any bridge.

	More than 200 years ago, when our nation's founders drafted the Constitution, they included among the prime objects of the new government, "to insure domestic tranquility." Today, sadly--tragically for too many American families--our government is not fulfilling that role.

	And yet, what works in combating crime is no mystery. It begins with understanding something else our opponents fail to understand--that the cause of crime can be summed up in one word: criminals.

	Too often the current administration in Washington--because of an ideological fixation--has emphasized what doesn't work over what does.

	Prosecuting violent criminals has become such a low priority in this Justice Department that they were forced to admit recently that fewer than eighteen prosecutions have been brought under the federal Violence Against Women Act. They have adopted the new and risky rule of not requiring U.S. attorneys to prosecute the most serious of the crimes that a suspect stands accused of. They have watered down the federal mandatory sentencing laws. They have even argued before the Supreme Court for a weakening of our federal laws against child pornography.

	Perhaps most destructive, the President has appointed liberal judges who have become notorious nationwide for bending the law in order to let criminals go free.

	As president, I will have a simple, straightforward plan to make America safer again.

	It is time to end the phony conservative rhetoric that tries to mask liberalism in action. It's time to return to what works in fighting crime--and what works in fighting crime is fighting criminals.

	Recently, I laid out the action plan that will serve as my administration's blueprint for a safer America.

	I will work with the nation's governors to abolish parole for violent criminals, hold violent juvenile criminals fully accountable for their crimes, make prisoners work full-time to help compensate the victims of their crimes, and finally, take real and effective federal action to keep guns out of the hands of violent criminals through a national instant check.

	But this is just part of the equation. People resist the lure of crime and drugs for two reasons: either they fear punishment, or they hold to moral and ethical standards. Ultimately, our crisis of drugs and crime is a crisis of belief and conviction, especially among the young. The fate of a generation will depend on the ability of the adult world to communicate values--especially a commitment to embrace life by rejecting drugs.

	Yesterday in California I talked frankly about the role of entertainment, government, and parents in that task. In entertainment, the trendiest trend is the return of drug use. Movies feature the romance of heroin. Fashion magazines highlight the "junkie look." Popular music groups create and celebrate a culture of heroin. The marijuana leaf and the heroin needle have become the trademarks of fashionable rebellion.

	There is a problem with all drugs, but heroin has become a symbol, embodying an attitude. A fascination with risk and death. The attraction of self-destruction.

	Our popular culture has a duty to the fragile world of children. Free expression does not require the destruction of our children's character. They must stop the commercialization of drug abuse. Stop the glorification of slow suicide. Not because they are frightened of public outrage, but because they are responsible adults with duties and standards.

	In politics we have the same duties to communicate a clear moral message. And the Clinton administration's clear failure to do so draws attention to another basic difference.

	The President cut the staff of the Office of National Drug Control Policy by 83 percent, and in 1994 proposed cutting the number of drug enforcement agents by more than 600. He appointed a surgeon general who openly suggested that drugs should be legalized. In 1993 and 1994, he did not mention the drug issue in a major address to the American people, not even once. And even as drug use began to spiral, federal drug prosecutions fell by 10.3 percent from 1992 to 1995.

	Any one of these things would be disturbing, but not decisive. Taken together, they communicate that drugs are no longer a national priority. The President has sent up a white flag of surrender. It's a naked failure of leadership.

	And I do believe this sends an implicit message to parents and children. The adult world of politics is not serious about drugs; it is casual, permissive, and liberal. Zero-tolerance has become live-and-let-live. We will never have a firm, confident, national message against drugs when our leaders are ambivalent themselves.

	A Dole administration will be anything but casual about drug use.

	As president, I will ensure that the Office of National Drug Control Policy is strong and has the tools to do the job. As president, I will speak out on drugs every month that I am in office. As president, I will encourage the movie, television and music industries to embrace a no-use, zero-tolerance message. I will invite parents groups, educators, and members of the entertainment industry to a White House conference to establish a voluntary strategy to end the glamorization of drugs. As president, I will ensure that the Justice Department takes a hard line against drug dealers. And I will spearhead the creation of a thousand community-based new drug coalitions.

	In short, I will be serious about cutting teenage drug use by 50 percent by the end of the year 2000. It will be one of the top priorities of my administration--backed by policy and backed by the entire moral authority of that great office.

	Entertainment and politics play important roles is setting a clear standard for children on drug use. But today I want to focus briefly on one more institution: the world of journalism.

	I have no interest or business in telling you how to report the news. But you do have a special and honored role in American society. You talk to Americans each morning at the breakfast table about events in their neighborhoods. And those events, when it comes to drugs, are disturbing.

	I believe that some in the news media are missing an important story. Not the political story of our disagreements about drug policy, but the stories of countless personal tragedies that have become a social crisis. Consider a fact: in 1989, evening network television news ran 518 anti-drug stories. By 1995, with drug use rising dramatically, that number had fallen to 91 stories. The issue simply wasn't "hot" anymore. But the problem was real and growing. And few, outside of the world of experts, realized it. A doubling of teen drug use in four years--involving over a million more children--is a dramatic change. Yet it took us by surprise. Somehow, our interest or attention lagged.

	It is my view that soaring teen drug abuse and the resurgence of a drug culture is one of the important news stories of our times. I'm not an editor, determining what goes on the front page. But it seems to me that a community depends on this information. Without information, there is no concern. Without concern, there is no resolve. Without resolve, there is no change.

	The role of newspapers is very different than the role of parents or entertainment. But, at times, it is just as influential in shaping our attitudes.

	The worst thing that can happen is for a parent to learn about drug use in their community only when their child is picked up by the police or suspended from school. It benefits everyone in a community when its problems are clearly defined. Otherwise, people tend to think that drugs are isolated to one bad neighborhood or one bad school--when the truth is very different.

	Newspapers know how to report drug use. Their investigations on the rise of crack and its dangers in the mid-1980s helped to activate communities across America who depended on newspapers to learn about the true hazards of this new drug. You have begun to play this role in the recent surge of heroin use. Information is critical. The drug war won't be won through ignorance. In some important ways, all of us are depending on you.

	So when you tell the story use--bringing us, through your words, into emergency rooms and schools and shooting galleries--it is not just good journalism, it is genuine community service.

	At one time, not long ago, all the institutions of the adult world worked together in the interest of children. Movies and music condemned drug use. Nancy Reagan set a simple standard of "Just say no," and politicians of both parties pounded that message home. Parents became more educated and involved, partly because the media made them more educated. We communicated a clear, unmistakable message. And we made a clear, unmistakable difference.

	Between 1979 and 1992, overall illegal drug use fell by half. We reached and changed the world of our children. We convinced them that drugs were unfashionable and dangerous and wrong. That is the power of confident conviction. And that is the standing, authority, and hope we must find once more. We did before. We can do it again.

	In short, I believe it is time to get serious about violent crime and drugs in a way that we have not seen in our government over the last four years. For what we are talking about is not just the policy of our government but the character of our country. The actions of the President and the government he leads must convey the message that drugs and violent crimes are morally repugnant in a free society.

	We must have leadership from the top that says through every means at its disposal that violent crime and drugs are wrong. We must have leadership that tells young people, "Just don't do it."

	I will dedicate my presidency to restoring the moral clarity with which our government speaks.

	This is the way I will be defining the contest of the next several weeks--a clear debate on big and basic things in our national life. A debate that will determine much about the shape of America's future.

	Thank you very much, God bless you, and God bless America.
CRIME, VIOLENTCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALDRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONECONOMY--GENERALENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRYINCOME TAXLIBERALISMMEDIA CRITICISMMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESNEWSPAPER INDUSTRYDRUG ABUSE--MINORS     Î5 ∑5 ±5 ≠5 £5
 õ5 ñ5 ë5 ã5 É5 Å5 T5 I5	 Œ 	 ¿ 	 ß 	 É 	 s 	 ] 	 S 	 I 	 : 	 $   e: