Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1017.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/17STUMPFORT WORTHTEXASTXWILL ROGERS MEMORIAL AUDITORIUM, FOR 4 PM RADIO RELEASE AND RELEASE TO NEXT MORNING NEWSPAPERS2721 WORDS

	I know from Senator Johnson's introduction and from your much more than generous welcome what I have been strongly suspecting: This talk about infidelity deep in the Democratic heart of Texas is greatly exaggerated!

	For my part, I have been looking forward to this visit, and I am delighted to be here. And having the respect I have for Texans' straightforwardness, I'm taking at face value the friendliness of your greeting. I expect to be treated, even by those who may not agree with me in everything and by those who dislike the Democratic party, with the Texas courtesy and good humor which has always matched, in my experience, the fierce pride and independence of Texans.

	I have been warned that there is political intimidation and coercion in Texas these days and that I, a candidate for president of the United States, of the Democratic party, might even be exposed to disorder created by organized hoodlums. I don't believe it, and if Fascism ever starts in this country I don't believe it will start or even live in the fiercely free heart of Texas where a man believes that democracy means not just that "I'm as good as you are, but rather that you're as good as I am."

	Oh, I know about this business of the Republicans in this state having nominated the candidates of the Democratic party for the United States Senate and for state offices. If you can't possibly lick 'em, then join 'em!

	I've heard, too, that a few Democratic politicians here in Texas are working for the Republican candidates for president and vice president. Well, that's all right, too, although I have heard it argued that if a person is a Republican he ought to be willing to call himself one.

	My opponent in this campaign evidently can't stand the thought of any Republican--good or bad--not supporting him. But for my part I couldn't pay the price he has for what they call party harmony.

	And what harmony! The General sings God Bless America. But his barbershop quartet of McCarthy, Nixon, Jenner and Taft insists on singing The Lost Chord--especially that line about "one in the dear dead days beyond recall."

	Getting back to this, should I say, slightly irregular Democratic situation here in Texas, I can't help thinking here this afternoon, in this Memorial Auditorium, of Will Rogers' remark: "I am not a member of any organized party," he said, "I'm a Democrat." Rogers had that great virtue of standing back just far enough from things that he could get a good laugh out of them. He would enjoy these present goings-on in Texas politics. I kind of enjoy them myself--at least I'm not going to do any public weeping!

	I would like, this afternoon, to express the appreciation of the whole Democratic party to you people here in Texas for giving this nation of ours the leadership of four great men: Sam Rayburn, Tom Connally, Lyndon Johnson, and John Garner. These men have spent their lives battling for the people's interest.

	And it is because of leaders like these--and their devotion to the common interests of the American people--all the American people--that I have the confidence I have about how the people of Texas, and of the whole country, are going to vote in this election, as usual. The Republicans have the money, the newspapers, the confetti and the billboards. And, also, as usual, we Democrats have on our side--only the people.

	We know now that our Republican opposition is not the new Republican party that carried the Republican Convention in Chicago. And it isn't the man whom we welcomed back with such genuine admiration for his leadership of our armed forces abroad. And it isn't the program of the Great Crusade that excited us, Democrats and Republicans alike, when it was announced last summer.

	Someplace along the line all three of those things got off the track. Somebody decided to work so hard for votes that he forgot all about the voters.

	We know today--and it is the biggest fact in this preelection picture--that our opposition this year is once more just the faded, frantic Old Guard of the Old Republican party. I was going to say "threadbare," but somebody might get the impression that these agents had not become still richer during the last twenty years of what they call Democratic fumbling, bumbling and socialism.

	The men who are now once more the Republican party's high command are the same men who have opposed so steadily all the social and economic progress of the last twenty years. What is even worse, they are the same Old Guard Republicans who have opposed the steps we have taken to aid our allies and build a strong structure of peace in the world.

	We cannot trust our future to the Republican Old Guard.

	We can find most of the story of the difference between the Democratic and the Republican policies if we look at almost any of the really tough problems the people of this country face. On every one of them we find that the Democratic party is for doing something or other--whatever needs to be and can be done. And the Republican position, nine times out of ten, can be summed up in one word: No.

	Let's look at this current drought problem you have here in Texas. I saw today from our plane the searing picture of what drought means to a state and a nation.

	Now I'm not going to make a lot of wild promises to you about how the Democratic party is going to end this drought. We might as well confess that even we Democrats don't know how to manage the weather.

	And we'll leave it up to our Republican friends to play the politics of false promises--telling the people that they will cut taxes, end the fighting in Korea tomorrow and a lot of things like that. I suppose it's easy to make campaign promises like that when your Party hasn't been required for twenty years to make good on anything.

	The truth of the matter is that there just isn't much that can be done right now about this drought except to get help through to Texas farms--and others here in the drought area--in the form of emergency loans and emergency shipments of hay.

	We're doing that--on as large a scale as we can. We figure that the Texas farmers' problems are the problems of everybody in America--for we realize how dependent we are on the things that you raise. But we're not bragging about the emergency loans and the emergency hay shipments. They are all too little help--even if they are the difference between pulling through and not pulling through.

	The thing we are bragging about, in a fair way I think, is that twenty years of careful, hard planning ahead makes this 1952 drought only an emergency, whereas the one seventeen years ago was an awful disaster. That planning has been Democratic planning--what the Republicans call "creeping socialism." We'll let them do the name-calling. We'll just look at the record.

	When the dust storms swept over the north plains of Texas in the early 30s, they uprooted thousands of families like tumbleweeds and sent them rolling, homeless and hungry, along the highways. Nothing like that has happened this time; your roads aren't crowded now with overloaded jalopies heading west. Since those days, the farmers of the Southwest have put down roots like a mesquite tree, and this drought isn't going to tear them off their land.

	You all know why. In the last seventeen years, our farm people have had a chance to put on a little fat. In cooperation with their local, state and federal governments, they have built reservoirs and stock water tanks, completed irrigation projects, introduced widespread soil conservation practices, and done much to restore the grass cover of the land. The Fort Worth-Dallas area now has four flood control reservoirs built by U.S. Army Engineers, two of them completed less than a month ago. I'll let the Republicans call it all "socialism" if they wish.

	Furthermore, Texas farmers face today an entirely different situation from that of twenty years ago when farm mortgages were high, farm prices were low, and the farmer had no reserves at all. Today, Texas farmers have been able to pay off their mortgages, build up their farms and their stock, buy good equipment, and put some money in the bank. This is the result of the courage and enterprise of farmers backed up by sound governmental farm programs.

	No one can tell you that the federal government is interfering in your lives, or bringing "creeping socialism." You know, instead, that you are today freer and more independent than you have ever been--freer of debt, freer of the threat of market collapse, freer to go and come as you please, to take a vacation now and then, to send your children to college.

	I would be the last to claim that your present good conditions are something you got as a gift from the government. That's nonsense. But it's also nonsense to say that such programs as firm price supports, soil conservation, flood control, rural electrification, and agricultural and livestock research, both state and federal, didn't help you and every other farmer in America to help yourself.

	I am proud of the Democratic party's cooperation with the farm families in Texas and in other parts of the country during the past twenty years. If we had to do it over, we could avoid some mistakes I hope--but the point is that we did it, dared to take action when action was needed, and every Texan can see the result in his own life.

	This is the difference between the Republican and the Democratic leadership in this country. The Republican leaders have never been able to understand the great truth that "what man does not alter for the better, time, the great innovator, will alter for the worse." When there is something we need to do--together, for all our good, the Republicans say it can't be done. We just go ahead and do it. And we always have to do it over the stubborn, carping, sneering opposition of the Republican leaders in Congress.

	I'm not going to recite the long record of Republican opposition to our farm programs. Sam Rayburn can tell you about it; he was, in the Texas phrase, an "eyeball" witness. Nor do I like to talk about the days when they were running things. It probably wasn't even all their fault, but they don't hesitate to say that anything that goes wrong was all our fault. And I certainly got a laugh out of this verse which someone handed me in California yesterday:

TWENTY LONG YEARS

The Republicans for twenty years
Have shed their coats and skins and tears
To tell their comrades how they feel
Regarding Roosevelt's New Deal.

For twenty years they've pled for votes
But never mention nine cent oats.
They say this New Deal stuff is rotten.
But never speak of four cent cotton.

For twenty years they've wept aloud
And cussed this money spending crowd
They say of liberty we are shorn.
But not a breath of twelve cent corn.

For twenty years they've been at sea
And now they come to you and me
And offer us as bait for votes
More three cent steers and nine cent oats.

For twenty years they fume and fret
Hammer the New Deal and the Fair Deal set
They say to all: Oh what a cheat!
But forget to talk of two-bit wheat.

They offer as in days of old
A crown of thorns, a cross of gold--
More gilded promises, can you beat 'em?
Well one thing sure, you cannot eat 'em!

	Today we have Senator Ellender of Louisiana as Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, and Representative Cooley of North Carolina as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee. When it comes to looking out for the farmer's interest, the difference between the Taft team--and make no mistake about who runs the Republican party--and the Ellender-Cooley team is mighty plain; it is the difference between "no" and "yes". And as for the General--well, his "maybe" sounds to me like just a two-syllable version of Senator Taft's "no."

	Our battles for a sound agricultural policy are far from over. And we also have a long way to go before we have beaten the great triple-headed destroyers--erosion, flood, and drought.

	In this field, to reverse the words of your state song, the eyes of the nation are upon Texas.

	The flood control program in the Trinity River Valley is a pilot project for the nation. It gives large scale application to the principle that "flood control must begin at the top of the hill where the first trickle of water starts." It is the most important and hopeful attempt thus far made to reduce the crest of floods by holding back more water on the uplands where it falls and by retarding runoff of the remainder. From Virginia to California, from Iowa to Texas, I have seen evidence of America's need for flood control and soil conservation. This is one of the battles that must go forward if we are to build in the United States the fair and fruitful land of our dreams.

	Now I've talked too much to you of only one of our problems. But I've found that the more things I try to talk about at one of these meetings the less I say about any of them.

	You will realize, I am sure, my full appreciation that Fort Worth's growth as a food processing center and a livestock market has been matched by your development as an oil capital and one of the five top aircraft production centers in the nation. This is a modern metropolis, combining town and country.

	The Democratic party's story of meeting the needs of American farmers is matched item for item by its story of meeting the needs of American labor, of American business--particularly small business--and the needs of all the people.

	I saw a placard waving yesterday as we drove through Los Angeles. It was a homemade placard--like so many of the Democratic signs we see. "Vote Democrat," it said, "for the needy and against the greedy." Those words are too strong--both of them--but whoever made that sign has in his heart the real meaning of the Democratic party.

	To say that we have "helped the needy" misses, though, the real majesty of this story. It is that our self-organization which we call "great" has released the energies of the American people.

	We have thought of government not as a machine with gears, but as a living thing drawing its life from the lives of people--and returning new fullness of life, of freedom, and of security back to them.

	And so we have come, in these last twenty years, far along the road toward fulfillment of the destiny of this land which was clear to men of vision in the generation of Charles Goodnight, the first settler on the north plains of Texas. Few men or women saw promise then for anything but hardship and failure on the plains. But Charles Goodnight saw here the horizons of boundless opportunity.

	We have reached his horizons. And yet we know that there is still far for us to go.

	We know that it is particularly in the areas of world conflict and tension that there is so much remaining to be done.

	Yet in our achievements of the past we find the foundations of our confidence for the future. We have won freedom and security--human dignity--for ourselves as men and women of America. And in faith--faith in people and in God their maker--we find the quiet resolve to meet the new challenges to all mankind and to civilization itself.

	And Texans were never ones for walking away from challenge--and neither am I. I'll tell folks exactly what I think about the tidelands over in Dallas!
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONDISASTER RELIEF--TEXASPARTY AFFILIATIONSOCIALISMWATER RESOURCESAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     	= Õ< Ï< Ë< Ã<
 ¶< ±< ¬< ¢< < ›< =< 3<	 l 	 S 	 = 	 , 	 #   e: