Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1027.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/27STUMPALTOONAPENNSYLVANIAPA2,115 WORDS

	My friends:  Let me first thank each one of you who has taken this hour out of his busy day to come here and allow me to bring him a word of friendly greeting and to express to him a few of the thoughts on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	On this trip through your great state, I am honored by the company of men and women who have boarded my train to ride with me.  Among them are, of course, the men who just introduced me, Congressman Van Zandt, another veteran who I hope you will send back to Washington.  Along with him are your two United States Senators, Senator Martin and Senator Duff, and of course your Governor Fine.

	Someone told me, and I have great interest in the point, that here was a place where during the war between the states Lincoln came to meet with the governors of the several states and have a serious conference; and that later in our history that incident was repeated at this identical spot by Teddy Roosevelt.  I am delighted to have such distinguished predecessors in this business of trying to bring government to the people, instead always of summoning people down to Washington to hide behind those dusty desks, and from there to send out these pronouncements that are supposed to rule our lives.  I have proposed in a number of problems, ranging all the way from civil rights to the actual development of conservation products, that the chief executive should go out and meet with people in their localities and talk about problems right there on the ground and see them.  Incidentally, my friends, I applied this principle the other night in a speech.  I was talking to an audience in which there were a great number of veterans, as I know there are here.  Those veterans know that any VIP worth his salt occasionally tries to get down as often as he can to visit with the GI's, to see where they are living, how they are living; or he goes to the ship and he sees what the problems are, or he goes to the air field.  He goes down to see the people actually doing the work and sees whether it is possible, with their brains and their experience, to work out something that might save a few lives, that might make the problems of war easier.

	The other day when, in all innocence, I suggested it might be a good thing for me to go to Korea, I found the opposition disapproved.  So far as I am concerned, if such a visit could save one single life of an American fighting man--if it could keep that kind of grief out of a single American home--then it is a trip not only worthwhile, but one which I am determined to make, and I should be very proud to make.

	Someone said that in Altoona were the greatest railroad shops in the world.  As I came along and saw those shops and factories down there, I reached the conclusion that if there were any that were any bigger, they must be in an awfully big place.  Those certainly are big.  They reminded me that not long ago my wife and I had the privilege of coming by the place where I was born.  It was right square on the railroad tracks.  You could reach out of an ordinary freight car and grab a picket out of a picket fence.  All my life I have been associated with railroad men, and I here want to pledge you one thing:  If I were in the position of chief executive of this nation and if ever there arose an industrial dispute of any kind involving railroad men; I for one, would never be a party to trying to put them into the Army in order to make them do things that their own sense of justice tells them is not the right thing to do.  I have this faith in the railroad men--as a matter of fact.  I have this faith in all Americans when the problems are put up to them squarely and fairly--that they want their own problems settled so as to result in the greatest good for all of the United States and not just for an extra fifty cents this particular day.

	I believe, in all humility, that one of the greatest criticisms we have of the current worn-out, shopworn administration is that instead of trying to apply that particular yardstick to the problems of America--to settling something that is causing difficulty at the moment, they hope to get votes out of pretending-- out of pretending, I say--to favor one particular group at the expense of the whole United States.  We cannot win unless we have men and women in Washington forming our government who are sufficiently broad-minded, who are sufficiently wise--but above all, who are sufficiently dedicated to public service--to want to do just that--and who, in their combined wisdom and experience, can come closer to it than people who are not so well qualified?

	Now, let me tell you what I mean.  We have come to the point where we believe our government is not giving us the kind of leadership we deserve, and this feeling is general.  It is shared by everybody in the crusade of which I am a part, a crusade to substitute good government for bad government.  Here is the real basis of that disquieting feeling on our part:  the twenty-two-caliber of the men they have called to Washington to do forty-five-caliber jobs--they just aren't up to it.

	If you will give me a moment, I am going to read you something by the Dean of the Harvard Law School, probably the most experienced, the most respected tax lawyer in the United States and a man who in years past performed very valuable public service in Washington.  He was talking about the caliber of men in Washington and he said:

	"My assigned part of the whole picture is that of dealing with corruption in the government.  This is a sad and disgraceful picture for which my Democratic friends cannot escape responsibility.  As one who had been proud to be a government servant, the decline of such a great office as the Department of Justice has been disheartening.  Let us take Lamar Caudle:  For four years or more he was Assistant Attorney General of the United States in charge of the Tax Division of the Department of Justice.  Now, that is an area that I know something about.  I have spent most of my professional life in tax work.  I know a great many of the tax lawyers of the country.  I do not know anyone who ever heard of Lamar Caulde before he became head of the Tax Division.  He had no standing as a tax lawyer.  He had no qualifications as a tax lawyer.  And even after four years as head of the Tax Division, he had no ascertainable qualifications as a tax lawyer.  And I could go on and name others, not forgetting Mr. McGrath, the one-time Attorney General.  But I am not talking to you about bribery and fraud.  Where they exist, they can eventually be found and the violators brought to book.  I am talking about something of greater importance.  What I have in mind is the general standard of professional conduct.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the one pledge that this crusade of which I am a part brings to you and stands on is this:  the government they want to bring to the United States shall be composed of the outstanding men and women in every walk of life, from every section of our country, regardless of any such consideration as race or creed or color or national origin.  That government will be anxious that included within its numbers is somebody that you people here know, someone whose reputation you know, someone with such a standing in the community that his or her presence there is your guarantee that there is none of this chicanery of twenty-two-caliber people, little men, trying to do big jobs and bungling them, even if their hearts happen to be in the right place.  We have got to have the men and women that this country has produced, the kind it is now producing, who have reached places of prominence in their own localities if we are going to have the kind of government that first of all can find the road to peace.  We need a government that can begin to minimize these casualties coming out of Korea, one which can work out a peace that will bring tranquility to our hearts and minds, the kind of government that won't spend your money recklessly simply because they didn't earn it, but will be frugal and economical with your money as they would with their own.

	That is what is meant by dedicated public service.  They will be people who will watch this business of cheapening money and so raising your prices, forcing every one of you ladies here present today, when you go over to the grocery store, to take twenty-four dollars and fifty cents with you in order to buy exactly the same bag of groceries you bought in 1939 for ten dollars.  This crusade is determined to expand and improve social security.  We are pledged to that and we shall carry it out.

	One of the things we are going to do is to see that the money you saved up in bonds, in savings accounts, in insurance policies and in old-age pensions is not going to become worthless to you by draining out of your pockets through this terrible hole we call inflation.  We are going to preserve the value of that money by eliminating deficits and introducing business methods instead of methods of waste in the government of the United States.

	They have told me by my secret signal that I have spoken three minutes over time, but I want to make one special point to our youngsters, those voting for the first time.  If I am lucky I still own twenty years' worth of the United States, and they are not the best twenty years.  I have lost some of the energy and the fire and the enthusiasm of twenty-one.  But you youngsters voting for the first time have got sixty years' worth of the United States.  I urge you to take particular interest in the things that are happening to this country because we certainly are at a time, instinctively felt by all people, when what we do now is going to influence our country not for just another four years but for decades.  You youngsters are going to be here.  You look at this thing.

	I want to give you just two simple guides that I think you can follow with certainty.  Number one:  Don't forget that our form of government is firmly imbedded in a deeply felt religious faith.  Our forefathers, in attempting to explain our form of government, had to call upon the Creator in order to explain it.  There is no sense to a government based upon the equality of man unless we believe instinctively in some form of religion.

	Out of this first point I bring you to the second, which is this:  These problems of the times are twisted; they have different facets.  They range from the settling of strikes and collective bargaining, the strength of unions, the strength of social security programs--in all of which we believe--to difficult conferences across tables to promote peace.  Remember this:  You can get the kind of government you respect.  That is the most important thing we can do today.  You determine that you are going to have that group of men and women who will marshal your loyalties, will mobilize your intelligence and your efforts in one single effort to promote peace in the world.  United behind a government you respect, 155 million Americans is the strongest force God has yet allowed to live on this footstool.  All you have to do is to have in the government the kind of men and women you respect, admire and like.  You must feel that they are friendly, that they are working for you and not just trying to work you.  If you do those two simple things, my opinion is that you will never go wrong with this beloved America of ours.

	And now, my friends, before I go, I hope you will allow me to have my Mamie wave at you.


CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHDEMOCRACYFOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAINFLATIONRELIGION AND PHILOSOPHYTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSVOTING--YOUTH     F. . . . ˛-
 - Î- Ê- ﬂ- ”- —- —- ∆-	 ® 	 ä 	 Å 	 ] 	 T 	 = 	  e: