Speeches\1972\dem\S72d0921.002SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/21STUMPSPEECH TO MAJOR AMERICAN JEWISH ORGANIZATIONS2035 WORDS	

	I am honored to address this Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.  I hope quite soon to be able to talk to you as President to President.  Until then, I speak as a friend, and an admirer of the work you do.
	I speak at a time of deep concern and anguish over the fate of the Jews of the Soviet Union.  An entire community is being held for ransom.  Jews seeking to make a new life for themselves in Israel are forced to pay huge sums --amounting to ten years of earnings in many cases--for the right of emigration. This slave tax, based on the amount of each emigrant's education, has made hostages of the Jews of the USSR.
	
	The Nixon Administration is planning, despite the world outcry, to submit a trade agreement that will rant most-favored-nation status to the Soviet Union in its trade relations with our country.
	
	I call on the president to delay presenting this agreement to the United States Senate until he has received assurances from the Soviet Union that the huge exit fees imposed on would-be Soviet emigrants will be ended.
	
	I will urge my fellow senators to do the same.  Senators Ribicoff, Javits, Mondale, Bayh, Humphrey, Eagleton and House Majority Leader Hale Boggs have told me they too will oppose this agreement.
	
	I am not willing to trade this country's historic commitment to human rights--the individual worth and value of human beings to live as they wish and where they wish--just for a commercial trade.  As long as the Soviet Union continues to put a price-tag on its citizens who wish to emigrate, as long as the Soviet Union continues to provide guns and bullets to Arab terrorists, I intend to fight as hard as I can to deny them the privilege of most-favored-nation in doing business with America.
	
	It is fitting that I should make this statement before this body.
	
	Your conference has provided a place where the leadership of the American Jewish community meets to share information and work together to insure the safety and security of the Jewish people around the world.  That is not an easy job at a time when terror lurks at every airport and in every mailbox.
	
	You have served as the central address in the United States to which Jewish communities abroad may turn on issues of mutual concern.  This is an important responsibility at a time when danger as well as hope brings these communities together.  When you speak on such matters as the security of the people of Israel and the fate of Jews in the Soviet Union, you speak as the authentic voice of the most all-embracing coalition, of the world's largest Jewish community.
	
	Your policies and your positions are based not only on your concern for your co-religionists, but on America's national interest.  Your activities have been motivated not by negative power politics but by a positive commitment to the democratic state of Israel and the ideal America shares with her.
	
	I share that commitment with you.  My commitment to Israel is a moral commitment that began with my entry into public life in 1957, the first year I was in Congress.  At that time I voted against a bill proposed by the Eisenhower-Nixon Administration that would have sent arms to the Arab states.  On January 31, 1957 I said on the floor of the House of Representatives, "As a nation that had played a key role in the creation of the state of Israel, the only real democracy in the Middle East, America would be ill-advised in strengthening the hand of those Arab chieftains who insist that they will not rest until Israel is destroyed."
	
	My commitment to Israel continues to this day.  It is not an instrument of Cold War politics.  It did not begin with the Soviet military build-up in the Mediterranean.  It will not end with their withdrawal.
	
	I do not now, nor have I ever, supported the Rogers Plan, which the administration says continues to be the basis of its Middle East diplomacy.  This organization needs no reminder from me of the dangers to Israel of the Rogers Plan.  I remember the National Emergency Conference on Peace in the Middle East which you sponsored in Washington just two years ago, where you voiced your "deep concern and apprehension" over the Secretary of State's proposals.  I remember the series of meetings you held with Secretary Rogers and Assistant Secretary Sisco, in which you protested the drift of American policy from an insistence on a negotiated peace between the Arab states and Israel toward an imposed peace by way of Four Power talks.
	
	I remember your statement expressing profound distress and disappointment over the decision of the Nixon Administration to deny Israel's request to purchase aircraft critically needed for her defense and survival.
	
	And I remember the full-page advertisement you published in the "New York Times" listing the names of 64 senators and 243 representatives who had signed a statement entitled "The deterrent strength of Israel must not be impaired."
	
	I was proud to be one of the 64 senators who signed that statement.  I should like to read from it today, because I still believe it to be true.
	
	"We the undersigned members of the United States Congress," the statement read, declare:  "A just and lasting peace in the Middle East is essential to world peace ... we adhere to the principle that the deterrent strength of Israel must not be impaired.  This is essential to prevent full-scale war in the Middle East."
	
	As we meet today, as so many times in recent years, tensions are rising in the Middle East.  Once again the shots are heard and the tanks rumble, as terrorists do what they can and Israel does what she must.
	
	If anything is clear by now, it is that there can be no real peace in the Middle East until the terror gangs are eliminated.  And it is equally clear that certain governments will sponsor and harbor these gangs until the statehood of Israel is recognized by the Arab world and the parties to the conflict negotiate the peace.  For the world's sake as well as Israel's and the people of the Arab world, the efforts of our nation and all nations must be directed toward this end.
	
	This Administration claims it seeks to lay the groundwork for a "generation of peace."  It had this chance as early as 1969.  It has not succeeded and the reason goes well beyond its Mideast policies.  How can we expect those who support the terrorists to listen to us when we kill innocent civilian bystanders, not by the dozens but the thousands?  Can we expect Arab governments to heed a plea for direct negotiations when we refuse to put forward an acceptable plan in the negotiations in Paris?  Do we dare ask the Israelis to forebear from retaliation on countries which threaten their national security, when we continue to destroy a nation far too small and weak to threaten us in any way?
	
	We have lost many things by our tragic involvement in Vietnam.  But perhaps most tragic of all has been the loss of the moral authority of the United States to be, by its example, a force for peace and justice among nations.  To restore that authority, we must stop this war.  I will do so.  Only then can we proceed to achieve a "generation of peace."
	
	The Congress of the United States will once again have the opportunity to reassert America's moral posture in the world, should the Nixon Administration proceed with its plan to give the USSR most-favored-nation status.  This trade agreement is being prepared by Dr. Kissinger at a moment of deep anxiety and fear in the Soviet Jewish community.  There are the ransom charges levied against would-be emigrants--a form of harassment that even the Czarist regime never imposed.  There are the mounting arrests and harsh prison sentences imposed against Jewish activists, the midnight interrogations by the Soviet secret police, the closing down of synagogue services, the cutting off of telephones.  All are designed to isolate and intimidate Soviet Jewry.  All have occurred since the President met in Moscow with the leaders of the Soviet regime, where he apparently acquiesced in the Soviet argument that these are "internal" matters.
	
	I do not believe the plight of Soviet Jewry is an internal matter, any more than what was going on in Germany in the 1930s was an internal matter.  It concerns human dignity and religious freedom.  It is my cause and yours, and we shall pursue it as vigorously as we can.
	
	We are a nation of immigrants whose forebears were able to escape persecution because they did not have to pay a ransom charge to emigrate.  I believe the American people will not countenance a White House policy that turns a blind eye to oppression and a deaf ear to the cries of the victims.  I believe the American people will repudiate any effort to grant special status to a regime that is guilty of such flagrant violations of human rights, and that is supplying arms to Arab terrorists.
	
	Within recent months there have been signs of an easing of tensions and increases in trade between our country and the Soviet Union.  All Americans want this trend continued.  But if trade can be linked with political objectives, as it has for so long in East-West regulations, surely it can be linked with moral issues.  The Soviet action in demanding huge exit fees of its Jewish citizens and in sending arms to Arab terrorists can only damage the cause of better relations between our countries.
	
	Indeed, it was the Senate and the House which turned the administration around by demonstrating large majorities against an imposed peace and for direct negotiations and military aid for Israel.
	
	When I am President, the White House and the Congress will work not at cross-purposes but together; not to impose a Middle East peace but to bring the parties together at the peace table; not to draw maps but to let Israel and her Arab neighbors agree among themselves on new, secure and defensible borders that will end the tempting vulnerability of boundaries that led to the attempts to destroy Israel in 1948, 1956 and 1967.  For only when the countries that fought the war meet at the negotiating table, only when the existence of Israel is accepted as a permanent fact by the Arab world, can there be peace.
	
	Earlier this month, after the horror at Munich, I called on the administration to ostracize and punish any nation that gives haven to terrorist murders.  I repeat that call today.  I called on the President to end his silence on soviet Jewry.  I repeat that call now.
	
	And I call on my fellow senators to join me in opposing any legislation submitted by the White House that would grant most-favored-nation status to the Soviet Union so long as it ransoms its Jewish citizens and provides arms to Arab terrorists.  For these actions by the USSR can only poison the relations between our two countries and contaminate the atmosphere in which we and the Russians must live together and work out a new relationship for the future.
	
	Of all the things I have done in public life, I am proudest of having built a reputation as a spokesman for peace.  Being for peace does not mean being weak, or naive, or afraid of confrontation.  Being for peace means being willing to assume responsibility to nations threatened by aggression.  It means helping people seeking justice and helping nations working for peace.  It means ending wrong commitments and maintaining the right ones.  It means knowing where the real interest of the United States lies.
	
	Your actions as the representative voice of American Jewry concerned with the security and dignity of Jews abroad show you understand where our country's interest lies.
	
	That interest requires an end to Arab terrorism.  It requires justice for Soviet Jewry.  It requires the survival of Israel--militarily secure, economically sound and living at peace with its neighbors.  Toward these ends I pledge every resource at my command.

ANTI-SEMITISMEMIGRATION--SOVIET JEWSFOREIGN TRADE AGREEMENTS--SOVIET UNIONHUMAN RIGHTSJEWISH AMERICANSMIDDLE EAST--ARAB NATIONSPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--MIDDLE EASTTERRORISMWEAPONS SALES--ARAB NATIONSWEAPONS SALES--ISRAELWEAPONS SALES--SOVIET UNION TO ARAB NATIONSISRAELMIDDLE EAST     !0 Ì/ Á/ „/ €/
 œ/  / ≈/ ≈/ ≈/ ≈/ ò/ é/	 	 	 ¯ 	 “ 	 ∆ 	 ∂ 	 ù 	 u 	 l 	 Q 	 <     e: