Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1101.005.txtDemocratSTEVENSON (D)11/1STUMPMANSFIELDOHIOOH1,485 WORDS

	Mr. DiSalle, my friends of Mansfield.  I am very grateful to you for your kind introduction, Mr. DiSalle.  I must say I like the looks of this audience better than the one I was looking at at the State Penitentiary in Illinois yesterday.  I am very grateful to you for coming here and I am glad to see so many of you here.  It sort of looks to me as though some of the stories I had heard about Republican Ohio must have been mistaken.

	I am returning to Chicago today from my last campaign trip, and I must say it is mighty good to be on the home stretch.  One of the pleasurable things about it, about this whole campaign trip of mine, has been that I don't have to check my schedule to see what state I'm in, and who the Senatorial candidate is before I decide what I can say and what I can't say.  I have said the same things wherever I have been.  Nor do I have to devote any major speeches to an insistent claim that I am the same man I was when I started, like my distinguished opponent felt compelled to do in New York the other night.  Throughout this campaign I have said what I meant, and meant what I said--and so has my running mate, Senator Sparkman.

	I was thinking in New York last night--it was Halloween--and it sort of suggested to me that the good General started out with a new broom and ended up on a broomstick, surrounded by ghosts and witches.  Well, you can be sure he was doing the dirty work somewhere.

	The General's insistence that he is still the same man reminds me of an absent-minded professor who walked to town one day with one foot on the sidewalk and one foot on the street, and when he got to town he met a friend, and he said, "You know, I can't understand it.  I wasn't limping when I left home this morning."

	I should like, if I could, to talk to you briefly about the prosperity of your community and the way that that has been built over the past two decades.  The principal industry here in Mansfield is electrical appliances, as I understand it.  I wonder what you who make these refrigerators, and toasters, and so on, and those of you who sell them in retail stores, would be doing if there weren't farmers and there weren't working men walking into these stores, not only here but all over the United States, with money in their pockets and able to buy what you produce and sell.

	I wonder what Mansfield would be like if the farmers around your town stopped coming into Mansfield stores to buy.  I wonder what would happen to the appliance industry if workers all over the country weren't able to place the down payment on a refrigerator, or something.

	Now, the programs of the Democratic Party during these past twenty years have been based on the conviction that the welfare of our society depends on the well-being of a city like Mansfield, where farmers come to buy and to spend their money.  And when farmers suffer, you suffer too.  Unfortunately, no one knows precisely what the official Republican attitude is on farm policy.  In fact, the Republicans seem to have four official attitudes.  There is the attitude of the Republican majority in Congress that I have talked about so many times during this campaign.  And then there is the attitude of the General, who evidently forgot to look up the Republican record in Congress.  And then there is the attitude of the platform writers who said something vague about aiming at parity--whatever that is.  I always thought that perhaps the General had better aim than that.  And, finally, there is the attitude of Senator Taft who is certainly the best known authority on what the General--(boos)--well, you have got to say one thing for Senator Taft.  You usually know where he stands, and he certainly is the foremost authority on what the General believes.

	Well, we Democrats have passed a minimum wage law in order to keep up the purchasing power of the working man.  We have provided for the security of our old people when they are no longer able to work for a living, through the Social Security system.  Both minimum wage and social security have been bitterly opposed, as you all know, by the Republican Old Guardsmen.  We have built the most solid prosperity this country has ever known.  We fooled the post-war crepe-hangers who predicted we would go into he same slump that we have suffered after every other war.

	We Democrats believe that depressions can be avoided and we believe in doing everything possible and necessary to avoid them.  The so-called Full Employment Act, which was passed by a Democratic Congress, pledged our Government to use every resource at its command to keep us prosperous, and this, of course, was too much for the Republicans; at the time they called it the "Fool Employment Act.'

	One of the most heartening aspects of my experience this past several months has been the support of independent-minded people everywhere, people who approach elections with a question mark in their minds and who ask only for faithful public service, for good government, in exchange for their votes.

	I had a letter recently which heartened me greatly.  It said--and I would like to quote it--it said, "I wish that this contribution were more than $25.00; you will be amused to learn that my husband and I gave all we could afford to the Eisenhower Campaign Fund.  We are Republicans, but we and thirteen of our personal friends have switched from "E" to "S."

	Well I hope that there are many such Independents here in Mansfield and that you will vote not only for "S" on election day but also for my friend and a great public servant and a fellow Ohioan, the former Mayor of Toledo, Mike DiSalle.

	You know, the Congress is the indispensable aspect--branch of our government.  The Executive can suggest and he must administer, but it is Congress, in the last analysis, that has to make our policies, our programs, and if we are going to have programs and policies consistent with the practices and with the purposes that we have established in these past two decades, it is going to require a Congress that is sympathetic and that is understanding and that has the same objectives as the Executive.

	So I should also ask you to send to Congress your candidate from this District, James Mayer.

	Before we resume our journey, I have some people here aboard the train that I should like the privilege of introducing to you, and the first is my youngest son, John Fell Stevenson; and I might say that I am delighted to see that he's got his hair brushed for once.  We also have aboard the National Co-Chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson, which has done so much to persuade the independent voters what they should do, Mrs. Edison Dick of Chicago; and the National Vice-Chairman of the Democratic Committee, Mrs. India Edwards of Washington.

	I always think I would be far better off if one of these ladies was making the speech instead of me.  And finally, we have my Aunt, Miss Letitia Stevenson, who sixty years ago this year went to Washington when my grandfather was inaugurated as vice president; and my sister, Mrs. Ives.

	And here are two charming little girls of Mansfield--Florence Ann Calhoun and Maureen Kay Connor, who are presenting us with some flowers.  I think our train would be a lot happier if we had a couple of girls like that aboard for keeps.  She said she was scared to death; she isn't half as scared as I am.

(Whistle blows.)

	They're always has to be a whistle in these stops.

	A VOICE:  Here is a gift from the C.I.O.

	GOVERNOR STEVENSON:  My goodness, this seems to have been a very profitable stop for me.  Here is a gift to me from the Highland County C.I.O. Council of Mansfield, Ohio, a beautiful cigarette case.

	Well, I am deeply grateful for this courtesy and this thoughtfulness. I don't think this is going to improve my smoking habits but it is a very welcome gift indeed and I am deeply touched and grateful to all of you who participated in it and all of you for being here, too.  And I might say I sought to thank the Democratic County Committee for providing us this beautiful day.

	And here is Miss McGowan, the National Committeewoman from Ohio.  You can see there are not just politicians on this train.

	Good-bye and so many thanks to you.  I am ever so much obliged.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESMINIMUM WAGESOCIAL SECURITY     ! ã  Û 
 Î  Ê  Å  ¼  ¸  ¶  ¶  « 	 X 	 D 	  	  e: