Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0909.002SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/09STUMPDALLASTEXASTXNATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA, INC.1,400 WORDS

	Thank you, Dr. Jemison, for that kind introduction.  It is a great honor to be introduced by a man who led a bus boycott before Montgomery and has been a fighter for freedom and justice for more than three decades.

	I want to commend two other outstanding leaders of the National Baptist Convention who have inspired millions by their service in the cause of justice--Dr. W. Franklin Richardson and Dr. C. A. W. Clark.

	I have a sense that I am in the presence of history today.  I'm speaking to an organization that was founded more than 100 years ago by men and women of great faith and courage and vision; men and women, many of whom rose from slavery to become spiritual leaders of their communities and of our nation.

	We Americans are a wonderful and diverse people--some of us are the descendants of those who came here in slave ships, to our everlasting shame; some of us the descendants of those who, like my parents, came here in converted coal ships; but all with the God-given right to genuine opportunity and the American dream.

	Like the church to which I belong, yours is a community institution.  Like the church to which I belong, yours is not only a place where people worship on Sunday but the heart and soul of the community.  Like the church to which I belong, you understand that you cannot live on earth and focus your attention only on heaven; and that those of us who call ourselves Christians have a responsibility to feed the hungry and heal the sick and house the stranger.

	Yours is a living church, an active church, a church that exists not just to save souls but to save the soul of America from racism and injustice.  Not just to be the heart and soul of a community but to be the conscience of a nation.  Not just to be the heirs to a proud history but to continue to make history.  Calling upon America to live up to its promise; summoning America to fulfill its destiny; reminding America of its fundamental--and founding--values:  in the words of Isaiah "to bind up the broken heart and to proclaim liberty to the captives; to comfort all that mourn, to give unto the beauty for ashes; the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness..."

	As the son of immigrants, I have often heard America described as a melting pot--but, in truth, America is not so much a melting pot as it is a mosaic of races and creeds and ethnic groups bound together by our love for this country; by our faith in its future; and by our deep and abiding faith in the American dream.

	I've traveled this country for sixteen months, and I have learned that, while we Americans may express our deepest beliefs in different ways, we share a core of common values.

	The values of family.  The idea of community.  The idea that we are all in this together; that regardless of who we are or where we come from or how much money we have--each of us counts.  And that by working together to create opportunity and a good life for all--all of us are enriched, not just in economic terms but as citizens and as human beings.

	It is an idea that echoes down the ages from the Old Testament prophets to the Sermon on the Mount.

	An idea that was planted in the New World by the first Governor of Massachusetts.

	"We must," said John Winthrop, "love one another with a pure heart fervently.  We must delight in each other, make each other's condition our own, rejoice together, mourn together, and suffer together ... We must," he said, "be knit together as one."

	The idea of community.  An idea most eloquently expressed--in our own time by Martin Luther King.

	"We are all tied into a single garment of destiny," he said.  "Whatever affects one directly, affects the other indirectly."

	Two Saturdays ago, in Washington D.C, Kitty and I joined Jesse Jackson and thousands of Americans in the twenty-fifth anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.

	We came together at the Lincoln Memorial in 1988 to remind ourselves and the nation that while America has made great progress in the last quarter century, we have miles to go before we fulfill the dream of equal opportunity for every American.

	The march for jobs and freedom is not over.  We as a nation have to march on.

	And in just sixty days, we will make an historic decision about who will lead us, what values will guide us, and whether we will stand still or whether we will march on.

	Some of you are Democrats, some of you are Republicans, some of you are Independents.  All of you are spiritual leaders and community leaders.

	I ask you to look at those who would lead this country; examine our records; assess our values; and ask yourself, who best understands the American promise, who can best keep the American promise, who shares the dream and will work hardest to make it real.

	In just sixty days, we will decide if America stands still or marches forward.  And I need your help.

	In just sixty days, we can choose a president who will enforce civil rights laws, not veto them; who will appoint an Attorney General who will inspire us, not embarrass us; who will take his cue on civil rights not from people like William Bradford Reynolds, but from people like Eleanor Holmes Norton.

	In just sixty days, we can choose a president who will select judges committed to extending justice not rationing it; who will choose people like Thurgood Marshall and Louis Brandeis, not Robert Bork for our nation's courts; a president whose standard for the federal bench will be a commitment to the Constitution of the United States and the understanding that it applies to all our citizens.

	In just sixty days, we can select leaders who are committed to full employment--and I mean full employment--for all Americans; an administration that will create good jobs, and not export them; jobs with a future, jobs we can count on, jobs we can raise a family on.

	In just sixty days we can select leaders who believe in the family; who understand how important quality childcare is to our future and our children's future; and who will do something about the nearly 40 million Americans who don't have a dime of health insurance.

	In just sixty days, we can select leaders who believe that every school in this country should be a good school; that teaching must be a valued and honored profession in America again; and that we must open up the door of college opportunity to every youngster in this country who is qualified to do college work.

	In just sixty days, we can stop lecturing welfare mothers and start providing the training and the childcare they need to find--and hold--good jobs.

	In just sixty days, we can dedicate ourselves to a real war--not a phony war--against drugs; and to a future where our children will make their fortunes designing computers, not selling cocaine.

	In just sixty days, we can have an administration that will lead the way on the Dellums Bill--and that will lead the way in the United Nations for international sanctions against South Africa.

	In just sixty days, we can elect a president who will strengthen our voting rights law, not undermine them; who will fight for the universal voter registration bill now before the Congress; and who will support the people of the District of Columbia in their struggle for full statehood and equal rights.

	In just sixty days, we can begin again the march to justice; and we're going to march together--as one community--rich and other and--yes--love one another.

	We'll be marching as a community that is, in John Winthrop's words--"knit together as one," and, in the words of Dr. King, "tied into a single garment of destiny."

	Together, we can build that kind of community for our nation.

	And that kind of future for America.

CIVIL RIGHTSDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMDRUG TRADE--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALJOB GROWTH/CREATIONSOUTHERN BAPTISTSSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSVOTER REGISTRATIONVOTING RIGHTS     o ; 5 1 )
     	  â ×	 ¨ 	 œ 	 ‚ 	 o 	 ] 	 J 	 9 	  	  e: