Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1025.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/25STUMPBOSTONMASSACHUSETTSMAMECHANIC'S HALL FOR 10 PM RELEASE AND FOR RELEASE TO MORNING NEWSPAPERS, OCTOBER 262543 WORDS

	It is wonderful to be back in Boston again. This has been a great campaign--and never greater than it has been this last week. I have never met so many good Americans--and good Democrats--old Democrats and new Democrats--as I have in the last two months. And I have come to the conclusion that I like about every one of them!

	I am told that, when I say I like Democrats, I will not please all the inhabitants of your commonwealth. Some citizens of this state, I understand, share my opponent's attitude toward Democrats. "When I was a small boy in Kansas," he said, "we used to talk about the Democrats as we did about the town drunk." I guess it's not often that Republican leaders have a kind word to say about anybody--including each other.

	From the way they complain, you might think that these Republicans had been suffering. But if they are suffering, it must be from self-inflicted wounds. For I can't see that twenty years of Democratic government have ruined many of us. I understand that some of them still hate Roosevelt. But I often wonder where those complainers would be today if it had not been for the magnificent leadership which Franklin Roosevelt gave this nation.

	When the whole economic system was crashing down over our heads twenty years ago, the new Democratic administration showed that free government need not stand, helpless and terrified, before economic disaster.

	When Communists and Fascists won converts among despairing men and women who had lost faith in freedom, the fighting leadership of Franklin Roosevelt banished despair, restored faith--and destroyed the great opportunities which Communism would otherwise have had in our country.

	Under twenty years of Democratic government, we have regained our confidence, restored our strength, renewed our freedom--until we are today the most powerful and prosperous nation in the world.

	Most Americans--and most businessmen and many Republicans--know that this is true. They know that our prosperity has never been so solidly based. They know that the best way to insure the continuation of good times and good profits is through the Democratic measures which sustain the buying power of the people--minimum wage and collective bargaining laws for the worker, price support programs for the farmer, social insurance for the unemployed, the sick and the elderly, and a tax program which bears least heavily on those who can least afford to pay.

	Most Americans know that our taxes are the hard price we have to pay for safety in a world where the defense of freedom must cost money or it will cost more blood and more money.

	Most Americans know, too, that our free enterprise system was never so strong as it is today--and they know that only twenty years ago they themselves were wondering whether it had not failed altogether.

	If this is what "socialism," as the Republican leaders call it, has achieved for our free economy, then I would say that Democratic "socialism" is a far better medicine for our free enterprise system than Republican reaction!

	Most Americans, I say, know these things to be true. But an obstinate and stubborn minority objects. They object to economic security. They object to progress. They object to the new, free and friendly America the people have built on the debris of Republican misrule. In fact, many of them seem to object to the twentieth century!

	Their breed is dying out; but where they survive, they are well entrenched. And the place where they are best entrenched of all is the leadership of the Republican party. They are the boys who are still carrying the torch for William McKinley. They are the Republican Old Guard.

	Last July in Chicago it looked for a moment as if the Old Guard had suffered a setback. Some of them thought so themselves. In fact, Colonel McCormick, the publisher of the Chicago Tribune, started what amounted to a Republican Lonely Hearts Club--a place where the Old Guard could foregather and weep in its wine. He proclaimed a new party. But the colonel., as usual, was too pessimistic. When the dust of battle had finally settled, a peace conference was called by the victor, and it became apparent that the colonel's club had acquired a new member--the Republican candidate for president.

	There is still a Republican Lonely Hearts Club today. But its members now are those liberal Republicans who were for the general before Chicago.

	Can there be doubt any longer about what we will get from the General of the Army?

	He has turned his back on the liberal Republicans who fought for his nomination. He has marched obediently into state after state demanding the re-election of the worst isolationists and reactionaries in the Congress.

	The general has evidently forgotten the simple wisdom of the first and greatest Republican president. Abraham Lincoln said in 1859, "Nor do I believe that we can ever advance our principles by supporting men who oppose our principles."

	By going up and down the country calling for the election of those who oppose his principles and for the defeat of those who support them, the general has done just one thing: he has forsworn those principles.

	What he has put in their place is sometimes hard to pin down. It looks like a new kind of campaign--campaign by platitude. In fact, I would suggest to the Republicans that it is indeed high time for a change--for a change from the general to the specific.

	But, if the general may not know his own mind, the Old Guard certainly knows its mind.

	Let us consider for a moment what the Old Guard is saying about our country. And I mean what they are really saying--after you take the frosting off their words.

	They are saying that our economy is weak and feeble; that our good times are based on spending for war; that we are afraid of peace because peace will mean depression.

	They are saying that Americans have lost their freedom; that their government has made them slaves.

	They are saying that we are wasting our substance on military and economic aid to those who are holding the line against Communism abroad.

	They are even saying that we are spending too much for defense here at home.

	That is what the Old Guard and its captive candidate are saying to the American people.

	But these are not the only voices saying these things to America.

	Other voices are saying the same things to us--that our people are oppressed; that our prosperity is based on war; that we have lost our freedom; that we should cut down on foreign aid and on our own defenses. And these other voices are the voices of the most evil and malignant force loose in the world today--the force of world Communism.

	Now I do not suggest for a moment that this coincidence proves that the Republican Old Guard is infiltrated by Communist agents. I will leave that kind of argument to the Old Guard itself. If we took those arguments away from them, they wouldn't have anything left!

	But I would say this to you--and I say it with the utmost seriousness. The great, overshadowing problem which confronts us today is the problem of Communism, at home and abroad, in all its forms, militant and passive, civil and military, political and economic, moral and material, secretive and manifest.

	If we deal with these problems wisely, we may keep the peace of the world, increase the strength of free peoples and look forward with hope to the day when freedom and justice will be enthroned in the councils and the conscience of the world.

	But if we deal with this problem foolishly, we risk atomic war, on the one hand, or ignominious surrender, on the other--in either case, the destruction of freedom and civilization.

	I ask you: to whom should our people entrust the fight against Communism--to those Old Guard Republicans who, on one issue after another, vote the way our enemies like to see them vote? Or to those who have rallied the free world against Communist aggression?

	We can hold back the Communist tide only as we transform weakness into strength--only as we help build the military and economic power of the nations which lie between us and the Soviet Union. If these nations topple over, then there would be no barrier to a direct Soviet attack on the United States. We are fighting today in Korea in order that we shall not have to fight first somewhere else, and last on our own beaches and in our own streets and cities.

	The American government has been building strength in the free world under the courageous leadership of Harry S. Truman. And who has opposed this policy of strength?

	The record is clear. From the beginning to the end, the Old Guard Republicans have opposed the programs we need to check the spread of Communism in the world.

	They voted against aid to Greece and Turkey in 1947.
	
	They voted against the Marshall Plan in 1948.

	They voted against the North Atlantic Pact in 1949.

	They opposed the reinforcement of our troops in Europe.

	They opposed the Mutual Security Program.

	They opposed economic aid to Korea.

	They opposed the Point Four Program.

	In each and every case the Old Guard Republican have voted against strength and for weakness.

	They have voted for policies which would encourage Soviet aggression and against the policies which would check it.

	On these crucial issues of foreign policy, in short, the Old Guard has voted the straight party line--and I don't mean the Republican party!

	Of course they don't mean to aid and abet our enemies; but the results are the same.

	Are these the men we want to lead our nation in the struggle against Communism today?

	All the while they proclaim ferocious anti-Communism. Indeed, the best way they can apparently find to obscure their retreat from the fight against Communism abroad, the fight to keep it distant from our shores, is by shouting and screaming every hour on the hour about how much they hate Communism at home.

	Now Communism in the United States is an ugly and sinister thing. It requires our most serious and relentless attention. But men who seek to fight it by indiscriminate accusation of their fellow citizens--by spreading suspicion, and smear, and slander--are serving no one but the Communists themselves.

	I commend to you the wise words of the Roman Catholic bishops of the United States in their formal pronouncement last November. "Dishonesty, slander, detraction and defamation of character," the Bishops said, "are as truly transgressions of God's Commandments when resorted to by men in political life as they are for all men."

	Noisy, reckless accusers can't clean out the Communists. As your own Herbert Philbrick put it after working years for the Federal Bureau of Investigation within the Communist Party:

	"Amateur red-hunters, ambitious politicians, demagogues, and rabble-rousers are no match for (the hardened Communist). The fight against the professional Communist will not be won by flag-waving or name-calling... It calls for strenuous and continuous intelligence and counter-spy work by government agencies charged with those responsibilities. It takes experts to fight experts."

	The genuine Communist must relish indiscriminate public denunciation regardless of its nature. On the one hand, it shields him by losing him in the crowd. On the other hand, it creates an atmosphere of suspicion, disunity and fear, on which Communism thrives. Finally, it tends to break down that faith in ourselves and in each other which, more powerful than any armaments, is democracy's most potent weapon.

	As I have said repeatedly in this campaign, if I find any Communists or fellow travelers or Soviet agents or dupes in our federal government, I will root them out promptly and ruthlessly.

	In fighting Communists at home, I shall rely on such experienced guardians of our security as J. Edgar Hoover of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and General Bedell Smith of the Central Intelligence Agency. These men fight Communism as it must be fought--with care, thoroughness, precision--and silence.

	And, when you hear partisan attacks against our security system, I would remind you of the measured judgment of General Bedell Smith. "If either candidate," said the director of our Central Intelligence Agency, "does as well as President Truman in cooperating with the security agencies, the American people can congratulate themselves."

	When politicians make those partisan attacks, it is wise to wonder which they are more interested in hunting: Communists or votes?

	And, of course, police work is only the first and obvious line of defense against Communism in America. The basic defense lies in our continued progress toward equal opportunity and social justice. To fight Communism at its roots, we must fight the conditions which breed Communism--which means that we must never relax in our war against poverty, discrimination, inhumanity and depression.

	This is the fight which the Democratic party has made its own--and every step along the way we have been opposed by the Old Guard of the Republican party.

	These men who set their faces against change and social justice at home and against collective strength abroad are the best allies that Communism has in our land.

	There are terrible problems ahead--deep, puzzling, saddening, tragic problems--problems which will test our faith and try our souls.

	But Americans have confronted terrible problems before--when we were far weaker and lonelier and less prepared than we are today.

	The nation which survived Valley Forge and Gettysburg and Pearl Harbor will not succumb to the shivers and shakes just because the Old Guard is shivering and shaking.

	We can have general war--if we give power to the men who never anticipate danger and are always ready with too little, too late.

	We can lose our liberties--if we give power to the men who have already lost their heads.

	But we need not have depression or war or everlasting anxiety and crushing taxes--if our leadership remains strong, clear-headed, firm and forward looking.

	This is a great and exciting age in which we live--an age of tragedy, but also of challenge and opportunity--an age for heroes, not for whimperers. Our faith in America and our faith in free men will triumph over all their cries of lamentation and doom.

	Within another ten days we come to the moment of reckoning. We can choose the party of fear--or the party of faith. We can look backward to dreary yesterdays--or forward to brighter tomorrows. We can withdraw in confusion and indecision with the general's tarnished crusade. Or we can advance with the Democratic party in confidence and purpose--one way is darkness; the other sunlight.

	I have no doubt myself. I am sure that the American people, inspired by their belief in freedom, fortified by their faith in God, will choose to face the future--and to master it.

	And, in conclusion, let me share with you the new slogan of the "great crusade"--"Fight? We  haven't begun--to surrender.
COMMUNISMFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFREE MARKET ECONOMIESGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSSOCIALISMSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     Ì; π; ≥; Ø; ß;
 ö; ï; ê; ä; }; {; (; ;	 õ 	 í 	 z 	 e 	 F 	 $ 	  e: