Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0917.003SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/17STUMPBUFFALONEW YORKNYCANISIUS COLLEGE, WITH Q & A9,105 WORDS

	Thank you for your introduction, Judge Desmond.  I see that you have a number of students here.  I noticed how generously they applauded you.  It was good, and all this helps ease the marking situation around examination time.

	I am very honored and very pleased to have with us today Congressman Dulski and Congressman McCarthy and the distinguished mayor of the city of Buffalo, Mayor Sedita.  I am very pleased, also, to see the grass roots dissenters that are here.  Father Demske has been kind enough to tell me that some of the spokesmen of the other parties will have equal time here.  Of this, I am most grateful, in one way, that we have a chance to get some votes--and I want to show my appreciation.  He indicated that I was applying for another job.  I want to tell all of my fellow political scientist that an elective office is a precarious pursuit--and the vice president is rather precarious and dangerous, as you found out.

	My seniority contract ran out and not only that--the management quit.  If my feet didn't hurt so much and I were a better sign reader, I might join the demonstrators, but I decided that I would aspire to the highest office within the gift of the American people and should that not succeed--Father Demake, I want you to know that my credentials as a teacher of political science are still in order.  I might be available.  I have always liked Buffalo and I would be more than happy to present whatever credentials I might have.

	I was talking to Congressman Dulski on the way, and I asked him for a little background about this great college, Canisius College.  Most of what he told me, I can't tell you, but he did tell me this, "You say this to Father Demske and to the faculty and others, that when he was a student"--I won't tell you how long ago he said it was--he said, "there was no democracy then".  So, things have changed, I see.  And he also went on to tell me that he led a revolt to build a student union instead to a chapel.  Right after that, he was elected to Congress.

	I come here today to visit with you for a few minutes on my part, and then, to open this gathering to questions from the panel and from the floor.  I come to talk to you on what I believe is the role of the student generation in the American political scene and in the American society.  I think we all recognize that within a very few years, in fact, eight years, we will be celebrating the 200th anniversary of this republic, that calls for...[missing text]...with very young men.  Their average age was thirty-six.  Thomas Jefferson, most famed and noted for the Declaration of Independence was twenty-eight.

	We will close the second century of our national life with another gifted and precocious generation of young people.  A generation that, I believe, has insisted on matching our reality with our ideals. There has been a great deal happening in this generation, with the Freedom Marches of the 1960's, the Peace Corps, the International Volunteer Services, a growing student interest in public affairs and there has been an ever-increasing interest of young people in all forms of public life.  I consider this one of the most encouraging developments of the century.

	My public life started with very young people--they once called it the Humphrey Diaper Brigade.  Men like Secretary Freeman, the secretary of agriculture, Senator McCarthy, Congressman Fraser and myself, and others, were the openers, so to speak, for a new generation of politics in the Midwest.  So, the spirit of young men and women in American politics in this generation is not new.  I think it is more vital.  I think it is every bit as much--or more concerned, but it is not new.

	Now, this wave of young Americans, at this time, born during--or towards the--shortly after World War II, raised with the Korean War and drafted into the Vietnam War, is saying in plain and unadulterated terms that the world must find a way to peace--a way to prevent the further spread of nuclear weapons without further postponement and a way to strengthen the United Nations and its peacekeeping machine.

	And every one of these demands is a lengthy one and every one relative to reality, not only to ideals.  This generation sees an America of unprecedented wealth, and yet, knows that wealth is not enough--which is a sign, I believe, of its moral fiber.  It looks at a world of ingenious machines and it asks how these machines can better serve people, rather than people being enslaved by the machine.  This generation calls for a renewal of the moral spirit of America in our institutions.  May I say that call asks more of moral strength than the call for the spirit of morality.

	You demand a society that fosters more personal relations between the community and its residents.  In other words, participation is the word between the government and its people and between the universities and its students. And you want an education that does more than confer credentials and status.  You want an education that asks the hard and tough questions and is willing to take the tough and hardened answers.  And education that is concerned more with human values.

	I think most of the unrest that grips us today is due to the fact that the individual finds himself more and more a statistic in a computer, rather than a personality.  In a living society, bigness confronts the individual and the individual strikes out to gain an identity.

	Now, one of the most urgent questions of 1968 is this--do we, young and old, have the skill, the determination and the patience and the talents and the ideas to work a revitalization of our spirits and our institutions?  But I can put it more directly:  do we, whatever the generation, have the will and the perseverance to make this one society--to really make citizenship in this community meaningful for everybody?  Or are we, somehow or another, going to show ourselves in partiality and emotions of the moment, filled with bitterness and anger and hate and distrust, tear down institutions that can help and divide people that need help--or the question can be put--are we going to run over the advocates of yesterday--to be run over by the advocates of yesterday, and tie our hands before the challenges of tomorrow.

	As for me, I don't think a man that seeks high public office has much right to expect either support or respect, unless he can look to the tomorrows.  The yesterdays are gone--their usefulness is from the lessons learned--to dwell upon them is to lose the future.  I know that our ability or capacity to involve young men and women in correcting old wrongs and revitalizing and rebuilding old institutions, redefining the moral purpose of this society will largely determine the future course of this nation--and indeed, its greatness.

	In this spirit I offer today, just a few suggestions that I hope are constructive.  It ought to be even more--it should be an educational experience on the part of candidates and the public, communication and dialogue, participation and contest.  I think, first of all, therefore, we need to lay out some specifics.  If we talk about the young or if we talk about the old, or any group, I offer these suggestions for action.

	First of all, we must reduce the voting age in national elections.  I've thought so--and said so--for twenty years, because I thought this was vital in this country.  I don't think there is any substitute for the right to participate in designing the policies that affect your lives.

	Second, let's make our higher education truly relevant to the great need for our time by involving the colleges and universities in the lives and in the action of the local communities--and this college is one that does.  I happen to have learned that this college is at the very center of the Model Cities, a precinct here in this community--but a university and a college has no right any longer to be a model of education, excluding--nor should it be someplace to merely repose and retreat--it should be a center of action with the best that a university has to offer, with its faculty and its students working with the people, coming to grip with the problems that are relative to our times.  We can't afford to wall off our classrooms and our students from the real action in our communities and in our society.  A relative education ought to prepare each generation to engage in life, to confront social problems with sympathy and understanding, to understand that both in victory and defeat there are rewards.  Understand that participation doesn't always mean victory; sometimes it merely means that you try and fail, but come back and try another time.  And such an education should enable us to move the action out of the streets and into government and industry and social institutions where the work of revitalizing our society should go on.

	Now, I say very candidly, as one who has spent much of his life in the classroom as an undergraduate, graduate, instructor and assistant professor and professor that the university student of this year, 1968, and the years to come, has a responsibility second to none to set an example for peaceful participation, orderly participation, responsible participation, participation with good manners, with tolerance, with forbearance and participation in every aspect of life where reason prevails, rather than noise or epitaphs or slogans.  You don't get any place that way.  The most illiterate of men of God's children, denied and deprived, can take to the streets.  The most pestilent and most augmented and bigoted of men and women have been known to take their case and changed, in anger and in bitterness, in an ugly display of ill temper and ill manners to the public, but a university student, privileged, if I must say, to have the whole realm of civilization at this fingertips, in its libraries and museums and arts and cults of civilization, a university student who is the beneficiary of the help of thousands of others who help pay the bill of a great college, who help provide the faculty with the lights and facilities that university student who responded to the rest of the community--second to none--he will never live long enough to repay his debt to society.  He is privileged.  Out of the two hundred million people in this land today, less than six and a half million are in universities and colleges--and only in recent years has that figure become meaningful.  Many are here because of a generous government-- federal, state and local.  Many are in universities because of a generous people--taxpayers and contributors.

	Therefore, my plea to the university today--and I think this is a good a place as any to give it--is not that you hush your tongue, not that you challenge the institution of the time, not that you fail to show your disdain and your feelings of disgust with some things that take place, rather that you do it in a way that commands respect, because then, and only then, can you really influence public opinion.  Then and only then, can you really change things.  You do not change the world in which you live by acting as if, somehow or another, your mind has been filled with bigotry and intolerance and hate.  It comes only when you exemplify the qualities of an educated man and woman, to the qualities of understanding and reason and tolerance and forbearance--not the vindictive tongue, not by trepidation, rather, inspiration.

	I appeal to this younger generation as never before, to turn away from those who would lead you to violence and to turn away from those who would exemplify by their manner and who think and who question, who inquire, who exemplify the greatest meaning of free speech and freedom of assembly--have said they will break up a meeting--that they will lie down in a voting booth, that they will demand that the police take them away.  May I say that free speech is too precious to have it abridged by government, a mob or harassment.  The freedom of assembly is too precious to a free society, to have it abridged by government, a mob, or those who engage in practices of violence.  And the right to vote for a free society is too precious to have anybody interfere with it, directly or indirectly--and nobody can better say this to this world today that is so troubled that time seems to have lost its way.  Nobody can tell it any better than a young clean, wholesome, brilliant, well-educated young man and woman--and I appeal to the universities and colleges to make that clear.

	May I make a suggestion to the faculty and to the Board of Regents or Trustees, that are responsible to any college service--service to a community should be included in the curriculum of a modern university--and you will hear a lot more out of the classrooms, sometimes, than in it.

	Why shouldn't the working student's practice be in the community where you are needed--desperately needed--in hospitals and mental institutions, helping the mentally retarded, the physically handicapped, in the slum schools, as well as at the student union or restaurant or library?  In other words, put the campus to work where the campus gets its sustenance.  Concentrate in our universities, be made available to help combat poverty and discrimination in an urban and rural America.  I can tell this student audience that we desperately need, today, in New York State, hundreds, thousands of talented, gifted, compassionate, understanding men and women in the institutions for the mentally ill, physically retarded, to help our senior citizens--desperately.  And may I say, that you will never do a greater thing for peace than to help someone who is trying to live a life of peace and decency, to help someone gain a life.  What greater honor is there than to save a life?  There are many ways to kill a person, from the bullet to the club, but there are other ways that are even more brutal:  to be killed by not being wanted.  To be shunted aside, to be denied, to never have a job, to never know what is was to have a home, to never know what it was to have an education, to be the victim of intolerable discrimination and prejudice--slow death.  My fellow Americans, there are thousands of our fellow citizens today that are in a walking death--and we need to bring life back to them and the way we can do it is not just by government, federal, state or local, but we do it by individual service, voluntary service.  I'd like to see this college, Canisius College, volunteer thousands of man hours of student life--not to parade, not to picket, but to go help somebody that needs your help and needs it desperately, to help a child that needs tutorial work, to help a senior citizen that needs just a visit with someone, to help a crippled person to be able to become self-sustaining, to help, teach, guide.  To help in recreation, to help in community service.  And I want the college to give you credit on your diploma for doing that.

	Now, when I was a professor and teacher, they used to say, "publish or perish".  You have all heard that.  That's the way you are sorting out your salary--that you publish a little more in the articles, in the books.  But I have a new standard: "participate or perish" at the university.  That doesn't deny you the right to publish, but "participate or perish", that should be the academic maxim of the 1970s, because we need people today as never before.

	Today I propose, therefore, a national program of students in community service, supported by private resources and the resources of the federal government--and these funds would be available to universities and college programs that grant academic credits to students for community service.  For example, tutoring underprivileged children, internships, summer and year long, to encourage high school, college and graduate students to work with community leaders, to work in city hall, the mayor's office, local and state officials, hospital administrators, legal aid officials, legislators, and others.  Useful, essential work, recreation, public safety, language, scholarships for academic, plus on-the-job training, to prepare more people for careers in useful, essential social areas, in housing, public health, urban renewal, recession, public safety, planning and other specialities needed to rebuild our neighborhoods.  I believe that our universities, and the students and teachers in them, have an opportunity, as no others, to pay a role in reshaping the modern, urban America, just as the great land grant colleges of a hundred years ago helped play a leading role in shaping and opening up the West.  And there's an idea--the fact that the idea of young people must be a direct pipeline to the highest levels of government.

	May I say that if I'm elected president, I intend to establish in the office of the president, an office of Youth Participation, so that the contact between the young--not only on the college campus--but throughout all of the structures of America, can be brought directly to the highest councils of government, the Cabinet, the president, to Congress.  I announce here, today, the formation of a national service forum to guide me in my campaign and during my presidency--if I am elected.  A Humphrey-for-president button isn't a prerequisite for participation.  We welcome all comers, we welcome all ideas, and we recognize that responsible dissent is vital to democracy.  The forum will include meetings on campuses throughout the nation, where people, students and teachers will be able to discuss the issues of this campaign and make their voices heard.  A former executive committee will guide it and meet with me and my staff regularly in the coming weeks, to communicate their ideas they have received in their campus meetings.  In a Humphrey presidency, the forum will continue to be a major vehicle, with its contact in the White House, where it can express its judgments directly to the president.  I am not going to rely on the haphazardness of trying to find time to see the academic leaders, students and faculty.  I want to make it a part of this structure, and I have pledged that I will have an open presidency--a presidency where the public sets priorities and shapes policy--instead of reading about them in the papers.  Where the White House, itself, will move out of Washington, from time to time.  I pledge here, today, that the Humphrey presidency will not only be receptive to the ideas of young people, but also employ their talents.  I shall establish a Youth Talent Bank in the Civil Service Commission to recruit dynamic young people for public service and put them in positions where they can go to work and test their ideas.  The Youth Talent Bank will also make these available to local and state government as well.

	Finally, I wish to express this personal opinion about something that is beyond the authority of a candidate or a president, or anyone not privileged to sit on the Board of Trustees of a college or university:  if students are to have their fair say in society, they must be able to participate more fully in the government which they are most directly connected with--university government.  They must have something to say about it.  This has been long overdue--but violent and lawless confrontations on our college campuses are despicable, totally inexcusable and detrimental to the cause of student participation in any part of our society.  I ask any fair-minded person, how does it look to you or to anyone else:  to see the ugliness of a battle royal, police and students and faculty engaged in an orgy or melee on a university campus?  It's bad enough to see it on any street, Chicago or elsewhere.  It's worse to see it on a campus--and it's totally inexcusable.

	As Mr. Martin Luther King once said, as quoted in the New York Times, "even the most noble purpose cannot justify in destroying the universities as a safe haven for the ruthless examination of realities".  That is what university is for:  the free society, the free mind, the free spirit; not the violent mind and the violent spirit.  In essence, it comes down to this--we must take our institutions to man and not bend man to the institutions.  Teachers and students and presidents and citizens must engage each other, not to cross administrative lines, but in the common work in making this community all it wants to be and all it can be.  But none of this can happen--not a bit of it, unless the ability of the young is properly channeled to constructive purpose.  I am prepared to help do my part because I happen to believe that youth is not so much a matter of age as it is a matter of spirit.  You're as young as your hopes and as old as your fears.  You're as young as your faith and as old as your doubts.  I think that when you have hope and when you have faith and when you have ideals, no matter what your chronological age, you are a member of the younger generation.  And when you are filled with hate and bitterness and fear and doubt and suspicion, you are the walking dead, gone for all useful purposes.

	Now, I turn myself over to this distinguished panel.  

	Thank you, very much.


PANEL DISCUSSION:

Panelists:

Mr. Kenneth C. Lyons
Mr. Kenneth P. Service
Mr. David J. Goss
Miss Carol A. Rysz

	MODERATOR:  Mr. Vice President, we have the panel of Canisius students who would like to address some questions to you.  Before I, briefly, introduce the panelists, I would like to mention to the members of the audience that following the brief question period, following this, the Vice President will be happy to entertain questions from the floor, so I ask that you hold your questions until that time. 

	To begin, just briefly, from my left to right:  Mr. David J. Goss, Junior Class Officer; Mr. William C. Lyon, president of the student government; Miss Carol Rysz, president, Phi Gamma Alpha; and Mr. Kenneth Service, editor of the school newspaper, The Griffin.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Fine, let's take them one at a time.

	MR. DAVID GOSS:  Mr. Vice President, the theme of the 1968 National Democratic Convention was, "promises made, promises kept."  I would like to have a comment on that phase, in light of two 1964 promises, those of peace and prosperity.  Then, President Johnson declared in that campaign, and I quote, "No American boys will ever take over the major fighting and war which should be fought by agents.  Also, the 1964 Democratic platform proclaimed, "we will seek further tax reduction, our goal is a balanced budget and our enviable record of price stability must be maintained."  Four years later, half a million American boys have taken over Asian burdens and we find both budget ceilings and taxes higher.  The income tax surcharge in response to galloping inflation.  My question, then, Mr. Vice President, is, how do you justify these promises of peace and prosperity that were, apparently, never kept?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, let me take them in order.  First, on the prosperity side, we had ninety months consecutive economic growth.  The net income for families adjusted for price increases adjusted for taxes is 32 percent and eight years of 32 percent increase under the Kennedy-Johnson, Johnson-Humphrey period, as compared to the Nixon Republican Eisenhower period, they had 9 percent.  They had an increase of unemployment of two million.  We have the lowest unemployment rate that this country has had in twenty-five years.  Our gross national product is approximately eight hundred and eighty billion dollars.  There were three recessions under the Republican administration of '53 to '61, that cost this country, approximately, one hundred and seventy-five billion dollars in lost income.  The wholesale index for 1953 to 1961 has gone up--was almost identical in its increase as from 1961 to 1968.  The wholesale price index went up 9.2 and it's gone up to 9.3 in the last eight years, despite the war in Vietnam.  Taxes were reduced three times.  Had the same tax rate been in effect in 1968 that was in effect in 1964, we would have had a balanced budget with a substantial surplus.  The surtax is a very modest increase in taxes--very, very modest--a temporary one of one year--and even with that surtax, we have far lower federal taxes today, than we had four years ago.  So, on that side, I think we have a very good record--an extraordinarily good record.

	Now, let's take a look at the international side.  There is no doubt but that we are fully involved and deeply involved in a tragic and costly struggle in Southeast Asia today.  No one could have foreseen that in 1964.  There was no intention on the part of anyone in the government to permit this sort of development to take place.  We had, at that time, however, approximately twenty-five thousand--about twenty-five to thirty thousand--I'll put it in between that figure--of what we call Special Forces in Vietnam.  They were in the special forces camps.  We had lost approximately one thousand men by the fall of 1964.  In 1965, it was obvious that a major invasion and aggression from the North was under way.  South Vietnam was on the verge of being taken over, and as far as its independence or sovereignty was concerned, of being destroyed.  It was the decision then first, to send in air power to try to stem the tide and hopefully to give some morals--moral boost to the peoples of South Vietnam--that proved not to be adequate.  I can only tell you that we felt it was necessary in our national interest and in the interest of long-term stability in Southeast Asia to place these ground forces in South Vietnam.  We do not have a majority of the forces there, I might say, however, even though we have a very substantial amount of five hundred forty thousand, I think, is the approximate number.  The South Vietnamese, today, have over eight thousand under arms.  On the basis of population, that would be equivalent to an American army of seventeen million men.  They are really pushing their manpower hard.  I believe that that army today is greatly improved and I want to say here, when I have said before--I look to the time, and I hope it's not too far--when with the improvement of the army of South Vietnam, with its new equipment and better training and its combat effectiveness, when that army is able to give defense for its own country that we will be able to systematically have a withdrawal of American forces.  I believe that that can come, and when I become president of the United States, I shall make that one of my priority objectives--not at the expense of our troops, but to calculate as carefully as possible and to call upon the government of South Vietnam to take on more and more of its own responsibilities for self-defense and calculate, as I have said, what is the requirement of manpower.  I notice that the president of South Vietnam said some weeks ago, that the thought that some time in 1969 that there could be more withdrawal of American forces.

	I think that the next president of the United States must take that president at his word, must sit down with him and see if that cannot be negotiated or worked out, so that we can begin to see some light--begin to see this struggle be less and less on American struggle, and more and more of the responsibility being taken over by the forces of South Vietnam.

	Now, when that can happen, I can't safely predict.  I have some hopes--and if we can't hope, then we are a hopeless people.  But I think that hope is based upon some pretty good evidence.  The evidence that, today, the army of South Vietnam has set up defenses, has been fighting bravely, and has done well and has defeated the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese in every major engagement.  So, I don't think it's a false hope.  That's the best I can give you.

	Mr. William Lyons:  In view of the name calling, for example, Fearless Fosdick, Mixie Kratzer and Strom Thurman, how do you expect to gain the respect of the American people, in the event you are elected?

	MR. VICE PRESIDENT:  I think by my record of public service--my record of public service.  Why I said those things are quite evident.  For example, when a man says the most important thing is to double the rate of convictions--but any rate--he condemns the President and myself, too.  That man has lost his sense of values.  You're not going to make this a better America, just because you build more jails.  What this community needs is more education, better homes.  If we needed better jails, we could build them--but that need not be the highest objective of the president of the United States.

	May I say on the subject of law and order, I happen to believe and I have practiced what I speak, as a mayor of a city, I happen to believe that law and order in a community is essential for social progress, but I do not believe that a repression alone builds a better society.  There is another side of that coin and that is, to do away with some of the inequities and the injustices which are a breeding ground for trouble.  I don't say, if you have power you are creating trouble--that isn't necessary.  I want to say that it is a fact that more crime is committed in the areas of poverty than any other place.  It is a fact the more poor people commit more crimes.  It is a fact that more crimes are committed against the poor.  Now, if Mr. Nixon can close his eyes to that, he doesn't have enough vision, to me, to be president of this country.

	MISS CAROL RYSZ:  If the minority platform had been accepted, would you have been able to stand on the minority plank?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: I figured somebody might ask me that.  Would you have been able to stand on that?  What's in the majority plank represents what I have been trying to say to this country for a long, long time.  I think that the minority plank waffles the issue.  It isn't nearly as precise as some people think.  While it calls for unconditional ending for bombing, it doesn't say when; it doesn't say immediately, although the war in Vietnam is complex--that is an understatement.  Unconditional first, and unconditional ends all bombing of North Vietnam.  I don't know when they expect it; it doesn't say when.  "While continuing to provide in the South"--there wasn't a period there, there was a comma--"while continuing to provide in the South, all necessities for air troops".  I want to tell you, that is clever language--just clever enough, I must say, to almost confuse me.  "And then we must negotiate"--well, then, negotiate a mutual withdrawal.  Third, "we will encourage our South Vietnam allies to negotiate a political platform which is truly represented."  They seek to reduce American participation.

	Now, what does the majority plank say.  First of all, "We reject as unacceptable, a unilateral withdrawal of forces".  We never demanded, and do not now demand, unconditional surrender by the Congress.  We strongly support the peace talks and applaud it.  We hope that Hanoi will respond cosmetically to this active statesmanship.  Now, listen to this: "In quest for peace, no solution is a free risk, but calculated risk consistent with the responsibility of a great nation that seeks a peace of reconciliation".  That just gives the president of the United States an awful lot of authority.  It says, "Mr. President, take whatever risk you want to take to try to get peace--whatever the risk may be.  This platform supports you."  Then, it says, "And the acts we recommend"--this is the majority, again, saying, you just can't be sure of what's going to happen and when--"We would support our government in the following steps; stop all bombing of North Vietnam"  That's what the minority plank said.  It said "unconditional", which I think is dead wrong.  Then, the majority plank says, "when this acts without endangering the lives of our troops in the field."  The minority plank says, "while continuing to provide in the South, all support of American troops--I think the minority plank is going just about as far as the majority in this that it should take.  As the President said in his March 31st speech, "any little thing is possible."  Then, it goes on to say, "troop withdrawal, encourage all party interest, that South Vietnam should be determined by fair and safeguarded elections, open to all major political factions and parties prepared to accept peaceful negotiations.  We would favor the effective international president to facilitate it against reprisals".  I think that the majority plank is a charter or it is the guideline for a peaceful political settlement in Vietnam.  It gives the president great leeway.  That's why I supported it.  It provides the president with every kind of support that is necessary for whatever initiative he might take to approve the cessation, when that cessation would not endanger the lives of our troops in the field--and the minority didn't want to endanger the lives of the troops in the field.  The majority said we should take into account the responsibility from Hanoi.  I don't think any president, whatever he is, would like to take into consideration any responsible minority.

	I supported the majority plank.  I think the minority is confusing.  I think there are elements in it that are somewhat similar.  I think its unconditional phrase is regrettable.  It didn't put a time phase.  The majority plank, I feel, gives a charter of hope to this country and gives the next president of the United States the support he needs.

	Now, what did I say in my acceptance speech?  I said, "The first priority of the next president of the United States would be to secure peace in Vietnam."  I made that commitment.  Secondly, I said that I would not feel bound by the policies of the past to guide my actions on the questions of the future.  And then, I said, this relates particularly to Vietnam.  I'm a free man.  I would do what I think I needed to do, if I become president of the United States, to end this war--to do it honorably--to do it in terms of our national interest.  But I want to make it very, very clear that I have no control over events between now and January 20th.  You have one president at a time--and that is about all you need.

	May I suggest that everybody ought to read the platform.  If I had read the minority plank when I was in Philadelphia, I wouldn't have been in so much trouble last week.

	MR. KENNETH SERVICE:  You mentioned you place a great value on education in the universities.  Do you have any plans to revise the selective service system to enable an individual to complete their education, before he fulfills his military commitment?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Yes.  The present system, I think, is built-in trouble.  That is number one--that's where you start.  Number two, I believe in the random selective system--the lottery system.  Once your number comes up, you've had it and if it doesn't, you're free.  And I, also, believe you should give a student some choice as to whether he wants to accept, when his number comes up, or go on for the first two years of his college.  I have a full paper with the general view--I thought that Congress should have adopted most of those provisions.  I intend to see, to the best of my ability as president, that the selective service boards in this country are truly representative of this country, that no one feels, because of race or economic status, that the board is not fully representative.  These boards have a tremendous task.  They deserve our thanks and your pity.

	Despite my high regard, and I have a high regard for General Hershey, I would like to see a selective service director, a man of about thirty-six years of age, stand about six foot two inches, enough metal to frighten all the panel put together, and come out to all these colleges and campuses to talk like a he-man and lay it on the line, just like that, and I think it would do a lot of good.


QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION FROM THE FLOOR:

	Q. You count on the demonstrations, I suppose?

	A. No, not particularly.  I thought this was a rather kind demonstration.

	Q. Do the demonstrations by students on particular issues, influence you in any way?

	A. Yes.  Let me kind of level with you.  You, know, demonstrations are not unique to this generation.  I participated in a few out at the University of Minnesota.  There hasn't been anything you students have tried to do that I haven't had a whack at myself, I think.  Let me say that one of the most heartening things happening in this country is when the young people in this campaign decide to take up and do something about racial disorders.  I think those freedom rides were immensely helpful.  I know, in 1963, the March on Washington with the late Martin Luther King--that the presence and the demonstrations of young people had a very decided affect upon many people.  Of course, that was a demonstration in which there were young and old, Catholic, Protestant, Jew, black and white.  I am sure that the dialogue which had been set up by young people has had a decided interest to the world.  If you think there is any moderation in it, at all, it is due in some measure to the activity of the young people and also to the leadership of men like Senator McCarthy and Senator McGovern, and possibly, myself--and may I say that I can add--maybe, the sympathetic understanding of the members of the administration that stands before you.  I have never been very interested in wars.  I have tried to spend a lifetime in works of peace.  I have had a little difficulty in getting that message out to some young people, but it is my life.  Peaceful demonstrations, where you give the other fellow a chance to be heard--you know, the right to be heard doesn't mean that you have the right to be taken seriously, but you ought to be heard.  And I think you have given me that chance today, and I want to say, too, that those that come here, that disagree with me, I think that you have treated me, maybe, a little better than I deserve--but don't change.  

	Q. Mr. Humphrey, you said that you're against violence and brutality.  Why, therefore, didn't you speak out and use your influence in Chicago?

	A. I was the first man to ask the Bureau of Investigation to check and investigate, number one.  Secondly, I think that the facts are pretty clear now and if you want to really study the facts:  that there is so much blame on both sides--overreaction on the part of some police, who were under great harassment, who were obviously taunted to a point of almost exhaustion by the provocators--who you do not represent.  Let's just make it quite clear that there is a handful of people in this country that have made it very, very clear to everyone that they are out to cause trouble, and when they say they intend to have two or three hundred other Chicagos across the country, that they intend to upset the universities and intend to lie down in voting booths--these are not people who believe in democracy, these are Hitler youths--storm troop tactics.  There is a lot of other ways to demonstrate.  Have you ever noticed that the provocators never get bloodied?  They are like general staff officers, a half mile behind.  They get the young people.  I shouldn't be advertising newspapers, but this paper doesn't always treat me as kindly as I would like.  In fact, I would like to speak to a couple of their reporters today.  The Washington Post had a very good editorial on the situation today.  If you have time, you might want to look it over.

	Q. Mr. Vice President, in view of all diverse refusals to support your candidacy, would you actively support Senator O'Dwyer in this bid?

	Q. I am a Democrat.  By the way, I'm not just a Democrat.  I look at alternatives all the way down the line.  I said, prior to the convention--two life-long friends of mine, neither one were nominated, even though we seemed to agree, the people made us look like we disagreed--I said, I would be willing to support their candidacy.  I think either one would be better for the presidency than Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace.  And there's no doubt about that.  So, I would say Mr. O'Dwyer hasn't asked for my support; I don't want to hurt him if he thinks I can be of help to him, I would be glad to do it, but he's a Democrat and he's on the ticket and I'm a pretty good party man, I think.  I say party responsibility is rather important.  So, I would kind of like to wait to hear from Paul.  By the way, he was my most active supporter in 1960.  I hope this is a better sign for me, now, because he and I didn't do well in 1960.  I want to wish Paul the best.

	Q. Mr. Vice President, if you had thought for twenty years that the voting age should be lowered, why, while in the second-highest post, the vice presidency did you not...[missing text].

	A. Are you in government courses?  Do you take courses in government?

	Q. Pardon me?

	A. Do you take courses in government?

	Q. No, I do not.

	A. Then, you should enroll and find out what limited authority the vice president has.  Also, you ought to remember that it takes two-thirds vote in the United States senate in Congress, to pass a constitutional amendment.  You have to have a Constitutional amendment.  I proposed this in 1950 in the Senate with William Langner as my co-sponsor.  I was for this when I was mayor of my city.  I was for Medicare for sixteen years before it became a law--and it's true--you don't get things in a hurry.  I fought hard for the right to vote at age eighteen, and I see at long last the American Bar Association supported it.  They didn't when I was first for it--they supported the direct election of presidents.  What we have to do--what I have to do is what you have to do--push for it.  Now, the President of the United States did recommend voting to the Congress at age eighteen.  President Johnson recommended that--I whispered in his ear one day that it was a good idea--I think he was going to do it anyway, because I whispered some other things in his ear, but I didn't get them.  But in all honesty about it, we tried and we ought to keep at it.  I want you to keep at it.  Some of the great veteran's organizations and others have come out for age eighteen.  Five years ago they were opposed to it--ten years ago they were opposed to it.  It all takes time, but also perseverance.  I haven't faltered, my friends, I was for it, I think, before you were born, and I'll be for it when I am still, I think, looking for Geritol.

	Q. Mr. Humphrey, there has been considerable evidence that the United States should not win the Vietnam War, that the government we are supporting there is corrupt, unrepresentative, would not last more than a few weeks without massive American supporters.  There seems to be Buddhist elements fighting for a country that will be Vietnamese only, and this is why you get booed, this is why the radicals of American can't stand you, because you have failed.  You failed to look into that situation and say, "This is wrong, these people need a better government."  America is not going to take them over--is not going to push them around.  We are going to let them have what they want and pull out those poor Marines from Guatemala and Bolivia and stop lending napalm to them.  We are going to start working for the poor people in this world.

	A. What was your question?

	Q. Why will you not repudiate these immoral policies?

	A. Because you're dead wrong.  You're dead wrong, my young friend.  Look, there are no absolutes in this world.  None of us are infallible, and surely there is plenty of reason to know that governments, not only in Southeast Asia are corrupt; occasionally we get a little around here.  They smell a little around the United States, too.  I don't want to get too direct.  Just take a look at this government in South Vietnam:  while it has lots of shortcomings, this government was an elective government.

	Q. May I speak?

	Q. Just a minute, you said equal time.  It's an elective government.  The assembly that wrote that Constitution was an elective assembly.  The national assembly that's in Congress is an elective assembly.  To be sure, it doesn't have a broad basis, but it has a pretty good basis.  Eleven presidents of the United States were elected by minority votes, one by 37 percent.  Even the late beloved John Kennedy didn't get fifty percent.  We have had many instances in this country where we have been unable to produce more than a plurality.  Even in the war between the states, in spite of the fact that Abraham Lincoln said the unions are infallible, as long as we are going past our plane, I think you might want to ask about that elective government, quote and end quote, in North Vietnam.  Surely, there are South Vietnamese--so what--the terrorist organizations can be terrorist organizations despite its nationality or identity.  There isn't a shadow of a doubt that North Vietnam isn't aggressors.  There isn't any doubt they are in this land today--in Laos today, despite the 1962 agreement about Laos--and you know it and I know it.  So, let's quit kidding each other.  War is a difficult, complex, dirty business.  Your government is prepared to settle that war, this afternoon.  Your government is prepared for a cease-fire today.  I speak for this government from this platform now.  We are prepared for a cease-fire now--including all killing stopped, all hostilities stopped.  Is North Vietnam?  The answer is no.  Are they willing to cease the fire, so we can negotiate?  The answer is no.  My friends, the roadblock for peace is not in Washington.  The roadblock for peace, regrettably, is in other parts of the world and one of them being Hanoi.  When you start going off on Guatemala and Bolivia, and so forth, may I suggest that emotion is no substitute for fact.  The American Ambassador was shot in cold blood, here, in Guatemala a couple weeks ago.  The United States is not trying to run Guatemala; we are not trying to run Bolivia.  This country has done more for these people, in blood and life, than any country you will ever know.  And I think it's about time that we ought to recognize that.

	Q. I'm not getting emotional.  I would like to speak on two points.

	Q. Ask questions like the Senator does and then you can get to say a brief statement first.

	Q. Secondly, in the election, do you think it was a fair election?  No one who would advocate peace, no one who would advocate a coalition government was admitted on the ballot.  If you take the percent of those ballots in the country, it was only twenty percent of the people.  

	A lot of people were prevented from voting, and no one, even the guy that was the least little bit for peace--he's in jail.  That's what we are working for; that's what U Thant of the United Nations said.  The United Nations is working for peace in South Vietnam.

	A. May I ask that the governor of South Vietnam made a great mistake.  I think it was unfortunate, and I hope they release him.  It is one of those acts that cannot be condoned or in any way supported.  Number two, all people are permitted to vote safely in the community, and we had a group of people who were there to examine that election--and some were reporters, and they have a way of finding out what's wrong.  They are experts at it.  And let me tell you that the report back to the United States was that it was a pretty good election--not a perfect election.  They haven't had many elections in so many places, they hadn't had an election in thousands of years, but there were presidents and rabbis and Democrats and Republicans that went there to investigate, and their report was a pretty good report.  Men like Archbishop [missing text], San Antonio, Texas.  Men like Theodore Reese--there were others who went to describe that election and it was a pretty good one.  

	Let me tell you about some of our elections. When we got our Constitution, nobody was elected to go to it.  One hundred men visited; no one elected.  Fifty-five came, thirty-nine stayed, thirty-eight signed--and they never had a reporter in the house, not once.  The Constitution of Vietnam was under constant surveillance.  Secondly, the Capitol of the United States has been moved eleven times between 1776 and 1790; we didn't have much stability either.  Third, George Washington had trouble...[missing text]...and he had plenty of corruption.  Fourth, John Adams was in the pay of the Spanish emperor.  Cessation was a pattern in the New England states, and finally Civil War broke out in 1860.  We haven't always been so sweet and lovely, and we had a pretty unified society.  These people have been the victims of French colonialism, Viet Cong terrorism and open aggression.  The amazing thing is that they have a government.  They brought in Mr. Wong.  They are broadening the basis of the government.  They have eight hundred thousand men in the armed forces, also produced sixty-six district chiefs.  And they are beginning to do something.  May I suggest you put the same scrutiny on that fellow called Ho Chu Mihn and his regime.  I think it's about time the people who believe in democracy start to have some say in the matter.

	Q. In light of the Russian intervention in Czechoslovakia do you [missing text]

	A. First of all, the Russian intervention in Czechoslovakia is inexcusable.  Open invasion is a violation of all the sensitivities of humanity--Number one.  Secondly, what is its relationship to the nonproliferation treaty.  I think the nonproliferation treaty, except possibly to remind us of the dangerous worked in which we live, the non-proliferation treaty is designed to prevent other nations ...[missing text]...because the more nations with nuclear weapons, the greater the level of danger.  Have you ever thought what it would be like if there were nuclear weapons in the East today?  Southeast Asia and India, Pakistan and that area?  What this treaty is for is to try to build a protective system to prevent the spread of nuclear weapon technology and the placement of nuclear weapons around the world.  I think this is in our national interest.  We have all the nuclear weapons that we will need, there's nothing in industry to deny us to make more.  I can tell you, as a member of that National Security Council you have enough to kill anybody, and you can do it twice, in case anybody should crawl out from under a rock.  It's a tragic thing to talk about.  The Soviet Union has enough weapons to obliterate this country.  There isn't a lack.  What we need is to prevent the spread of that activity and then cut back and I take sharp issue with Mr. Nixon, who on the one hand says he favors the treaty but on the other hand says, not now.  Now is the time when the tensions in the world are rising, when we are the people that propose it, when we know it is in our national interest, when we know it has no relationships, at all, to what happened in Czechoslovakia.  It relates only to whether or not we are going to have a more dangerous world in which there are more nuclear weapons.  I think the time to ratify it is now, and I think it's time for Mr. Nixon to quit avoiding the issues.  I think it's good for this nation and I think it protects our security and I think it's good for the peace throughout the world--and to avoid it is unpardonable; and I think we ought to do something about it.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I want to thank friend and foe alike.  You sure have given me a workout and I enjoyed every minute of it.  Thank you, very much.

BUDGET, BALANCEDCIVIL DISORDERCIVIL RIGHTSCRIMINAL JUSTICE--CONVICTIONSCZECHOSLOVAKIA--SOVIET INVASIONDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALEDUCATION, HIGHERHISTORY--UNITED STATESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSMILITARY RECRUITMENTNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPOVERTYRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SOUTH VIETNAMVOLUNTEERISM--YOUTHVOTING AGEVIETNAM WARYOUTH$     2    
         TZ	 	 	 	 	 	 	 e	 T	 >	 	  	  	  	  	  	 _ 	 X 	 : 	 - 	      e: