Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1031.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/31STUMPNEW JERSEYNJFAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY2,481 WORDS

	Thank you, thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Thank you very much.  Thank you, thank you.  Thank you, friends.  Thank you, Governor Hughes, thank you very much for your introduction here today.

	Senator Williams, Congressman Helstoski and our congressman-to-be, Charlie Gregg, and the new coach of the New York Yankees, my good friend, Elston Howard--Dr. Fuller and Dean Gaanti, and students and friends of Fairleigh Dickinson University, it is wonderful to be here with you.

	You know, I believe that the people that advised me on this meeting are in the pay of Nixon.  Let me tell you what they told me.  They said, "Now look, Mr. Vice President, you are going up inside an auditorium, and we want you to be refined, we want you to be careful, we want you to be prudent, we want you to be philosophical".  And I said, "What you really are asking me to be is sort of like a dull Republican."

	When I arrived here today regrettably behind schedule because we had some work to do in Washington--when I arrived here I found that there is a regular good Democratic meeting.

	Now, you know, I just say I hear "Dump the Hump."  I want to get rid of the "vice."  I want to become President Humphrey instead of vice president.  I have been carrying that load of "vice" too long.  I am going to put Ed Muskie in charge of vice, vice president. 

	And when you speak, when you speak of a vice president, can you think of one that could be any better than, any time, than that great Senator from Maine, Edmund Muskie?

	Just compare that man, just compare that man with a Vice President LeMay or a Vice President Agnew.  Just compare them.  

	By the way, I wish you would all be quiet for just a moment in silent meditation.  The reason I ask for it is that today is the Republican national holiday--it is Halloween.  You have heard about tricks.  Well, let me tell you, we have divided it up, we have divided it.  We have had lots of tricks for a long time from Mr. Nixon and his Republicans.  Now we are going to have some treats from Humphrey and Muskie. 

	Governor, you know, I was up here in New Jersey about three weeks ago, and I read in a magazine that this election, that Mr. Nixon had it all sewed up. 

	I didn't believe it.  I didn't believe it, really I didn't, and you know what I read?  I read he had it in the bag, and let me tell you what is going to happen.  Mr. Nixon, why, Mr. Nixon thinks he has it in a bag.  It is all sterilized, of course, deodorized, it is all very--I think he has really got it in a balloon. I have never seen so many balloons in all my life, but let me tell you what is going to happen when Mr. Nixon opens that bag on November the 5th.  Out jumps Humphrey and Muskie. 

	The reason is very simple.  The reason is, whatever anyone may say we have, this team, our team of Humphrey and Muskie, has gone to the people to talk to the people about the issues in this campaign.  We have been with the rich and the poor.  We have been in the cities, in the rural areas.  We haven't hesitated to go into the slums and the ghettos.  We have met people wherever they are to talk to them about their concerns; we have not always had an audience that agreed with us, but we have gone to the people.  Mr. Nixon, Mr. Nixon has his meetings filtered better than any filtered cigarette that has ever been perfected.

	He is the first man that has ever given America sanitized politics.  And I thought for a while it was deodorized, but it is beginning to smell a little lately. 

	You know, I have heard about the new Nixon, heard about the old Nixon.  I want to tell you, my dear friends, that anybody that has been renewed as many times as Mr. Nixon isn't very new. 

	Now we have talked about the basic issues of this campaign.  We have talked about the economy.  We have talked about our cities.  We have talked about how we can make these cities livable.  We have talked about the quest for peace which is the utmost and the top, the foremost purpose of any man that seeks to be president.  We have talked about how we can slow down this dangerous arms race.  And I said to the governor as we came here that I came to this campus, Dr. Fuller, I believe, in 1958, and when I was here it was the year after Sputnik, and I said at this campus that the next proposal of the government of the United States in the building blocks of peace would be to propose a treaty that would ban the orbiting of weapons of mass destruction in outer space.  Right on this campus that proposal was made.  And seven years, yes, eight years later that proposal became a great treaty sponsored in the United Nations, proclaimed by Arthur Goldberg, signed by over 100 nations throughout the world today, but it started here on this campus, with this senator who was then chairman of the Committee on Disarmament and Arms Control, coming to this campus to lay before a student body proposals to limit the arms race in nuclear weaponry, and, ladies and gentlemen, on this same campus I spoke of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty and asked you help in making it a reality.  

	Of course Mr. Nixon called it a cruel hoax.  He said it was dangerous and dangerous nonsense, catastrophic nonsense, but, ladies and gentlemen, John Kennedy didn't take the advice of Richard Nixon.  He took your advice and my advice.  When that treaty was signed, John Kennedy handed me the pen with which he signed it, and said, "Hubert, this is your treaty," which I consider to be the finest compliment that I have ever had in public life.

	Yes, there are issues in this campaign, and one of those issues is again highlighted by Mr. Nixon's recent speech on what he called the security gap in our country, where he misled the American people, where he destroyed the confidence of our allies, where he indicated to our enemies that they, too, might miscalculate.  He did not present a single fact which can be sustained.  What he did present was a new buildup in armament that would cost this country billions, that would raise the level of danger throughout the world, that would be a terrible blow to the people of this world that seek some relief from the rising spiral of arms.

	This candidate that stands before you says that the next president of the United States must have the courage to take risks for peace, risks for arms control.  Risks--risks for protecting humanity before it is too late.  That is the difference between these men--plenty of differences.

	Mr. Nixon says to this nation of ours that we could stand a little more unemployment.  Any man that says that in this time of crisis in our country with racial relations being tense, with many a man today desperately needing work, when we ought to be training more workers for more jobs, any man that says that this economy of ours can justify and endure higher unemployment is unfit to occupy the highest office of the presidency of the United States.

	So there are differences.  I see out here a sign, "HHH, federal funds for education."  Yes, Mr. Nixon had his chance as vice president.  And may I say that Fairleigh Dickinson University would have never received a dollar of federal aid to higher education under a Nixon administration because Mr. Nixon led the fight for twenty years against any federal help to education. 

	And I see in this audience not only lots of young, but I see people in what we call the twilight of their life.  This nation of ours ought to at least have two great concerns for those who are in the dawn of life; the young, the best opportunity in education that this great rich nation can possibly provide; for those that are in the twilight of life, concern and compassion, and, ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you as a party as a representative of a party, that has cared for the people, that has provided care, Medicare, Social Security, housing for the elderly, things that are justified by a decent and compassionate society.

	Where has Mr. Nixon stood?  In unalterable opposition for twenty some years of his public life. 

	Now, my friends, those are just a few things that I wanted to advance to you.  Let me talk a little politics about students here today, because student power is surely an active force in political life, and student power is something new.

	When I ran for mayor of my city of Minneapolis, I had as my main support--I wasn't mayor of Chicago, I was mayor of Minneapolis.  He has got his towns mixed up out there--when I ran for mayor of Minneapolis, the backbone of my support came from college people, young people of college age.  They called us the Humphrey diaper brigade, and we were a pretty active outfit.  Since last winter the American people have suddenly been awakened to the fact that there is a real force with decent young people in politics.  These people can have an impact.  You don't have an impact by just shouting.  You have an impact by working.  I believe that this irresistible urge to participate shown in this election year was fired by the refusal of the youth of our country to accept the wrongs and the inequities and the flaws in our society, and I must say to the political leaders of every party, any of them who find this development troublesome, any who are alarmed by this generation, that either we get with it or, may I say, to get out of the way.

	The political parties of this country must be open to the responsible idealistic voice and activity of the young people, and as the leader in this nation I intend to make it so.  But I have a practical proposal that I would like to suggest to you.  When I am your president, I will ask the colleges and the universities and the national committees of both political parties, the large foundations, the Congress and the executive branch of government, to work out a greatly expanded program of practical political education and participation.  I shall propose a new elective curriculum which I would want on every college campus.  We would call it, as we do in our book, "Democracy Won," a curriculum for democracy, and I shall propose that students be given National Merit Fellowships in government, that they should be subsidized and given academic credit while working at politics and government.  I want you to learn how the Senate works, how the House of Representatives works, how the different departments of government and commissions work, and I want you to learn how the day-to-day politics works, starting in the precincts and the wards, and moving up to city hall and the county courthouse and the state house.

	I want you to work with a governor, a mayor, a councilman, a legislator, a ward leader.  I want you to learn politics as it is, and I want you to learn the nitty-gritty part of it, too, starting at the precinct and the ward and dealing with voters and earning your spurs through canvassing and through registration, and getting out that vote.

	We need your fresh ideas, we need your decency and your imagination.  We need your sense of social conscience, and may I say once--to this student body here what Adlai Stevenson once said.  If we are willing to indulge in our political system in a burst of partisan enthusiasm every four years, then we shall get what we clearly deserve."  To the serious student, to the student of decency, tolerance and forbearance, our political system today is obviously not broadly enough based, and we need the best talent, and we need it responsive to the needs of this nation.

	So I call upon this student body to take a new and active interest in this election.  You can be the difference, and the difference in this election is stagnation or progress.  Shall we continue to proceed in the upward bound course that we have in this nation of trying to bring our people together as one people?  Shall we continue to wage a relentless struggle against every form of bigotry, discrimination, every form of prejudice and segregation, or shall we turn back?

	Shall we listen to those demagogues who appeal to hate and bitterness, of passion and anger, or shall we listen to those only who ask us to stand still?

	I think not.  America can't stand still.  The tides of change move by us.  We have the opportunity of a lifetime.  We have started something in America, we have begun to open the doors of opportunity to those that have been denied.  We have a chance of getting people into this great participation of our government and the benefits of our society.  

	I ask the college student--I ask the college student to be a concerned citizen.  I ask a university and a college to become an active part of the community.  I ask you, my friends, to join us in seeing to it that every American in the lowliest home or ghetto or slum or in the areas of rural poverty, that every American has his chance for the best education that we can provide, that every American has his chance for a job and to earn and to be asking.

	I ask you to help me wage war on every inequity, on every indecency, on every form of deprivation.  I call upon the decent goodness of the American people to rise up.  I ask this country to show its greatness, and I ask this great majority of students who respectfully listen to me to show that you mean business, to drown out those that shout. 

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you, thank you very much.

	Let me tell you something.  Let me tell you, you are kind to say "We want Humphrey," but let me tell you something else.  I want you, and I need you.  Let's go to work now and let's keep this country moving forward.  Let's have a Democratic victory on November 5th?

	Thank you very much.
EDUCATION, HIGHERNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTH     ”6 `6 Z6 V6 N6
 B6 =6 86 86 .6 ,6 6 6	 ‡ 	 v 	 G 	 3   e: