Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0926.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/26STUMPLYNCHBURGVIRGINIAVA1491 WORDS

	Well, folks, this is something.  I must tell you what I have told them at two other stops today.  When I came back from France this last time and undertook a new kind of campaign, a new kind of campaign for me, I was told by the so-called professional politicians that I should not go to the South.  They gave me many reasons.  One of them was this:  They said, "General, if you go to the South, you can't go to the biggest city and get a corporal's guard to turn out to hear you."  Now, if corporals command this kind of an outfit these days, they are certainly higher ranking than I was in the Army.

	There is another soldier around here who is in a different spot.  He was one of my pilots in ETO.  He is your man now running for Congress, Mr. Poff; and I hope he gets there.  I see his picture or his name over here on this big billboard; and that, by the way, is the first time I have seen my picture on a billboard. 

	I have a story to tell about a great citizen of Lynchburg.  Carter Glass was one day getting an honorary degree at a university, and the president of the university, as is the custom, was reading a long, complimentary reference to Mr. Glass giving the reasons why he deserved this honorary degree of doctor of law.  And this orator kept emphasizing and reemphasizing that Carter Glass was an honest, public servant.  It is said that when he got up to make his reply, which is customary in such cases, he said he felt that he really ought to decline this degree because if the time had come when great American universities had to reward a man for being honest in public government, America was in great danger.

	I thoroughly agree with Mr. Glass.  I believe that you people, representative of the great body of 155 million people, should not have to long for or to ask for honesty in government.  I believe you can demand it and have it.

	Of course, the very highest officials in government are not themselves guilty of taking your tax money and putting it in their pockets.  But when a government too long in power allows any kind of venal thing to happen within the executive or other departments of government and looks at it complacently because it fools, "Well, after all, they will reelect us; we own the South and we can get enough of the machine votes in the North, so why worry," it is time for another kind of rebellion.  That kind of government, ladies and gentlemen, is not merely guilty of taking some of your hard-earned tax dollars; it grows careless and let us look at the record for a moment.

	What has it done about bringing peace closer in these last seven years?  Seven years ago we were the strongest nation on earth.  I don't mean only in our traditional productive way; I don't mean merely in the genius of our people for production, or scientific advancement.  I mean militarily.  Now, what should we have done with all that strength except to get a lasting peace with it?  Yet we have had emergencies in Iran, in Turkey, in Greece, the airlift in Berlin.  We lost China.  Actually, we have lost human souls to Communism at the average rate of 100 million a year since 1945.  Then we had Korea and there is no end in sight.  We live in terror of other Koreas.  Certainly we live in the dread that our boys will be called from their homes in their turn to serve in uniform overseas.

	That kind of government has spent your money with complete disregard for consequences, and some of the consequences have been deficits; some of them have been taxes that burden our people. 

	This deficit that occurs in our budget is responsible also for cheapening your money.  Your savings account isn't worth as much as it was a couple of years ago.  We call it inflation.  I have a little bit of a gimmick here that illustrates what is happening in this line of inflation.  I want to show it to you.  If in 1945, ladies and gentlemen, seven years ago you had gone to the lumber yard with 15 cents, a nickel and a dime, and said, "I want a piece of fine white pine lumber"--you may not have needed it but you could try it out--this is what you could get, exactly this.  Now if you took that same dime and nickel today that look the same to you and went to the lumber yard and said, "Fifteen cents worth of white pine, please," here is what you would get.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, that is only a little bit of the story because this same government that has allowed that to happen to your bonds, your savings, your insurance policies, wants another lease of four years to continue doing the same thing.  If your money continues to cheapen at this same rate over the next four years as it has cheapened during the period I have just illustrated, here is what you can buy.  You will be able to buy that piece of board for 15 cents in 1956.

	Of course, this little gimmick itself is a bit ridiculous, but stop to think what that means to your money.  Once Lenin said, "We are not going to war with the United States, we hope, but we will force them to spend themselves into destruction."  When your money is going downhill at the rate that I have just shown you, it is time to take a look.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, think of what this means to the farmer, to the businessman, the working man, and everybody else.  The farmer's prices for everything he buys are going up and up and up.  You go down to the grocery store with a basket and when you find that the basket of groceries that you bought for $10 only a few short years ago now costs over $24, you begin to say, "What are these farmers doing to us?"  The farmers are having it done to them just like you are.  The farmer is not getting rich.  His prices are actually lower than they were two years ago, the prices that he gets for his things, but his costs, like yours, go up and up.

	I have told so many audiences that the newspapermen going along with me say they are getting extremely tired of hearing me say there are a hundred separate taxes on every boiled egg you eat, but as long as it is true why shouldn't I tell you?  This is just one of the things that is happening to us but it points the way to what is happening all along the line in the foreign field, in the domestic field--happening to us and happening abroad.  If you can't take pride in your government, that government is not going to have the prestige and respect abroad that can lead us toward peace.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I did not come here to ask you for your vote, although I think I would have a certain claim because you know my mother was born and raised in this state.  But I didn't come here to do that.  I came here to make one pledge.  Remember, it is not a promise.  All the promises have been made in the last twenty years that politicians can make.  Most of them haven't been kept.  As I came through these fine pastures back here and saw these wonderful cows I wondered what I should say as my pledge to the citizens of Lynchburg, I decided that I would say this:  If you want to send me to Washington as the head of your next government, I pledge you that the government you have will fill every one of its appointive offices with the finest men that there are in America; men of ability; men and women selected on merit; men and women who will be guided only by one idea--what is good for all America.  Not just one part, not one class, not one race, but for every single American born under these stars and stripes and living here as a citizen of our country.  What is good for him will be their guide.

	Such an administration will hope at the end of four years that every one of you people could meet here again and say honestly, "We believe they were fair; we believe they were honest.  We believe they were friends of ours, not people trying to dominate us.  They were one of us."  That, my friends, we hold is a worthy ambition and that is the only ambition we have.  Thank you very much for listening to me.

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS--TAXATIONGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSINFLATION     ± } w s i
 [ V Q H @ > > 4	 F 	 8 	 & 	 	 e: