Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1010.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/10STUMPPHOENIXARIZONAAZ2374 WORDS

	Governor Pyle, and ladies and gentlemen:  My first and most pleasant duty is to thank each of you for the honor you have done me.  When you come out, taking an hour from your busy day to allow me to look in your faces, to bring you a word of greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts that are on my mind as we progress through this campaign, you pay me an enormous compliment, and for it I am deeply grateful.  Whether you come from the city here or from nearby areas or from Gila County or from the nearby mining areas or from the timber areas of the north, to each of you my grateful thanks.

	Now, I come here, ladies and gentlemen, as the designated leader of a crusade, a crusade that seeks to do one thing in our nation's capital:  to substitute good government for bad government.  The combat troops of that crusade are millions of Americans throughout the length and breadth of this land; Americans all, not merely of one partisan designation, but Republicans, Independents, Democrats, determined that the time has come when good government is absolutely essential to America not only for our internal welfare, but to establish that peaceful position in the world and that position of strength that will preserve that peace that is necessary if we are to continue to progress and to prosper.

	Such an enormous array of combat troops needs a vast hierarchy of leadership, and that leadership exists throughout the length and breadth of this land.  Nowhere have I gone where I have been prouder of the particular segment of the state command than I have here in Arizona.  You have your own Governor Pyle, to whom I am particularly anxious to pay my tribute of admiration and esteem.  And then Barry Goldwater, who was with me in another crusade and whom I am honored to have along by my side this time.  And then we have John Rhodes, a Kansan transplanted to your state, and I suppose that you will say that by that transplanting he showed some of his wisdom and intelligence.  Of course, you can't expect a Kansan to agree with that one.  And finally, Bill Pyper.  And we need them all, ladies and gentlemen, because this is no one-man job.  I want to impress upon you at the outset one fact, to remind you of a very important fact.  This crusade is not terminated when we win an election of November 4th.  Those among you who have worn uniform will understand what I mean when I say that at that point we have won our line of departure.  From there we begin fighting.  Just to win an election is not the purpose of a crusade.  I go back to my first statement.  The purpose of this crusade is to substitute good government for the American people in place of bad government.

	Now, let us take for just a moment a few items on our bill of particulars against the incumbents, the bill of particulars that justifies our statement that we have been having bad government in Washington.  Now, the first item of evidence I would bring to bear is the number of things they have found it necessary to claim credit for with which, in some instances, they had little or nothing to do.  Judging from some of the statements that have come from the back end of the campaign train that preceded mine through these regions, the Fair Deal and its immediate predecessors were responsible for all the reclamation projects that have ever been established in the West.  We have been told, even, that if they change administrations there will never again be a multiple-purpose dam built.

	Now, how do you square that up with the fact that this year you have been celebrating the 50th anniversary of the birth of the Reclamation Bureau?  After all, here in this great state where the real reclamation projects were started through the cooperative and local initiative of citizens on the ground, they got a bill and it was signed by whom?  By a great Republican, Teddy Roosevelt.  And from that time forward everyone, no matter how far in the east he may live or wherever he may live in the United States, has seen that reclamation is the one thing open to us, the one means open to us by which we are going constantly to increase a production that will match our constant increase in population.

	Do you realize, ladies and gentlemen, that every evening there are six thousand more Americans in this country than there were on the preceding evening?  When we look at what that means in terms of increase in population, a rate of increase which is going to go up steadily, then we understand that reclamation projects are not merely for the immediate good of those people who may be getting some new water on their land and increasing their productivity, possibly profiting a bit more.

	This is an investment in America, and that is exactly what we are doing.  I am talking to Americans, as I said to you just a few moments ago, and the only thing I say here is, let's not any one party try to claim partisan advantage by saying it was responsible for all the advances in this great West, where it has been the genius and the initiative of citizens that have been primarily responsible.  And before I pass on from this subject of reclamation, I have certainly been pleased to hear that that long struggle as to what was the proper adjudication of the Colorado waters has, on the initiative of your own state, been placed in the hands of the court from which we can expect soon, I should hope, a real answer.

	And a last word on that point.  The difference between the present people in power and the crusade that I am honored to lead is this:  the administration of all of these things from a headquarters 3,000 miles away from where the project is located.  They want the federal government to control everything in these reclamation projects.  The crusade and all of the people banded with me want to make certain that there is local influence, private enterprise, community law and state organization, all represented as partners in this business so that we may truly harness the genius of Americans in producing what we want.

	The next item of this indictment is the centralization of all kinds of power in Washington.  I just cited you one in the reclamation projects and another is the Brannan Plan.  The crusade is definitely and flatly against that kind of centralization of power in Washington.

	Then, with all of our necessary expenditures, with all of the necessary and almost unbearable costs of government, we have had waste--waste and extravagance--extravagance and duplications of all kinds.  We must have efficiency, and the crusade intends to eliminate the kind of inefficiency that has been plaguing us so long--the kind that is content to get two air fields for the price of five, the kind that--when one service buys twenty-thousand dollar chairs it pays only ten dollars above the normal market price.  Something must be done about it quickly.

	And this administration has dismissed very lightly evidence of disloyalty in government.  The crusade intends to uproot it, root and branch, and to make certain that it doesn't creep back in.

	Administration-induced inflation has reduced every saving that you have--your savings account, your insurance policy, your pension--all of them have been reduced so far in purchasing power that today you are paying more than twice as much for your basket of groceries than you did only ten years ago.  That kind of cheapening of your money must stop, and the crusade intends to see that it is done.

	Then, as if all of these things were not enough we have had corruption.  Every morning you have read in your headlines about almost a scandal a day.  Nine of our collectors of internal revenue in high offices have had to be relieved for malfeasance or negligence in office.  The tax money that you have to pay you should be assured will all reach Washington.  That is the first purpose of honesty in government.

	Then, finally, lack of progress toward peace, ladies and gentlemen.  Here is the relationship between good government and peace:  the one essential cornerstone to a peace structure in the world is a sound, prosperous, strong America.  America will be strong--spiritually, intellectually, economically, and militarily--only if 155 million Americans believe in the soundness, honesty, integrity and intelligence of their central government.  Only with that kind of a feeling toward that central government will you be truly united behind the great purposes that it is trying to accomplish, behind the aspiration that we all feel, the aspiration for peace.

	Without that pride on your part, ladies and gentlemen, our government enjoys no prestige abroad, because dollars alone will not bring us the necessary allies.  Dollars alone do not bring friendship.  There must be a kind of leadership that will establish for ourselves unity at home and, consequently, the strongest kind of prestige and influence abroad.  Then we can lead the free world as we must into a combined collective security that will stop this Communism in its tracks and gradually make the tide recede.

	And so, ladies and gentlemen, I do not come before you to compete in terms of political promises--in fact, most political promises have not only been used, they have become rather shopworn in the last twenty years.  I do not come here to say that this crusade intends to profit one group at the expense of another, that it is going to try to get your votes by a particular appeal in Arizona and another in Nebraska or New York.  What I do come before you to say is this:

	This crusade is thinking of the United States of America.  Every decision it will make, every proposal it will make, will be weighed in the scale of:  Is this good for 155 million people.  My friends, if it is good for America, that government will be one of frugality; it will be economical with your money; it will not want to spend it freely merely because the people who are doing the spending didn't have to earn it.  They will be careful with the tax money of 155 million people if they are thinking of the good of all America.

	Next, they will insist upon equality among all citizens.  They will not allow discrimination in everything the federal government touches, based on any other factor except merit and the deserving qualities of every man who comes before them for treatment of any kind.  They will, of course, also support all of those sound social security programs that build a proper floor under the American citizen today to protect him from falling into the pit of disaster.  Anything that may happen to him that is beyond his own control must be guarded against.  In this, again, we must enlist local, state and federal power and resources, to make certain that every American can feel that he is justified in taking a risk, because underneath is the social security program that protects him against disaster.  That applies to unusual medical expense and everything that is necessary to do in order that a free--born American citizen does not have to fear disaster from something beyond his own control.

	Finally, another pledge that such a group makes is absolute honesty in everything it does--a government that recognizes that it is the servant of the people, that it belongs to them and is not attempting to be their master.

	I have probably already kept you here longer than I should, but let me make one particular pledge here.  In this state, of course, many of the people who were the original inhabitants of this land were the American Indian.  I want, first, to pay my tribute to their war services.  I met many of them during World War II, and never once was there an incident brought to my attention of an American Indian failing in his battle duties.  Because of my passionate belief that everything affecting an American citizen should be dealt with with his counsel, and his advice considered, I make them this pledge:  In any selection of commissioners or other people who have any official duties with respect to the American Indian, they will be consulted as to the identity of that person.  And, repeating to them specifically what I said a few minutes ago about discrimination, I assure them that anything existing in our administration, our customs, our practices, that tends toward discrimination, they will find me and all my associates in this crusade fighting on the side against discrimination.

	Before I leave this great state, I want to pay tribute to something that I would call an intangible:  the spirit of the people who live out in these great areas where they still see all around them opportunities for improvement through the harnessing of nature's forces, nature's resources, and nature's bounty.  Here in this region, it seems to me, there is kept alive--probably more noticeably than in our more heavily populated areas--that spirit of independence, sturdy confidence in America, and the belief in one's self that is so important in the continuation of our progress toward the improvement of living standards for 155 million people.

	Let us never forget that, when we increase the productive power of Arizona, when we redeem an acre of desert land and make it a garden spot, we are helping the United States.  All of these things we believe in, you and I, not merely because they help you for the moment but because they will be an essential part of that glorious future we see for this country--a country proud, free, independent, and above all, at peace and living in prosperity.

	Again I say to each of you in this great throng:  Thank you very much for coming out.  You have honored me.  Thank you.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEINFLATIONNATIVE AMERICANSNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTPOPULATION (UNITED STATES)REGIONALISM--WESTSOCIAL SECURITY     N6 6 6 6 6
 ¯5 Û5 Ó5 Á5 ‡5 ﬁ5 ﬁ5 ‘5	 µ 	 ù 	 Ä 	 p 	 g 	 W 	 : 	   	  e: