Speeches\1952\dem\S52d1023.007SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/23STUMPDUNKIRKNEW YORKNY1656 WORDS

	Mr. Conte, ladies and gentlemen, and boys and girls: I see by that sign down there that Dunkirk is for Stevenson. But I still don't feel that I am wasting my time by coming out here, and I am very grateful to all of you for being here, and to all of these children. I hope you are not cutting school.

You know, one of the experiences of my youth was the annual Chautauqua show that used to come out to the prairies of Illinois where I lived, which originated, I think, in this county, in Chautauqua County; and I wanted to tell the young people here about an experience that happened to me.

	I think I was about twelve years old, or thereabouts, and there came to speak at the Chautauqua in my home town in Illinois, a famous American of that period, William Jennings Bryan. Mr. Bryan stayed with my grandfather and my grandmother and I went to Sunday lunch with him before he spoke in the afternoon under a big tent out in the park. They told me that Mr. Bryan was a terrific eater. Well, I sort of fancied myself as something of an eater myself. So at luncheon that day I matched him. Every time he picked up a piece of fried chicken, I picked up one; and when I got through, as far as I could see, the honors were even. Then we went to the big tent, to the Chautauqua. I sat in the front row with my grandfather, who had run for vice president with Bryan in 1900. Bryan made a great speech, and I fell asleep within the first thirty seconds and fell off my chair--much to the discomfiture of my family. Afterward, the old man said to me, "My boy, there is a time for everything. This was not your time to try to match me chicken for chicken."

	I also remember from those early Chautauquas the lightning-sketch artists--perhaps some of you kids wouldn't remember those, but some of the older ones would--people who told a story and illustrated it at the same time with colored chalk on a blackboard. It always was very exciting to me to see the pictures unfold as the man told the story. Well, now, I have here on this train kind of a traveling show of my own. Unfortunately, we don't have any artists. And, in these all too brief visits in city after city around this lovely land of ours, in this beautiful autumn weather, I too have to make some rather rapid sketches. Maybe I should learn to illustrate them, but I can't. Fortunately, I think you all know what the Democratic party stands for, and you know that one of the great advantages of being a Democrat is that you can stand on the Democratic platform. We do not have any termites in our planking, or any Old Guard hatchet men who are hacking away at the posts of our platform. We have been working on strengthening our Democratic platform, not just one year but for twenty years, adjusting it to the needs, and the times, and the people.

	Our platform calls for fair, for equal treatment for the working man, for the businessman, for the farmer, for all of the people that compose our American society. For no group can ultimately prosper and find contentment, find security in our democracy unless all of us do. And, most of all, it calls for a steady resistance to our enemies abroad and for a patient and persistent effort to build a peaceful world. Now, if that was all you know about me and about our Democratic platform, I will have to admit that you wouldn't know very much; for, it is easy to get up here on the back platform like this of a campaign train and say some nice sounding words. But you have had a lot more than a few high sounding words and phrases in the record of twenty years of performance--of performance by the Democratic party in the interest of all the people. I would like to say that just as some of you men have come down here this morning to do comparison shopping, I hope that you will do some comparison voting, for the Republican party has made a record during these twenty years, too--a record that you can read and that is easy to sum up. If there was a forward looking, constructive program, their record is to be against it. They have hardly ever missed a chance to be against it. And the second thing you got is an honest label on our Democratic package. Our label doesn't promise you a quick and painless and easy solution of every difficulty. That is the label you find on the Republican bottle, but inside is the same old swamp water.

	Now, to change the metaphor a little--you kids will learn what that is in a little while--the Democratic party's candidates dare to tell you that the road ahead is not an easy one; that there are rough spots and perhaps some detours, and that we may be shaken up a bit before we arrive at our destination. My opponent likes to tell you that what this country needs is a new bus--a new bus driver. What we really need is to repair the road. And, that is exactly what the Democratic party has been doing, and is going on doing in the future.

	Speaking of buses, as the General has from time to time, I wonder if you remember the newspaper story of a man who boarded a bus intending and wanting to go to Detroit, but when, after a long, long trip all night, he alighted at his destination, he found himself not at Detroit but at Kansas City. He had caught the wrong bus.

	Now, my opponent, the distinguished General, has fine desires for good destinations, for clean government, for prosperity, for peace and so forth, but he isn't on the road that leads where he wants to go--he is on the wrong bus. And what's more, he doesn't seem to know it--or does he? I don't know.

	You know it is not your ideals, your objectives that get you to your destination; it is the road you get on; the means you use; it is the right bus. I should think the General would well wake up and check the bus he is on now that the character assassins and all of those one-eyed guys with teeth in their mouths have voted against everything he says he is for have clambered on the bus with him. Maybe that is too much to ask of the General as he seems to have invited all these people aboard his bus, but it isn't too much to ask of you, the people, to check the bus you are on, and if it is not going to the place you want to land in, while there is still time, get off that bus, lest having wanted great things, you discover again that hell can be paved with good intention.

	I am afraid, my friends, I have kept you too long. I wish I had time to talk to you about all of the great overshadowing problems--of the war in Korea and of our efforts--our progress in building a peaceful world. I have spoken about these things many times during the campaign and I hope I have succeeded in making my position clear. I am not promising any easy way out for I know, as you know, that life doesn't offer easy ways out. But I have said that if we persist with our efforts, if we build our strength, if we stand ready to discuss our problems with a firm devotion to principle and with a spirit of good will, then I believe with all my heart that we can, that we will safely win our way to a peaceful world.

	And I can say to you that to this task I would devote all of my energy and my strength should you charge me with this infinitely great responsibility. It is a responsibility that appalls me sometimes; you can't but feel a sense of inadequacy, a sense of humility. You can only hope that if you are assigned that responsibility that you will have the understanding, the forbearance, the patient sympathy--and most of all the prayers of the people.

	That is what I ask of you here today, and in the meanwhile, I thank you all from the bottom of my heart for going to the trouble to come out here at this early hour and afford us this opportunity to tell you about our story.

	And before I leave. I wonder if you would permit me--afford me the privilege of introducing to you my sister who looks after me, and sometimes I think too well. We also have some other ladies aboard this train. We have the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards.

	You know one of the things that has gratified me most about this whole campaign is the response and the support and the vigorous enthusiasm of a lot of people who are not party people--who are independent people--and we happen to also have aboard the national cochairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson, Mrs. Dick of Chicago.

	And now I must bid you good-bye with my profound thanks for all of your courtesy and your patience here with us this morning.

	My friends, before I go, I should like very much to say one further word. You have a candidate, a Democratic candidate for Congress, from this district, Mr. Harry Johnson. I think if I should go to Washington, it would be a great comfort if he went with me. 
CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGN     ø" ã" Ö" Å" y"
 l" g" b" [" S" Q" Q" G"	 < 	  e: