Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1024.009SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/24STUMPSCHENECTADYNEW YORKNY1442 WORDS

	Senator Lehman, my friends of Schenectady: I have been told many times during this campaign that I was talking over the heads of the people. Well, it isn't very often that I have an opportunity to talk over the heads of people but you have afforded me one this evening--and at least I can say, I hope, that I have never talked behind their backs.

	You know, I am terribly concerned--if I can make an intimate confession here--that if one of the most esteemed and respected and beloved Americans of our time, Senator Lehman, says any more nice things about me that I may contract that dread and sinister disease called Potomac Fever. Potomac Fever, as some of you know, is a disease that causes you to swell without growing. Everyone is threatened with it down there, but I certainly hadn't expected to get it prematurely.

	You have been very kind to me, Senator Lehman; I am deeply grateful. I hope that I can some time disclose at least some of the virtues which you have revealed. I want to thank every one of you for coming here this evening and affording us this opportunity to talk with you. I hadn't expected to see so many people in Schenectady.

	There is important business before our nation, and it encourages me that so many of you are willing to give it your attention. I am told that my distinguished opponent passed this way the other day--yesterday. Well, it is better to be here late, rather than not at all. And we Democrats think it is better to be right than wrong, too. And it encourages me, therefore, to see that so many of you seem to feel, along with us, that it is important that the nation's business should remain in the hands of the Democratic party.

	You know, I used to think of upstate New York as being predominantly Republican, but I guess that was before it was so hard to tell what the Republican party is and what it stands for. It's getting too close to supper time to feel very critical about anything or to speak very harshly about anybody, but it is pretty hard to ignore the fact that less than two weeks before election, we don't yet know what the Republican party's position really is on most anything. We know, for example, where they stand, however, on the question of a new labor relations law--they stand right where they have been standing for the past five years. When we look at some of the other major issues, we find in one case after another that we just don't know what their position is. We don't know on the issue of civil rights, for example, whether what the Republican candidate really believes is what he says when he is in the South or what he says when he is in the North or what he used to say when he was in the Army.

	On foreign policy, the Republican aim seems to be to confuse us completely, and it looks as though that is one target that they might hit.

	[Fire engine passes.]

	I'll bet you that that is a fire of a Republican house. Well, I hope it isn't.

	Over in Indiana the other day, Senator Jenner solemnly reported that he and the General saw eye to eye on foreign policy. And we have Senator Taft's word for it that there are only a few differences of degree between him and the General on foreign policy.

	Now, you know, I hate to think that the general's passion for change has affected him but ever since the surrender--the surrender to Taft on Morningside Heights in New York in September--it has looked more and more as though we had a five-star General commanded by a six-star General in the Republican party.

	With us Democrats, it is quite different. Our policy is to carry forward the programs that we have worked for the past twenty years, and with your support, we will carry it forward, and we will carry it forward for at least four more years.

	Our Republican friends seem to have mixed feelings about this program of ours. Every time I mention that mixed feelings phrase--use that phrase--I think of the definition that somebody sent me through the mail not long ago of mixed feelings. He says that is the way a fellow feels when his mother-in-law drives over a cliff in his new Cadillac.

	Sometimes the Republicans claim our program as their own, or as something so well established that we don't have to talk about it any more. But, unfortunately, we remember what has happened the last time that the Republican Old Guard got its hands on our program. And I don't think that you want to trust our present prosperity to a party that says it is a false prosperity. We have only to look about us at the homes that we own, the farm mortgages that have been paid off, the jobs that we have, our savings accounts, to know that we are doing mighty well, and that there is nothing false about it; that we are not just sitting back counting our blessings either. We are looking ahead to both the problems and the promise of the future.

	There is a major job of remodeling to be done on our labor relations law, to get a new one designed in the best interests of labor, management, and the people as well is one of our first orders of business. And there are some important improvements to be made in our social security system. We have got to work out a sound system of price supports for perishable agricultural commodities too. It is high time, I think, that we should stop treating the problem of eliminating racial discrimination as a political football, so that real equality of opportunity...[missing text]...and most important of all is our continued driving ahead toward the goal of a peaceful world. It is a problem, in a word, of survival that hangs over our country and the future of free men and free women and of free nations everywhere on earth. There can be no genuine relaxation until we have brought the Korean war to a complete and an honorable conclusion, and until the free nations have developed such strength that they do not have to look nervously over their shoulders at the dark shadow of the Soviet Union.

	Every one of us knows that there is no easy, no quick way to establish peace with justice in this world. And my distinguished opponent challenges our intelligence and our credulity when he implies that there are quick and painless solutions.

	You can help us in your way to our everlasting dream of peace in this world. You can help by voting in November for candidates who are dedicated with all of their hearts to the purposes of peace and to the building of a strong and a prosperous America. An America looking ahead, moving ahead to the promise of our future.

	And so I commend to you this very remarkable candidate that we have for Congress from this district, Mr. David Prince, your candidate for Congress from this district. And I should also like to bespeak your very sympathetic consideration for Mr. John Cashmore who has served your state for thirty years--our candidate for the United States Senate. You have done us all, as I say, a great honor by coming here this evening at this inconvenient hour. And I hope your supper isn't cold when you get home. And before I leave you--before we must depart--I should like the privilege, if I may, of introducing to you some of the people in our party. I should like to introduce to you Mrs. Angela Parisi, the vice chairman of the Democratic Committee of the state of New York.

	May I also introduce to you Mrs. India Edwards, vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee. And, we have the national co-chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson here, Mrs. Dick of Chicago. She was a Republican. By the way, she tells me that her mother-in-law came from Schenectady, but I am very proud to report to you that she migrated to Illinois over eighty years ago.

	You have been very good to us. I am grateful for your patience, for your attentiveness, and all of your courtesy.

	And, if I may also, I should like to introduce to you my sister, Mrs. Ives. Good-bye and God bless you all for coming.
AGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALKOREAN WARORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     ® z t p h
 [ V Q F > < < 2	 a 	 ? 	 " 	  e: