Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1018.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/18STUMPFULTONMISSOURIMOWESTMINSTER COLLEGE1732 WORDS

	I have come here to talk about peace and foreign policy. But I also came here to draw strength--strength from you, the youth of America. And strength from the two men whose names will always be known: Winston Churchill and Harry Truman. Those two men offer a very personal lesson for me. They knew the ups and downs of political life like few others. They knew that public opinion polls can be misleading. They knew that no election was over until it was really over.

	So let me say this. There are undecided voters out there. The race is close in many states. No votes can be taken for granted and I'm not taking any votes for granted. I will continue to campaign as an underdog. My strategy is to run hard, stand on the issues, and fight this election right to the wire. And I intend to win.

	Two years ago, I had the privilege of speaking to you on the 40th anniversary of Winston Churchill's Iron Curtain speech. And today I am deeply honored to be here again at this historic place--historic not only because Winston Churchill spoke here but also because of St. Mary's church, transplanted from London to grace your campus. This church was designed centuries ago by Christopher Wrenn, one of the supreme architects of Western civilization. It withstood the Nazi blitz of London in World War II. It's a monument to faith--to our faith in God and to our faith in ourselves. Our ability to rise to the challenge, no matter how bleak the prospect, no matter how difficult the circumstances.

	That was the faith of Winston Churchill and you can feel his spirit in this place. But there's another spirit here, too. It is our spirit, the spirit of America--our faith in God, our willingness to stand for freedom, of our commitment to defend freedom beyond our shores.

	When Churchill came here in 1946, to deliver his famous commencement address, he came seeking that spirit. And he found it.

	Here in America's heartland, he was introduced by America's president from the heartland, Harry Truman. It was a cold March day. Winter was still upon the land. And Churchill had a cold message to deliver, as cold as the truth itself.

	Here stood Winston Churchill, the man who had risked his political career by opposing the Munich sell-out, who had risen from political oblivion to lead his country in its hour of mortal peril. Now after a victorious war, Churchill was compelled to state the truth once more. Freedom was again in danger. Peace was again in danger. The burst of sunlight brought upon the world by the victory over Hitler was being overshadowed by the dark cloud of Soviet ambition. As Churchill put it, in his most famous line, "From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic, an iron curtain has descended across the continent." It was an Iron Curtain that had already shut out the light of freedom and progress from the historic capitals of Eastern and Central Europe. Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest, Sofia. These great cities rooted in a thousand years of Western civilization, rescued from Hitler, were now dominated by Stalin. And Churchill saw signs of Soviet aggression and expansion elsewhere in Europe and on other continents.

	So he came, in Truman's company, to state the truth; to describe the danger but also to provide a way to overcome it. "The safety of the world," he said, "requires a new unity in Europe." "Twice," he noted, "the United States has had to send millions of its own men across the Atlantic to fight a war." Only through the strength of democratic unity he argued, could a new war be prevented and the hopes of a lasting peace be revived. That was because, as he observed, "From what I have seen of our Russian friends and allies during the war, I am convinced that there is nothing they admire so much as strength, and there is nothing for which they have less respect than weakness, especially military weakness."

	And, I might add, so it continues to be.

	Though his was a message of hope for the future, not many people wanted to hear Winston Churchill. We were demobilizing. We wanted nothing more than to get on with our lives, just as you want to get on with yours. To strike out in new directions. To enjoy that sunlight we had fought so hard and sacrificed so much to achieve. Churchill was criticized, disavowed by many here and abroad.

	But Churchill was right.

	Now, four decades later, he has been vindicated. We and our allies did not prevent the Iron Curtain from shutting out the light to the East. But we did secure peace and freedom for the West. And we broadened it, took it beyond Europe to Asia and other regions. It wasn't easy. There were mistakes and setbacks. But when we kept to Churchill's advice of peace through strength, the strength of democratic unity, we succeeded.

	My generation has lived in the shadows of war--World War and Cold War. We have lived our lives partly in the sunlight but always in the shadow of struggle, of rivalry with the Soviet Union. That struggle, that rivalry, is not yet over. But I'll tell you this. Your generation has an opportunity to emerge from that shadow, and finally to enjoy the sunlight without fear.

	The Iron Curtain still stretches from Stettin to Trieste. But it's a rusting curtain. Shafts of light from the Western side, our side, the free and prosperous side, are piercing the gloom of failure and despair on the other side. The Kremlin, which echoed once to the ominous footsteps of Stalin, now resounds to a denunciation of Stalinism. There is new hope of change. The truth is being sought as never before. The peoples of Eastern Europe, the peoples of the Soviet Union itself, are demanding more freedom, demanding their place in the sun.

	Now there are some who see this situation and conclude that Moscow is too weak, too weak to make any trouble. I've spoken with Mr. Gorbachev. I know some of his advisors. They do face a serious situation. The people they rule want to know why they lack bread, why they lack freedom. Why life expectancy has decreased. Why public services and consumer goods are so poor and in such short supply. So seventy years after the Russian Revolution, Marxism is losing its luster.

	It would be far too simple, even dangerous, to conclude, however, that Soviet foreign policy is driven exclusively by economic weakness. Russia was a great power before the Revolution and the Soviet Union is a military superpower today. In Europe and in other parts of the world, we have yet to see the full promise of Soviet change turn into change itself. Where we have seen flexibility, it has come because the price of aggression was too high--because we supported the Mujahedeen in Afghanistan. It has come because intimidation failed--because we deployed the Pershing and Cruise missiles in Europe. Now the Soviet Army is leaving Afghanistan. We have an INF treaty, eliminating an entire generation of nuclear capable missiles for the first time.

	The evidence is clear. The facts are in. Now is not the time to abandon realism about what moves the Soviet Union. Yes, the Soviets are restrained by their own troubles. But they are also restrained by our strength, our ability to deter aggression, the unity of the democracies. To abandon that, to turn away from that path, is to invite trouble.

	Abandoning the policy of peace through strength in the hopes of self-induced Soviet restraint means also to miss a crucial opportunity. It is an opportunity that Churchill described, when he called for a united West to use its strength to reach "a good understanding on all points with Moscow."

	That is what our agenda is all about. We are using our strength, we and our allies, to make progress on many fronts. We're already carrying out the INF Treaty. A few weeks ago, in Marshall, Texas, I witnessed an historic moment as two of those INF weapons were destroyed. I was proud--proud of NATO's unity and determination--proud of our strength and of our courage in reaching such an agreement. Now we'll seek a further reduction of strategic weapons. Working with our allies, we'll seek a balance of conventional arms in Europe. A balance based on asymmetrical Soviet reductions in tanks and artillery--the weapons that make an attack thinkable. Conventional arms reduction will be a high priority for me and it is vital for keeping the peace. It is time to redouble our efforts to safeguard against the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and to seek the ultimate ban on chemical and biological weapons. We'll also seek human rights, the ultimate guarantor of a peaceful world.

	This offers promise, but in no way should lessen our commitment to peace through strength--a policy we must continue.

	This objective of a more stable and less tense relationship with the Soviet Union is part of a larger vision of a free world at peace--a vision that beckons to your generation in a way that could only be a gleam in the farseeing eye of a Churchill. It's our challenge as Americans to help bring it about. A growing concert of nations awaits our leadership to make it happen. And this above all I believe--America can do it.

	On that great commencement day in 1946, when Winston Churchill spoke, our president, Harry Truman, was also awarded an honorary degree. He responded that he hoped to deserve it. He said he wanted to deserve it. And then he said, "We are either headed for complete destruction or we are facing the greatest age in history."

	Like Harry Truman, I believe we are facing the greatest age in history, the greatest time for America. You, the youth of America, our future, have a vital role to play to see that we follow through. I know we can achieve that great age for all Americans, and with your help, I will be the next president of the United States.

	Thank you and God bless you.

EASTERN EUROPEHISTORY--EUROPEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)     +' ÷& ñ& í& ã&
 Û& Ö& Ñ& Ë& Ã& Á& ®& ¤&	 _ 	 Q 	 B 	   e: