Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0908.002SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/08STUMPBUFFALONEW YORKNY1,705 WORDS

	Last Saturday morning, I stood with my mother in the Great Hall at Ellis Island, where my mother and father arrived in this country seventy-five years ago--timid and fearful--and yet full of excitement about the adventure they were about to begin in the new world.

	Today, here in one of the great industrial cities of America, a city built by the strong arms and broad backs and keen minds of generations of Americans whose family stories are not much different from my own, stands their son, a proud father and husband and son, a proud American, the Democratic nominee for the president of the United States.

	Only in America could that happen.  Only in America where immigrants from every corner of the earth have been drawn by the torch of freedom.

	Less than nine weeks from today, we will elect a new president of the United States.

	And the most important responsibility of the next president will be to keep that torch of freedom burning.  To keep America strong and well defended.  To stand up for democracy and American values around the world.

	But as John Kennedy said twenty-eight years ago, "We cannot hope that people will look to us for leadership, unless we are moving ahead and solving our own problems here in the United States."

	And that is what I want to talk to you about today.

	Because the Republicans this fall are not asking us to move ahead; they are asking us to stand still.

	To hang on to what we have.  To hope for the best.

	They want us to forget about the trillion dollars they've added to the national debt--an IOU our children and grandchildren will be paying for generations to come.  150 billion dollars a year in debt service alone that you and I are paying, much of it to foreign bankers.

	They want us to forget that interest rates are going up - again--another Republican tax on Middle America--$1000 for every family with an adjustable rate mortgage on their home; $300 on every car loan; over a billion dollars in new burdens for our family farmers who have already been put through the wringer for the past seven and a half years.

	And that's not all.  Last Friday, the monthly unemployment figures came out.  Rising unemployment for the second straight month.  226,000 more unemployed Americans.

	And what did Mr. Bush have to say about that?  He said it was "statistically irrelevant."

	"Statistically irrelevant."  That's an interesting phrase.  But not surprising, coming as it did from the standard bearer of the party that thought ketchup was a vegetable.

	My friends, we're here today to tell Mr. Bush that Americans are not statistics--and we sure aren't irrelevant.

	Because those unemployed Americans are people.  They're our neighbors; they're our friends.

	And, on November 8, he's going to find out just how relevant they--and we--are.

	The Republican ticket talks about creating more jobs.  But where?

	They talk about good jobs.  But whose?

	They talk about prosperity.  But for whom?

	I want to be the president who brings prosperity home--to every home in America.

	I want to be the president who stands up for the families of this country.  I want to build an America where our kids can afford a new home; where our parents can get decent health care and enjoy a secure retirement; and where every American family is a full shareholder in the American dream.

	I want to be the president who opens the door of college opportunity to every youngster in this country who is qualified to do college work.  That's why I announced a plan yesterday - we call it the STARS program--a plan that will allow young people to take out loans and repay them through payroll withholding in future years; a plan that will put a college education within the financial reach of every young man and young woman in this country.

	I want to be the president who creates good jobs at good wages in the good old U.S.A. Jobs you can count on; jobs you can support a family on; jobs with a future.

	And I want to be the president who builds a strong America - an America that's strong militarily and economically; a president who will invest in the weapons we need; but won't bankrupt our nation by spending billions on exotic weapons of questionable value--or by lining the pockets of defense consultants and wheeler-dealers; a president who will lead an America that knows its values; that defends its beliefs and that commands respect throughout the world.

	For the past seven years, as the Census Bureau told us this past week, the rich have gotten richer; the poor have gotten poorer; and those in the middle--and that means most of us - are getting squeezed.  My friends, I ask you--can we afford four more years of that?

	High paying jobs are being replaced by low wage jobs; average weekly wages are down over the last eight years; benefits are down over the last eight years.  My friends, I ask you--can we afford four more years of that?

	All across the country, we see two parents working harder and harder to buy what one income could buy before.  We see fewer families able to afford a home now than eight years ago.  Unable to find childcare for their children while they go out and work.  Forty million of our fellow citizens--most of them members of working families--without a dime of health insurance.  My friends, I ask you--can we afford four more years of that?

	And what do our opponents intend to do about it?  What is their plan for America's future?  They want to give those who make $200,000 a year or more a tax break of $30,000.  That's more than the average teacher makes.  That's enough to send your son or daughter to SUNY Buffalo for four years.  The down payment young couples could use to buy their first home.  And who do you think is going to pay for that new tax break?  Look at your kids.  Look at your parents.  Look in the mirror, and ask yourself, can we afford four more years of that?

	Last October, Mr. Bush went to Europe.  He said the American auto industry could use a few good mechanics from the Soviet Union who could teach our workers something about quality.  Then, a few days later, Mr. Bush explained: "Quality, we've got to have more of it.  If it hurts when I say that to somebody, too bad."

	I agree we have to pay attention to quality--from the assembly lines to the executive suites.  But Mr. Bush, why don't you come here to Buffalo and tell us what you think American autoworkers have to learn from a society where workers have no rights, consumers have no choices, and even Mr. Gorbachev admits their economy is a shambles.

	Those Republicans in Washington love to blame American workers first.

	Only three days ago, a shipyard worker in Portland, Oregon asked Mr. Bush why his wages had dropped almost 30 percent during his term in office.

	And what did Mr. Bush have to say.  He told that worker that he was going through "a competitive change."  On November 8th, we're going to show George Bush what "competitive change" is all about.

	[Missing text] we're going to [missing text].  We're not going to cut wages and cut corners, [missing text] build partnerships.

	We're not going to set management and unions against each other; we're going to get business and labor working together to make shared decisions, shared profits, and shared progress for America.

	And we're going to make the label "Made in America" a symbol of quality and durability and value all over the world.

	Because when unions like the UAW work together with strong state leaders like Mario Cuomo, we can forge job training partnerships, as you have at Tonawanda, that makes America more productive.

	When companies like GM invest $80 million to build new and better engines like the Mark V, that makes America more competitive.

	When our autoworkers have the energy and the skill to produce 8,823 engines in a single day--setting a world production record--the way you did a few months ago, that makes America proud.

	And when the product that rolls off the assembly line is as good as the engine in the Corsica and the Baretta and in my Chevy Celebrity--which is the Governor's car in Massachusetts - then America is on its way back to the top of the hill and each and every one of us can be a part of it.

	My friends, this election is a choice between two very different kinds of leadership, two very different ideas about prosperity; two very different visions of America.

	The Republicans have slammed the door of college opportunity on thousands of young people.  We've got a plan to open that door to every student qualified to do college work.  And bring prosperity home.

	The Republicans didn't want plant closing legislation; but we beat them, and we'll put that law to work.  And bring prosperity home.

	The Republicans didn't want the new trade bill; but, thanks to Lloyd Bentsen, we beat them.  We're going to use that law to train and retrain workers--and bring down adult illiteracy--and bring prosperity home.

	We're going to win this November because we stand for what the American people stand for.

	We are a wonderful and diverse mosaic of races and creeds and ethnic groups bound together by our love for this country; by our belief in its future; and by our deep and abiding faith in the American dream.

	And, if anyone tells you that that dream belongs to the privileged few, and not to all of us, tell them that their era is over and a new era is about to begin.

	On January 20, when, with your help this son of immigrants will enter the White House as president of the United States.

AUTOMOBILES/AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRYBUDGET DEFICITCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDINTEREST RATESUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME     Y& %& & & &
 & & þ% ÷% ï% í% í% â%	 ¤ 	 … 	 w 	 Y 	 9 	 + 	  e: