Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0916.005SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/16STUMPST. PAULMINNESOTAMN1714 WORDS

	Governor Anderson, and my very dear friends: By coming out today to allow me to greet you, patiently waiting to listen to the few thoughts I wanted to leave with you, you do me great honor.  Mrs. Eisenhower and I are particularly sensitive to this kind of a compliment paid us by this kind of a throng of free Americans.  We are truly grateful to you.

	Just as I started up here from the train an associate said to me, "You have addressed 16 gatherings of your fellow citizens since yesterday morning at 8 o'clock," and this fact set me to reflecting over the reactions I have had--reactions from the audience itself and reactions as indicated by the letters of notes they dropped on my train before it left town, by telegrams they sent me afterward.  I find that the general or basic feeling among all of these people is that for one reason or another the time has come to change our leadership in the federal government.  I find also, ladies and gentlemen, that these people want me to give thoughtful reasons as to why I believe the same.  I have found that they place at the top of the list their feeling that we have been pursuing an aimless sort of a fumbling course abroad.  During the past seven years they think that we have frittered away a great opportunity earned by the blood of our soldiers, our sailors and our airmen in World War II. 

	Coming out of that war the mightiest military force of the world, we found ourselves not only unable in the councils of the world to get others to agree to our viewpoints, but we found ourselves finally in great trouble in Korea because of errors we had made in that region.

	They feel that there is a way of working ourselves out of this aimless path and getting into a broad highway that all of us as Americans can understand and all of the world, the free world particularly, can understand as to what we are getting at and the wisdom of our course in following it.  This subject I made the object of my talk at Philadelphia only a week or so ago.  I am not going to take your time today to review what I then said, but I shall have more to say about it during this campaign because I do agree that overshadowing all else in our lives is the question of peace, finding a way of dealing with the world in cooperation with all free countries so that our boys may stay at home, our young people may go to their colleges or take their jobs or places on the farm or in the factory and not go off to foreign shores to protect our interests.

	The next subject in which I find they take great interest, all of those American citizens with whom I have spoken, and which they feel can be cured is reckless spending.  They believe the federal government has been guilty of unwise, wasteful and extravagant expenditure.  Eighty-five billion dollar budgets are not something to take in your stride.

	Along with this subject comes that of deficits in the budget, and their inevitable effect upon inflation.  I find that housewives are tired of carrying in their baskets almost as much money as they expect to bring home vegetables from the market.  They are tired of the cheapening of our money and they earnestly believe that under wise fiscal policy with a little bit of regard for frugality, thrifty, economy and efficiency that much saving can be made instantly--not in the long distant future, but instantly--to get that deficit out of our budget.

	The next thing that worried them is the lack of pride that they can take in their own government, the low standard of morals that seems to have attacked government officialdom in so many quarters; in the Department of Justice, in the office of the Collector of Internal Revenue.  We had three internal revenue collectors who between them collect 5 1/2 billion dollars in one year who had to be relieved for crookedness and some of them put in the penitentiary.  It is high time they think that we should give this government an overhauling.  No matter how much reason there may be, ladies and gentlemen, for some of our expenditures, it is quite clear we don't have to put up with dishonesty in any federal position--nowhere.

	I can sum up what I have learned in the last day or so in these meetings and in these reactions in that there is a determination to clean out.  I know of no better place that such a process can be started than right here.  Here in this capital in 1938 you people of Minnesota found that you had a condition you did not like.  You thought it was time to clean out and what happened?  Republicans, Democrats, disgruntled and enlightened Farmer-Laborites all got together and decided they would have a change.  When they had a change the point was they didn't just do a minor repair job.  You didn't bring in one new face and say, "Now all will be well."  You cleaned out from top to bottom.  You not only got honest government but in cooperation with the legislature you dug out every evidence you could find of dishonesty, corruption and you indicted and convicted and ended the waste in your government.  You began to live on your income, to reduce your taxes, to cut the payrolls and reduce the debt.

	Here is a strange parallel.  At that time you will recall there were dire predictions of what was going to happen in this reform movement.  It was said that these people coming in cared nothing for social security.  They said that Republicans and the others who came in would forget all the humanitarian impulses that Americans are normally subject to and that they would be cruel to the aged, to the unemployed, the sick, the needy.  In actual fact, you not only proved that honesty in government pays off in terms of dollars and cents, but today Minnesota leads the nation in its measures for mental health, for law enforcement, youth conservation and social welfare.  I feel that there is a very, very large segment of America that never forgets that it really owes you a debt for this example, that relies on you now to take the lead, indeed that is extremely proud of you.  You gave it a chance to push out its chest and stand up and look people in the eye and say, "Of course we Americans can get rid of that kind of thing if we want to."

	The next subject that I have discussed with these friends of mine is how do we do it.  I need to say little to you about the methods for doing this.  You proved in 1938 that you recognized the relationship between the privileges and the rights of American citizenship and its responsibilities.  You exercised those responsibilities.  We must do that now.  That merely means getting a start.  If you exercise your responsibility of participating in the political activities of your state and nation, if you exercise your vote, all of you--all of us in this nation--then we will get the kind of government we want.

	Having gotten installed the kind of government we want with the kind of people who command our respect--not little men too small for their jobs but the biggest men and the most outstanding men that our country can produce from agriculture, industry, the professions, our colleges--when we get honest government that commands the respect of all of us with that kind of men, then we are started.  The point I want to make is this, ladies and gentlemen:  when we win the election on November 4th, thence comes the real day of dedication.

	Up until that moment by our sincerity, by our honesty, by such wisdom as God gave us, the great leaders all over the country of the Republican Party in state, in county, and in national affairs are trying to lay before you programs that they believe are wise and suited to the American scene.  But on January 20th they actually have to begin to perform.  The point I want to leave with you and ask you to consider every day of your lives is this:  citizenship does not end with the election of the officers of your choosing.  You still have the job of keeping those officers informed as to your beliefs.  They have to know that you are just as interested in morality, moral standards, the spiritual basis of our nation after election as you were before.  By no means allow any administration in Washington or in the state--and that means an administration by my good friend, Governor Anderson or by me--ever to become indifferent, to drift away from the people.  If it shows any tendency to become arrogant, complacent, indifferent, you bring up short.

	I pledge you this one thing.  I have no other ambition than that at the end of four years every person in this audience may be able honestly to say, "The fellow was fair; he was just.  He was decent; he was honest; he was our friend.  If he is that he will have true regard for the rights of 155 million people, not just for any group."  Ladies and gentlemen, America deserves the kind of government of which it can be proud.  It can have the kind of government of which it can be proud.

	Again, I thank you for the great honor you have done me by coming here.  This kind of meeting is for me an inspiration.  From you I gather strength and I gather determination to carry on the job I have laid for myself, because when this many people are here gathered in this great field to hear a fellow American express his views, they are showing a seriousness and a determination that cannot be denied.  If I may live up to it only partially, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very proud.  At least I shall try to do so.  

	Good-bye.
BUDGET DEFICITGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMINNESOTAPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION     ‘% ]% W% S% I%
 ;% 6% 1% )%  % % % %	 K 	 = 	   	  e: