Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0910.003SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/10STUMPHOUSTONTEXASTXRICE HOTEL7,773 WORDS

	Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you, Mayor Welch.  Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for arranging with the fire commissioner so that we could get a few more good souls from Houston and other parts of Texas in to this fine hall this evening, this fine banquet room.

	I can barely see to the very end, but it seems like it is jam-packed full, and might I say that is a good way to have it.

	Mayor Welch, I have just left a wonderful Texan and a very fine public servant who has been visiting with me earlier this evening, the speaker of your House of Representatives, Ben Barnes.

	I am singularly honored tonight to have here at this platform with me two of the most dedicated, two from the most conscientious, forward-looking members of the House of Representatives, two men that you know from this District and this area, I should say, Congressman Bob Casey and Congressman Bob Eckhardt.

	And I note also, and I am sure you do, that the chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee, the chairman of the party in this state who has surely given a splendid account of himself in building this party, Will Davis, and I am very honored that you are with us.

	Now, I am going to get right down to business, because this is an evening of not just speech making on my part, but of questions and answers of what I call the politics of contact and confrontation, where I go out to the public as a man that seeks the highest office within the government of the American people and submit myself to the privilege of hearing the questions from the constituents and the citizens and, hopefully, to be able to present an intelligent and responsive answer.

	I did, when I sought this nomination, the nomination of my party, that I wanted to be able to talk to the American people about the realities that confront us, the realities of the world in which we live, torn, dangerous, and yet very promising; the realities of the America in which we live, richer, stronger than ever before, and yet, today, a scene of the conflict and tension of deep disturbances, ferments and change.

	I also said that I would, if permitted to be the standard bearer of our party, see to it that we had as a vice president running mate, not someone that was the product of compromise or arrangement, but, rather, someone, by his talent and his skills, his character and his experience, his background and his maturity, who was thoroughly capable of occupying the highest office of this land, namely, the presidency.  And I have had a hand in selecting that sort of person.  I suggested to the Democratic convention that they nominate and give me the privilege of having as my running mate one of the finest of the United States Senate, a governor of two terms, a senator of two terms, a man who has a reputation for personal integrity and political foresight, and the man's name is Edmund Muskie, Senator from Maine.

	Senator Muskie started his campaign here in the Lone Star State of Texas, an if you have not read into that what you should, let me spell it out.

	The ticket of Humphrey and Muskie, the Democratic ticket, intends to carry the state of Texas and have the electoral votes of this state, and we intend to rely on you, the people from every walk of life, of every race, creed and color, Catholic, Protestant, and Jew, regular Democrat, conservative Democrat, concerned Democrat, independent citizens, a lot of Republicans that can't take what has been offered on their ticket.

	We intend to have you carry this fight.  I am going to give it everything I have, but I am going to ask you to give a full measure of devotion of this cause as well, and I say that tonight starts the victory march from Texas to the White House and we are going to do it.

	I know all the headlines.  I know all the stories that have been written.  But I want to tell you the greatest story of this, as far as this election is concerned, will be unity behind the Democratic ticket and--mark it down--tonight we are going to march together, governor, senator, every one of us.

	I thought we ought to dispense with those matters early.

	Now, let me talk about some of the substantive matters.

	We are going to make a great decision in this country.  Every election is a great decision.  There has never been one that wasn't, but I think the times that we live in indicate that the decision that we make in 1968, November, will have a great bearing upon the future of this land.

	A little over a hundred years ago, a hundred and fifty to be exact, Abraham Lincoln proclaimed the Emancipation Proclamation.  We had to wait almost a hundred years before we could translate the Proclamation into legal reality, and now we are in the business of translating it into practical reality.

	I am not merely talking about the emancipation of the slaves or the black.  I am talking about the emancipation of the deprived in this country, white and black, and let it be quite clear--let it be not only quite clear but very clear that there are more poor whites than blacks, more poor rural Americans than urban, that slumism is not just a characteristic of just the cities, but sometimes of the countryside.

	We are not talking about a race, we are not talking about a color tonight, ladies and gentlemen; we are talking about Americans, every kind of an American.  And it is the many kinds of Americans that inhabit this state, because Texas is like a little United Nations within itself.  It is these many kinds of Americans that make up the vitality, the vibrancy, the strength, the great power of this nation, and I intend, if I am permitted to be the President of this land, to mobilize the resources of the yet untapped human resources of the millions of Americans that have never had a chance.

	I think that America has just begun to live.  I think that our better days are yet to come.  I know that there are always the cynics that say, "Well, why does he say that?"  Or, "Does he mean it?"

	But I remember in my young days when people said, in the Depression, that our system was through.  I remember there were those that were the great intellectuals of our day that said we never again would be able to give vibrancy and vitality and drive to our free enterprise system.  I didn't believe it then and I don't believe it now.

	There have always been the doubters.  There have always been the purveyors of ear and suspicion.  They get a little more attention the people who are the advocates.  They get a little more attention than the people who are positive.  It is always the man who spreads the doom and the gloom who is called the prophet; but the greatest prophets were those who saw a better day, not those that saw the end, but those who saw the beginning.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, I don't claim to be a prophet, but I claim to have some understanding of this American people and I say to this audience, particularly to the young people, our greatest is yet to come.  Our best days are yet to live.  The future belongs to us and we intend to use it and to develop it.  We intend to set new standards for this nation, the likes of which it has never known, and I ask you to help me.

	I don't believe that the American people are going to elect a candidate who likes to parry over our problems or gives generalizations to specific deeds.

	I place my confidence in the people and I will tell you why:  because I am of the people, not separated from them, but from them, and I believe that I know that this country has within it tremendous resources, tremendous resources of good, to do whatever needs to be done.

	I have asked my fellow citizens to have confidence in me.  That is a great request, but I ask that because I have confidence in them, confidence in their ability to know that when they are being sold a bill of goods, and, believe me, some of them are being sold a bill of goods today or, at least, the attempts is being made, and I have confidence in the people's understanding that he who buries his head in the sand and sets his face against the wind of inevitable changes can never stop that change, but he will be buried by the sandstorm of time as it passes him by.

	I believe that there are those who would bury their head in the sand and I have confidence in the goodwill of the American people, in their good judgment, in their common sense, and like Adlai Stevenson before me, I intend to talk sense to the American people.

	I have great confidence in the uncommon decency that characterizes his nation.  In short, as I have said, I trust the people and it is because I trust the great, unfrightened, and sometimes silent majority of Americans, that I choose to speak, not to their fears, but to their hopes.

	Now, let me say a word about this younger generation.  It is because I trust this new generation of Americans, this young generation that seems to get so much attention, that I view the occasional excesses and the poor judgment of a few of the young in its proper perspective, and I sense that it is relatively less significant than the decent, energetic and wholesome and creative force which this young generation represents--potentially, the most promising generation that this country has ever produced.

	My presidency will be characterized by the open door of the White House to the young.  That place will sing with the music of the young,.  Their voices will be heard, their advice and counsel will be sought, because my public life has been a life of association with young men and women, young in spirit, many young in age, but very young in their hopes and their desires, and it is because I trust this process of democratic decision making that I do not fear but, indeed, I welcome the free and the frank debate about the issues of our time, which characterize the sometimes troublesome, but fundamentally healthy, development within the Democratic party during the past several weeks.

	I would rather have our confusion and our arguments than to have the boredom of Republicanism.  I gather you feel exactly the same way.

	I said to a friend the other day, "America has many firsts."  We do many things and we do them in a big way, but it is the first time we have ever had a national wake before the political demise of a candidate.

	I have also told you some things about my sense of values and I want to represent them to you tonight so that you may know your candidate and you may know what I believe and why I think winning the presidency so important.  To be sure, no greater honor or greater responsibility could come to anyone, but winning the presidency is not worth the price of silence or evasion, and the most fundamental and precious issue of our time is the issue of human rights and human dignity and equal opportunity.

	I have not compromised on this issue for twenty years in my public life and I have no intention of starting it at this later date.

	Winning the presidency is not worth a compact with extremism, the extremism of the left or the right, the extremism of the militants of the black or the white.  Winning the presidency is not a popularity contest.  Winning the presidency should be measured on principle, not popularity.

	Well, it is because I believe these things that I seek that responsibility and that I am prepared to accept the burden that this office imposes.

	I believe, through years of experience--the maturity that comes with the experience--that I am ready to lead our nation toward the new day which awaits each and every one of us.

	Now, there are three great realities of our times:  the necessity of peace in the world, the necessity for justice and order in our nation, and the paramount necessity of unity among our people.

	And during this campaign I will continue to speak out as I have in the past, on each of these challenges and I choose to run, and run proudly--and I want every member now of the media to get this, and every person in this audience - I choose to run and run proudly on the Democratic party's achievements throughout our opportunity to govern this nation, and particularly during these last eight years, achievements which include literally landmarks of excellence, great achievements.

	Economy of ninety months of consecutive growth, ladies and gentlemen, this has never happened in the recorded history of mankind.  You take it for granted because some of us have never experienced a Depression or Recession.  Those of us that have appreciate it just as a man that has been ill appreciates good health.

	As achievement of three thousand dollars more real income each year for the average family of four than in 1961.  To a rich man that may not mean much, but to many of us it means a new car, it means a college education for a son or a daughter, or it means a vacation or a trip.  It means new furniture.  It means new things.  It may mean just security.

	The achievement of Medicare, which for the first time has permitted the senior citizens of this land, those who have given of their best during the better years of their lives, to live in dignity and having the blessing of modern medicine and modern hospitalization.

	The achievement of Project Head Start.  Mrs. Humphrey visited a project at Los Angeles today.  I hope we are not so cynical, my fellow Americans, that we no longer care about the little ones.  I think you can judge the morality of a society by two groups--three groups--the children and what you do with the children, the handicapped and how you treat them, and the elderly.

	Our Scriptures alone tell us they deserve our respect, and I am happy to tell you that I have been a part of an administration that has cares for the children as no other administration in the history of this republic, cared for the handicapped as no other administration in this republic, and cared for the elderly as no other government and surely no other administration in this republic; more senior citizens housing built in four years than in the preceding two hundred.

	And I point with some justifiable pride to the achievement of a government that saw that over one million young Americans had their chance to go to higher education and college with public support--with scholarships and loans.

	Over nine million of our youngsters who were the victims of the schools that were separate and equal, but that were just separate, nine million of them, the beneficiaries of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the greatest education program that this country has ever known.

	And the ten million of our fellow Americans who have walked out of the darkness of poverty into the bright sunlight of opportunity, ten million Americans in the last seven years that have come out of poverty--and of those ten million over three and a half million black--who for the first time in their life have had a chance to stand as you and I, citizens of this land.

	There is much more that we could talk of and a greater record that I shall outline in the days ahead, but let me make it clear, I do not come here to apologize for the Democratic party or Democratic president.  I come here as one that was nurtured in the days of Franklin Roosevelt, that was inspired by the courageous leadership of Harry Truman, whose soul and mind was made the better by the great spirit of Adlai Stevenson, and who had the opportunity to be a fellow worker in the Democratic party and one of the leaders in the Congress of the United States under two presidents that got their country moving again and lifted it to new heights:  John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson.

	So, I lay down the gauntlet here tonight. We will put our record against Mr. Nixon's twenty-four hours a day, three hundred and sixty-five days a year.  I intend to be judged on my record as compared to his.  I think the American people will make the right decision.  I have no doubt bout it.  I do not think the American people are ready to turn this country over to Mr. Richard Nixon and Strom Thurmond.

	So, for those of you that were wondering when will your friend, Hubert Humphrey, lay it on the line, we are laying it on the line tonight and we will lay it on the line every night from here on out.

	Yes, I am proud to have played some little role in some of these achievements which I have noted here this evening, but I want you to know that I am not content with that.  I am no one who believes in reciting the pages of history.

	I ask you to help us make new history and I ask you to help build on the record that we have already established, to build better, to build broader, to build more meaningfully, and I am going to do so with the determination not to narrow the road to peace and justice by either the mistakes or the formulas of the past--and everybody has made some mistakes--and not to limit our achievements by the weight of the past, and I shall do so with the certain objectives in mind, and these are my objectives: to end the war in Vietnam, to stop and put a halt to the rising tide of lawlessness in our cities, to insure a meaningful job for every citizen willing to work, and to guarantee a first-class education for every child born in this land.  In other words, to provide a life of meaning and dignity and purpose for every person and I shall do so with the humility born of the knowledge that no man can hope to advance the unfinished work of our society without the help of his God and the support of his people.

	I intend to work hard enough to merit that support, to earn that support, and I come here tonight in the great state of Texas to ask you to be in the vanguard of this leadership for the new day that America needs and deserves.

	Now, I have spoken to you from my heart and I have spoken to you as I see it, or, as the young people say, I have told it like it is, said it like it is.

	Now, let's hear from you.  Question number one.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, today President Johnson obviously--

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Will you please identify yourself?

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Richard Dobbins, news writer, KIKK Radio.

	Today President Johnson obviously contradicted what you said yesterday, when you said that if elected, that you would attempt to bring some troops home as early as 1969 or late 1968.  The president said no one could ever tell.

	Why did President Johnson deliberately contradict you and why has he not endorsed you for the presidency?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The question was that I had indicated that some troops might be able to be brought home from South Vietnam, American troops, in early 1969 or, hopefully, in late 1968.

	The gentlemen says that the president today stated that no man could make that prediction. Is that right?

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR: That is correct.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And the second part of the question was why hasn't the president endorsed me.

	Well, first of all, would somebody bring me the morning paper, because one of the Marine divisions is on its way home.  Give me your paper there.  I had it up in my room there and I was showing my staff.  They are a bunch of doubting Thomases just like you fellows.

	It is the Post. There is a statement, it is the headline in one of your newspapers.  I regret, in the haste to come here--I have twenty staff men here.  Would somebody please run and get it?

	They have heard me speak enough; they don't need to hear me again.

	There is a story that some of the Marines that have been sent to Vietnam American Marines, are now to be returned.  I don't know what the other statement is about.

	I said that I had hoped that this could happen and my hope--at least, it ha been indicated as a fact in the press.  Now, I always believe what I read in the papers.

	Now, the second thing is--the second question was:  Why hasn't the president endorsed me?

	The president has not only endorsed me, he has embraced me.  I don't think there is a shadow of a doubt in the mind of anyone that the president of the United States would like very much to see the vice president of the United States to be elected president of the United States. He has said that repeatedly.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Could you comment on the feasibility of a national primary by 1972, and comment on the conventions, as to what you think of how they work in this country today?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I do not believe that our convention system is in need of a very, very in-depth study and analysis as to whether or not it really meets the modern needs of what we call our modern politics.

	Senator Gaylord Nielson, the state of Wisconsin, has introduced legislation for the establishment of a high-level commission for both public and private members, to examine the convention party system as to its adequacies and inadequacies.

	May I just--this is the Houston Post.  It is dated Tuesday, September 10th.  It says:  "Humphrey arrives tonight at 6:30."  I am sorry I was a little late.

	"Marine regiment withdrawal is first for the United States," a UPI story.  "Spokesman said it was the first withdrawal of an American troop unit from the Vietnam War."

	It is a rather extended story.  I think that it verifies what I had hoped.  I didn't say that it would happen.  Who can reflect what will happen?  One can express his hopes and I had said earlier that I thought it could happen and that it might happen and that I hoped it would happen.

	And if this is a true story--and I gather it would be or it wouldn't occupy such a prominent position in this press--I would say that we have some reason to be at least a little grateful for the return of some of the men from that part of the world.

	Now, may I get back to your question, sir.  The commission of Senator Nielson is needed.

	Secondly, I have long supported, and did so when the late Senator Estes Kefauver favored a national primary [missing text].  I recognize that it has its inadequacies and its adequacies, but on balancing it, it has more to offer to it than it has limitations.  I do believe that the time is at hand for the revaluation and study of the total convention process, and also I know that our party at Chicago over the din outside the convention, made some very forward stride in terms of modernizing the caucus machinery, the convention machinery of the Democratic party.

	This is something that our fellow Republicans did not do.

	Yes, it is very hard for me to see over the lights.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, can you tell me what particularly you know about the poverty in the United States, particularly in Texas and the Rio Grande Valley?  

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, I know --

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Firsthand?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I know primarily, my dear lady, what I have read, and I know primarily what I have been told by some of those who live there.

	I do not claim to be an expert about the poverty in Texas.  I can tell you something about the poverty in Minnesota, and I know about the poverty in our great metropolitan areas, but I think it would be a reasonably factual statement to say that there is not a state in this land that does not have within it the poor people.

	I do not say this is a part of any premeditated conspiracy on the part of any leadership.  It is--the poor have been with us since the beginning of organized society, but I think for the first time we have a chance to do something about at least alleviating some of the conditions of poverty.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Do you intend to do that?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Yes, my dear lady, I have been in the forefront of that fight all of my public life.  I have been one of those that has worked for those programs, public and private, and I don't think they can all be done by government, public and private, that would help alleviate these conditions.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, a recent issue of Life Magazine quoted you as saying that you could have lived with the minority platform on Vietnam.  Under what conditions would you have favored a conditional retreat in Vietnam?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Let me make it clear that any presidential candidate will find features in the platform that he doesn't particularly like, even though he accepts the nomination of his party.  It has happened before.  And I supported, and still do support the majority plank in the platform.

	I don't say that it is a perfect plan, but I think it represents a rather sensible point of view.

	I thought that the minority plank, when it calls for unconditional cessation of the bombing, I thought that went too far.  But I also noted that it did not call for unconditional immediate bombing and there was a certain amount of fusing of the words.

	Now, let me again repeat to you that I said before the convention the I should support the nominee of my party, and if that had been my colleague from Minnesota, Senator McCarthy, then I would have gladly supported him.  If it had been my friend, Senator McGovern from South Dakota, who was my neighbor for more than ten years, I would have gladly supported him.

	We agreed on the rhetoric of the platform, but I happen to believe that if either one of them had become president, that the realities of life, that the hard, cold realities of the situation would have had a much more controlling influence upon their decisions than a printed word of the platform that was fought over in convention, and that is why I  have said in my acceptance speech the I would not feel bound by the policies of the past in confronting the realities of the future.

	Let it be very clear that all three of us that I have mentioned, Senator McCarthy, and Senator McGovern, and myself, had one common objective, the attainment of a just and honorable peace in Vietnam.  But I may add that this was more than some people were able to comprehend.  None of us recommend unilateral withdrawal.  All of us felt that it would be desirable to have a cease fire.  All of us said that we should have a systematic withdrawal of the forces, as the army of South Vietnam was able to take over.  All of us said that there should be no permanent bases in South Vietnam.  All three of us blended ourselves to the concept of free election:  one man, one vote; that all person should participate in those elections and be eligible for office, if they would accept the rules of a peaceful election and renounce violence obtaining political power.

	And there were the points of agreement, and some of those points were in the minority plank, as they were in the majority plank.

	The difference was that one said unconditional cessation of the bombing, and then went on to state, of course, we must protect our troops in the South.

	I cannot imagine any men being president of the United States that would take a precipitous action unless he thought it would lend itself to peace and unless he thought he was protecting the lives of American men that were committed to battle--I don't care what your platform is.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Are you saying, then, sir, that you were misquoted by Life Magazine?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I am not saying I was misquoted, at all.  I am simply saying what my position is.  It has been slated about three hundred times now.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Do you favor replacing the army with a well-paid, highly efficient army, like Adlai Stevenson did?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I favor the lottery system or the random selection system, rather than the present system.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, you have said that the post-Vietnam budget will contain an adequate amount for the rehabilitation of the ghettos.  Do you think that this money will be retained for the rehabilitation of the ghettos?  Can you expound on this?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  One of the reasons that I have been talking about it is that we are going to have to build a public opinion for it, mainly in others, that the savings which come as a dividend of peace will be directed toward the great social needs of this nation. 

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I served in Congress when the war in Korea was over, and that was a very costly war.  It took a larger portion of the budget and it took many lives.  And what happened when the war was over, there were poor, more than there are now--slums, as they are now.  There were illiterate, more than now.  There were social problems of unemployment after the war.

	And what happened to the savings after the war was over?  The savings from the war went into tax reductions and you had three recessions in eight years and no real development in this nation.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  You also note that because of the fact that so many black people have been hired by private industries as extras for the war boom, wouldn't you say that this would throw off more black people and create more riots than if you continue the war economy as it is?  Wouldn't this cause more riots--and more funds would be needed for riot control?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  May I say that the economy, over the last ninety months, has continued to grow at a growth rate never known before--four and a half percent.  And it is my view that if we can keep this economy going forward on a sensible base, with adequate fiscal policies, that we will have jobs.  I don't think there is any doubt at all but that we will have jobs.

	There is a tremendous need in this country, and all we need to have is what I call those peace dividends, namely, those resources that we can save when the war is over, to be put into the public sector in our urban programs and in our schools and training programs.  There are such tremendous needs, we don't need to look forward to any rise in unemployment.

	What we ought to look forward to is an opportunity to start building this nation anew.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, I don't happen to be a citizen of the great state of Texas.  I am a citizen of Georgia and my name is Clarence Hubert Snipes.  I have only one question to direct to you, sir.  No one could debate that Kennedy beat Nixon strictly from the TV debates.  You have shown great sincerity in your voice and mannerisms tonight and I am tremendously impressed and I am not trying to flatter you, and I am sure that this crowd and everyone in American would like to see you and Nixon go ahead and talk.   Now, how about it?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  My good friend, this is a recommendation that I have made myself.  I want you to know that I am in shape and ready to go.

	You know, since you have asked this question and been so kind in you remarks, I think you ought to recollect that in 1960 I gave Mr. Kennedy his spring training.  You know, I never had the slightest doubt as to how that election was going to come out because I knew if I couldn't beat Mr. Kennedy, I didn't think Mr. Nixon could.  And I feel the same way now.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, your opposition last week stated that he could bring an early end to the war.  Do you think that any one candidate could bring an honorable end any sooner than any other candidate?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I think that the greatest contribution that the candidate can make at this particular time is to make it very clear to the government in North Vietnam, to the regime in Hanoi, that it is in their interest to proceed with the substantive negotiations and to seek a political settlement in Paris between now and January 20th--rather than to wait around and think that partisan debate and playing to the crowds in a partisan election will result in concessions after January 20th--under which the communists wouldn't get in the legitimate process between now and January the 20th.

	In other words, they ought to cut out the killing and settle down to the negotiating, because I believe that the greatest service that Mr. Nixon and myself can perform for this country and for the cause of peace is to have it unmistakably clear that we are not going to play politics with Vietnam; that we are going to ask the people of North Vietnam and their government to recognize that partisan debate in America does not result in the weakening of our determination on the battlefield or at the conference table.

	I know of no one that wants peace any more than the president of the United States no one that wants it any more.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, we have been talking about the kind of honorable settlement we are going to get, but, basically, what right do we have to send our troops to participate in a civil war on behalf of a military dictatorship that imprisons men like Traun Ben Shu, that cannot hold elections without disqualifying its best-known opponents, whose vice president is an avid admirer of Adolph Hitler, and who seems to be incapable to carry out the basic social and economic reforms to win the support of its people?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Are you through, sir?

	May I just reflect for a moment on your rather extended question.

	First of all, South Vietnam has a treaty arrangement with the United States.  We are a member of SEATO, we have what we call protocol arrangements which are treaty arrangements with South Vietnam.

	Secondly, it is not a civil war.  There are aspects of civil war, but the troops from North Vietnam are not indigenous to South Vietnam and they are not a part of the civil war.

	For a long time North Vietnam even denied that it had any troops in South Vietnam and one of the achievements of the conference in Paris is that they have admitted that they have troops in South Vietnam.

	Of course, it was ridiculous for them to deny this.  I think we have some idea of the quality of the--where you find that the only support the Soviet Union had in its naked aggression in Czechoslovakia was the government of North Vietnam.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  (Question not audible.)

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, just a minute.  You asked the question.

	The government of South Vietnam is an elected government.  To be sure, not everybody participated, but the government of the United States didn't have full participation in its first election.  The capitol of our country was moved eleven times.  The Constitution of the United States was never written by elected officials.  They were all appointed.  I think it was a good job; don't misunderstand me.

	What is more, the Constitutional Convention of the United States permitted nobody to observe its activities.  The doors were locked and even Benjamin Franklin had two guards attached to him in case he had an extra drink of wine and he became a little gregarious.

	One hundred person were invited to the Constitutional Convention; fifty-five came; thirty-nine stayed; thirty-eight signed, and it took them two years to get the Constitution and get it ratified.

	Now, the Constitutional Assembly of Vietnam, with all of its limitations, was an elected Constitutional Assembly and I think it is good to reflect.

	First of all, they said they will never have an election.  Well, they had one.  That destroyed that hope of some.

	The next was that the Constitutional Assembly would never agree, and the next was that President Chu, who was the head of the Directorate, would never accept the constitution.  But he did.

	And the next was that the assembly would never meet, that the National Assembly would never take place, and they did, and we sent observers from this country--governors, churchmen, and Bishop Lucey right there from this state--to observe that election.

	As elections come and go, and we have had all kinds in the United States--you know, we are not without sin ourselves--as elections come and go, it was a pretty fair election and over eighty percent of the electorate voted.  Despite the efforts of the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese to terrorize the population, despite the fact that candidates for public officers were killed, despite the fact that election officials were kidnapped, a president and a vice president were elected.

	You say it was not a majority vote. Well, eleven Presidents of the United States never got a majority vote, either.  Some of them had rather slim pluralities and even in our time the late John Kennedy didn't get a majority vote.  He had less than fifty percent.  John Adams had considerably less, and so did others.

	All I am saying to you is that if you want to compare elections, the one in south Vietnam is one hundred percent better than any they have had in North Vietnam, if you want to make comparisons.

	I don't want to have it understood that I think it was too good.  I think it was better, may I say, than the area had had before, and the present government of South Vietnam has had a much broader base now.

	The new Prime Minister is a man known for integrity and for courage and honesty.  His name is Houng--H-o-u-n-g--and he is a good man.

	Over twenty provincial chiefs have been removed for corruption.  Over two hundred officers of the military have been summarily court martialed for corruption, and everything that has happened is before the public.

	I think, my fellow Americans, that this little country that has eight hundred thousand men under arms, which would be the equivalent of sixteen million Americans, based on population, and has been at war for the last twenty years, does not deserve the constant harassment and condemnation of a country that finds better than twenty-five thousand of our best sons dead in that war.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, my name is Rick Erinson.  I listened to McCarthy in the park in Chicago and I listened to Nixon last week in Hermann Park and I have listened to you here tonight, and I think you have it in common with McCarthy, contrary to what some may say, and so far as I see, you have been telling the truth.  That is a personal opinion, but my question is this:  McCarthy indicated in the park that he would remain within the system, but he was not going to work for either of these candidates.  And now a lot of us that were for McCarthy, since, he as removed himself, would like to ask you, Mr. Vice President, why I should support you?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Because I think I offer you the best alternative of what you have available.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the University of Houston Young Democrats, the Lee College Young Democrats, the Harris County Young Democrats, and all of the Young Democrats in this area, we come here tonight with a question that is in our minds.

	We represent not the Hippies or the Yippies on our campus, but, rather, the young people that believe in America, who still, though, feel that they don't--they deserve an active voice.  We have to contend with these people, Mr. Vice President, and I ask you how are you going to help us tell them that they do have an active voice in your campaign by joining our Young Democrats and working within the system?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The average age of the campaign committee that worked for me prior to the convention, of all those that were working, was twenty-six.  I thought we had a lot of young people.  We didn't get as much attention of having young people, but we had a lot of them and we had thousands of young people in Chicago, just exactly as we have them here and all those across this country, because they happen to be supporting my candidacy.  Maybe they are not carrying signs, but I have nothing against that because, in fact, I have carried a lot of them in my time.

	I am a very tolerant man about this, but because they do not engage in that, they seldom get that much attention.

	Now, what is that I can do that will deserve the confidence of the young people, and may I say that I want to deserve it.  As I told one delegation, I never expected anybody's support.  I wanted to earn it.

	My political life has been characterized with an association by youth.  The men who work in my office as vice president are young men.  I have been one of those that helped sponsor the Student Intern Program in this government, to bring young people into Washington.  I have helped through that program to secure $1,400,000 for needy young men and women across this country to secure an education.  I think that means something.

	I have been a teacher at a great university, as well as a student, and my students seemed to find in that teacher an understanding mind and a sympathetic spirit.

	I want, if I am elected, to see to and to consider and to have the confidence of young people.  I want to listen to them.  I do not brush aside their ideas.  I am not at all sure that those of us in positions of responsibility are right.  We have to judge on the basis of what information we have, but we must be constantly seeking new information to improve our judgment.

	I want the idealism of young people in the political scene.  I want them in the caucuses.  I want them to be impressed with political leadership, and there isn't particularly a sort of rebel faction in a party that is very young, because I have noted over the years that once they gain power, they get to acting somewhat like the rest of us--very much so.

	I have not lost my sense of idealism, not one bit.  I have called upon the young in this nation to help us in what I consider to be the great problem that confront us, to help us change the attitude of this country about people, to help us break down racism in this country, to help us help the deprived in this country.

	I have gone from college campus to college campus as vice president, over seventy of them, and thirty junior colleges, and technical institutions, calling upon young people to take their enthusiasm into politics, into service, volunteer from time to time to a mental retardation institute, volunteer to tutoring in the ghettos, volunteer their lives to help young people across this country--and older people.

	I am the author of the Peace Corps, which Mr. Nixon called a fanciful idea and a scheme for draft dodgers.

	I am the author of the Job Center.

	I have fought for these things. My loyalty is with the needs of the young and I don't intend to give it up and if I am president, as I said earlier.  Young men and women in America will find out they have a partner and somebody they can work with.

	VOICE FROM THE FLOOR:  I want to tell you how wonderful you look to us tonight.  From all the reports we have had and the stories we have heard, I can't see any hawk nose or dove wings, but you look just like the fine, wonderful man I met in 1952 and for whom I nope to be able to work this year.  Now, my question is:  will you please ask the people who have been given slips of registration for work in the party in your campaign to give them to any lady in the audience that has a white and blue badge on?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I sure will.

	Thank you, very, very much.  There comes a time when even the best of good times must come to an end.  I hope you have enjoyed it.  I have.

ECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDEDUCATION, PRE-PRIMARYELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSENDORSEMENTS--POLITICAL LEADERSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSMEDICAREPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHPOVERTYSOUTH VIETNAMURBAN RENEWALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEVIETNAM WAR     ·© ≠© ß© £© õ©
 è© ä© Ö© ~© y© w© m© b© 8	 a	 D	 +	 	 ı 	 — 	 ≤ 	 ê 	 à 	 ` 	 B 	 ; 	 . 	 !   e: