Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1107.002SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)11/07STUMPLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACALOS ANGELES RALLY1913 WORDS

	We're in Pauley Pavilion tonight, but tomorrow we're going to slam dunk Bush and Quayle all over the United States of America.

	You know, yesterday, Mr. Bush's handlers said they had California all locked up.  I think California is going to lock George Bush right out of the White House tomorrow.

	Twenty-eight years ago, John Kennedy was talking about the Republicans.  He said, "You've all seen the elephants in the circus.  And, you've seen how they grab the tail of the elephant in front of them."  He said, "Well, Mr. Nixon grabbed the tail in front of him in 1952 and 1956, but now he is running, not President Eisenhower."

	It's 1988, the lead elephant is about to leave the circus and the number two elephant has stopped dead in his tracks.

	There are some very special people up here today on this platform who you've already met:  Kitty, and Kara, and Andrea, and Kitty's dad.

	The Mayor of this city, Tom Bradley, thank you for all you've done.

	Alan Cranston who is not only a great United States Senator from California, but a national treasure, and we thank you for that.

	Leo McCarthy, who I hope you're going to send, with me, to Washington in January because we need him.

	Bob Matsui and some of his colleagues, and some terrific elected officials here in California who you voted for and supported, and who do you proud and who've been terrific to me and to Kitty and to all of us in this campaign.

	And to these terrific people from the world of entertainment who have given so much of their time and effort to us.  I'm very grateful to them.

	I like your spirit.

	I smell victory in the air.

	I think Mr. Bush is slipping and sliding.  We're rockin' and rollin', aren't we?

	We're taking our case directly to the American people.  He's trying to keep Dan Quayle away from the American people.  Mr. Bush bought half an hour of national television tonight and he never mentioned Dan Quayle once.  I've heard of the secret ballot.  This is the first time I've heard of a secret candidate.

	See, Mr. Bush thinks he can inherit the White House.  I think you have to earn the right to be president of the United States.

	This great state has been crucial in this campaign.  That's why I've visited just about every corner of California with you.  It's a state that's forward-looking, always restless.  It wants more in a president than a caretaker for the status quo.

	The California primary gave us the nomination.  And, I thank you for that.  Tomorrow, the people of California, have it within their power, to pick the next president of the United States, and that's why I want you on my side.

	The margin of hope and the margin of victory lies with you.  Tomorrow you may well hear some pollsters predicting the outcome of this election based on some time zone back in the East.  It reminds me of that famous "Chicago Tribune" headline in 1948:  "Dewey Defeats Truman."

	Don't let them tell you the campaign is over if it's eight o'clock in the East.  It won't be over until the people of California have their say.

	This race is close and it's getting closer by the hour.  The undecided are many.  You have one of the best grass roots organizations ever in the history of this state.

	And it's in your hands.  Hands that knock on doors, drive seniors to the polls, call voters, until eight p.m. tomorrow.  Yours are the hands across America that will win this election for us.

	I guess it's fair to say that the Republicans have run one of the most cynical and one of the most hypocritical campaigns that I've ever seen.  Full of distortions, and lies, and just plain garbage, and believe me, it will continue right up until eight tomorrow night, because they're desperate, and they'll do anything to win this election.

	Four days ago, Mr. Bush came up with the biggest distortion of all:  He said he's on the side of working families in this country.  Give me a break.

	First, he tried to steal our heroes:  Franklin Roosevelt, and Harry Truman, and John Kennedy.

	Then he tried to steal our issues:  education, environment, jobs, health care.

	Now, he's trying to steal our cause!

	Before you know it, he'll try to steal the Democratic donkey.  But he'd better be careful.  Because that donkey is on our side.  And it's going to kick him right -- right out of the White House, out of Washington, D.C. and right out of our future.

	That's why people all over California and all over this country, tonight are looking very hard at this campaign and at this election, and they're asking themselves, what is the fundamental question in this contest.  Which candidate is on your side?

	And if you believe, as Lloyd Bentsen and I do, that it's time for a minimum wage in this country that's a living wage and not a poverty wage; that women deserve more than 65 cents for every dollar a man makes; that this great and good and decent and affluent nation ought to have it within its power to end the shame of homelessness in this country and build decent affordable housing for its citizens; and that every job in this nation should come with basic health insurance, then we're on your side.  We're on your side!

	If you believe that our students, and I mean all of our students, should be the best trained and educated and skilled in the world; that we need a president who will help to make teaching a valued and honored profession again in this country; and that we have a responsibility to open up the door of college opportunity to every young person in this country who's qualified to do college work, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you believe in equal rights and civil rights.  If you believe that we need an Attorney General who will inspire us, and not embarrass us, and a Justice department that understands what the word "justice" means, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you believe that we should clean up toxic waste dumps and not ignore them, expand our national parks, and preserve and protect the California coast, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you believe as Lloyd Bentsen and I do, that we must challenge our best young scientists, not to destroy life, but to preserve it.  And to wage war on hunger and infant mortality and AIDS, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you believe that America must wage a real war, and not a phony war, against drugs, then we're on your side.  We're on your side!

	You know, John Kennedy challenged us back in 1960 to win the race to put a man on the moon, and we did.  I want to, as your president, challenge you and all Americans to join with us in the goal of drug free schools in every community in this country in the 1990s.

	The other day, Mr. Bush said, when asked, that he would not cut off foreign aid to nations that refused to cooperate with us in the war against drugs.  He said there might be foreign policy considerations that intervened.  Sounds like Noriega all over again, doesn't it?

	Of course, we'll work with foreign leaders and foreign nations, and try to assist them, as they work with us, but if they're not willing to cooperate with us and stop the flow of this stuff into our country that's poisoning our kids and destroying our neighborhoods, then I'll be damned if I'm going to continue foreign aid to them and that foreign aid ought to be cut off.

	And if you believe, that we should cut aid and not deals with drug-running dictators; that it's time we invested in our children and not in the Contras; that those children's future is too important to entrust the leadership of the war against drugs to J. Danforth Quayle, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	Mr. Bush said yesterday that if we give him the chance, he might put Quayle in charge of managing foreign policy crises over the next four years.  We can't afford that risk!  Dan Quayle isn't a crisis manager.  He's a crisis that has to be managed, and that's what we're going to try to do.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to work with you to keep this nation strong militarily and economically; to take our streets and neighborhoods back from the crack gangs and the drug kingpins; to take our government back from the influence peddlers and the sleaze merchants; to take America back from dishonest contractors and polluters.

	We intend to lead an Administration that stands for clean air, and clean water, and clean coasts, and a clean government in Washington, D.C.

	In 1960 John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson won that election by a margin of 112,000 votes out of nearly 70 million cast.  John Kennedy went to bed that night and didn't know until five in the morning that he had been elected President of the United States.  I hope with your help, I'll be able to enjoy it earlier than that.

	They won Texas by 30,000, Illinois by 8800.  They lost California by 30,000 votes out of six and a half million cast.  So, don't let anyone tell you that the work you've been doing and the work you are doing, and the work you're going to be doing all day tomorrow isn't important, just remember 1960.  And remember how important California is to our success.  You can make the difference!

	It won't be the pollsters and the pundits that make the decision tomorrow, it will be you and people like you all across this country.

	Because, America isn't just a place.  It's not just a piece of land, or just another country.  It's the noblest experiment ever undertaken on this planet.  It's a symbol of what we human beings can do, when we understand that we are one people, one nation, and one community.

	The stakes in this election are very, very high.  The next president will probably appoint two, three, or maybe four new members to the Supreme Court of the United States.

	Mr. Bush the other day said he thought the nomination of Robert Bork was an outstanding appointment.  We don't need a Supreme Court full of Borks.

	We want a nation and a government and a Supreme Court that we can be proud of, that understand the Constitution, that understand what equality of opportunity means.  And, that's what we're going to have, beginning in January of 1989.

	So, give it everything you have between now and tomorrow evening.  I know victory is within our grasp both here and across the country.

	And, when I meet with those good people in Des Moines, Iowa, at 3:30 in the morning, this morning, coming up, I'm going to tell them they have some kindred spirits by the thousands, right here in California who are with them.

	We're inspired.

	We're excited.

	We're energized.

	You're terrific, let's go out there and win this one tomorrow and we'll celebrate with a party in Washington, D.C. in January.

	Thank you all very, very much.

CIVIL RIGHTSDRUG ABUSE--GENERALDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESEDUCATION--GENERALELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONFOREIGN AID--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCESSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     ù+ i+ c+ _+ W+
 L+ G+ B+ 7+ -+ ++ + +	 5	 )	 	 ˘ 	 Á 	   	 ¨ 	 î 	 Ä 	 V 	 = 	 # e: