Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1015.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/15STUMPDALLASTEXASTX2420 WORDS

	My friends, I want to extend to each of you a special word of thanks for waiting patiently while we could get into the city after a slight difficulty with a connection on the train.  I always feel honored when any American turns out to allow me to greet him face to face, and especially during this campaign to give me a chance to express to him one or two of the thoughts that are on my mind and heart.

	First, may I express my appreciation to Monsignor Bender for being here to give the invocation.  Over the length and breadth of this land, I have been very appreciative to the representatives of the clergy who have performed a like function.  I'm a Protestant myself, yet I am delighted to have representatives of every denomination, every religion, to come forward, because after all, they are all spiritual leaders, and if we do not have a spiritual and moral basis for this crusade, then it is not a crusade.  I fervently believe we have it.

	Because I feel so deeply, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you will allow me to make special mention of the sign down in front of me, "Women power for Eisenhower."  I think that in that slogan there is a tremendous significance, because, after all, our women are the keepers of the home.  They are the ones who, therefore, have a very special responsibility and function in imparting to us when we are very young that sense of spiritual values on which our nation is founded.  They understand clearly what our forefathers meant when they said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights."  They did not try to explain this new form of government in terms of rights derived from the soil, from material or natural sources, but from God.  Women understand that--and so if we at the very beginning of our lives, as we go through them, absorb that understanding of the spiritual basis of free government and are guided by it throughout our lives, we can never go far wrong.

	And then I should like to make special mention, with your permission, of Southern Methodist.  I do so, my friends, because you know I am a college president on leave.  The length of my leave will be determined, possibly, by you people in November.  But in both military and civil life, it has been my great good fortune to live with your young.  Our fighting forces are made up of the young people of America, and of course the same young people are in our colleges and universities.  I want to say one thing:  We need these young people in our political efforts and our political programs and political crusades.  The young people of America have demonstrated to me time and again that they will put their backs, their brains and their hearts into anything where they believe there is a worthy cause--a cause that is befitting America, a cause that is solidly based, again, in moral concepts and values.  They do not believe, as so many of the older cynics do, that the most sensitive nerve in the American's body is the pocketbook.  They believe there is something higher.

	My only word to them this morning, my special word, is this:  If I am lucky, I have twenty years to enjoy the United States.  If you are lucky, you have sixty.  Now, in those two figures are represented the relative stakes that you young people and my generation have in this country.  You are going to be wherever our country goes, and you must take extraordinary care.  You must study carefully where you want it to go.  Do you want it to go along with an overcentralization of power in Washington, the kind of directing and fraternalistic government that takes more and more power into its own hands and correspondingly robs you of more and more independence, initiative, the earning and the keeping of the profits of your own labor?  If you want to take it into your own hands, then I advise strongly that you examine carefully where we are going today.

	Now, I want to tell you a little story that I told in Fort Worth this morning.  When I was last in that city, I was invited out to a religious convention, a convention of Baptists.  I protested very seriously about going out.  What did I, an old soldier, have to say to those good people?  It didn't seem fitting.  But I was persuaded and I went out and before I left that convention, I found that we had a very great deal in common.  They are the spiritual leaders of our country, they and their counterparts in so many different denominations and sects.  Here was I, though, a soldier of forty years' service, and what had I been doing?  It has been, my friends, my mission to defend a way of life, the way of life that was founded in the values they were teaching.  We suddenly discovered--and they helped me to discover it--that we were exactly in the same business.

	So, to every one of you in this crowd who has worn the uniform, who wears it now, I not only pay my tribute as a fellow soldier, even though I am now a complete civilian, but I want to pay the tribute of one service man to another and to assure you that you are working in your present job for exactly the same set of spiritual values that the rest of us are.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I have found that, in this political contest--which is a contest to substitute good government for inefficient and bad government-- there has been a great deal of confusion on the part of the opposition.  Having a record saddled on their necks that they cannot get rid of, it is very difficult for them to show how they would produce good government in the United States.  So their recourse has been to come around and sell us a bill of good based on fear.  They fear this; they fear that.  They try to tell you, for example, that if you would elect the leaders of this crusade to direct the destinies of our country for the next four years, there would be no farm program.  Such rot!  Our farm programs, as every intelligent American knows, are largely the product of bipartisan efforts.  The Republican platform and the leaders of this crusade have carefully spelled out, for the benefit of everybody interested in these things, exactly what we want to do.

	The one difference between the administration in Washington and this crusade is exactly this:  We want farmers to have more to do with the development of these governmental programs that apply to them; they want to do it from behind desks in Washington.  That is the one difference.  This same thing applies throughout every phase of our national life.  They want socialized medicine; we want voluntary medicine, because we want the very best kind of medical care that can be brought to every man, woman and child in the United States--and we know that that can't be done by a bureaucrat sitting behind a desk several thousand miles away from the person who needs the medical care.

	They fear, they say, that a new administration, not of the "Fair Deal" type, would take away all our social security programs.  Again, what rot!  All of us have gone up and down the country pledging not only the extension of those programs, but their correction, to make good the losses you have already suffered through inflation--in your bonds, in your savings accounts and in your pensions--and above all, to save whatever value still remains in the dollar.  At least, let's not let it go down from a present worth of 52 cents until it would be worth only twenty-five cents or less. 

	And then they fear I would reduce soldiers' pay, that I would increase the rigors of their service and lengthen it out.  Well, now, this is the only one of all these falsehoods that makes me just a little bit angry.  I have spent forty years in the Armed Services.  I think most of the men with whom I have served would say I have been their champion.  Why should I now stop?  I am not even going to take the trouble to describe in detail why I think this kind of rumor is spread--but I do ask the servicemen among you, and others, to give me this much of a compliment:  I hope your faith in an old comrade is a little bit stronger than your belief in these malicious rumors.

	And then they say that every man will have to fear for his job, that there will be a depression, that there will be breadlines, that we will fire fifty percent of all that great band of loyal and devoted public servants who are now working for us in the post offices and other branches of this great government of ours.

	What are all these lies about?  You and I know that no part of the United States can prosper unless all of it prospers, and we know also that all of it cannot prosper unless each important segment--agriculture, labor, business, industry, everything--is prospering. 

	Now what is this charge?  That a great group of Americans--Americans, I hope you will allow me to say, who are in this crusade are a pretty good bunch of people--why would they want poverty in the United States?  On the contrary, I assure you they are ready to use every bit of power there is in the United States, every bit of power there is in its economy, to prevent the descent upon us of any kind of depression.  And they fear, I suppose, that we may call further attention to the amount of subversion and disloyalty and dishonesty that has been in government.

	I must relate to you a recent incident, because it is one in which I take great pride.  Recently, there met again in Moscow the Congress of Soviet Republics.  It was the first time their Congress had met in thirteen years-- they don't seem to have much use for it--but for the first time in the history of that Congress, a prominent speaker got up and excoriated an American.  Now, of course, he did not excoriate the man who only in 1948 said, "I like Old Uncle Joe," but he excoriated me; I was his chief enemy, as apparently I have been the chief enemy in their propaganda for the past two years.

	The kind of government that I believe Americans are entitled to have, and can have, is that kind of government that is composed of men and women of highest reputation and incorruptible character that this country affords, from every district and from every walk of life.  If we put that kind of person in our legislatures, in our executive departments, in all the prominent offices, then how is corruption going to creep in?  How is subversion going to get there?

	There will be watchfulness, in your interests, on the part of anyone who comes into that government, and if perchance there should be someone who sneaks in, whose loyalty becomes doubtful or who weakens after undertaking some important job, I promise you that every single phase of investigating capacity-- every agency--in that government will be turned lose to find out where the guilty party is, and he will be gotten rid of instantly.

	And so, my friends, the purpose of this crusade is to bring good government--a government that doesn't try to bring into Washington all the power to rule your lives, a government which doesn't try to regain or to seize title to any part of your lands because they suddenly seem valuable.

	Incidentally, I forgot to mention one fear that our friends have:  They fear they do not understand me.  I fear they don't understand me about my stand on the tidelands issue, for example.  If, after these past 2 days in Louisiana and Texas, they can't understand what I mean, then I must say I don't think they understand one-syllable words in the English language. 

	But ladies and gentlemen, good government will be the kind of which you will be proud.  You will trust it; in it you will have faith.  This is far more important than is just the saving of your money, important as that is.  The keeping of prices within range, the stopping of extraordinary and wasteful expenditures in Washington, and finally when we get the world and ourselves more in order, to begin to reduce taxes--far more important than that, because the whole strength of the United States is realized only when we are united.

	We will not be united unless we trust our government: But unless we have the full strength of the United States developed behind our great projects and our programs and our aspirations for peace, there will be no peace, because our government, if it does not develop its full strength, will not be respected abroad.

	Remember, we can't buy the firm allies we need just with dollars--not at all.  There must be leadership; there must be character, integrity, honesty, and the widest kind of experience and wisdom we can marshal down on the Potomac.

	It is that kind of change that you people have the power to make this fall.  I do not come before you specifically to ask for your vote.  I ask, first, only that you vote, and that you vote according to your conscience.

	As your great governor said only a few days ago:  "Now is the time for every Texan to caucus with his conscience."

	Let us hope that every American will do that, and that the decision you register next November will be the result of your study, your reflection, your communion with your own conscience--that is what we must have.  And when your decision is registered that way, my friends, every single American must accept that decision fully and completely--and as for myself, it will be very happily--and whatever your decision may be, again let me say that I am grateful to you for coming out here this morning.

	Thank you a lot and keep those brooms working; we will need them.

AGRICULTURE--GENERALCHRISTIANITYCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSMILITARY PREPAREDNESSMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENSOCIAL SECURITYYOUTH     g5 35 -5 )5 5
 5 5 5 5 ü4 ú4 ú4 ð4	 ¦ 	 ’ 	 † 	 e 	 F 	 1 	  	  e: