Speeches\1968\rep\S68r0916.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)09/16STUMPANAHEIMCALIFORNIACAANAHEIM RALLY, ANAHEIM CONVENTION CENTER5537 WORDS

	Lieutenant Governor Finch, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, and all of the wonderful members of this audience, both in this hall and outside. There are, I understand, an estimated 5,000 outside who couldn't get in.

	What a great rally--I can't tell you what a heartwarming experience it is for me to see this great throng in this magnificent new auditorium. I was just thinking, this would be a good place for the Republican convention in 1972. I must be sure I don't say that when I go to Chicago the next time.

	But, my friends, to come back to my home county to receive from you perhaps one of the greatest welcomes I have ever had in any appearance across the country. I know the chairman, Bob Finch, all the others, said, "Just wait until you get to Orange County. We'll top everything."

	Well, you did. This is it. There couldn't be anything better than this any place in America. I like this crowd because it's big. I like this crowd because it's enthusiastic. I like this crowd because it's happy, even when the Angels are thirty-one-and-a-half games out of first place.

	But don't worry about that. You know who is in the cellar? Washington. We can't do anything about the Washington baseball team, but we can do something about the Washington political team, and we are going to get Washington out of the cellar and on top.

	I hope that you will join with me in expressing our appreciation to all of those who have entertained this throng before I arrived. So many of them down here, I won't mention them all by name. Some of them have been introduced from the stage: Edgar Bergen, Pat Boone, Johnny Grant--the voices for Nixon. How about a hand for all of them?

	Now, before I arrived, I had a chance to hear on the closed-circuit television some of the introductions that preceded my own. I know that as you heard those introductions that you were expressing your enthusiasm for all of the people on this ticket, and not just for the one who happened to be at the top of it and his running mate.

	I simply want to say that I share the views that were expressed by Dr. Max Rafferty when he said, "Elect a president, but give him a team to work with. Give the governor of this state, Governor Reagan, a team to work with." That's what we need, a full team in Washington and Sacramento. My long-time friend, Jimmy Utt, who will be certainly most happy to have more colleagues in the House of Representatives, and the Congressman from my hometown of Whittier and my home town of Yorba Linda where I was born, Chuck Wiggins. I am sure they will agree with me when we say give us more, more Congressmen there. And Bill Teague would help a great deal in that respect, if we could send him down there. And the fact that I do not mention the others by name is only because of the time that is involved.

	I just want to say I am proud to be on this stage with them. To speak not only in my own behalf and in behalf of my colleagues, but also in behalf of a cause that is bigger than a party, bigger than the differences between parties, as big as America itself.

	I see this great throng out here today and as I saw the throng outside, I spoke to them briefly before, before I came in--I can imagine that many of you in this great crowd wondered, is this just Orange County? After all, this is the county of my birth. This is the county where I went to high school for two years at Fullerton. This is the county where I practiced law in La Habra. This is the county where my mother lived in the last days of her life--this county means much to me.

	I carried it in 1950 when I ran for the Senate. I carried it in 1956 when I was the candidate for vice president. I had a pretty good running mate, I must admit, but we carried it. And in 1960, too, I carried it in 1960 for president, and I carried it in 1962, and believe me, we are going to carry Orange County and the nation in 1968.

	But I notice, as I am sure most of you did, a few weeks or, I suppose, not weeks, perhaps a year or so ago, a cover story in a national magazine about Orange County. It said Orange County was different, different from the rest of the nation. I got news for you. What's happening in Orange County and what you see tonight is happening all over America.

	Let me tell you what has happened since we began this campaign after the conventions, beginning in Chicago, as was mentioned by Dr. Max Rafferty a few moments ago. We went to Chicago just a week after the other fellow got out of town, and when we were there we had the opportunity to see the largest political crowd, 600,000 in a motorcade in Chicago, that they have had in thirty years. The same was true in San Francisco. Then in Santa Clara that night a huge throng; Houston, Texas; Pittsburgh; Westchester. Governor Rockefeller said a few days ago when we spoke there, it was the biggest and most enthusiastic crowd he had seen in his whole political lifetime in his home county of Westchester, New York.

	Then we have been sweeping across the country since then, in Charlotte, North Carolina; Indianapolis, Indiana; Cleveland, Ohio; Des Moines, Iowa; and then Santa Barbara Airport a couple of days ago; and now, here in Orange County. Every place we go record crowds, every place we go record enthusiasm, every place we go there is the scent of victory in the air--it is there. We are on a winning team. We are off to win.

	There is something else about these crowds that I felt today when I was there at Yorba Linda, and I saw all of the young people that were out there from the school, and realized how many years had passed since I had lived in that house. As I thought of those young people and the new generation, I realized that in the great audiences we have seen across this country there have been so many young people, and I would like to ask this audience something here today.

	It was twenty-eight years ago that my wife and I left California to go into the service, and then into government service. That was a long period of time. In twenty-eight years a lot has happened to this state.

	How many in this audience are twenty-eight years or younger? Hold up your hands. I would like to see.

What we are seeing here you see all over America. I want to say something. Today, too often we get the impression that the young people are going to the dogs. Today too often flashing across our television screen we see the seamy side of America. Remember, I believe in young people. They are great. Give them a chance. That's what we want.

	My friends, I want to tell you about these crowds. Who are they? Where have they been? These aren't the people that we've been seeing across the television screen, the people that have been rioting and burning and breaking the law. I will tell you who you are. You are Republicans, you are Democrats, you are Independents, you come from all segments of the American economy, and you are people who have been forgotten in America because you have been quiet. You have been quiet because you have been going to work and you have been paying your taxes, and you have been supporting your schools, you have been supporting your churches, and what you have found is that because you have been forgotten, you haven't been heard, because you haven't been speaking out. And now, what is happening is that a lot of people in this country, good Americans, decent Americans, Americans who care about this country. Americans who know, and this is true of all of you--you know that this country isn't going to be a good place for any of us to live in unless we make it a good place for all of us to live in. You are concerned.

	Basically, this is what has happened. The great mass of Americans who have been forgotten now are speaking out. They are speaking out with their voices. You have tonight. They are speaking out with their numbers. And on November 5th, they are going to turn out those that have been in Washington, D.C. and give this country new leadership.

	I think I know what you want because I have heard your voices. I have heard them in Orange County. I have heard them in Chicago. I have heard them in Des Moines. I have heard them in Charlotte. I have heard them in New York.

	All over this nation the voice of America, the real voice of America is welling up, and this is what it is saying. The voice of America is saying, "We look over the record of the last four years, we know that the choice in this year 1968 is one of those great turning points in history, and we want to play a part. We don't want to stay on the sidelines. We don't want to waste our votes, but we want to play a part. And we want to play a part because we want it to be the right choice."

	As you look at that choice, the great majority of Americans, far beyond partisan considerations look at America, and they see that the choice is the clearest that we have had in this century. Because on the one side the other party nominated a man who helped to make the policies of the last four years, who defended those policies and defends them now, who has not disagreed with one of them, and who in effect says, "Elect me and I will continue for four more years the policies of the last four years."

	And the answer I give--and the answer that is welling up from the voices of millions of Americans across this land, the forgotten Americans, the ones that have been quiet but that are now speaking out--here is their answer to those who say, "Let's go for four more years of what we have had." They say, as I say to you tonight, that when the strongest nation in this world can be tied down in a war in Vietnam for four years with no end in sight; when the richest nation in the world can't manage its own economy; when a nation with the greatest tradition for respect for law has been torn apart by unprecedented lawlessness over the past four years; and when the time comes that the President of the United States of America cannot travel abroad or to any major city in this country without fear of a hostile demonstration; then it's time for new leadership for the United States of America.

	You see, we cannot afford four more years of failure, failure in bringing us peace abroad and restoring peace at home. We cannot afford four more years of failing to get this nation onto a true road of progress and justice and respect for law and laws that deserve respect.

	We have to have the new leadership and the new ideas. We can't go forward with the old policies. We can't go forward with those that have failed. And I say to you tonight, I am proud to accept the challenge of leadership, and I ask you to accept it with me. Let's give America what she needs. Let's give America the leadership she deserves. That is what your opportunity is. My friends, as we look to that path of leadership and the challenge of 1968, how exciting it is, how exciting it is, because great as the problems are, how much opportunity we have to solve those problems. The problems abroad, for example, when you look at it in terms of problems, you see four years or you can go back to the period of 1961, when General Eisenhower left office. In that period of time you cannot find one place in the world today where the United States isn't worse off than it was when we left office eight years ago. You name it, Europe, Africa, the Mid-East, Asia, Latin America, any place in the world, the United States is in trouble. And so what they say, "Let's go forward with the same old policies."

	Well, here is my answer. I say to you that we need a new foreign policy and we need a new foreign policy in all areas of the world. And when we speak of those various areas, let me touch upon each of them to see if you do not agree.

	First, with regard to the war in Vietnam--the only responsible position we can take now, when negotiations are going forward in Paris. We hope there is some chance for success, although that chance does not appear too bright, but at least there is a hope, as long as there is a chance I, as a presidential candidate, will say nothing that will destroy that chance and destroy the chance for peace.

	But my friends, if on November 5th this war is still going on. If after four years of all the power of the United States and all the wealth of the United States and the support of the loyal opposition, this war is still going on, then I say they have had their chance and they muffed it. Give us a chance.  We will end the war on an honorable basis, and that's what the American people want. Oh, I do not pretend this is easy. But I have come from a school of experience and I would point out rather proudly tonight that I served in an administration for eight years and I had a very good teacher. And I am proud to say, and I am sure you will agree with me when I make this appraisal, that we in that administration ended one war and we kept the nation out of other wars for eight years. And that's the kind of leadership America needs today.

	My friends, the second part of that equation is as important as the first. Look at what America has done for the last twenty years. Oh, you can go back further than that, ever since World War II. We poured out $150 billion in foreign aid to nations around the world. Not only have we furnished most of the arms and most of the money, but we have furnished most of the men, the lives, to help other nations defend their freedom. First it was true in Korea then it was true in Vietnam. Two hundred thousand Americans already in Vietnam killed, wounded, missing. So that is the record.

	My friends, as we look at that record, I think it's time for a reappraisal of America's foreign political commitments, of our foreign aid and everything else we do around this world. Because let's remember this, we are a rich nation, the richest in the world, and we are a strong nation and we are a populous nation. But there are 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world. It's time that other people in the free world assume a greater share of the defense of freedom around the world.

	Then we turn to the other aspect of foreign policy. If it is to be a successful policy, a nation must not only be strong militarily, it must not only have the right kind of diplomacy, but a nation must also have what money cannot buy, and that's respect. Did you know that this is the first time in the history of American elections that a presidential candidate could come before an audience and say that respect for the United States of America is in jeopardy around the world.

	Look what has happened. You know what has happened. Go back and read all of your old newspapers over the past few years. Or remember what you have seen on television, and you will remember hardly a day has gone by without the flag being burned or an embassy being stoned or an ambassador being insulted--one was murdered a few days ago in a country. Then the ultimate insult eventually occurred. It was inevitable because if you do not stand up firmly, but not belligerently--but firmly--when you are affronted, then those who would destroy your respect will try something else. And, of course, the ultimate insult occurred.

	And I say to you that when we look at the United States of America, and when respect for this nation falls so low that a country like North Korea will seize an American naval vessel on the high seas, then it's time to get new leadership to restore respect for the United States of America.

	I am reminded as I look at all these signs around here of what I saw in Des Moines the other day. It said, "Let's trade Hubert for the Pueblo." I don't think North Korea would take him. The American people aren't going to take him either because we are going to have new leadership.

	My friends, restoring respect for this nation requires the new leadership, the new credibility, not only the credibility of power but the credibility that comes from a nation that is able to command respect at home.

	I say to you tonight again that this is an unusual election year. There have been other elections in which this nation has been at war and there have been other elections, one, in which this nation had the problem of peace at home. But this is the first election in the history of America when we also have the problem of peace abroad and peace at home, both at the same time, as major issues. A nation that is unable to keep the peace at home is not going to be entrusted to lead the forces of peace abroad.

	So we look at America today. We look at her not in a critical way, in a destructive way, but we look at this country because we love our country. We recognize, and all of us know this, that this is the greatest country. We also know that there is no ground more important than the ground we stand on. What we want to do--we must do everything that we can to deal with the problems at home in America. So that we can stand proudly, stand tall, before the world and point to the United States of America as a nation of justice, as a nation of order, as a nation of opportunity, all of those things, as it is for most of us.

But all of those things presently are in jeopardy for reasons that all of us are too much aware. So I want to talk to those issues tonight. I want to talk to them because I believe we must refer to them. And let's begin with the problem of order in the United States.

	I have noted with great interest that this has become one of the major points of difference between the two candidates of the two major parties. I noted with great interest a few days ago that the candidate of the other party said that he thought we ought to have a moratorium on the discussion of law and order in the United States. He said, "After all, the President hasn't been breaking the laws, the Vice President hasn't been breaking the laws, the Attorney General hasn't been breaking the laws, so let's quit talking about breaking the laws."

	Well, I don't agree. I will tell you that when crime is going up nine times as fast as population; when I look across this land and see over the past four years that 300 cities had violence, 200 dead and 7,000 injured; when Washington, DC has become the crime capital of the world; what we need is new leadership in the presidency, in the attorney general, and I am going to fight for that throughout this land.

	My friends, that is the responsibility of your president. It's the responsibility of the men that he appoints in those law enforcement capacities. He cannot shirk it. He cannot abdicate it. He must set an example, true, by his own conduct. But I say to you that when I look at that record, it isn't good enough and we will make a better one.

	I want to lay out the principles that I stand for, and I lay them out very clearly. First, I respect the courts of this land. I am a lawyer. I have argued a case on two occasions before the Supreme Court of the United States. But as a lawyer and as a citizen I have examined some of the decisions of that and other courts, and I believe that some of those decisions of our courts have gone too far in weakening the peace forces as against the criminal forces in this country. My friends, we must restore that balance, and presidential leadership is necessary if we are to restore it.

	Then, second, as I look over the problems in this country, I see one that stands out particularly. I noticed a sign outside dealing with the problems of narcotics. It reminded me of the point that I was going to make particularly in my address to you this evening about that problem, one that probably affects very, very few in this great hall, but one that is becoming an increasingly difficult problem for all of us. I want to tell you how it was brought home to me very, very deeply just a few weeks ago.

	Right after the Republican convention I went to San Diego for a few days of rest and to shore up for the campaign. Many letters came in. I didn't see them all. One of them I did see. It was from a nineteen-year-old girl. She did not sign her name. You will see why in a moment. She said that from the time she was sixteen years of age she had been on narcotics and several of her friends had also become hooked--that was the word she used--at the same time.

And during that time, she told in her letter of some of the things that they had to do, the terrible things, in order to keep getting the drugs that they began to crave. Then almost pitifully she said, "Mr. Nixon, as president of the United States, can anything be done, can you do anything to see that this doesn't happen to other young people?" She was nineteen years of age.

	Across this land today it isn't just in the poor sections. In Fullerton there was an incident as you probably remember a few weeks ago, months ago, Palos Verdes, Greenwich, Connecticut, some of the highest-income areas as well as low-income areas. We have to face the fact, and that is that narcotics are among the modern curse of the youth, just like the plagues and epidemics of former years. And they are decimating a generation of Americans. Listen to some of the figures. Between '60 and '67 narcotics arrests in this country went up fifteen times as fast as the population. New York City, half of all the crime in New York City is committed by drug addicts--most of them young. And the major cause of death in New York City for those between fifteen and thirty-five is heroin addiction. That is the story.

	Now we can do something about it, and I want to tell you the kind of program that I will have with respect to it. I want you to know I do not share the view there should be a moratorium on the discussion of law and order. I say that this is a time for leadership, this is the time to speak out. This is a time for programs.

	In this field, first, we have got to move at the source of the drugs. We have got to move with the friendly nations from which some of these drugs come. We have to develop multi-national commissions to deal with the problem.

	Second, we have got to have the officials that are necessary to deal with the problem. The United States Bureau of Customs has that responsibility at the border. I think we should triple the number of people, raise them from 300 to 1,000. Let's do what is necessary to stop those drugs from coming across this border to corrupt the youth of America.

Third, I believe that we should accelerate the development of tools and weapons to detect narcotics in transit.

Fourth, we have got to assist the young people who become drug addicts. The Act of 1966 has not been adequately implemented, and we will implement it.

	Finally, I intend to instruct the new attorney general of the United States to call a national convocation of law enforcement officials to deal not only with this problem but with other problems that have to do with this problem of the rise in crime in the United States. What I am simply saying to you, my friends, tonight, is this. I believe in civil rights. All of you believe in civil rights. But the first civil right of every American is to be free from domestic violence, and we are going to have an administration that restores that right in the United States of America.

	That is why I say I shall assume personal responsibility in this area in which I have some competence, and we will have a team to deal with it fairly and justly, but strongly. Then, too, we shall move on the other side of the equation. I have often said as I have spoken across this land that when we look at the problem of crime, you can have all the police that you want and all the strong laws that you can imagine, and where people have no hope and where there is no justice, crime will still continue.	So we must have justice and we must restore hope in millions of homes where there is no light of hope today. I believe it can be done, but it isn't going to be done in the old ways. And here again, America chooses one road or another as to where we go in these next few years.

	What do we do about the unemployed? What do we do to train those who are not qualified for jobs? How do we best provide for those who do not have that equal chance at the starting line?

	There are two ways, the way that we have been on and the new way, the new road that we will take if we have that opportunity.

	And the old way is this. Every time there is a problem, they say, "Billions more for federal jobs and federal housing and federal welfare." And now the candidate on the other side says, "More billions for the old programs."

	I say we have poured billions of dollars into those programs, and they failed. Let's try another road, and I will tell you the road. Rather than more millions on welfare rolls, let's have more millions on payrolls in the United States. That's the road. My friends, government must play a great role. Government must provide the means, of course, for education, and that's one area where there can be no shortchanging. Government must provide for those that cannot care for themselves, the aged and needy, and there we will be even more generous.

	But, my friends, what we must remember, that when people can take care of themselves, rather than telling people what government is going to do for them if they don't work, let's tell them what they can do for themselves if they do work. That's the way. That's the way to move forward.

	So that is why I say let's have new programs, new programs in which we will use the great tax policies and the credit policies of the United States to enlist private enterprise in training the unemployed, for real jobs, not make-work jobs. Private enterprise to build real houses so that people can own their homes and stand tall with the pride and dignity and self-respect.

	Because, remember this, my friends. Government can provide shelter for a man and government can provide food for a man and government can provide money for a man in that sense. But government cannot provide dignity and self-respect. That can only come from giving him the opportunity to move with others.

	I can say to you that in our new administration we shall take this country on a new road to progress in which we will recognize this fundamental fact. America is a great nation, but the war on poverty didn't begin five years ago. Let us never forget that. It began when this country began, and it has been the most successful war on poverty ever waged. There's too much poverty left, and we are going to deal with it.

	But never forget today we have more wealth, more equally shared than in any nation in the world. How did we get this way? Why is this the greatest country? Look around this county which is ten times as populous today as it was when I left it. Look at the things that have been built. Look at this great auditorium. Look at Knott's Berry Farm or Disneyland and all of the business and the rest.

	You know what created it? America is a great country, not because of what government did for people, but because of what people did for themselves. That's the answer, and that's the way that we shall move.

	My friends, the choices in the year 1968 are the most important that this nation will make in this century, as I have indicated previously. They are choices in which I am deeply interested from a personal standpoint. But they are choices that are far more important than a person and far more important than a party, because they involve the future of this whole nation. They involve the future of these young people here, and of all those who are back of us here.

	What kind of America are we going to have eight years from now? What kind of America are we going to have at the end of this century thirty-two years from now when we celebrate the new year that comes once in a thousand years? Will it be an America torn by hate and violence? Will it be an America living in fear because of problems abroad, the fear of war? Or can we build an America in which we solve our problems at home, we restore respect for law, in which we provide for justice and provide that equal chance for all Americans, regardless of their background, to move forward and to make a contribution to this nation's greatness?

	My friends, we write history by what we do in this election, and I say to you this is our chance. And to all of the young people gathered here, let me leave this final thought with you.

	You hear sometimes these days what a terrible time to live, war abroad, violence at home. Isn't this a terrible time to be alive?

	Don't ever believe it. Let me tell you something. I have been to most of the countries in the world in the last four years, and I have studied the whole history of man from the beginning of time. If I were to pick a time in which to live in all that history and a place in which to live, I would pick the United States of America, 1968. Right now, this is the time.

	My friends, we have problems. But do you realize the exciting potential? Yes, we have problems, but here is where the action is. For the first time in the world's and America's history what happens here, not in London, not in Paris, not in Tokyo, but only in America will determine whether peace and freedom survive in the world. That's a challenge to a great people, and I say to you, let's meet that challenge.

	Greatness comes from stepping up to great events, not sitting on the sidelines while history is made by others. Step up to it. Hit the ball. We are going to win for America. Let's go.
CRIME--GENERALCRIME, DRUG-RELATEDCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZENORTH KOREA--PUEBLO INCIDENTPOVERTYPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALVIETNAM WARWELFAREDRUG ABUSE--GENERAL     ªt vt pt lt bt
 Yt Tt Ot Ht >t <t t 
t Â	 ì 	 Þ 	 Ë 	 ² 	   	 ˆ 	 t 	 _ 	 C 	 < 	 % 	    e: