Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0909.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/09STUMPSAN FRANCISCOCALIFORNIACASPEECH AT VETERANS MEMORIAL AUDITORIUM3,203 WORDS

	I want to share with you, if I may, a letter from a California lady who knew my parents when they lived here fifty years ago. She writes that after Grover Cleveland was nominated for the presidency in 1892 and my grandfather was nominated for vice president, she named her two kittens Grover Cleveland and Adlai Stevenson. Grover, she writes me, couldn't stand the excitement of the campaign and died before the election. But Adlai lived to be a very old cat. And this, my friends, is obviously for me the most comforting incident of the campaign so far.

	As your chairman said, because of my prior service here at the United Nations Conference in 1945 and because San Francisco is our window to the Far East, I want to talk soberly tonight about foreign policy.

	We think and we talk a lot these days about our dangers. We should think and talk more about our opportunities as well.

	Victory or defeat for a nation, as for a man, springs, first of all, from its attitudes toward the world. The men who built the West had victory in their hearts and songs on their lips. They were doers, not worriers. They really believed that the Lord helps those who help themselves.
	
	There is something badly wrong, it seems to me, with the perspective of men who call the last ten years the "dismal decade." And there is something odd, too, in a point of view which at once endorses the nation's foreign policies and promises to save you at the same time from such enlightened bungling.

	It was some such curious mixture which was served up in Philadelphia on last Thursday. Now I am reluctant to believe that my honored opponent has been persuaded that bad history is good politics--perhaps he hopes that the Republican old guard will swallow his bitter pill of approval of our policies if it is sugar-coated with condemnation of Democrats.

	At any rate, however we interpret it, his speech in Philadelphia does not dispose of foreign policy as an issue in this campaign. The general's ten-point foreign program, of which three points were "throw the rascals out," and seven were a recital of the same foreign policy goals which the "Democratic rascals" have been following for years, does not, it seems to me, contribute much to our foreign policy discussion.

	But foreign policy consists of much more than the setting of goals. Even the extremist wing of the Republican party will not really argue that peace and prosperity are bad or that the nation does not want allies.

	The rub comes in doing anything to make progress toward these goals which we are glad the Republican candidates agree upon. A president can suggest but he cannot pass laws. That's the job of Congress.
	
	And the most powerful and numerous wing of the Republican party--the wing that would control all of the important congressional committees--would not support the program which the Republican presidential candidate endorsed last Thursday.

	How do I know? Well, because the old guard has been fighting that same identical program for years.

	Let me illustrate. My opponent spoke approvingly of foreign trade. Now, among other things, it is not exactly a new idea to Democrats that a thriving foreign trade means better markets for American agriculture and industry and a better balance in the world economy.

	I don't think even the Republicans will try to take credit for the Reciprocal Trade Agreements program. Certainly the old guard won't. It has been trying to wreck that program every time it comes up for renewal--as it does again next year.

	I don't think that a Republican president could even get a bill to renew it out of a committee--not, at any rate, without crippling amendments. Or are we to assume that the Republican leaders in Congress have been opposing it in the past not from conviction but just because it was a Democratic program?

	I could go on--talking of their attacks on our assistance program, even on the defense budgets, and similar knife work--for the Republican record in Congress is as long as it is wrong.

	How, then, can a disunited party unite the country for the hard tasks that lie ahead? I don't think it can. No matter how great their commander, divided and embittered men do not win battles.

	America is threatened as never before. The question history asks and which we must answer is whether the idea of individualism--the idea of personal freedom for you and me--is equal to the idea of collectivism--the idea of personal subordination to the state; whether the idea of maximum personal liberty is equal to the idea of maximum personal discipline.

	This ancient contest between freedom and despotism, which is renewed in every generation, is acute in ours. And the most important single event, it seems to me, in our history is that it is our turn to be freedom's shield and sanctuary.

	I don't think that war is an inevitable part of this contest. Even the most ambitious and ruthless men do not deliberately invite destruction on the basis of their power. They can throw the iron dice, but they know they cannot foretell the fortunes of war.

	We who are free must have great strength in order that weakness will not tempt the ambitious. And the measure of the strength we must have is not what we would like to afford but what the adversary compels us to afford.

	With 85 percent of our budget allocated to defense, it is the Soviet Union which now fixes the level of our defense expenditures and thus of our tax rates. The only way to emancipate ourselves from this foreign control, and to cut taxes substantially, is first to develop our strength and then to find the means of ending the armaments race.

	And here let me say something to those abroad who may mistake our present wrangling for weakness. We have always had differences of opinion which have produced all sorts of noises and confusion--especially in campaign years! But it is the kind of noise that, to the inner ear, is the sweet music of free institutions. It is the kind of noise that has produced the harmony of firm purpose whenever our people have been put to the test. The costliest blunders have been made by dictators who did not quite understand the workings of real democracy and who mistook diversity for disunity.

	No one can predict, and it would be foolish to try to predict, how and when the peaceful purpose of our power will succeed in creating a just and durable peace. But are our efforts conditional upon assurance of prompt success? To answer "yes" would be to accept the certainty of eventual defeat.
 
	Co-existence is not a form of passive acceptance of things as they are. It is waging the contest between freedom and tyranny by peaceful means. It will involve negotiation and adjustment--compromise but not appeasement--and I will never shrink from these if they would advance the world toward a secure peace.

	Though progress may be slow, it can be steady and sure. A wise man does not try to hurry history. Many wars have been avoided by patience, and many have been precipitated by reckless haste.

	In Europe, our efforts to build patiently for peace are meeting with success. The Marshall Plan has brought, as we all know, a striking improvement in political and economic conditions. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is building a strong system of military defense. Europe is not yet wholly secure against subversion from within or attack from without, but this goal of security is at least in sight.

	I wish I could say the same for Asia, but there would be no greater disservice to the American people than to underestimate the gravity of the dangers that America faces in this area, perhaps for many years to come.

	Now, it's about America's relations with Asia that I should like to talk with you tonight, soberly and realistically.

	 Across the continent of Asia more than a billion of the world's peoples are churning in one of history's greatest upheavals. All the struggles of man over the centuries--economic, political, spiritual--have come together in Asia and now seem to be reaching a climax.

	The causes behind that upheaval are many and varied. But there is nothing complicated about what the people want. They want a decent living--and they want freedom.

	The word used most frequently by Asians to describe their aspirations is nationalism. Nationalism to Asians means a chance to stand on their own feet, a chance to govern themselves, a chance to develop their resources for their own welfare, and a chance to prove that the color of their skins has nothing to do with their right to walk with self-respect among their fellow men in the world. Nationalism to them means the end of a legalized inferiority. It means pride, spirit, faith.

	This type of nationalism is not inconsistent with closer cooperation among nations, nor with the need for an enforceable peace.

	The Asians actually regard freedom and national independence as the doorway to international order--just as we do.

	Russia's interest in Asia is nothing new. The expansionist aims of Russia did not change with the passing of the czars. But today, the steel glove of a revolutionary ideology covers the heavy hand of imperialist expansion.

	The strategy of Communism in Asia is to pose as the champion--the only champion--of the Asian peoples. Communism has not created the cause or the forces behind Asia's vast upheaval. It is attempting to give direction to those forces. It seeks to impose its own label on the multiple revolutions going on in Asia today by identifying itself with the deeply felt needs and hopes of the Asian peoples.

	There's an important difference, it seems to me, between Communism as we view it and Communism as some of the Asian peoples view it. When we think of Communism we think of what we are going to lose. When many of the Asiatics think of Communism they think of what they are going to gain--especially if they believe that they have nothing to lose.

	It's important that we know these things and think about them for we shall never be able to cope with Communism unless we understand the emotional basis of its appeal.

	The Communists have failed to incite the workers to revolution in Western Europe. They have failed to turn the Western Allies one against the other.

	But the Communists may well believe that in the aspirations and the grievances of the East they now have the key to world power. They hope, and perhaps even expect, that the West cannot rise to the challenge in the East.

	Furthermore, they may not feel the same need for quick and tidy solutions that is felt in certain quarters in our own country.

	They may believe that they can afford to have a patience equal to the stakes involved. And the stakes are nothing less than an overwhelming preponderance of power, for with Asia under control they could turn with new energy and vast new resources in an effort to win a bloodless victory in a weakened, frightened Europe.

	These Communist expectations define the dimensions of the threat we face in Asia and of the tasks which lie ahead for us--tasks which can be met only by disciplined, resourceful, imaginative, and reasoned effort. It is an effort which has two parts: defense and development.

	There is active fighting, as we all know, in Malaya and in Indochina. Have we given fitting recognition to the hard, bitter and prolonged efforts of the British, the French, the native Malayan and Indo-Chinese forces? These efforts have involved heavy loss of life and great material costs.

	What will the defensive task require of us in these areas, and in the Philippines, Formosa, Japan, and Korea? What contributions, what commitments to security in this area should we make and can we make to the emerging system of Pacific defense?

	These are some of the questions, the hard, the ugly questions we must face before disaster, not afterward. This is no time, it seems to me, to kid ourselves with press agents' platitudes.

	In Korea we took a long step toward building a security system in Asia. As an American I am proud that we had the courage to resist that ruthless, cynical aggression; and I am equally proud that we have had the fortitude to refuse to risk extension of that war despite extreme Communist provocation and reckless Republican criticisms.

	Whatever unscrupulous politicians may say to exploit grief, tragedy and discontent for votes, history will never record that Korea was a "useless" war, unless today's heroism is watered with tomorrow's cowardice.

	On other occasions I have spoken and written much about the solid accomplishments which the Korean War has made possible.
	
	Tonight let me say only this: I believe we may in time look back at Korea as a major turning point in history--a turning point which led not to another terrible war, but to the first historic demonstration that an effective system of collective security is possible.
	
	Having failed to defeat us on the field of battle, the enemy there now seeks to defeat us by prolonging the negotiations and by exhausting our patience.

	But some men in this country seem to think that if definitive victory cannot be won, we should either take reckless military action or give the whole thing up. Such advice plays into the enemy's hands. The contest with tyranny is not a hundred-yard dash--it is a test of endurance.

	This defensive effort in Korea and elsewhere in Asia is building a shield behind which we have the opportunity to assist in the other great task--the task of development.

	Listening to the debate over China this past year, I had the distinct impression at times that the very congressmen whose vocal cords were most active in the cause of isolation and against foreign entanglements were the same ones who were now talking as if they had wanted us to take part in a civil war in China.

	The time to stop a revolution is at the beginning, not the end. But I don't recall any pleas from these critics for help for Sun Yat-sen and Chinese democracy back in the twenties. Nor did I hear them demanding intervention by the United States in the mid-thirties when civil war with the Communists broke out. Indeed it was not until quite recently, when the Chinese wars were about over, that there was even an audible whisper that we help fight a hindsight war, that we should have given more help to China than we did.

	It would seem to me, my friends, that the Republican critics could better demonstrate the good faith of their concern for Asia by doing something about India and Pakistan today rather than talking about China yesterday. I don't think the tearful and interminable post-mortems about China will save any souls for democracy in the rest of Asia, the Near East, and in Africa.

	India is not caught up in civil strife. It can be helped in a way that is natural to us and best for it; help in the ways of peace and of social progress. India has to grow more food. It has to restore its land. It needs new resources of power. In short, it needs a democratic helping hand in the development programs it has already charted for itself.

	The same is true of many other countries. It is help of this kind that we can provide by sending agricultural experts, engineers and other trained people to these countries, and through programs of assistance for economic development.

	By working with each country to expand the production of goods which are needed by other countries in the region, a self-generating and self-financing cycle of trade and development can be initiated, which will reduce and can eventually eliminate the need for American aid. At the same time, we can enlarge or export markets and develop new sources of the products we need to import.

	Land reform is, of course, fundamental to the problem of Asia. But in these ways and by this kind of friendly advice and counsel, we can help to guide this economic development in ways which will give powerful support to democratic political institutions.

	These programs are in accordance, it seems to me, with our best traditions. And I want to assure your friends in Asia that America will never seek to dominate their political and their economic development. We will not try to make their societies over in the image of our own. On the contrary, we respect the integrity of their institutions and the rich values of their cultures. We expect to learn as well as to teach.

	These programs are primarily concerned with the material needs and wants of individual men and women. Yet we do not make the mistake of believing that the answer to Communist materialism is a different brand of materialism.

	The answer to Communism is, in the old-fashioned phrase, good works--good works inspired by love and dedicated to the whole man.

	The answer to the inhumanity of Communism is humane respect for the individual. And the men and the women of Asia desire not only to rise from wretchedness of the body but from abasement of the spirit as well.

	In other words, we must strive for a harmony of means and of ends in our relations with Asia--and indeed with the rest of the world. The means of our cooperation are primarily material.

	If we believe the Communist threat to Asia is dangerous to us, then it is in our own self-interest to help them defend and develop, adjusting our polices to the constantly changing circumstances in a world of accelerating change. But we must not, in our necessary concern for the urgent tasks of defense and development, permit the means to obscure the end. That end is the widening and the deepening of freedom and of respect for the dignity and the worth of man.

	Some may say to you that this is visionary stuff. To this I reply that history has shown again and again that the self-styled realists are the real visionaries--for their eyes are fixed on a past that cannot be recaptured. It was Woodrow Wilson, with his dream of the League of Nations, who was the truly practical man--not the old guard who fought him to the death. And in the fateful summer of 1940 it was the vision of a Churchill that saw beyond Dunkirk to victory.

	I say that America has been called to greatness. The summons of the twentieth century is a summons to our vision, to our humanity, to our practicality. If these provide the common purpose of America and Asia, of our joint enterprise, of our progress together, we need have no fear for the future. Because it will belong to free men.
COMMUNISMFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALKOREAN WARPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINASOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)ASIA     ıH ¡H ªH ∑H ØH
 ¢H ùH òH ãH ÅH H YH NH	 u 	 l 	 V 	 L 	 9 	    e: