Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1007.002SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/07STUMPMilltownNEW JERSEYNJ1,883 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Welcome to the Bill Clinton retirement party, right here. I'm very happy to have...[missing text]...right in front of you...[missing text]...going to be in Congress helping me out next year and I need your help.

	It's an honor to be here with a great governor, Christie Whitman, who's doing an outstanding job. She's demonstrated it can be done if you have the will. She has the will and she did it. She got your taxes cut.

	I want to thank--where's Charlie?--Charlie Daniels and the ...[missing text]...fans. Thank you very much. We appreciate it very much. Thank you.

	I had a good impartial observer who told me last night that I won the debate. Of course, that was Elizabeth. And--but she generally knows what she's talking about. In fact, she is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her. That's how talented she is.

	Now let me say--you know President Clinton doesn't like that word "liberal." I mean, every time I mention it, he'd ...[missing text]..."don't tell anybody. Don't tell anybody. I want to keep it a secret until after the election." You're going to hear it every day, Mr. President. You're going to hear it every day because you are a liberal, Mr. President. You are a liberal. You ought to be proud of it...[missing text]...you're a liberal. But he's ...[missing text]. Doesn't want anybody to know it, doesn't want you to see it.

	But then if he gets reelected again--remember what he did the last time? First he tried to spend $16 billion on just pure quartz...[missing text]. Then he tried to change the whole health care system in the United States of America, one-seventh of the government economy. Then he promised you a tax cut, as the Governor said, and gave you the biggest tax increase in the history of America. I said last night, I said that one day on the Senate floor when I was still there, and Senator Moynihan said, "No, it's in the history of the world." So I modified it. The largest tax increase in the history of the world.

	What we're going to do across the nation--and I'll come back to sign that tax cut right here, right here. And we will send, we will send...[missing text]...we will send former President Clinton his check in Little Rock, or whatever--everybody's got to be somewhere.

	But in any event--the election is here. It gives you a choice between someone who keeps their promises or someone who just makes promises. I keep my promises and I will keep my promise to the American people.

	It's an honor to be here and I want to say just one thing and I want you to remember it. As I said last night in my closing statement, I've talked to the young people of America. Because it's their future, whether they're out there with Clinton/Gore signs or Dole/Kemp signs, keep in mind that Dole/Kemp are two four-letter words you can teach your kids--"Dole/Kemp, Dole/Kemp, Dole/Kemp." So it is about their future. It's about their future. It's about your business. It's about your family, about your parents.

	And the President stood there with a straight face and repeated time after time after time after time, about how we were going to cut Medicare, how we couldn't cut taxes...[missing text]. Medicare's going to grow at a rate of 6.2 percent. When they were talking about this big health takeover, Mrs. Clinton said they didn't want--they wanted Medicare to grow at zero...[missing text]...percent. So you can't have it--as I said last night, you can't have it both ways.

	We're going to preserve and strengthen Medicare just as I had an option...[missing text]...to preserve and strengthen Social Security way back in 1983. Working with Republicans and Democrats in a nonpartisan, bipartisan way, and we ought to do the same with Medicare and stop scaring senior citizens. I mean, Halloween's still three weeks away, Mr. President. Stop trying to scare everybody.

	And it boils down to the word, two words--the word "trust" and the word "fear." You can trust Bob Dole. You can ask my Democratic colleagues who served with me in the Congress. You can ask anybody I've worked with in my lifetime. I kept my word just as you keep your word. A promise made is a promise kept. I learned a long time ago that your word is your bond. You give your word, you keep your word. You don't tell the Americans one thing to get elected and then do something else. And I will keep my word and we will balance the budget and cut taxes, and preserve Medicare and Social Security, and do it without much difficulty.

	So all we're talking about it this: the President wants us to increase spending 20 percent over the next six years. I want to increase spending 14 percent and give that 6 percent back to you. You know why? Because it's your money. It's your money.

	And I see a few little $500 child credits up here. Do you want more? Okay, well, have more kids. But anyway, that's the way it works. So you've got one child, it's $500--two, it's $1,000. As I've said, if you've got ten you're too busy to worry about taxes, but that's $5,000.

	This is a family tax cut. This is not a Wall Street tax cut. Not one time last night did President Clinton call this a tax cut for the rich. This is a tax cut for working families in America. We're also going to cut the capital gains rate so small businessmen and women all across America can pay less taxes.

	And I'll tell the senior citizens--I don't see any here, but in case any show up--I want them to know this--Oh, there's one. I found one. Okay. He had the gall to stand there last night and try to frighten seniors. And what did he do with your Social Security income? He raised the taxes. He's now taxing 85 percent of it, and he says you're rich if you're on Social Security and single, and have $34,000 of income. Well, that's a lot of income, but you need a lot of income. You're not rich. We're going to repeal the Clinton tax hike on senior citizens on Social Security.

	And what does a tax cut mean for the average family of four in New Jersey? And again, $1,300--that's not a lot of money. It's a lot of money if you're making $30,000 a year. It's--it's over--it's about an 86 percent tax cut. It's enough for four months of child care. You can buy a personal computer, you can make a couple of payments on the house, make a down payment on a car. Or, maybe take a vacation with the kids. What's wrong with that? Spend $1,300 on a vacation with your children.

	And one thing else. We're talking about opportunity scholarships for low income parents and the lower-middle income parents. I'm a product of public schools. I like public schools, but let's face it--in a lot of places the public schools are not doing a good job when one fourth of the students who graduate are functionally illiterate from high school, you know you've got a problem. You've got a problem.

	So we're going to have opportunity scholarships. We're going to match what they--if they each put up $500, we put up $500 for grades K through 8. We give it to the parents, the parents pick out the best school, whether a public school, private school or a religious school, because they know their child needs an education, and they're entitled to the best education they can find. And we're going to help them.

	Now, President Clinton, as I said last night, I applaud you, Mr. President, for sending your daughter to a private school, because you think it's best for you. But what about the other people in the District of Columbia who don't have the power or the prestige or the money? What about low income Americans?

	I'm a Republican. We're reaching out to everybody in America. We're going to fight for every vote in this country. We're going to fight for your vote and every other vote in New Jersey, and we're going to win because the people want leadership, they want honesty, they want trust, and they want someone who will keep his word. That's what this election's about.

	So, let me give you a little quiz here now. Sometimes it's hard for President Clinton to really understand what words mean. That's because he speaks a different language from the one we speak.

	And--so I'm a strong liberal. Now, how do you speak liberal? I'm going to give you a couple of examples. Well, when you say, "Let's reform health care" but you really mean, "Let's put the federal government in charge," then you're thinking liberal. When you say, "I have a right to raise taxes on the middle class," but you really mean, "I will push through the biggest tax increase in history," then you're speaking liberal. When you say, "I will balance the budget," but mean, "I will veto any balanced budget that comes to my desk," then you're speaking liberal. When you say, "I'll be tough on crime and drugs," but you really mean, "I will appoint soft-on-crime judges," then you're speaking liberal. And when you say, "the era of big government is over," but you really mean, "the era of a bigger government is here," then you're speaking liberal.

	So, it's true on taxes, and on spending and on drugs and on crimes, and on judges, and it's going to stop when Jack Kemp and I are elected on November 5.

	So, I want to ask you for your support. I want to be very serious. Out there...[missing text]...on the drive I just saw a sign that caught my attention. If you want 15 percent more of your money--keep in mind it's not Bob Dole's money, it's not Bill Clinton's money, it's your money before the government takes it. And they ought to apologize for taking too much. You don't have to apologize if you don't take it all. You ought to be able to keep a little. So if you're like Bob Dole, as the sign says, you get 15 percent more in your paycheck. It's in your paycheck. You decide how to spend it. You decide how to spend it and you'll do a better job than government does.

	So, I want to thank you for supporting me, and thanks for supporting Mike?...[missing text]. We're going to need all the help we can get. We're going to have a pro-growth Republican Congress and a pro-growth Republican president which we haven't had since Eisenhower's time, and we're going to get this country ready for the next century with a tax cut, cut the drug rate in half, cut arms, cut regulations and send some of these liberals back where they belong, wherever that is--I don't know where it is--to wherever they belong, they're going back.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America. Thank you.
EDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSINCOME TAXINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDLIBERALISMMEDICARESENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--GENERAL     ¹) …) ) {) q)
 i) d) _) W) M) K) @)	 ¢ 	 h 	 ^ 	 A 	 7 	 / 	   	  e: