Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1025.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/25STUMPSPRINGFIELDILLINOISILFARM DAY3469 WORDS

	My opponent in this campaign has chosen not to talk about the farm issue to farmers. The President, you will remember, went to the plowing match last month at Newton and said a few words in favor of the plow. I suppose the reasons for this evasion are fairly clear. For it was at the plowing match at Kasson four years ago that Candidate Eisenhower made the golden promises that he so quickly forgot when he went to the White House. This year he must have felt that anything he said at a plowing match just wouldn't be believed anyway.

	The President went instead to Peoria, and bravely told the folks there how happy the farmers are--or at least how happy they ought to be. I think it's interesting, too, that so far as I can discover neither the President nor the Vice President--either in Peoria or any place else in this campaign--has ever once mentioned the name of the Secretary of Agriculture. Well, I don't think it's any secret. It's Ezra Taft Benson. But a lot of us think it's time for a change.

	And now the Secretary has also been on a tour. I see it reported in the paper that this tour has been a great triumph, that Mr. Benson hasn't been booed much at all. From the reports of his visit here Tuesday I understand why. When a man who has presided over a 20 percent drop in farm income has the gall to come out and boast--after the latest drop--that farm prices are going to go up now, you don't boo him; you just wonder what's wrong with him.

	Sometimes I wonder, in all honesty, how much political oratory really clarifies things. And yet this year's debate on farm policy has cleared up a lot of things. Whether they intended it or not, the Republican orators, including the President, have made the Republican position on agriculture crystal clear. Farmers now know exactly where the candidates of both parties stand.

	Tonight I want to summarize what this record shows, and I'm not going to mince any words about it.

	The first lesson is that there is no connection between what a Republican candidate says in an election-year campaign about the farm issue and what he does about it if he gets elected. Every farmer remembers the promises Candidate Eisenhower made in 1952 at Kasson, Minnesota, and at Brookings, South Dakota, and at a dozen other places: that "the Republican party is pledged to the sustaining of 90 percent parity price support and it is pledged even more than that to helping the farmer obtain his full parity, 100 percent, with the guarantees in the price support at 90 percent." Did President Eisenhower keep those promises? He did not.

	At Peoria, four years later, the President told his Republican audience that what he meant at Kasson, was that farmers should get their parity in the marketplace. If that means anything, it means they should get parity without price supports. And if that is what Mr. Eisenhower meant, why didn't he say so four years ago? He didn't say so because he knew that any such statement would have cost him.

	Let me cite another case. Four years ago, as now, farmers were worried about prices. And four years ago Candidate Eisenhower made another of his clear promises. "We and I'll find a way," he said, "to protect the prices of producers of perishable products." Early this year, when hog prices were at $10.90 or 52 percent of parity, the President was asked about supporting the price of hogs. Did he "find a way?" No, supporting the price of hogs would, he said, be dangerous--and that was the end of it.

	The pieces of broken Republican promises are there for every farmer and every citizen to see. The Eisenhower record of broken promises to the farmer is a record of callous political perfidy. And the farmer knows it.

	To get votes that way is bad enough; to then say, as President Eisenhower did at Seattle, "that the farmer... is no longer to be insulted as a commodity for which our parties make competitive bids in the political marketplace" is to compound deceit with self-righteous hypocrisy.

	Now the second lesson: In 1952, the Republican candidates pretended for campaign purposes to adopt the Democratic farm policies. This time they have dropped this cynical pretense. They're in favor of doing just as little about the farm problem as they possibly can.

	The President has spoken scornfully and often of what he called in Peoria, "the old price-depressing Democratic farm programs." These are the programs which brought the farmer from the worst depression he has ever known and which helped him to enjoy the most prosperous years he has ever had. Farmers know what these programs did for them. And if Mr. Eisenhower did not know, he should have found out by now.

	But I am willing to concede that American agriculture is one of a number of things he knew very little about when he resigned an appointment from President Truman and rushed back from France to run for president in 1952.

	In Peoria, the President also attacked what he called "the synthetic farmers behind Washington desks" and he went on to say that "farming looks mighty easy when your plow is a pencil, and you're thousand miles from the cornfield."

	Well, like it or not, it takes good, devoted public servants with pencils to help make a farm program work. When the President attacks these men, he attacks the whole idea of a farm program. And while I am at it, let me point out that farmer-elected committees used to run the Democratic program and that these farmers were replaced by paid Republican appointees. It now takes 6,400 more men to run the ineffective Republican Department of Agriculture than it used to take the run the effective Democratic programs. And that means a lot more pencils, too.

	We have also heard from the other Republican leaders. Mr. Nixon has repeatedly called the Democratic program "a cruel hoax." And Mr. Benson has told us repeatedly that the Democratic farm program was socialistic and that his chosen mission is to save the American Farmer from socialism. Well, the Democratic mission is to save the American farmer from going broke. And it says a lot that in this administration what good for General Motors is good, but what's good for American farmers is socialism.

	Third: We have learned during this campaign that in spite of the President's virtuous disclaimers, the Republicans are still playing election-year politics with the farmer for all it's worth. Again and again the President has said, with great show of self-righteousness, that the farm problem is something dreamed up by the "politicians"--he gets very indignant when he uses that word--to win votes. If the President is against playing politics, ask him what he was doing four years ago at Kasson, Minnesota.

	And I ask him what he was doing last spring when, after vetoing the Democratic farm bill, he then raised support prices? What was he doing when he said firm price supports at 90 percent of parity were uneconomic and immoral and would enslave the farmer, and then promptly raised supports on basic crops this year to 86 percent of parity in order to win votes? Does the President think that the difference between immorality and morality, slavery and freedom, is only 4 percent? And I would like to know if he intends to reduce those supports, as he can, right after the election.

	Today's loose administration of the soil bank program and the frantic effort to get the checks to the farmers on any terms before the election is more of the farm politics he so righteously denounces, and every one of us knows it. What is being done is not designed to conserve soil, and it's not conserving soil. It's destined to conserve Republicans in office--and it's not going to do that either.

	There are more politics in the emergency purchase of turkeys, eggs, and hamburger, and lard to keep prices stable until the election.

	Surely, "politics" is a charitable description of what is really involved when the President tells the country, as he did at Peoria, that his Administration has started to reduce the farm surpluses it "inherited." At the end of the last crop year, the government investment in surpluses was almost six times as great as the end of 1952 when the Republicans took over. On the 31st of this August the government has a hand or under loan 2.5 times as much corn, 15 times as much cotton, 132 times as much rice, 2.5 times as much oats, and nearly 8 times as much barley as when the Eisenhower administration took over in January 1953. Who does the President think he is fooling when he says that they have started to reduce the inherited surpluses?

	The President has said the Democratic proposals will be too costly. He does not say that during this fiscal year we will be paying $5.7 billion for an ineffective program. This is three and a half times as much as the average cost of a program that worked during the last three Democratic fiscal years.

	President Eisenhower has asked farmers to remember how things were four years ago when the Eisenhower-Benson program began. With this suggestion I agree. Net farm income was then $15.1 billion; this year it will be $11.5 billion. None of us objects to the partisanship of politics. But duplicity and hypocrisy to the extent it has been carried by the Eisenhower Administration is not partisanship, it is contempt. And, if anything, it is worse in foreign affairs than in agriculture.

	I come to number four on my list. We have learned in this campaign that the Republicans are still at their old game of setting city against country. They have told city people how well the farmers are doing, and that an adequate farm program would mean higher living costs.

	Why don't they tell the whole truth? Why don't they tell the housewife that while her food prices have been going up under this administration, farm prices have been falling? Why don't they admit, in all honesty, that in July of this year, when consumer prices went to their all-time peak, farm prices took another sharp drop?

	I want to give you one more example of how the President seeks to set city against country. The other night in Seattle the President attacked the Democratic party for what he called "the big straddle." Here is what he said. "They (meaning the Democrats) bravely denounce inflation in the cities--and they go to the countryside with their extravagant promises of the loose credit that makes for inflation." Those were the President's words.

	No one could be more concerned that I am about the way prices are going up. The nonsense the President has been talking about how he stabilized the dollar is dangerous camouflage of the fact that this administration's tight money policy is today hurting us in this country and hurting us seriously.

	The credit squeeze of the Eisenhower administration does not hurt General Motors and other big companies. And it never will. Their credit is good; they can always borrow if they have to. But the farmer and the small businessman are at the end of the line when it comes to getting credit.

	As a matter of fact, only a few days after his Peoria speech in which he accused us of favoring liberal credit for the farmer, the President himself had a change of heart--or maybe it was a lapse of memory--or could it have been some more of those farm politics he condemns? At all events, he went up to Minneapolis and boasted that his administration had put into effect "the most liberal farm credit program in history."

	That too is wrong. The most liberal farm credit program we ever had was the one which bailed the farmers out of the mess that was left after twelve Republican years of Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover--the last time the Republicans were in Washington.

	Mr. Eisenhower is, I am sure, a well-meaning man. But indifference and ignorance can be as damaging as ill will. If the President doesn't realize the hardship his policies are causing--if he thinks farmers are doing well--if he thinks that farmers have a "liberal" supply of credit--then he just doesn't know what's going on.

	And here's another example of the way the Republicans don't play politics in an election year. It is the strange case of Ezra Benson's book. There is nothing very new about the book. It is the same old Benson line--about how our farm policy is "headed in right direction" and how "farmers continue to forge ahead, year after year" and how President Eisenhower "won a great victory for the American farmer" by vetoing the farm bill earlier this year. As you can see, it is a strictly nonpolitical document.

	What is new is the way it is being distributed. This book of Ezra Benson's is being sent around the country by a foundation in New York. The organization is called the Constitution and Free Enterprise Foundation, and it is backed by some of the most conservative big industrialists in the country. And what is worst of all is that the money they give the foundation in order to push Ezra Benson's book is tax deductible. In other words, they can subtract every contribution to this foundation from their taxes--just as you can subtract contributions you make to the Red Cross or to your church.

	In short, money that ought to go to the United States Treasury is being used by a collection of big businessmen to promote this partisan political tract of Mr. Benson's. It's your money, and my money, which is being used to spread around Mr. Benson's book. And these big businessmen aren't subsidizing Mr. Benson's book because they love farmers, or because they want farm prices to go up. They are doing it for reasons of their own, and I'm sure you can guess what they are.

	Mr. Benson doesn't want to use tax money to support the farmers--but he's perfectly willing to use tax money to support his own book--and the Republicans. Mr. Benson doesn't like firm price supports for the farmer--but he seems to like them for his own products.

	Mr. Benson's book is called Farmers at the Crossroads. As we review the way he is permitting a tax-exempt foundation to distribute his political propaganda, it is obvious that his book should be called Farmers at the Double-Crossroads.

	I wonder if President Eisenhower approves the use of taxpayers' money to circulate his campaign literature--or is this another thing he hasn't been told. And if what he says is not transparent hypocrisy, then I guess that's the hard truth of the matter--the President just doesn't know what's going on.

	In Minneapolis the other day, he said with seeming indignation that "some political orators--actually have been saying that I am against the little farmer--that I consider the farmer expendable--that I think the family farm is obsolete..."

	Doesn't he know that last year his Assistant Secretary of Agriculture said in plain words that the little farmer, the family farmer, is expendable, obsolete? Here are his exact words: "Agriculture is now big business, too many people are trying to stay in agriculture." And Mr. Eisenhower's Under Secretary of Agriculture also publicly advised the farmer who is having a hard time to give up and go to the city. Yet this is the man Mr. Eisenhower put in charge of the program for helping these farmers.

	Up in Minneapolis on October 16th, Mr. Eisenhower said of the farm situation: "Clearly, we are over the hump." But just three days later in Des Moines, his Assistant Secretary of Agriculture said: "I do not mean to imply that we are completely over the hump." They could have easily agreed on where the farmer really is--he's over a barrel.

	But this is a serious matter. We've enough of a President's saying all the right things while his Cabinet does all the wrong ones. In this campaign, the President has specifically endorsed and defended his Secretary's farm policies--from top to bottom. We know now that four more years of Eisenhower means four more years of Benson--and four more years of Dulles and Wilson with Nixon's eager hand on the tiller of the Ship of State.

	But there isn't going to be four more years of flexible promises, flexible prices and inflexible policy.

	The Democratic platform sets out the best farm program any party has ever offered. And it will be our program after we are elected, just as it is now. We have made it clear that we stand for parity of income--a fair share of national income for the farmers. And we will support the prices of basic crops at 90 percent of parity.

	Secretary of Defense Wilson, when he was with General Motors, didn't sell his automobiles on the open market for whatever he could get. The price was set before the car was even produced. Wilson had a support price.

	Secretary of the Treasury Humphrey, when he headed the M.A. Hanna Company didn't sell his iron ore by the boatload for whatever price it would bring. The price of iron ore is negotiated far in advance. Humphrey had a support price.

The advertising men who manage the President's campaign get paid on a fixed return that hasn't been changed for fifty years. They would be outraged at the thought of a flexible fee. They, too, have a support price.

	The captains of industry have agreed that the free market is the only thing for the farmer and Mr. Eisenhower acquiesces--as usual.

	We Democrats don't agree. We know that we can have a sensible and effective farm program which gives the farmer--and the American economy--the support they need to move toward greater abundance for all.

	In this campaign the Republicans have said repeatedly that a return of 90 percent supports would be a backward step. They have told farm people and city people alike that we Democrats are committed to an out-of-date formula.

	Let me clear up this point once and for all. The Republicans did not cut the minimum wage for the workingman, as many of them would dearly love to do if they only dared. But the Republicans did cut the minimum wage of the farmer. Our first job is to put it back. This we do when we put the price of basic commodities back to 90 percent of parity.

	But we don't regard fixed supports as the last and only word. They are the beginning of the path to a good farm policy--not the end. There must be a constant search for ways of developing a national farm program to meet the varying circumstances of various crops in order to ensure the farmer his fair share of national income and to make it possible for the consumer to share the benefits of our farm abundance.

	We must try to keep the prices of perishable products--including livestock prices--at fair levels. And we must do this by methods that benefit the farmer, not just the packer and processor.

	We must strengthen the soil conservation service under sound district leadership.

	We must not let rural electrification wither for want of a reliable supply of electricity at low cost.

	We must protect the family farm, and help the low-income farmer, those people the President says he loves and his appointees say should be plowed under.

	We believe that the farmer should have a fair break on credit. And we must see that the drought-stricken farmer has adequate and sympathetic help and has it promptly.

	If you elect a Democratic administration on the 6th of next month, these will be our goals. And we will lose no time in preparing the program. Let me tell you specifically what I have in mind. I propose to explore at once the appointment of a task force to put the Democratic farm program in shape for swift action at the opening of Congress. And I have in mind asking the next vice president, Estes Kefauver, to head the committee. The Farmers of America know about his concern and sympathy. They have every reason for confidence in Estes Kefauver's good sense and good judgment, too.

	With a Democratic administration, the farmer will again be a full partner in our progress toward a New America.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESBANKING/LOANS/CREDITCABINET OFFICIALSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMONETARY POLICYAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTS     ^N *N $N  N N
 N N N öM îM ìM äM ÚM	 ª 	 – 	 v 	 b 	 Q 	 4  % e: