Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0918.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/18STUMPLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACA1,460 WORDS

	Today, the biggest threat to our future is the risk of nuclear war.

	If those bombs explode, there won't be winners and losers--only losers. If those bombs go off, there won't be anyone left to explain why.

	There won't be any historians of World War III--because there won't be any more history. There won't be any veterans of World War III--because there won't be anyone at all.

	Of course our differences with the Soviets are deep. From our free economy to our religious liberty, we are light years apart from them. From Cuba to Cambodia, from Afghanistan to Poland, we know what they're up to.

	But we must meet them on the common ground of survival. We must keep talking with them and find a way to stop this madness. President Kennedy spoke the truth: "We must never negotiate out of fear, but we must never fear to negotiate."

	Today, we have a president whose platform is committed to "prevailing" in a nuclear war. What we need is a president committed to preventing nuclear war.

	Recently, I've been asked whether I will make personal attacks on Mr. Reagan in this campaign. The answer is no--never have, and never will. And in any event, personal attacks aren't necessary. Just laying out his record is enough.

	Mr. Reagan is the first president since Truman not to reach an arms control agreement with the Soviets. And he is the first president not even to meet with the Soviet leader since Hoover.

	And asked why, Mr. Bush gives this answer: "The Soviet leaders are too old and infirm. They come and go too quickly."

	Well, they weren't too old and infirm to meet with almost a hundred other foreign leaders since Mr. Reagan took office.

	And now, just weeks before the election, Mr. Reagan will meet with the Soviet foreign minister, Mr. Gromyko. The day before, I'm going to meet with Mr. Gromyko myself. And I'll tell him I want his meeting with Mr. Reagan to succeed. When it comes to wanting progress on nuclear arms control, there are no Democrats; there are no Republicans; there are only Americans.

	But think of the needless baggage that Mr. Reagan will bring into his meeting.

	The blunt truth is that Mr. Reagan has opposed every arms control agreement that every president of both political parties has ever reached.

	If Mr. Reagan had had his way in 1963, President Kennedy's Nuclear Test ban treaty would have been shot down. But because we had our way, the skies have not been filthied by hundreds of deadly mushroom clouds, and our children aren't being poisoned by radioactive milk.

	If Mr. Reagan had had his way in 1968, President Johnson's Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty would have been rejected. But because we had our way, we've managed to keep the bomb from the hands of terrorists like Qaddafi and Idi Amin.

	If Mr. Reagan had had his way in 1972, President Nixon's ABM treaty would have been turned down. But because we had our way, we've managed to prevent a defensive arms race that would put a premium on a first strike.

	If Mr. Reagan had had his way, the SALT agreements that Johnson, Nixon, Ford, and Carter worked on would have been scrapped. Without those agreements, the Russians would now have vastly more weapons aimed at us and our allies, and we would be far less able to track their moves.

	If you've listened to Mr. Reagan recently, you've heard the word "peace" a lot more frequently. Now I don't doubt that he's for peace. But in the nuclear age, that's not enough.

	If more and more countries get those bombs, it won't matter if Mr. Reagan is for peace--because some other country, or some kook, might not be.

	If the control of nuclear weapons passes from people to technology, it won't matter if Mr. Reagan is for peace--because no one will survive an accidental Armageddon.

	On Labor Day here in southern California, Mr. Reagan announced the slogan of his campaign: "You ain't seen nothing yet." When it comes to freezing the nuclear arms race, that's exactly the problem: We ain't seen nothing at all.

	And when it comes to a second Reagan term, that's also the problem. If you think the arms race has made the world more dangerous these last four years, you ain't seen nothing yet.

	Over the last four years, Mr. Reagan has insulted supporters of the nuclear freeze. He's called us naive--and dupes of Moscow. If you think Mr. Reagan is isolated from what the American people want, you ain't seen nothing yet.

	Over the last four years, Mr. Reagan has virtually abandoned efforts to stop the spread of nuclear weapons around the globe. He's issued over a hundred high-technology licenses for nuclear fuel to other countries--many of whom we cannot depend on to control either the technology or the fuel.

	Think of a world where Khomeini has the bomb. Think of the PLO with the bomb. If you think Mr. Reagan hasn't stopped the nuclear club from expanding, you ain't seen nothing yet.

	On November 6th, we face a fateful choice. If Mr. Reagan is re-elected, the arms race on earth will be extended into the heavens.

	It's clear what Mr. Reagan is up to. He is risking a headlong anti-satellite race with the Soviets--even though we're more dependent on our satellites than they are on theirs. He's lax about Soviet compliance with the ABM Treaty--because he intends to tear it up. He intends to commit America to a Star Wars scheme--not just research, which I'm for--but a full scale, trillion-dollar effort with no scientific basis for it.

	That will create a dangerous new defensive arms race. It will destabilize the globe. It will divide us from our allies. It will deepen suspicions between the superpowers. It will put crises on a hair trigger.

	Think of killer satellites in space. Think of a world where the decision that could end human history is handed over to a computer.

	The other day, Mr. Reagan said that America has a "moral imperative" to go ahead with Star Wars. Mr. President, the true moral imperative is to stop the arms race and freeze those weapons before they bankrupt and destroy us all.

	Today, I challenge Mr. Reagan to reaffirm the ABM treaty. I call on him, to declare that if he is re-elected, he will not let Mr. Weinberger's zealots destroy that treaty.

	Mr. Reagan, you may try to hide your tax plan until after the election. You may try to hide your budget cuts until December. But don't duck the question of nuclear life or death. You may hide your plans. But we can't hide from their consequences.

	A generation ago, President Kennedy broke the deadlock on atmospheric testing by declaring a pause in our test--and challenging the Soviets to join us. They did; we sat down; and two months later the test ban treaty was signed.

	If you help elect me, I will open that window of opportunity again. And I will show what America can accomplish when a president leads.

	I will challenge the Soviets to join us in a pause on testing all nuclear weapons--and testing and deploying all space weapons. This is not a unilateral deal. The Soviets must follow our lead. If they don't stop testing, we won't keep pausing. But if they do follow us--as they followed President Kennedy--we can break the deadlock and sit at the treaty table.

	And that's why, on the day I am inaugurated, I will tell the Soviet leader, "Meet me in Geneva within six months to negotiate a mutual, verifiable nuclear freeze."

	What this whole election comes down to is a very simple question: What kind of people are we?

	Are we the kind of people who don't care that children have nightmares about nuclear war?

	Are we the kind of people who don't care about an arms race in space?

	Are we the kind of people who don't care about an eternity of nuclear winter that begins on the day after?

	Are we the kind of people who think that a nuclear war can be won?

	On November 6th, you can say what kind of people we are. You can vote for arms control. You can vote for a freeze. You can vote to pull back from the brink. You can vote for a safer world. You can vote for the future. You can vote for every living thing on this blessed earth.

	That's what's at stake on November 6th. I need your help. The world needs your help. Let's go out and get the job done.

NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS PROLIFERATION--MINOR POWERSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)     ï  »  µ  ±  © 
 ž  ™  ”  ‰    }  }  r 	 ‹ 	 w 	 W  4 e: