Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1030.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/30STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYSPEECH AT PETER COOPER2368 WORDS

	My friends:  Yesterday as we were touring some neighboring counties, your Governor told me that today I was going to have one meeting at a place called Peter Cooper, and where he said predominantly I would find young married couples and many of those young married couples would be my old partners in uniform--veterans.  Since that moment, I have been looking forward to this meeting.  I have looked forward because I want to make a special point as we start out this little talk.  There is so much in my heart and mind I would like to say to you, my friends, that if I wander around a little bit and it looks as if I am a touch incoherent, don't mind it.  It is merely because there are so many things I would like to try to say in such a little time.

	But, in any event, there is the first thing I want you young veterans to remember.  Let's say you are twenty-five or thirty; you have, then, at least under life expectancy, something on the order of fifty or fifty-five years to look forward to in this country.  You own fifty-five years worth of the United States.  If I am lucky, I own twenty--and I have to be pretty lucky.  What I am trying to get over is this.  If we are now, as we all believe, passing through a period where we are going to determine something of the future of this country, we are, in other words, at something of a crossroads, a dividing of the paths.

	You people must take a studious, clear-cut look at this thing and make sure you know where you are going, because you are going to be there.  I may be able, if again I am lucky, to look down and approve, I hope.  But, in any event, right now it is your decision with all the wisdom that God gives you to search out the problems of today and to put your heart into this thing, because, remember, your youngsters in turn have a prospect of eighty years worth of the United States.  They own eighty years worth of the United States, and you have got to turn over a good one to them.

	Let me make a personal allusion to this corner.  I remember I came back from war in 1945 for a brief spell, and I came to New York for an unforgettable welcome.  I saw more people in one day, that day, than I have ever before or since seen.  It was a moving experience.  They brought me past this corner--along there--because I recognize that building down there.  They said, "That old school was here when Lincoln came in to make his unforgettable speech at the Cooper Union."  Ladies and gentlemen, it looked to me like it was time, in spite of this historical significance, that either we were replacing it with a good school or we were building another one and making that a national monument.  I am quite certain that as these young fathers and mothers look forward to their children going in there and realizing that there are six-thousand more young Americans each day than there were the day before, they will probably agree with me in that observation.

	Now, let's review this political campaign for just a moment.  You will recall that only a few months back we were promised by the opposition that this campaign was going to be conducted on a high level.  It would be one to elevate and educate the American people.  Well now, ladies and gentlemen, if you are going to educate the American people you have to drag out the record, don't you?  Now, how would you like to have to defend the record of the past seven years in Washington? 

	Let's take a look at what they have done about peace.  There are many men and women here who know what our strength was when we came out of World War II.  That strength has been dissipated.  It wasn't used intelligently.  We didn't use the great influence and prestige that came with that strength.  Instead of having peace abroad, we have had nothing but increasing tension and finally not only the loss of China, but actual war.

	At home, what have we had?  We have had increasing fear of the future.  We have seen tremendous budgets that leave deficits, national deficits that we can't pay in spite of the highest taxes we have ever had.

	What about deficits?  They just cheapen your money.  Do you realize--and some of you housewives do--that if you go down to the store today to buy a basket of groceries for which in 1939 you paid ten dollars, today for exactly the same basket of groceries you pay twenty-four dollars and fifty cents?  That is what this thing they call inflation does to your money.  It just runs those prices up and up and we chase and chase with higher wages, trying to reach them, but we are always behind the eight-ball.  If we don't stop that kind of cheapening of our money, there is just no hope for our economy.

	You may say, "Well, maybe something else will happen."  But let me point out what that means to the Kremlin, to Communism.  Stalin and Lenin both said, "We shall force the United States to spend itself to destruction."  If you are going to have the future in the United States that you deserve--and I am speaking still to these young people--and if you are going to turn over the kind of United States you want to your youngsters, you make certain there is a sound economy here--that means when people are working at good pay, when all the men and women who want to work are working, when we have a social security program that assures you that you are not going to be destitute and sitting out on a cold doorstep when you are too old to work usefully.

	Why is that important in the United States?  For this reason:  The real strength of the United States is the genius, the initiative, the desire to earn of 155 million people.  Today, if we want you to take risks, to get out and exploit every single talent that God gave you, you must have a floor of security under you.  But don't let anyone tell you that is as high as you can go.  All of these programs are wonderful and we in this crusade are committed to extending them, making them better, covering people that are not now covered--but we do that so that you will go out and earn what you want for yourselves and your families and those little tots, making everything of yourselves that you can in this United States.  The only limitation is that you must not step on the equal rights of other people to be free and work in the same way.  That is the glory of America.

	Along with that great opportunity to work and to earn for yourselves, there is another opportunity in this country.  It is the right, the opportunity, the privilege and the duty of voting--and doing it secretly.  Your boss--even your wife or husband, if you want to keep it a secret--can never know.  That is your secret and no one can punish you or threaten you about your vote, because when you walk into that booth and pull the curtain, you are alone with your conscience and that is all.  Don't listen to anything else when it comes to the final moment except your conscience, based on your study and your understanding. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, they told me I had a little time and this is one meeting it is hard for me to go away from.  I can't go away from the men in uniform and the odors and everything that I am used to.  I want to thank everybody who has come out, and particularly those veterans.

	I do want to mention one or two other points.  Since the administration, the opposition, opened its campaign it has found it couldn't support its program at home or abroad because here at home it has crookedness.  Did you notice in this morning's paper about the five percenter who had a two or three-hundred thousand dollar bill cooked up for himself?  They had to fire him last night because someone else caught up with him.  It keeps going on and on.  They have had crookedness in the administration.  They have had subversion and disloyalty in the administration.  How would you like to defend that record?

	But they have a slicker deal.  They turn and try to sell the United States a bill of goods that is fear. It is fear of what others are going to do--fear of this, fear of that.  Even now, my friends, they fear because I said if I were elected president--and had the tremendous responsibility that is heaped upon the president if he does his job in this country--that one of the first things I would want to do is to go to Korea and see what is going on there and what we can do to reduce casualties.

	They fear that is just being militaristic or they fear that is just being stupid and dumb, is what they said.  They said, "Why, doesn't the old soldier know that the real struggle is with Moscow?"  Well now, the president visited me sometimes in war and he didn't go to Berlin.  He came out where the fighting was.  Now, there are many veterans among you who know that the only VIP's, the only brass hats they trusted were those who came down to see what they were doing--what kind of fighting conditions there were, what was the weather, how was the food, were they dressed properly for winter, did they have the right kind of equipment, were their guns good enough to knock out the tiger and the panther.  That is the kind of thing.

	I propose to go out there and see what these conditions are, whether we can't organize more South Koreans as General Van Fleet says we can and get our lads out of the front lines where they don't belong.  Yet, they say when I talk that I am trying to break down collective security.  I am not. The South Koreans are proud people.  They want to defend their own front lines and they deserve that opportunity.  If we equip them, train them, organize them, get them ready, General Van Fleet--and many of you here know what kind of a fighting soldier he was--said they can do it.  Then why shouldn't I go out?  But they fear that very badly.  That is one of the items.

	Finally, they come down to this:  They say, "Well, you can do nothing about Korea.  We will just wait and see.  We will just let it drag on."  Now, at least this crusade proposes to do something, which is to study and work with our allies to see whether there isn't a better solution than just to wait and to see the casualties mount and mount.  If that is talking politics, all right, I am talking politics.

	Then they say we can't do anything about these prices and about these expenditures.  Our budget is made in Moscow.  Ladies and gentlemen, when did 155 million free people in America say that their budget is made someplace else?  They don't need to tell us that the only exterior threat to us is centered in Moscow.  But we are the ones deciding what we shall, how we shall do it--and we are not taking dictation from the Kremlin, so far as I know.  But that is exactly what the opposition says.

	Ladies and gentlemen, already I have been notified by my associates in front of me that I have used up far more than my time.  I do want to thank each of you who has come out here this morning and given me this time from his busy day not only to bring him a greeting but to allow me to express a few of these thoughts that are on my mind as we go through this political campaign.  I haven't anything in shopworn promises to offer you, but I do tell you this:  When this campaign started and we had some smoothly flowing, high sounding language from the opposition as to what they were going to do--I made a pledge.

	I said, "Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a politician in the usually accepted sense of that word. I don't know much about it.  I am an American.  I can go out and meet other Americans. I will pledge this:  I will make no deals.  There will be nothing that I will promise to any individual or any group to obtain or retain their allegiance.  I will acknowledge only one boss under the Almighty Himself, and that is the American people.  They will be my boss at all times, but no one else can make me captive."  I have lived now some sixty-two years, two weeks and two days, and if there is any man alive who can even imitate that he was ever my boss, that I was his captive, I should like to meet him.  Only to the American people and to the flag that flies over them do I bow my head--except to God, with whom I try to walk humbly.  Aside from that, I am still a "No Deal" man and I will make the same pledge to you today that I made then.  As long as I go into this thing trying to serve the American people, I shall be a "No Deal" man.

	As my last word, my Mamie wanted to make this trip with me, but they have got her working pretty hard at some other chores, and she asked me to extend to each of the groups I should meet today her greetings and her regrets that she couldn't be along. 

	Thank you very much, and good-bye.
BUDGET DEFICITCOMMUNISMFOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSKOREAN WARVOTING RIGHTS     $2 ð1 ê1 æ1 Ü1
 Î1 É1 Ä1 ¼1 ´1 ²1 œ1 ’1	 o 	 a 	 X 	 4 	  	  e: