Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1030.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/30STUMPPHILADELPHIAPENNSYLVANIAPA2374 WORDS

	Tonight I am prouder than ever to be a Democrat.

	If you want to know why, just look at the men here on the platform--George Leader, Joe Clark, Dick Dilworth, Bill Green, heading up as fine a slate of Congressional candidates as any state could have; finally--and I say this with a special note of personal gratitude--those two indispensable Democrats, Matt McCloskey and Jim Finnegan of Philadelphia.

	Four years ago you people in Philadelphia paid me high compliment. You gave the Democratic ticket an overwhelming endorsement. There weren't many big cities in the north that did. This time you'll have a lot of company on next Tuesday.

	We are in the last few minutes of this game. And we are going to win. I'll tell you why. When the game is tied up in the final quarter and its fourth down and goal to go, we just give the ball to that triple-threat, all-American--Joe Smith!

	Here in Philadelphia you have shown what the Democratic party can do for the people. You have lifted your community out of the bog of neglect and corruption and complacency of that long weary half-century of Republican rule. Philadelphia has had a rebirth under the leadership of two great Americans--Joe Clark and Dick Dilworth.

	And now, you're doing the same thing in the whole state under the devoted, effective leadership of Governor George Leader.

	You have made this the Philadelphia story. You are making it the Pennsylvania story. And next week we're going to make it the American story.

	This 1956 campaign moves tonight into its last week. And now its issues are getting clear and distinct. Behind them all, or surely most of them, is an issue which has a very simple name. That name is phoniness. Have you thought what this campaign comes down to? It comes down to an effort by the Republican advertising agencies to keep the people of this country from deciding anything except a beauty contest. And I confess I don't do well in beauty contests!

	It comes down to a cynical effort to confuse every other issue, even the issue of life and death. And it comes down to a Republican effort to get one man elected President so that another man--or group of men--can run the country! I call this phoniness. Perhaps deceitfulness would be easier to find in the dictionary!

	And if this seems like blunt or angry talk, then I better just admit that I'm fed up with eight weeks of this mealy-mouth Republican campaign talk, this squeaky chorus--Peace, Progress and Prosperity--a Peace that is as unreliable as a Republican promise, a Progress that is nonexistent, and a Prosperity they inherited, except they've dropped the farmer, the small businessman, and all to many others.

	I say it's phony and deceitful. And it's dangerous. It's an attempt to make people forget the real issues in this election. And we better realize what's going on. For there won't be another chance to audit the books--or change the manager--for four years.

	I have no comment on President Eisenhower's health or whether he should have sought reelection. But I do have strong views about the conduct of the presidency. Even before his illness Mr. Eisenhower showed little inclination for the round-the-clock responsibilities of the most important and influential and therefore exacting office on earth--an earth mined with difficulties and dangers for the United States, and also ablaze with opportunities.

	I like my recreation as much as the next man, but I think it's a startling fact that in the winter and spring of 1954, when Indochina was falling to the Communists, the President of the United State went hunting quail in Georgia on February 12th--the day Senate leaders called other high members of his administration to an urgent secret conference about what the papers called "possible U.S. involvement in the Indochinese war"; that the President was golfing in California a week later when the Secretary of State returned from the critical Four Power Conference in Berlin; that he was golfing in the south on April 13th when Dulles and Eden met to consider joint U.S.-British action--possibly military action--in Indochina; and again the next day when it was announced we would airlift aid to Indochina; and still three days later when the headline was: U.S. "Weighs Fighting in Indochina If Necessary"; and again on April 23rd, the day the last outposts around Dien Bien Phu fell to the Communists.

	If a Democratic president rolled up a record like that, every newspaper in the country would call for his impeachment.

	And I could go on. The President was away golfing when it was announced early last year that our Air Force had gone on a full war footing as a result of the Formosa crisis. He was shooting quail when we evacuated the Taichen Islands.

	All this was before the President's first illness last year. It was after that, on February 29th of this year, that Mr. Eisenhower told the nation that because of the reduced schedule imposed on him he proposed to turn over to his "close associates" decisions on many important policy issues, such as "problems of international peace and our nation's security."

	What happens to the Presidency if this goes on? We have always measured men for the office. Now we seem to be measuring the office to suit the man. Under a four-year continuation of such conditions who would call the signals? Who would run the team?

	This isn't a matter of one man's health; this is a matter of a nation's health. And this nation knows that no other issue can be more important in this election, and that it must be faced up to squarely.

	Recent events illustrated what I mean. The President has been going around the country preaching the virtues of Republican wisdom and telling the people that the world--in which Communist influence is expanding in Asia and the Middle East and the hydrogen bomb is spreading poison and fear--is peaceful and tranquil, thanks to the Republican party, the President's magic and John Foster Dulles.

	But now suddenly there is revolution in Poland and Hungary. The Republican Truth Squads promptly took Republican credit for these uprisings--which, a gross affront to those heroic people, was certainly consistent with the Truth Squad's respect for the truth. The fact was that when the hour of liberation struck, the American ambassador wasn't even in Poland, and in Hungary we had no chief of mission on the job at all.

	And I couldn't help remembering how, in June of last year, the House of Representatives passed unanimously a resolution expressing its sympathy with the satellite nations and condemning colonialism. When asked about this resolution on June 29th, President Eisenhower said: "I didn't now know about that. Maybe I was fishing that day. I don't know."

	And now, yesterday, tragically serious trouble broke out in the Middle East. Two weeks ago, the President appeared before you and told you he had good news about the Middle East.

	My friends, you and I do not have the resources of information available to the President. But I know--and I am sure you know--that there was and is no good news in the Middle East where the Russian Communists have done in a few months what the Russian Czars couldn't do in centuries. And now, by yesterday's events, the President's paid political broadcast about good news takes on a bitter irony.

	On Armistice Day last November--nearly a year ago--I spoke at Charlottesville, Virginia, about the Middle East. I want to repeat tonight what I said then about the developing situation between Israel and Egypt: "For five years, violence along the armistice lines has been mounting. Unless those clashes cease there is danger of all-out war developing while we debate which side was the aggressor. A major effort of statesmanship is required if we are to avert a political disaster in this troubled area."

	And I went on to make a constructive proposal. Let me read you what I suggested: "After years of experience it would seem evident that the only way to avoid bloodshed and violence along the border is to keep the troops of these antagonists apart. And I wonder if United Nations guards could not undertake patrol duties in the areas of tension and collision. Certainly both sides would respect United Nations patrols where they do not trust each other."

	Needless to say, this proposal was dismissed by the administration, even as they are now dismissing my suggestion that we take prompt steps to stop the experimental explosion of hydrogen bombs.

	Well, when I hear these Republican sneers--these epithets about "wicked nonsense" and "theatrical gestures"--the exhortations by grown men that we're not supposed to talk about these things--that they're leaving them up to Ike--and that we are supposed to, too--it fills me with mortal concern about what may happen to us.

	And the repeated evidences that the President is badly informed or not informed at all, his evident indifference to the responsibilities of his office and to the accounting he owes the people--has extended right into this campaign. Yesterday he made a number of speeches in the south. These were the speeches of a man who either doesn't know what is going on in the country, or doesn't care, or doesn't want you to know--or to care. He said something at Jacksonville of special interest to the people of Pennsylvania. He was talking about the distressed areas of the country, the areas where there is excessive and chronic unemployment, and said--and I quote--"There are programs afoot, to increase our prosperity, particularly to extend it to those who are not yet sharing fully in it..."

	What in the world has the President been told? Those programs he is talking about aren't afoot--they are under foot. And they are under foot because the Republican leaders in Congress killed the Democratic bill to bring help to the distressed areas.

	And the Republican candidate said, too, that now farmers are beginning to get their "fair share of our prosperity." But this afternoon, in Washington, it was announced that farm prices have fallen again--for the fourth straight month. The other night at Madison Square Garden he said that the administration was removing "the towering farm surpluses." Has this Secretary of Agriculture not dared tell the President that those surpluses are now almost six times greater than when his administration took office?

	And spoke with satisfaction of the success of his administration in dealing with inflation. Apparently he doesn't know that this month the cost of living has once more gone to the highest level in our history.

	If there is any department of government in which the President should have special competence and interest, it is the Department of Defense. Yet only on Sunday the Secretary of Defense, when asked in a television interview how much direction he received from the President, he replied, "I sometimes feel like not enough."

	This is the story of a part-time Presidency--of a president who has delegated the people's government to a board of directors.

	The men who are really running the store believe that they can sell anything. And in this campaign I must say they are giving that theory a bold test. They have developed a myth--and they're trying desperately to make it last --just seven more days. And the worst of it is their smug, self-righteousness--the suggestion that they are different, and better, people then the rest of us mortals; [missing text] the suggestion that theirs is something special--a moral crusade, loftier and more spiritual than the ordinary political campaigns of us ordinary politicians. I remember what one English statesmen said of another: "I don't mind his keeping an ace up his sleeve, but I wish he wouldn't act as though the Almighty put there."

	Part of the myth is that the President is really in charge. And the rest of the myth is that Mr. Nixon doesn't really exist at all, or that if he does he isn't the man he used to be. Well, we know Mr. Nixon. And when Mr. Dewey goes around saying as he did recently that he doesn't think Mr. Nixon will ever be president, we can only say "Mr. Dewey, you protest too much. But we'll take care of that for you anyway." We know Mr. Nixon. And we know that his very political existence is a satire that mocks the aspirations of democratic government in America.

	I haven't talked to you tonight about all the things we ought to be discussing--about what we must do to build the New America of our hopes and our ambitions--and to build a true lasting peace in the world.

	But the first and most immediate question is where we will seek and find the leadership we need.

	I say we will not find it in a president who has already withdrawn from the obligation of leadership.

	I say we will not find it in the "close associates" to whom he has turned it over.

	I say we will not find it in a vice president whose deportment and views are not the product of principle of conviction but of ambition and expediency.

	I say we will find this leadership only in ourselves--that we can seize the limitless promise of the New America only if we meet its challenge together--as people--working through a government which takes its decisions and finds its power and its inspiration in the wisdom and the strength and the ideals of all the people.

	Whether we move boldly ahead to fulfill our destiny, or whether we spend four more years in delay and defeat and deceit, this is the issue we decide a week from tomorrow.

	We know what that decision will be. It will be a victory for the Bill of Rights, a victory for peace, a victory for the truth, a victory for the servant of all the people--the Democratic party.

COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--AGE/HEALTHCONDUCT OF LIFE--LEISURE/SPORTSEASTERN EUROPEECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTMIDDLE EASTRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     s6 ?6 96 56 -6
  6 6 6 
6 þ5 ü5 ü5 ò5	 Ž 	 … 	 j 	 K 	 = 	 ) 	  e: