Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0903.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/03STUMPMERRILLWISCONSINWIDRAFT1,845 WORDS

HIGH STAKES:

	This is probably the most important election in modern times. The decisions our next president makes will shape every aspect of our future.

	His actions on the deficit will determine the future of our economy. His commitment to education will shape the future of our children. His policies on trade will shape the future of our jobs.

	His concern for the environment will determine the future of our land. His dedication to opportunity will shape the future of our society. His appointments to the Supreme Court will shape the future of our system of justice. And his response to the nuclear threat will determine whether we even have a future.

WHAT WE AGREE ON:

	This is not an election about whether America has a great past. We all know it does. This is not an election about whether America is a great nation today. We all know it is. This is not even an election about whether America can have a great future. We all know it can. The question is "What kind of future will it be?"

	On that issue, Mr. Reagan and I differ strongly. But there are some principles about our future that we--and virtually all Americans--share.

	We all believe that the source of America's vitality is our people, that the engine of economic growth is their initiative, energy, and enterprise.

	We all believe that government cannot solve all our problems nor build all our dreams--and that it should not try.

	We all believe in morality in public service as well as in our private lives.

	We all believe that the quality of our society depends largely on the private faith, joys, and experiences of our nation's families.

	We all believe that America must always be strong in order to preserve our freedom.

	We all believe that the Soviets are ruthless adversaries who pose a real danger to our security and that of our allies.

	Mr. Reagan and his party seem to think they are the only ones who understand these fundamental truths. They're dead wrong. The Republicans have no copyright on flag, faith, family, or future, and they are merely blowing smoke at the voters when they try to claim one.

PRESIDENTIAL LEADERSHIP:

	Mr. Reagan and I agree on the fundamentals. But we disagree fundamentally about one thing: the role of presidential leadership.

	The president of the United States is the most powerful person in the world. His actions shape the jobs of our workers, the success of our businesses, the education of our children, the opportunities of our citizens, the security of our nation, and the future of our planet.

	The fundamental difference between myself and Mr. Reagan is over how presidential leadership should be used to build our future. Every president--every president--should lay out a road map that reveals how he plans to use his leadership. Mr. Reagan hasn't. Today, I will.

	In the coming week, I will travel from the Atlantic to the Pacific explaining how Mr. Reagan and I differ on the use of presidential leadership. Today, I want to give you a road map of my travels and arguments.

ROLE OF GOVERNMENT:

	First, Mr. Reagan and I differ over how a president should use his leadership to limit the reach of government. To talk about that issue, I will travel to our nation's capital, Washington, D.C.

	Mr. Reagan has tried to bill this election as a choice between big government and less government. Who does he think he's fooling? Under Mr. Reagan's leadership, our government has grown larger, not smaller. Federal employment is up. And the government's share of our nation's income is up.

	The question is not one of big government or little government. It's a question of good government or bad government. And what Mr. Reagan wants to give us is bad government.

	Mr. Reagan wants the government to teach our children to pray. That's bad government. I want government to keep its nose out of our families, and let parents teach our children to pray. That's good government.

	Mr. Reagan wants the government to dictate the most private questions in our lives, such as whether and when to have children. That's bad government. I want government to leave men and women free to make their own choices about human reproduction. That's good government.

	Mr. Reagan wants the kind of government tolerance only Jerry Falwell and Phyllis Schlafly subscribe to. That's bad government. I want the kind of government tolerance George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and John Kennedy subscribed to. That's good government.

	If Mr. Reagan is re-elected, he will use the power of the presidency to make our government more intrusive, not less. He wants government to watch over you. I want government to watch out for you.

THE TRUTH ABOUT OUR FUTURE:

	Second, I believe a president must use his leadership to tell America the truth about our future, and what we must do to build it. I'll be talking about that in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

	Tennessee was the home of Andrew Jackson, a president with a strong vision of America's future and the guts to tell the truth about it. But when it comes to our future, Mr. Reagan sounds more like Stonewall Jackson.

	Mr. Reagan is stonewalling us on the deficit. He won't tell us what he plans to do about his $200 billion debts, which are hiking interest rates now shrinking our future. In fact, his party's platform promises more giveaways to his rich friends, and would nearly double the deficit in one year.

	I'm telling the truth about the deficit. It's mortgaging our future. It must be cut. And I will reduce it by two-thirds during my first term.

	Mr. Reagan is stonewalling us on the budget. No matter who is elected, he will have to squeeze the budget. But Mr. Reagan won't tell us how he'll do it. My guess is he'll go after Social Security, Medicare, student loans, and veterans' benefits, just as he did during his first term.

	And Mr. Reagan is stonewalling on taxes. To cope with his elephantine deficits, both Mr. Reagan and I will have to raise taxes. But there are some differences. Mr. Reagan won't admit we need to raise taxes; I already have. And Mr. Reagan will sock it to moderate-income families, while leaving his rich friends alone. No wonder he won't tell us his plans until after the election. If he told us before then, no one would vote for him.

	We've had enough of Stonewall Reagan. It's time we had a president who uses his leadership to identify challenges and help us tackle them. That's why, when I go to Chattanooga, I'll tell America exactly what I plan to do about the deficit, the budget, and taxes.

	Mr. Reagan wants you to buy his bill of goods sight unseen in November, and then open them up for a big December surprise. That's salesmanship. I want you to know the truth about our future, and how we're going to get there together. That's leadership.

NEW POPULISM:

	Third, Mr. Reagan and I differ over whom presidential leadership should serve. Mr. Reagan believes a president should serve all the people in his country club. I believe a president should serve all the people in our country.

	Mr. Reagan called his vision of our future "A Shining City on a Hill." But his policies look more like "A Tale of Two Cities." In Mr. Reagan's America, if you're rich, they give you tax cuts. If you're not, they give you cheese. If you're elderly, they call a fixed income a fortune. If you're young, they call ketchup a vegetable. If you're a woman, they blame you for unemployment. If you're hungry, they call you a hustler. And if you're homeless, they say you want it that way.

	This week, I will tell Mr. Reagan that we don't want it that way. And I'll tell America how I plan to fight on the people's side.

	In Los Angeles, I'll tell Mr. Reagan, "Your tax giveaways for the rich are over." Unlike Mr. Reagan, I refuse to make middle-income taxpayers pay more so millionaires and big corporations can pay less, or nothing at all.

	In San Jose, I'll put Mr. Reagan on notice: "When it comes to education, you flunk the course." This next generation of Americans must be the best educated in history. It's time we had a president who makes sure they are.

	And that's just the beginning. When I'm president, I'll tell the big boys their gravy days are over. I'll tell big oil and utility companies, "Your rip-offs are a thing of the past." I'll tell polluters, "Clean up your act." I'll tell foreign trade competitors, "You must open your markets as wide to us as we open ours to you." I'll tell defense contractors, "You must deliver on time and within budget." And I'll tell the big corporations, "You must keep your best jobs here at home."

	Mr. Reagan's programs are nothing but the Old Hooverism. I promise Americans a New Populism. We've had enough government of the rich, by the rich, and for the rich. It's time we had a president who gave us a government of the people, by the people, and for the people--and I will.

ARMS CONTROL:

	Finally, Mr. Reagan and I disagree over how presidential leadership should be used to work for strength and peace. In Portland, Oregon, Gerry Ferraro and I will tell America how Mr. Reagan has neglected our strength by neglecting arms control.

	America must always be strong. But in a world with fifty-thousand nuclear weapons, a president must use our strength to work for peace, and reduce the risk of nuclear war. That isn't just an important issue. It is the issue.

	Mr. Reagan doesn't understand that. He joked about bombing the Russians and starting World War III. It's time we had a president who understands that nuclear war is no laughing matter.

	His administration talked about winning a nuclear war and said we'd all survive if we had enough shovels. It's time we had a president who knows that in nuclear war, there are no winners--and perhaps no survivors.

	Mr. Reagan called supporters of a mutual, verifiable nuclear freeze "jackasses" and "dupes of Moscow." It's time we had a president who is a freeze supporter.

	Mr. Reagan is the first president since Hoover not to meet with the Soviets, and the first in the nuclear age not to reach any arms control agreements. It's time we had a president who stood up for our security by sitting down and negotiating tough agreements with our adversaries.

WE WILL WIN:

	Those are the differences between me and Mr. Reagan. They could not be more profound or important to our future.

	That's why I've challenged him to join me in six debates. That's why I'm taking our case across the country this week and throughout this campaign.

	And that's why, with your help, I know we will win this election.

	Thank you very much.

BUDGET DEFICITGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZENUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)PRESIDENTIAL POWERSOCIAL/ECONOMIC CLASSTAXATION--GENERAL     Q* * * * *
  * ˚) ˆ) Ô) Ê) ‰) ﬂ) ‘)	 è 	 Å 	 l 	 8 	 & 	  e: