Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1010.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/10STUMPNEW ORLEANSLOUISIANALABEAUREGARD SQUARE3,751 WORDS

	When I was a little boy I spent several winters here in New Orleans out near Audubon Park and I used to ride up and down Canal Street on the streetcars. No one ever paid any attention to me, and now I come back forty years later and thousands come out to greet me on Canal Street. Something has happened and you've touched my heart. But the fact of the matter is that I love New Orleans--either way! 

	For here in New Orleans you have made an admirable civilization. It is a jambalaya containing all that makes for the body's pleasure, the mind's delight, the spirit's repose. Here each man seasons the dish to his own taste, for in this amiable society each man is master of his own seasoning. 

	I wish I could linger over this delectable dish. But such a luxury is not permitted the campaigner. If, then, you will forgive me my bad manners, I shall talk at once about things of mutual concern. 

	As you know, I stand on the Democratic party platform with respect to minority rights. I have only one observation to make on this subject, one that must sadden you as it saddens me. It is that, after two thousand years of Christianity, we need discuss it at all. 

	Let me speak for a moment on a subject of special interest to Louisiana. That is the question of the tidelands or, more accurately, the submerged lands which lie between the low-water mark and Louisiana's historical boundary three miles to seaward. 

	These are the lands in controversy--and no other. The federal government lays no claim to the true tidelands--those between the low and high-water marks--nor to lands underlying inland waters; and, indeed, it could not because the United States Supreme Court has long since expressly recognized that ownership of all these lands clearly resides in the states. I have no design upon the oysters of Maryland or the clams of Massachusetts! 

	Now I have been governor of a state and I know, better than most, something of the problems of the states. I know that Louisiana, like other states, has important functions to perform for its people. It takes money to do those things and each state needs every resource it can muster for this purpose. 

	I am not surprised, therefore, that Louisiana has been greatly disappointed in the decision of the Supreme Court holding that the right to the oil beneath the coastal submerged lands is vested in all the people of the United States and not just those of Louisiana. The people and the governor of Illinois would be equally disappointed had they lost a similar lawsuit. 

	But I am not running for governor. And if I am elected on November 4th, I will be representing all of the people and not just some. What will be the position I will then find myself in with respect to this controversy? And how, therefore, should I state my view on it now, if I am to be a responsible president and fair with everyone? 

	Well, I have stated my position on this--and only one position--and I want to make clear that I lack the versatility of my opponent, who has had at least three separate positions on the tidelands question. I tried to make my views as clear as I could at the time Governor Shivers of Texas paid his widely advertised visit to me in Illinois. But what I said then has apparently not been circulated widely or set forth fully in this part of the country, and so I am going to say it again now. 

	The man who becomes the next president of the United States must, in my judgment, take up the submerged-lands controversy at the point where the Supreme Court left off. He cannot and should not begin to go behind Supreme Court decisions, saying that this one is right and that one is wrong and acting accordingly. I think he takes them as they come, whether they involved submerged lands or the seizure of the steel industry. 

	There was one great Louisianian who, I am sure, would have agreed with me on this. He was a distinguished Confederate officer who fought long and honorably for this state in the Great War. And as a lawyer on earlier trips to New Orleans I have stopped to look at the statue of Edward Douglas White, Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. 

	If the submerged lands, by virtue of the ruling of the United States Supreme Court, are a national, and not a state, asset, the question presented is one of wise policy in the disposition of that asset. I do not think it is wise policy for the Congress to institute a practice of giving away such national assets to individual states. I believe this in the case of the submerged lands as much as I would believe it in the case of the national forests, the national parks, the national grazing lands, and all of the other public lands which, though located within the boundaries of individual states, belong to the people of all the states. I believe it is the duty of the president to conserve the national assets, the national domain, be it dollars in the treasury or forests in Oregon. 

	But to say this is not to solve the problem of the submerged lands. That problem is how to use the submerged lands for the benefit of the people of the country, including the people of Louisiana. The solution lies ultimately with the Congress which makes our laws. At the moment we are on dead center. 

	I don't believe in keeping matters in an unsettled state so that they may be exploited for political purposes. I believe that what is most needed in the case of the submerged lands is to get rid of the politics, to face the problem with sense and reason and good temper, and to get on with the business so that development can proceed. 

	I said to Governor Shivers, and I say to you of Louisiana, that my hope and desire is to see the early enactment of legislation which will provide for a fair and equitable arrangement for the administration of these lands and the division of their proceeds. We did this in the case of other public lands years ago--allocating in some cases 37 and 1/2 percent of the royalties to the state where the land is located. 

	I do not know whether the same formula should be followed in the case of the submerged lands. And I do not think that matters of this importance can be settled wisely in the frenzy of a national campaign or as a means of getting votes. I am equally sure that a settlement fair to all, including the people of Louisiana, can be worked out in a realistic, rational spirit. A president who was careless with the people's assets could hardly be a careful steward of your trust. 

	But there is something else I want to talk about here tonight. The windows of the port of New Orleans open upon seas and continents. They open also upon the incomparable empire of the Mississippi Valley. The great river, the sea, and our energies, have made you--in the romantic old phrase--a company of merchant adventurers. 

	You are deeply concerned both with foreign trade and domestic trade. But the two are now one. Our economic power in the world is so great that a slight downtrend here produces earthquake shocks elsewhere. These shocks immediately register upon the sensitive indicators of your commerce. So, too, Republican barriers to trade, such as quotas and high tariffs, are quickly reflected upon your docks, in your stores and in your homes as men lose their jobs. 

	This is a powerful industrial city. Last year more than $200 million worth of industry moved into the area. So far this year more than $100 million of new industries have arrived. 

	In 1952, this port may handle close to $2 billion worth of cargo. This is twice the volume of only five years ago. 

	In brief, a new giant has arisen on the shores of the Mississippi. But giants need more elbow room and more of everything than smaller figures. 

	Yours has been a long, steady, slow growth. During the past twenty years, however, the progress here has been spectacular. When depressions came in the old days, you could comfort yourselves that you would be less harmfully affected than cities whose growth had been faster than yours. But this is no longer true. 

	You are geared to a bigger and faster moving wheel than ever before. Louisiana must, therefore, seek the right answer to this question: 

	Is the Democratic party or the Republican party the more likely to promote foreign and domestic prosperity? 

	Perhaps a few questions may throw light on this subject. 

	Has not the Republican party always been the party of quotas and high tariffs? 

	Did not the last Republican administration raise tariffs to the highest point in history? Didn't that cripple your foreign trade, injure your home market and set in motion events that exploded in the world's most destructive depression? 

	When these tariffs were rivets on your necks, did not the Republican leadership treat your complaints with contemptuous silence? 

	What of unfair and discriminatory freight rates that long ran against the South? Did the Republican leadership help right this wrong? Or was it content to see the South pay through the nose? 

	The Democratic party has always been for world trade and liberalized tariffs. These are things for which the South has always stood. It is, therefore, no accident that President Roosevelt chose Cordell Hull as his Secretary of State almost twenty years ago. Chief among his great achievements was his program for reciprocal trade agreements to encourage and increase our foreign trade, and incidentally the prosperity of New Orleans. 

	And what of the Republican record on reciprocal trade agreements? Its leadership has always opposed them. If this leadership prevails, what will happen then to your great port and the thousands of people who earn their living through it? If you have any doubts on this subject, remember the Republican record. Then read the Republican platform and please tell me what it means, if you can. 

	How do you reconcile the Republican position with your International House or your International Trade Mart; your Dock Board and Foreign Trade zone? New Orleans has done a magnificent job building cordial personal and business relations with Latin America. How long do you think these relations will last if our Latin American friends have trouble earning a living by trading with the United States? What will it do to our Good Neighbor Policy--and I say to you that the further strengthening of our Good Neighbor Policy will be a major objective of my administration. 

	It is not possible for this nation to be at once politically internationalist and economically isolationist. This is just as insane as asking one Siamese twin to high dive while the other plays the piano. And that is exactly what the Republican leadership has long been doing. And that, I believe, is what it would do if it should again come into power. 

	Even if the Old Guard thinks of foreign trade as a one-way street, that trade is, and must be, a two-way street. We cannot sell without buying and we cannot go on exporting dollars forever. 

	On October 7th, Senator Taft told an audience at Elgin, Illinois, that he had voted time after time against reciprocal trade agreements. 

	I cannot exaggerate the deadly importance of this statement. It foreshadows more than the blight that would descend upon New Orleans if his views should prevail. And it foreshadows even more sinister results at the hands of Soviet Russia. 

	I am not a man given to exaggeration. Nor do I want to frighten you into voting for me. I shall continue to try to appeal to your minds rather than to your solar plexus. Yet I now beg you to listen carefully. 

	The Soviet Party Congress recently convened in Moscow. Its meeting was described by Pravda, the chief Soviet government newspaper, as "the greatest event in the ideological life of the Communist party and the Soviet people." 

	Stalin wrote a book for the occasion. The book is an instrument of Soviet foreign policy. It lays down the line that the Soviets may be expected to follow for perhaps the next decade. 

	This, briefly, is what he tells Communists everywhere: that the world struggle will revolve around Western Germany and Japan; that basic Soviet policy is to emphasize that it will be difficult for Eastern Germany and Japan to earn a living within the non-Communist world. Therefore, Soviet Russia will play up the economic opportunities that will be offered these countries to trade with the Communist world. And Stalin concludes that conflicts between the free world and Western Germany and Japan will grow as these countries get on their feet and compete more sharply with the free world; that is, with such great trading nations as the United States, Britain and France. 

	In short what Stalin is saying is this: that he is not so foolish as to engage us in a great shooting war; that he will simply wait it out because we are so blind and so stupid that we will not permit Western Germany and Japan to trade with the free world. They must, then, eventually trade with the Soviet world. So doing they will fall within Soviet domination. 

	Here I bid you pause and think before it is too late. The mentality of the Republican party in foreign trade has been well assessed by Stalin. He has seized upon one of the keys that may open the door to our downfall, if we permit him to use it. I say to you with the utmost conviction, that if we follow the suicidal foreign trade fanaticism of the Republican party, we may condemn this nation to isolation and destruction. 

	Stalin, then proposes to conquer us, not by arms, but by taking advantage of what he believes to be our stupidity. This is not a battle that can be won by cannon or bombs. And it cannot be won by a few minutes' briefing of Army officers on the immensely complicated area of foreign trade and foreign finance--particularly by Republican politicians to whom reciprocal trade is distasteful. 

	But, to come back to the South after this brief excursion abroad. Friendliness for the South is nothing new in my family. Let me tell you what I mean. 

	In the 1870s, New Orleans men fought carpetbaggers on Canal Street. Standing with them, there was I am proud to say, my grandfather Adlai Stevenson. A Congressman from Illinois, he fought a Republican project to compel the use of troops at southern elections. This project was known as the Force Bill. He expressed his distaste for a measure that would have compelled the South to go Republican at bayonet point. 

	Time passed. In the 1890s the Republican leadership was still unable to convert Democrats to Republicanism through reason. But it was still determined to do it through force. By then, my grandfather was Democratic vice presidential candidate on a ticket headed by Grover Cleveland, a ticket that was elected. In 1892, just sixty years ago, he again opposed the Force Bill. He said that its passage might mean the election of congressmen by bayonets, and that the South was faced with the counterpart of the horrors of the Reconstruction Period. 

	I hope, therefore, that with no violation of grace, I may claim spiritual kinship with you in your struggle for freedom and equity. Today it is the struggle of the ordinary man to get his rightful share of the goods produced by him and his community against those who would grab the greater share for themselves. The struggle never takes quite the same form, but its objective is always the same. Only the weapons change. Yesterday they were bayonets. Today they are a Republican campaign of fear and intimidation. 

	For decades these forces were pitilessly arrayed against you. The strong exacted of you what they could, and you granted what you must. The sufferings of those times are painful recollections of thousands of Louisiana families. Your physical hardships were great. But--more important--your self-respect was wounded. The wounds of the body are superficial. But the wounds of the spirit are grievous. 

	These mournful recollections, however, have been fading in the sunshine of happier times. Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom, forty years ago, began your liberation. Twenty years ago, Franklin Roosevelt, leading a strong Democratic party in the name of the long-suffering people, began to bring you what had so long been denied you. Ever since that time, you have been moving toward a better life. 

	If I now, for a moment, speak of the past, it is not because of an urgent interest in history. It is because the past and present illustrate two different views of the Republican and Democratic parties toward man and his place in society. 

	Let us then look homeward here in Louisiana. It was--and still is--one of our potentially richest states. Petroleum, gas, sulfur, salt exist here in prodigal abundance. Your fisheries are rich. You have a great sugar bowl and a valuable fur catch. Your forest resources are enormous. Your cotton and rice fields are wide. 

	You long had everything that makes for prosperity. But for decades, the great majority of the people of Louisiana ate the dry crusts of poverty. Many of them dragged out their lives in the shadowy world of undernourishment. They were too weak to live fully and too strong to die. 

	Malaria, pellagra and other diseases sapped the strength of thousands. Your health services were pitifully inadequate. How many people died because they couldn't get medical treatment, no one knows except God and their families. Your roads were poor, especially your farm-to-market roads. There were too few schools and teachers for your children. In rural areas, school terms were often too short for genuine education. There was not enough money for longer terms and many men couldn't live at all unless their children worked and added something to wretchedly low family incomes. 

	Farmers sold their produce for what they could get. Working people sold the sweat of their faces and the toil of their hands for a pittance. And so there rested upon this lovely state, this potentially rich state, the bone-chilling breath of poverty. 

	By 1933 the people of the United States had lived for almost forty years--except for one eight-year interval--under Republican rule. Most of you had little to show for it except perhaps a corner of the earth where you vainly sought shelter against the arrows of misfortune. By 1933 your condition was little better than that of the natives of India. Your average yearly income per person was then $222.00, or 65 cents a day. 

	The thin pretense was maintained that you were sovereign citizens of sovereign states. Actually, Louisiana and the South had long been converted through Republican leadership, with its control of money and banking, into an American India. That leadership had succeeded in making the whole South colonies of the rich industrial Northeast. They were our absentee landlords. They used every method possible to keep yours a primitive, agricultural economy through their control of the money and banking systems of the nation. It is only during the past twenty years that you were liberated from colonialism and began to come into your rightful estate as free citizens of a free country, fully participating in all of its privileges. 

	This process of liberation has been described by the Republican leaders--with their usual skill in calling things by their opposites--as "socialism." I don't need to tell you that our Democratic program is the strongest bulwark against socialism that a free society could have. I have repeatedly said that I do not favor socialization--socialization of medicine, socialization of law, socialization of industry or anything else. Those who say that we cannot meet the people's needs without destroying free enterprise are the worst enemies of free society. 

	But enough of old, unhappy, far-off things. For some years you have been living in a world bright and fresh. Prosperity walks upon your farms and in the streets of your towns. More people of this state now own--or are on their way to owning--more houses and farms than ever before. Their savings are greater than ever before. Your children can now find opportunities at home instead of having to go elsewhere for them. And we no longer have eroded people living on eroded lands. 

	In determining our course for the future, I think that there is a simple method. We know what we have. We know how far we have gone. We must now decide how to get from what we have in the present to what we want in the future. 

	The relationship of the Democratic party and the people during the twenty years past has been a relationship of good will. The Democratic party has been responsive to the needs of the people and the people have responded by keeping it in power. I have no doubt at all that this harmonious relationship will be continued at the ballot box next month. 

	I want to conclude by saying a few words about something that means a good deal to Louisiana--and to me. Some hard words have been said this year by the General--in unmalicious haste, so I hope and suppose--about that great nation which has been the actual motherland for so many of you and a spiritual motherland of us all. 

	Je voudrais maintenant dire quelques mots a la population de langue francaise. Je vous adresse mon salut car je suis un grand admirateur de la France et de la civilisation francaise. 

	Quiconque dit que la France est en train de deperir ou de degenerer oublie les belles qualites francaises qui furent apportees ici, en Louisiane, par les ancetres de la population de langue francaise, qualites qui fleurissent toujours dans la patrie d'origine de cette population. 

	Vous etes de bons citoyens Americains mais vous avez conserve beaucoup de ces belles qualites du peuple francais que vos ancetres ont apportees dans ce pays, et je vous en felicite.
COAST/WETLANDSFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALFOREIGN TRADE AGREEMENTSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESPOVERTYSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)SUPREME COURTLOUISIANA     7V V ˝U ˘U ÒU
 ‰U ﬂU ⁄U œU ∆U ƒU ≥U ®U	 ‡ 	 “ 	 • 	 è 	 w 	 N 	 8 	 1 	   	 e: