Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0902.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/02STUMPJACKSONVILLEFLORIDAFL1,685 WORDS

	Mr. Mayor, Mr. Spades, my friend in Florida: This visit of mine to the Southland seems to be causing a very considerable interest in the North--in some quarters, real astonishment, if not fear. Now, for you and me there is nothing unusual about an American nominated to office coming to see his fellow Americans and trying to explain what is in his heart and in his mind, but in our two great political parties one has always felt it useless to come down here and the other one felt it was just a waste of time because they had you in their pockets anyway.

	During the past couple of years there have been many, many of my southern friends who have said to me, "We don't like this business of being called someone's captive precinct. We would like to make them come down here and explain themselves to us before they take us for granted."

	Now, I can understand that. I was born in the South. I was born in Texas. I met my wife in a southern city. I have been to your state and others for many valued vacations. I have served in some of the posts of the South. So I can understand why you should bitterly resent the idea that freeborn Americans could be taken for granted.

	I am here just because I sympathize with that attitude, believe in it, and if this is revolutionary, then I must be a rebel.

	I am down here for one purpose--to help get rid of the administration in Washington, an administration that has been living on emergencies and crises, emergencies that it manufactures. It likes the emergencies because out of them it makes the rugs, and a rug is a handy thing under which to sweep the evidence of your own errors and mistakes. That is what we have been doing with emergencies.

	It lives on deficits. It spends a lot more money than it takes in. It apparently intends to keep on doing so.

	Now, we have a war economy but they call it prosperity, even though at the same time they tell us in 1950 every city family in the United States spent 400 bucks more than it received in wages. That is prosperity!

	They take everything that we have got in taxes. Not all of it gets to Washington. Tonight in Miami I am going to tell about a number of cases of some of our tax collectors. I have been told that yours here in Jacksonville is a great and shining exception. It is a respected and fine service that is admired. I should like to salute it.

	Let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday for two hours I sat with Senator Williams of Delaware. He told me of the tale of corruption and graft across this country that he has been able to unearth. I wish I had time to tell it this afternoon, but I have documented it and hope to tell it this evening. Not even all the taxes that you pay get to Washington, but they reduce your pay and they make your prices higher.

	The other day an economist came in to see me. Like the rest of you, I am a little bit frightened when a man uses that word to describe himself. But he told me something that was very interesting. He said, "General, here is a fact. You put a boiled egg on your table for breakfast and on that egg you are paying one hundred taxes that you don't know anything about. If you go back to where they started to raise the feed and they process that feed, they shipped it to wherever it was needed. The farmer bought it. He raised his eggs. He paid his taxes. He put it in the hands of the wholesaler, who pays more transportation taxes. By the time you get the egg you are paying one hundred different taxes." I hope I haven't spoiled your appetite for boiled eggs.

	It tends in that direction, doesn't it, except that it makes us so angry that we freeborn Americans have to put up with that kind of thing. The fact is, we don't.

	They get money down to where it is in danger of becoming old shinplaster money. Fifty-three cents is what they tell us the dollar is worth now, taking one hundred cents as its value on the day we went into World War II. If we keep up at this rate, then the old-age pension of the average of $42 in your state in another ten years will be $26.

	Yet the administration says it is looking after the aged. The only way we can look after such people is to keep our money stable, keep it at a decent value. You can shell out all you want to if you are doing nothing but printing dollars.

	The average family pays $400 more for its food, clothing and housing, for its necessaries, than it is taking in, so where are we going to end up? One place we had better end up pretty quickly is getting somebody else in Washington, somebody who is not from top to bottom shot with the business of serving themselves instead of serving the public.

	Just think of this: only a couple of years ago in our papers, we were reading about burning potatoes by the shipload--Burning them up! And only this year it took almost a shipload of money to buy enough potatoes for the preacher's dinner. Now it is high time we got some policies and not these things that go up and down all the time. I have talked today and I am going to continue to talk about the Washington mess, a mess because we have got an administration of "stumble, fumble, and fall." And the sad part of it is, we pay the fumblers, we pay the bunglers, we pay the people that are falling all over the place.

	It's time we were getting our money's worth. They reach into your insurance policies and they reduce its values. They take your pensions and cut them by cheapening your money. They take the bonds that they begged you to buy, and when you cash them, they're not worth nearly as much as when you bought them. Think what this means to all our older people, people who are living on these meager incomes. If we are going to do something, let us start at the base of all operations--Washington!

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I am a very good politician because I get too sore. When I get to thinking about these things I just resent them as an American. I am trying to communicate to you this idea, that with an administration that has been doing this for years, grown arrogant, complacent, indifferent from being too long in power, there's no partial cure. You can't keep the same gang there and put new faces on it, a repaint job, or a face-lifting job. You have got to give it the works. You have got to clean out the bunch!

	I'm not by any means going to attempt to predict the outcome of this election. Others have tried it with what they thought to be a lot of facilities and they have come to grief. This is what I will do instead. I will make you a promise. I promise that by next November, those in power, those who have been holding out on your taxes--and many of them are now convicted and serving sentences and many others that we will never know about--all of those people that have abused the honor and the privilege you have given them of public office in Washington are going to hear about it and they are going to know that you know about it, and they are going to get frightened at what you may do about it.

	I'm going--so far as is possible for one human to do--I'm going to every nook and cranny of this land. I'm going from south to north and from coast to coast and I'm going to try wherever I can to meet Americans just like this crowd today, a crowd that isn't making Washington feel well. Everyone of you is a part of that, make no mistake. I am going to try to tell them what is in my heart as an honest, straight-shooting American citizen, the kind of citizen that ninety-nine out of every hundred we meet on the street is. I am talking about the kind of fellow that you meet in the grocery store and you ask him, "What do you think of this?" and he says, "I am 'agin' it," and so are you.

	Ladies and gentlemen, you know I am in a strange world. Politics is a far, far cry from what I have been used to. But I have known young Americans in different countries, in many climates, in many national territories. I have served with the young people of America. Frankly, they are the reason I am in this political life. I think fellows as old as I am have had a pretty good life, and even if we have had a couple of wars we can figure on sort of living it out, and we probably won't get in too deep. These young people of ours have got their whole life before them. They are people of ideals, courage, integrity, and if we can marshal enough wisdom, live to point the general way. If we can give them a rough guide, they have got the stamina to carry on. They are the people that will do this thing. I tell you, out of a lifetime of serving with them, the young people of America, they are the hope, not only of our country, but of the world. If I can dedicate what few years I have left to them, I am happy. Thank you.
BUDGET DEFICITCOST OF LIVINGINFLATIONTAXATION--GENERAL     Ö" ¢" œ" ˜" Ž"
 €" {" v" j" c" a" a" V"	 6 	 ( 	  	  e: