Speeches\1972\dem\S72d1002.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/02STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCEXCERPTS FROM UPI EDITORS CONFERENCE SPEECH2382 WORDS

	Yesterday on "Meet the Press," my wife said that the current administration was the most corrupt administration in recent history. I agree with that--with one modification. I would leave out the word "recent."

	The corruption of government has come many times in our national experience. In our own time, it has come wearing Sherman Adams' vicuna coat, with Senator Richard Nixon's $18,000 slush fund in the pockets. It was found on the back shelf of General Harry Vaughan's deep freeze. But at no time have we witnessed official corruption as wide or as deep as the mess in Washington right now.

	Instead of a vicuna coat buying a letter to a regulatory commission, we hear about a campaign contribution buying a billion-dollar antitrust settlement. Instead of a deep freeze, we hear about a wheat deal that freezes farmers out of their earnings as surely as any frost, while a few grain companies reap fantastic profits. Instead of an $18,000 Nixon slush fund, we hear about a $10 million Nixon secret fund.

	And we face not merely the shoddy corruption that permits powerful men to buy what they want from public officials, but the steady corruption of our own precious values as a country. Today, we face not merely the corruption of government but the corruption of America.

	The Nixon mess in Washington includes the corruption of our ideals in an unjust war as well as the corruption of the Justice Department in the ITT case. It includes the corruption of our Constitution by assaults on freedom of the press as well as the corruption of our tax code by loopholes for a wealthy few. It includes the corruption of our political process by attempts to hide the real issues of 1972 as well as the corruption of law enforcement by attempts to hide the truth about the Watergate burglary last June.

	The real America is not a corrupt nation.

	The real America is a nation whose highest commitment is to the dignity of every living soul. Its essential faith is that each man, woman, and child among us deserves the respect and the protection of government, not because he has wealth or power, not because of his wit or skill or station, but simply because he is a citizen of the United States. Where the pursuit of happiness is the common right of everyone, there cannot be special privileges for anyone.

	The real America is a nation born in an abiding distrust of government. Our forebears experienced abuse of power--and they were determined that it would not happen here ever again. So they placed sharp limits on the power of government to wage unwanted wars, to levy unjust taxes, or to carry on the public business without a fair accounting to the people. The quality that made our country unique from the beginning was its insistence that the government must answer to the governed.

	And the real America is a nation with such a passion for justice that in the last century it risked its survival in a civil war to secure human freedom-- and in this century, when terror and tyranny threatened Europe, it took up arms and laid down lives once more.

	Most of all, the real America is a nation bound together by a sense of national purpose, by a sense of confidence that that great experiment shall succeed. The United States exists because a tiny band of rebels were foolish enough--and faithful enough--to take on the mighty arms of an empire. That same spirit explored and settled an unknown continent and healed the wounds of war. It carried our farmers through the dust storms of the 1930s and our workers through the Depression to a New Deal. It is the quiet patriotism which is determined to build and then endure, and then build anew.

	And it is all of this--the enduring values and the proud heritage of two hundred years--that is denied by the corruption of America.

	Today, an unjust war corrupts our principles.

	Four years ago, the American people were offered peace, and they accepted. Now we know the war could end at any moment, if we would only break free from the brutal regime in Saigon. Yet the promise of peace remains a lie.

	Our sacred honor is laid at the feet of dictators, dope-runners and gangsters in Saigon--a government that subverts our ideals just as eagerly as it steals our aid.

	And in defense of that government, the most incredible bombardment the world has ever seen now rains down on helpless people in Indochina. While General Thieu is secure in his palace, six million of his South Vietnamese countrymen are victims--dead, maimed, or driven from their homes.

	The bombing does not save the South Vietnamese; it destroys them. And while it does that, it corrupts the compassion and the humanity of our people.

	The real America stands for peace, against an unjust war.

	In 1972, our leaders are also corrupting the Constitution in an effort to hide their failures and hoard their power.

	This administration has tried to bully the press into docile submission. It has launched a deliberate, sustained campaign to discredit newspapers and broadcasters. It has misused federal law enforcement officers to investigate the personal lives of reporters. And for the first time in our history, we have seen the government attempt to prevent--and then to punish--the publication of critical facts, not because it harmed the country, but because it embarrassed the government.

	This administration seeks to replace a press corps with a cheering section --with a propaganda machine that is in league with the government, to be used by the government, to tell the people what the government wants them to hear.

	This administration has tried to destroy the separation of powers. For four years, they have been so intent on making war that they have denied both the responsibility of the Congress to say "yes" and the right of the Congress to say "no." Cambodia was invaded without a glance toward Capitol Hill. And when Senator Mansfield proposed legislation to end the war, Mr. Nixon proudly announced--in advance--that if it were passed, it would be ignored.

	Not content with this, the administration has proudly made the worst Supreme Court nominations in American history--and then attacked the Congress for exercising its duty to advise before it consents.

	That is how the Constitution stands corrupted after four Nixon years.

	The real America stands in respect of the Constitution, against those who would debase the rule of law.

	Finally, the politics of evasion today corrupts the political process itself.

	Free discussion and the competition of ideas should be at the heart of our system. They were in 1960, when John Kennedy and Richard Nixon met in a series of face-to-face television debates and openly discussed the issues before the American people. Even though most observers agreed that Mr. Nixon lost the election because he lost the debates, he wrote afterwards: "... joint TV appearances of candidates at the presidential level are here to stay. The candidates have a responsibility to inform the public of their views before the widest possible audience."

	I think that Mr. Nixon was right when he wrote that, but evidently he has changed his mind. Evidently he assumes that he can now evade the issues. He assumes that Americans will not demand answers. He assumes that he can hide at the White House, without explaining his record, defending his conduct, or detailing his plans for the future.

	And this may be the most insidious corruption of all--for when a candidate does not level with the country, the people lose their liberty. They are deprived of that fair opportunity to reckon and choose, which alone assures their control over the great decisions of the next four years.

	The White House says the President is too busy to debate--but he is not too busy to address three fund-raising luncheons and dinners in twenty-four hours. He is not too busy to spend an evening campaigning among the rich at John Connolly's ranch. All we ask is an hour of his time to discuss the great decision of 1972, but Richard Nixon is too busy for the American people.

	Vice president Agnew says that there is no reason for a debate because there are no questions to be answered. In his mind it is perfectly clear that the Republicans deserve another four years. But five million unemployed workers, millions of citizens without special favors from Washington, and the families of our prisoners of war at least have the right to ask, "Four more years of what?"

	I suspect that the true reason Richard Nixon will not debate is that he is afraid--not of me, but of the people. He must realize that if he is forced to tell them what he really has in store, there will be little doubt of his defeat in November.

	I am not afraid of open debate. I would welcome it. For a candidate cannot lie about his opponent's positions when his opponent is there to correct him. A candidate cannot conceal his plans when his opponent is there to ask questions.

	I have read in recent news surveys that I am in trouble with some voters because I have changed my mind on selection of Senator Eagleton as my running mate, and on details of my tax and welfare plans. It is said that these changes suggest uncertainty and undermine my credibility in comparison with a more reliable and competent record by Mr. Nixon.

	If that, indeed, is the comparative public perspective of Mr. Nixon and me, it represents one of three failures, or perhaps all three: first, a failure by me to communicate my real character and veracity to the voters; second, a masterful political selling job by Mr. Nixon; or third, a possible inability by some of the press to bring the same critical examination to the two candidates. I make no apology for changing my mind in light of additional insight and reflection. Indeed, a leader who is afraid to change his mind for fearing of losing face is no leader at all--he is a disaster, as witness our experience in Vietnam.

	I feel especially that I handled the matter of Senator Eagleton's candidacy with compassion and with concern for the best interests of the nation. It is no accident that Senator Eagleton is now campaigning for my election and that his popularity has been enhanced, not diminished. The nation can ill afford to debate this issue while death stalks the face of Indochina and our leadership at home is ineffective and insensitive.

	I have never deceived the American people and I have not ducked the hard questions of war and peace, the defense budget, and tax reform. Furthermore, I have held to a steady course on the transcendent issues of our time--the war in Vietnam and the reallocation of excessive military spending to the urgent needs of our society. I see Mr. Nixon in contrast as a man of no constant principle except opportunism and political manipulation. But the voters, hopefully with the help of a diligent, evenhanded press, must make the final judgment between Richard Nixon and George McGovern.

	So today I am challenging the Republican candidate to meet me and to face the American people openly in public debate. He can choose the format.

	It is a corruption of the political process to turn the national election into a guessing game, where the people are asked to elect a president without knowing what he would do if he won.

	The real America stands against this politics of stealth and for the right of the people to know before they decide.

	Someday this moment that seems so real to us will exist only in memory and in history. How will we look a generation from now?

	Will our grandchildren read that these were the years of scandal--and no one cared; that these were the years of lost ideals--and no one cared; that these were the years of the corruption of America--and our answer was not outrage, but four more years?

	The answer is up to us--all of us--the people, the candidates, and the press.

	The people will do their part if they are given the chance. They do not want a government whose symbol is a paper-shredder. They want a government that rights wrongs instead of committing them. They are not left, or right, or center; rather they seek a way out of the wilderness.

	It is the responsibility of the candidates to point the way, each according to his own vision. And if a candidate fails this responsibility--if he offers no vision and no plans, if he runs for the most powerful office in America by running away from the issues--then the success or failures of the system depends on the press.

	The work of the press is hardest when it is most important.

	When a candidate issues press releases but holds no press conferences, it is up to the reporters to inform the country that he is hiding. When a candidate tells lies to a handpicked crowd, it is up to reporters to tell the country the truth. And when a candidate will not give answers, it is up to the reporters to keep asking questions--or to keep reminding people of what they would ask if the candidate would come within shouting distance.

	I am not suggesting that it is right for reporters to take sides. But though the press should never be a partisan of party, it should always remain a partisan of the principle that the people must have all the facts.

	I intend to campaign all-out in the last five weeks before Election Day.

	I intend to carry the Democratic message to every voter despite Republican distortions and evasions.

	And I believe that on November 7th, the people will end the corruption of America and restore the real America.

	Then our children and their children after them will love America, not just because they were born here, but because of the great and good land you and I together have made it.

DEBATES, PRESIDENTIALFREEDOM OF THE PRESSGOVERNMENT--SEPARATION OF POWERSSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSVIETNAM WARGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     ”6 `6 Z6 V6 N6
 B6 =6 86 .6 6 6 í5 ã5	 ‹ 	 v 	 b 	 B 	 (   e: