Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0910.005SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/10STUMPFRESNOCALIFORNIACA1602 WORDS

	Mr. Henderson, my friends: This is a little more people than we can handle on a platform. However, we have got a lot of room on the Democratic platform. I am deeply touched by your welcome here and the number of you that turned out to see me. I have always felt perhaps I would be better off as a candidate if fewer people saw me rather than more.

	I am told--I am very much flattered also by the presence here of the churchmen, the leaders of the churches hereabouts, and I am told by the Mayor that this day has been designated as "Stevenson Day." These are honors to which I am not accustomed, and I am deeply grateful.

	I remember hearing a story from a school teacher in Chicago one time about a little Jewish boy who came up to her one day and said he would like to be excused from school because it was Yom Kippur and his grandmother wanted him to be at home on that religious holiday. And the teacher excused him. On hearing that, a little Irish boy came up and asked to be excused likewise. The teacher said, "But, Patrick McCarthy, I know you are not Jewish." He said, "No, but I think grandmother is a little Jewish and I am sure she wants me to be at home with her." Then, by golly, if a little colored boy didn't come up and asked if he couldn't be excused, too. She said to him, "Well, now, Joseph, this is going too far. I know that you're not Jewish." And he said, "No, ma'am, I'm not, but I sure am in favor of this cause."

	Well, I don't deserve any of the things you are doing for me. I am not entitled to a "Stevenson Day," but I am sure in favor of the cause.

	I had an uncle who lived here in Fresno years ago, and he owned a lot of property around here. I am told he sold it much too soon because what was his ranch is now a major portion of your city. And just think how, had he kept it, some of his descendants might have been able to find an easier way to earn a living than running for a political office.

	I have had a most interesting experience--I can hardly describe it to you--traveling down through this rich and fruitful and exhilarating valley. And now I have arrived at the capital--the capital of this whole great area.

	I think that you probably don't realize that Fresno has become a word that is celebrated almost from one end of this country to the other as the source of so much of the produce, so much of the fruits and vegetables and so on that we see in the eastern sections of the country.

	I must say that it has not only been exhilarating to me, but this travel is also broadening in a way, and I am afraid in my case it is broadening in the wrong way. I have been presented everything this morning from almonds to turkeys--and what is more, I am going to eat them all before I get through.

	Now I know that the things that interest you here are water for irrigation. I know that you are interested in stable markets and good markets for your produce. I can only say that I think that the record of my party in the past twenty years in furthering these projects and in furthering our agricultural program has been not only helpful to you but they have been helpful to all of the people of our country, because in the last analysis we are all utterly dependent on one another. What is good for you is good for others elsewhere. What is good for them is good for you. Your prices, and all that sort of thing, and the funds with which to develop this area are going to come from the general level of our economy throughout the land.

	I am proud that the Democratic party has taken the initiative; it has not by any means monopolized these great irrigation and power projects that are so common throughout the West, but if it had not been for my party you would have seen very few of them indeed.

	Some of you may have heard I am a strong believer--as a result of both conviction and as a result of my experience as governor of one of the greatest states--in local government. I am an emphatic believer that we should do as many of our chores at home as we possibly can. We should look to higher and higher levels of government, whether it is the state government or whether it is the federal government, only in those cases where we can't do these things for ourselves. But I do believe that where, in some of these great projects, they cannot be done at the local level, then the development of our resources is a responsibility of our federal government, and that we should meet it.

	Now that is what our party has tried to do. There have been mistakes. There will be more mistakes. There will be mistakes in the management of any human enterprise, but by and large we have had the imagination, the initiative, the vision, and the enterprise to see some of these projects to completion. More needs to be done. I know you need more of the water from the Sierras harnessed to water this fruitful valley, and I know that you are concerned--and you have cause to be concerned--about the uncertainty of prices for perishable commodities that constitute some 75 percent of our agricultural production. We have worked at these problems for years. We want to go on working at them. We think something can be done about them. We know something was done about the raisin surplus in this very community. We know that by exporting the surplus to Britain we not only improve the nutritional level of the British diet, but we also relieve a situation which could have been very acute and distressing here at home. I feel sometimes in this campaign--I am not an old experienced campaigner--I have only been in public life for the past four years--but I feel sometimes as though I am running against slogans and epithets more than I am running against candidates and issues. It is not easy for me to run against "It's time for a change," to run against "corruption, socialism, waste, extravagance, bungling," and all of these things that you always hear charged to my party, and, I am sorry to say, in some cases to myself.

	I should like to continue as I have started. I should like to tell you precisely what I believe in; what I think my party believes in; what I think is good for you and good for all of us. And I shall continue to do that win, lose, or draw. I hope you will vote for me. If you don't, that is your privilege; but most of all I hope you will vote.

	Now, finally, let me say one other word. I was interested to see in his speech last night, in his little chalk-talk on teamwork in basketball, that my distinguished opponent included on his team certain people. He has also said that he believes that the vast majority of federal employees are honest, conscientious, decent, God-fearing people. I think that, too, but he has included on his team some people who don't evidently think they are patriotic, honest, God-fearing people. He has included on his team people who have called General Marshall, one of the greatest patriots this country has produced in the last generation, a traitor to his country. I am distressed at this and I say so here with the utmost candor and clarity in this lovely town of Fresno.

	I think this election is entirely too serious. It involves not only the economic welfare of every man, woman, and child in this country; it involves perhaps the most critical juncture in our history in foreign affairs for many years--perhaps in the whole history of our country. These are times that call for greatness; they call for honesty; they call for probity; they call for a scrupulous concern for the truth; for a conscientious effort to see that the interests of our country are advanced, not for the benefit of a few but for the benefit of all--and most of all, with a heart and a spirit that is consistent with the American dream.

	I have had a good time. You are good to have come out here to see me. I wish you well. What you do is your concern, but America is the concern of all of us. Every one of you has something here to contribute to the welfare of this land in these perilous times. I ask you to contribute it. I don't care how you contribute it as far as party denomination is concerned. All I want you to do is to keep your heads clear, your hearts warm, keep your feet on the ground, your backs stiff, and we can't lose.

	Let me just say one other word if I may. I have been thinking that I would make a proposition to my Republican friends, and that is this: That is they will stop telling lies about the Democrats, we will stop telling the truth about them.
AGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSWATER RESOURCES     " Ü! Ö! Ò! Ê!
 ½! ¸! ³! ­! £! ¡! ¡! —!	 ƒ 	 a 	 C 	 $ 	  e: