Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1021.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/21STUMPPuebloCOLORADOCOSangre De Cristo Arts Center / Winning the West Kick-off2304 WORDS
	My friends here in Pueblo, I am glad to be back here. I liked it before, and I really love it now to see all of you here.

	I want to thank my good friend and your great governor, Roy Romer, for that stirring introduction and for the work he's done here. I want to thank Governor King from New Mexico and all these other governors who have come here to be with me today to say that we want to win the West. The Republican party has taken you for granted too long. We want to take you into the future as soon as we can.

	I see a lot of signs out here from the Hispanic-Americans in the crowd that say "Adelante con Clinton!" I thank you. Muchas gracias for that. I also can't help noting that we're just about six blocks from the Arkansas River, so I feel right at home.

	Folks, you heard Governor Romer say that we've tried to bring this country a new Democratic party, one that believes in private-sector economic growth, in reasonable and businesslike handling of government that works, in keeping spending and taxes under control but investing in education and in solving problems, whether they're health care or AIDS or economic problems or how to deal with defense reductions by putting people to work, not throwing them into the streets. We believe in can-do, can-do, can-do government working in partnership with people. We are tired of being told that Americans can't do things. It's time to bring can do back to the White House and back to the country.

	You know, the other day--this is an interesting story--Ben Campbell's opponent for the Senate, Kerry Considine--I want to make sure I get this right, now--he said the Republicans said, and I quote, "This administration has a thousand faults. George Bush has not been an effective president."

	Well, that was a very wise thing for him to say, but I'm still for Ben Campbell for senator, and I hope you are, too.

	And for Mike Callahan), but look at this--their own administration is in disarray. Far away in Washington, while we get up every day and go to work and try to solve problems, they've got them. The State Department and the CIA calling each other liars over who refused to do their duty by federal court over this Iraq scandal. They've got the FBI and the Justice Department investigating one other instead of criminals out here in the country. And they want four more years.

	You know, as my--as my running mate Al Gore says, "When they say four more years, it sounds more like a threat than a promise."

	You know, out here, people are pretty plain-spoken, and they just look at the facts. The facts are that in 1980, we had the highest wages in the world, and now we're down to thirteenth. The facts are that most people who are working for a living in this country are working harder today than they were ten years ago and for lower wages. The facts are that unemployment's at an eight- year high, that we've had the slowest economic growth in fifty years, and 100,000 Americans are losing their health insurance every month. Those are just the facts. How can we give four more years to trickle-down economics?

	They have tried it. Their whole idea is you don't really need much of a government policy on anything as long as you keep taxes low on the wealthiest Americans, let the middle class pick up the slack, pass it off on to the deficit, get out of the way, and see what happens. That is wrong. We have tried it their way and it has failed. If this is the common-sense part of America, let's bring common sense back to America and get rid of trickle-down economics!

	You know, in that debate the other night, Mr. Bush reminded me of Lucy in that cartoon strip "Peanuts," where she said, "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can."

	First, I want you to give thirteen days to being right as loud as you can. Let's get out here and fight for the future of this country.

	Mr. Bush has ridiculed me as being the governor of a small state. My other opponent said that was irrelevant the other night, that it was irrelevant that I came from a small state. It was so small it was irrelevant.

	Let me tell you, the people in my state, who are proud to be in the state with highest job-growth rate in America this year, don't think it's irrelevant.

	With the second-lowest tax burden and the lowest per capita spending in the country and still increasing investment in education and highways and road building and work, they don't think it's irrelevant, and I don't think you think it's irrelevant, either.

	If there is a new Democratic party, what does it mean? What does that mean? I'll tell you what it means. It means no more trickle-down economics, but not tax-and-spend economics. It means we ought to have invest-and-grow economics. No more across-the-board tax cuts for the wealthy, but tell them you can get a tax cut if you'll make your money the old-fashioned way--invest in a factory or a small business or a farm, in a new technology, in a housing program. Put the American people back to work, and you're going to make as much money as you can. We want you to make money by putting our people back to work.

	It means--it means if we're going to reduce the big spending, and no matter who the president is, we will, we should take every dollar and quit doing what they're doing in Washington now. You know what they're spending it on now? The S&L bailout and health care cost increases. Let's spend that money on putting the American people to work and new technologies in the labs in New Mexico, in new transportation and new environmental cleanup and solid waste recycling and alternative sources of energy and using natural gas instead of more oil.

	Let's take this country back economically. Let's use the defense build-down to build up for people that won the Cold War, not to throw them out of work.

	It means that we're going to become the last, but I hope still the best country, to finally have a nation that controls health care costs and provides basic health care to all our people. Not with some big government bureaucracy but with grassroots teamwork among the American people to provide basic health care to all.

	It means we're going to open the doors of college education to all Americans, because we live in a world in which what we earn depends on what we can learn. Any American can borrow the money to go to college and pay it back as a percentage of their income at tax time so they can't beat the bill, or even better, by giving two years of service to our country. You think about it. If everybody from Pueblo who got a college degree paid it off by working as a teacher, a police officer, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities, working to help kids coming up having a tough time, we could solve the people problems of America and rebuild America and educate a whole new generation of Americans. That's the kind of thing we ought to do.

	It means that we believe we can protect the environment and grow the economy. The other crowd believes every time you protect the environment you hurt the economy. Seventy percent of the environmental technology sold in America now is made overseas. Why? Because we've been dumb about what we've done. You give me a chance to be president we'll put Americans to work cleaning up the American environment instead of foreigners. We'll make some money.

	It means you can be tough on crime and smart at the same time. It means you can be tough and smart at the same time. I've supported capital punishment. But I support helping the police by making sure when people buy guns we know if they've been criminals or they've had a mentally troubled past or they're too young. And I support boot camps for first-time, non-violent offenders so they can work in their communities and learn how to get reconnected and have a future.

	It means--it means that we understand that some of these things that have to be done require personal responsibility, personal responsibility. And our programs, we're going to move people from welfare to work, like we have at home. Tell people we're going to spend more money on your education, your training, your support for children, but when you can go to work you've got to go to work.

	It means that we're going to tell these families that it is a national scandal that tens of billions of dollars in child support goes uncollected every year. We're going to collect it. You're not going to be able to cross the state line and get out of paying your child support.

	It means that we want to make the government work again. We want to give citizens more choices in the way they relate to their government. We want to make government less bureaucratic but more effective.

	And you know something, of all the people in this race, I've heard all this talk about who can and who can't do things and what the new Congress is going to do and all that kind of stuff. But there's just one candidate in this race who has ever balanced a government budget, who has ever passed a campaign finance reform package, who has ever passed a law limiting the influence of lobbies, who has ever passed a substantive reform package to promote jobs and education. I have done that. Nobody else running for president has done it. Others can talk, but they have not acted. Action is what this election is about.

	Folks, I got into this race because I didn't want to see my daughter grow up to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. I didn't want her to be part of that.

	I got into this race because these fine people who are up here with me and I, we've worked our hearts out for years trying to help create jobs and educate people and bring people together across racial and regional and age and income lines. And all I saw in Washington was a side show of people denying the problems, dividing the people, diverting the attention of the people. I got into this race because I thought we could do better.

	And I'm telling you, at the end of Cold War, as we become a smaller world, we ought to be looking ahead to the twenty best years Americans have ever known. There is no reason we should work harder for less. There is no reason. There is no reason our people should not be able to have decent health care. There is no reason we shouldn't have world class education. I am tired of being told what we cannot do. And we've had enough "can't do." I believe we can do better.

	And I'll tell you something else, I have worked for a year to give you back this election. I had the first town meetings. I had the first television meetings where people could call in and ask questions. I've gone all over America just trying to give this campaign back to the American people. There are some people who say that this election is over. They are dead wrong. There are some people who say that the West is going to be Republican no matter what, and they ought to be dead wrong because you know better. For more than a year, I have not taken you for granted. I have worked hard to reach out to you and to bring the American people together.

	And I ask you now, I ask you now to think about in the next thirteen days what kind of people you are, what kind of values you have, what kind of country you want.

	You know, you know, in your heart we have got no more business than a man in the moon to go on four more years with the way we are. And you know I have given you a plan that will work, that will reinvigorate this economy and move the American people forward.

	It is no accident that this campaign has been endorsed by Republicans, by Democrats, by former Perot supporters, by all kinds of people trying to get this country together again. The other day, twenty-four generals and admirals, including the deputy commander in chief of Desert Storm, endorsed our campaign. The other day, 400 business leaders, including over a hundred Republican executives who never voted Democratic, endorsed our campaign. The Portland Oregonian had never endorsed a Democrat in 142 years; they endorsed our campaign. Why? Not because of me. Not because of me, but because of we, what we can do together.

	I'm telling you, folks, the crowd that's in there now has taken you for granted. They've run this country down when we ought to be lifting it up. They've run out of ideas, they've run out of energy, they've run out of everything except the ability to run down their opponents. It's time for them to go, time to lift this country up. Fight for thirteen more days and let's make this country what it ought to be.

	Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you.
ARKANSASECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYINCOME TAXINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESSOCIAL/ECONOMIC CLASS     i2 52 /2 +2 #2
 2 2 2 2  2 ˛1 ∆1 º1	 â 	 Å 	 q 	 Q 	 9 	 / 	  e: