Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1019.002SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/19STUMPCINCINNATIOHIOOHEXCERPTS2847 WORDS

	I want to talk with you about the most serious failure of the Republican administration. I mean its failures in conducting our foreign policy. For although its failures have been serious here at home, in serving the cause of peace they are far more serious. And they should not be kept out of sight--where the administration would like to keep them. It will be a sad day for America when we no longer talk about the issue that means more to us than any other.

	I'm not going to spend much time on the Secretary of State, Mr. Dulles. Under our Constitution, the president conducts America's relations with the rest of the world, and he is responsible for them, and for his Secretary of State.

	But I cannot refrain from commenting on Mr. Dulles' special contribution to our public life--you might almost call it Mr. Dulles' one new idea. I mean his habit of describing every defeat as a victory and every setback as a triumph. He is a master of reverse English.

	We would all be better off with less fiction and more plain speaking about our foreign affairs.

	The Republican candidate has a list of successes he likes to recite. And let us acknowledge such success as we have had and be thankful. There is, unfortunately, another list.

	This other list shows that Korea is still divided by an uneasy armistice line and still costs us hundreds of millions of dollars in economic and military aid.

	The richest half of Indochina has become a new Communist satellite, and after loud words and gestures, America emerged from that debacle looking like a "paper tiger."

	Communism and neutralism have made great gains in Ceylon and Burma and Indonesia in the past year or so.

	In India, which may be the key to a free Asia, we will have had four ambassadors in three and a half years--provided the administration gets around to filling the vacancy which has existed since last July. And that is a very poor way of showing our concern for the second largest and one of the most influential countries in the world.

	In Western Europe, when the idea of a European defense community collapsed, we heard no more about Mr. Dulles' threatened "agonizing reappraisal," and meanwhile the declining influence of NATO has stirred widespread concern.

	France has withdrawn most of her NATO forces from North Africa.

	The Cyprus dispute has gravely disturbed the relations between three of our valued allies. Yet so far as I can discover, we have been of no help whatsoever in settling that dispute.

	Iceland is insisting on the withdrawal of our forces from the key base we built there.

	America's relations with its oldest and strongest allies, Britain and France, are more fragile then they have been in a generation or more.

	And the Republican candidates say that "all is well," that Communism is "on the run," that "American prestige has never been higher," that peace is secure.

	I do not mean to criticize the compromises that have been made. But I sincerely criticize this effort to mislead the people, to describe an armed truce as peace, to gloss over serious difficulties, to obscure grim realities, to encourage the people not to know to truth.

	What are the realities?

	We live at a watershed of history--and no man knows in what direction the elemental forces that are loose in the world will turn.

	This much is plain: the West, so long the dominant force in world affairs, has now gone on the defensive, drawing back little by little from positions long established in the rest of the world, particularly in Asia and Africa. At the same time, the Communist sphere has been growing, adding to its vast empire here and there, as it welded Communist ideology to modern technology to forge a powerful weapon for expansion. And there is a third area of grouping--of peoples who have recently won or who are struggling to win independence, to gain control of their own futures, to escape from poverty, to win a place for themselves in the sun.

	The truth is that the lines of division are fluid and might shift in any direction. Though we have great influence--as much as any other power, or more--we can no more, alone, control the forces at work than we can make the seas do our bidding. For our power, like all power, is limited. We are rich, but there are only 108 million of us and we have 2.5 billion neighbors. Our power is necessarily in conflict with the power of others who do not share or only partly share our aspirations.

	The end of this conflict cannot be foreseen, nor the victor. History knows no sure things. But we do know that we have not been doing well these past few years.

	We need to be called to labor, not lulled with rosy and misleading assurances that all is well. Leadership which fails in this is leadership to disaster.

	Yet a few nights ago the Republican candidate sought to make political capital out of a crisis that could engulf the world. Wars have begun over matters of far less moment than the Suez dispute--for the canal is a lifeline of the world. I have refrained until now from commenting on the Suez crisis. But I shall refrain no longer. The Republican candidate has himself introduced it, in a highly misleading way, into the campaign. A week ago he came before that so-called press conference on television arranged by TV advertising agents of the Republican campaign more for adulation than for information. He announced that he had "good news" about Suez. But there is no good news about Suez. Why didn't the President tell us the truth? Why hasn't he told us frankly that what has happened in these past few months is that the Communist rulers of Soviet Russia have accomplished a Russian ambition that the Czars could never accomplish? Russian power and influence have moved into the Middle East--the oil tank of Europe and Asia and the great bridge between East and West.

	When the historians write of our era they may, I fear, find grim irony in the fact that when Russian power and influence were for the first time firmly established in the Near and Middle East--our government was loudly, proudly proclaiming our victorious conduct of the Cold War and the President reported good news from Suez.

	The Suez crisis and all the thundering that has preceded it will probably not become an important campaign issue. It is too late and we have hardly begun to realize its implications. It will take some time for the implications to sink in. But I must say that it makes coping with the new problems of an awakening modern world under Soviet influence a lot harder when a setback like this is painted as a triumph of diplomacy à la Dulles.

	This reverse was not inevitable. I cannot remember any other series of diplomatic strokes so erratic, naïve, and clumsy as the events of the past few years through which Russian gained welcome to the Near and Middle East. The trouble is that neither there nor anywhere else has the administration shown any real capacity to adjust its policies to new conditions. Three and one-half years have passed since Stalin's death, which made possible the armistice in Korea that President Eisenhower takes credit for. It is now fourteen months since the Geneva Conference at the Summit. And I ask the Republic candidate to tell us of a single new idea that has emerged from Washington for meeting the new Soviet challenge.

	Instead of fresh ideas and creative thinking to advance the cause of peace, our approach to world affairs has remained sterile and timid. It has remained tied to old methods, old thinking, and old slogans. We are trying to meet new conditions and challenges with old methods and means. It won't work. It never does.

	I believe that the President knows this. He must. I think it was this realization that led him, three years ago, to think seriously of forming a new political party. For the central fact is that the leaders of the Republican party cannot possibly deal with the problems of today's world. If he did--if the President called now for the action which is needed in the conduct of our foreign affairs--it would split the Republican party right down the middle--with the election only three weeks away. For the Republican party has been hopelessly divided over the foreign policy ever since the League of Nations battle and the triumph of the isolationists of thirty-five years ago.

	The right to criticize--fairly, honestly, responsibly--is deeply rooted in the American political tradition. We cannot deal intelligently with problems unless we first recognize that they exist and ask ourselves what mistakes we made. Honest criticism is still the secret weapon of democracy.

	There goes with criticism of this sort a clear responsibility to state a constructive alternative. What will a Democratic administration do to meet the challenge of our times? How will a Democratic foreign policy differ from the Republican?

	Let me say at once that I have no slick formula, no patent medicine, to cure our problems. The difficulties which face American policy-makers in all parts of the world are deep-rooted and complex. And this will continue to be so regardless of who wins in November. But it is equally true that there is much that can and must be done.

	First, our entire military establishment must be reexamined to determine how we can best build and keep the forces we need for our national security. There is much evidence that we don't have the military establishment we need now. The problem is, I think less one of money than adjusting our thinking and planning to the revolutionary changes in weapons and in world relationships. Among other things, I have suggested a restudy of the Selective Service system to find, if possible, some better way of meeting our manpower requirements than the draft with its rapid turnover.

	I have been surprised that the Republican candidate has reacted so violently to my suggestion that this ought to be considered. I thought that it was hardly open to debate that we need to find a better way of obtaining the mobile, expert, ready forces we need in the handling of the new weapons and the new tactics of the new military age. My suggestion, I should like to add, was aimed at stronger, not weaker, forces.

	Second, I would propose--in view of the unthinkable implications of modern warfare--that disarmament should be at the heart of American foreign policy. I have suggested that we could initiate a world policy of stopping the exploding of large-size nuclear bombs--the H-bombs. This appears to be a safe, workable, reliable proposal. I call your attention to the fact that the powers concerned have stated that they are prepared to act. If we bring this about all mankind will be the gainers. And I think that we, the United States, should once more assert the moral initiative which many wait and pray for to break out of the deadly deadlock which had blocked all progress toward arresting the arms race that imperils us all.

	I am not dogmatic about this or any other proposal. Honest and open debate may suggest better ways. I think the heart of the issue is a weighing of different risks. The risk of permitting the arms race to continue unchecked seems to me most serious in view of the furies that have been unleashed. The world has had the last great war that civilization can afford. We must, if it is humanly possible, make a fresh start for peace and reason.

	Next, I propose that we act, and act fast, to meet the challenge of the undeveloped countries. The choices these nations make may well determine the future of freedom in the world.

	We must do better than we have been doing. And the way to begin is to understand the hopes and fears of these peoples and to work out with them new relationships based on cooperation and trust and mutual respect. I might add that, in my judgment, the spirit of these new relationships is more important than an expansion of economic aid.

	I believe, too, that we must breathe new life into the Atlantic Community. NATO has served and will, in some form, continue to serve an essential need for collective security. But let us recognize clearly that cooperation in defense implies and demands cooperation in political and economic affairs as well. And in the neglect of these matters lies the explanation of the declining vigor of the alliance.

	Again, I propose a fresh approach to the problems of world economics. This new approach must take account of the almost universal desire for economic development and must rest solidly on the principle of mutual advantage. I am more interested in practical measures than in global plans for solving all the world's problems by some masterstroke. I am impressed, for example, by the possibilities of a world food bank as a means of aiding economic development and putting our agricultural surpluses to work.

	Finally, and perhaps most important, I propose that the American government deal openly, frankly, honestly with the American people. I think that in the name of security we have been sweeping far too many things under the rug. We have drawn a paper curtain between the American people and the world in which they live.

	It is easy--and when mistakes have been made or reverses suffered, it is all too inviting--to use the excuse of security for not telling the people the facts.

	Some things must be kept private, but a democratic government must never forget that it is no wiser and no stronger than the people whose servant it is. The sources of information are the springs from which democracy drinks. These waters alone can nourish and sustain us in a free way of life.

	This seems to me the central point, for unless the American people are given the information required to understand the needs of this tempestuous, turbulent period when the swirling waters of three revolutions are converging, they will listen to demagogues who promise quick and easy solutions. But the ideological revolution of Communism cannot be met by quick and easy solutions. Neither can the political revolution of the oppressed and the newly independent peoples, or the historic revolution of technology throughout the world. 

	I ask your support not because I say that all is well, but because I say that we must work hard, with tireless dedication, to make the small gains out of which, we may hope, large gains will ultimately be fashioned.

	I ask your support not in the name of complacency but in the name of anxiety.

	We must take the world as we find it and try to work in the direction of peace. We did not want a contest with world Communism, but the contest is upon us. We cannot escape it, and unless we wage it with greater wisdom, greater skill, greater tenacity of purpose than our opponent, we will fail, as other great powers have fallen in other great contests. The first and in some ways the most difficult task is to recognize this fact of contest. General George Marshall used to warn his colleagues not "to fight the problem" but to deal with it. That is good advice for us today. If we try to hide the problem from our own minds, to pretend that it does not exist, to wage our political contest here at home in terms of misleading promises, we will be fighting the problem and we will fail.

	Peace is our goal. I am in politics as a result of a personal decision to do what I could to help in building a peaceful world. That decision carried with it an obligation--the obligation to talk sense, to tell the truth as I see it, to discuss the realities of our situation, never to minimize the tasks that lie ahead.

	I don't know whether that is the way to win in politics, but it is the only way I want to win. For, if you entrust me with the responsibility of power, I do not want to assume that power under any false pretenses nor do I want you to labor under any misapprehensions. To do otherwise would be not only to mislead you, but to make my own task almost impossibly difficult, for I would not have won your support on the basis of an understanding between us about the needs we face and demands they place upon us.

	To achieve such understanding seems to me to be the true function of politics.

ASIACOMMUNISMDIPLOMACYEGYPT--SUEZ CANALMIDDLE EASTMILITARY RECRUITMENTNATO (NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION)NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)SOUTHEAST ASIASOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)THIRD WORLDFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERAL     e@ 1@ +@ '@ @
 @ @ @ þ? ú? ø? ð? æ?	 ê 	 æ 	 Ý 	 Ô 	 Ã 	 ¸ 	 ¤ 	 { 	 L 	 > 	 #   e: