Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1015.002SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/15STUMPST. LOUISMISSOURIMOLUNCHEON FUNDRAISER1,606 WORDS

	[missing text]. introduction, but even more, for your friendship over the years and your leadership in my campaign.  This is now, I think, the fourth successful fundraiser you've had over the last two and a half years that Lee and the rest of you have put together for my campaign.

	Because you helped me earlier and the people of Missouri helped me earlier, I was nominated for president, and today you're giving me that extra oomph--I think the other side is better.  You notice there's no dignity left.

	I want to thank you, Lee and Rosie and Allen and the Kling family, for their special help, and to each of you for coming out again today to give me the support I need.  Tom had to leave to get back to Washington, but Tom and I have been friends and we've cooperated together in public office now for over two decades.  Tom is truly one of the magnificent public servants of our time, and I know the people of Missouri are proud of him and proud of what he's done for you and for our country.

	My good friend, and is this your district, Bob?  Bob Young, congressman.  Let's give Bob a good hand for all his leadership.  Somebody said Bill Clay might be here.  I don't see him, but I want to honor Bill as well, and your next governor, Ken Rothman.  And if I might, I want to introduce my daughter, Eleanor Jane, standing over here campaigning with her father.

	I want to be president and I'm going to be, but if there's anything that I looked forward to nearly as much it was the new hotel for Stan and Biggy's.  For some reason, years ago, Tom said, "Whenever you come to St. Louis, you always stay at Stan and Biggy's."  So I now have eighteen signed baseballs in my house, and the capital that was generated to build this magnificent new hotel basically came from my campaigns over the last ten years, and so we all rejoice in our new facilities here, and I'll be looking for a dividend here sooner or later.  I feel part of this success.

	The last week has been, in many ways, the most remarkable of my career.  After the Sunday debate, it was just like someone threw a switch--night and day--in this country.  The reason is that the people of this country who watched by the millions finally saw what was at stake here, what the issues are and fundamentally what we need to take this country forward into the future.

	They listened for those one-hundred minutes or so and measured the two of us.  The next morning, we went to the Italian parade in New York.  They had three times more people in that parade than they have ever had before--over half a million people.  That was part of it.  But they were coming at us kind of like a pile-up on a goal line.  They wanted us to know that they were ready to go.

	An enormous rally in Detroit.  We had the largest crowd in the history of downtown Pittsburgh.  Then in Madison, an incredible crowd.

	All across this country, we're receiving reports of movements, of strength.  Polls are closing, and the public are now seeing that this is a race.

	There are big issues to be decided.  This coming Sunday, in Kansas City, we'll have a chance to deal with the foreign policy, the defense and security matters that are so crucial to the future of our country.

	To move into the future, you need more than a cheerleader.  You need a quarterback.  You need more than someone who just congratulates Americans for our obvious strengths but, by challenging us, moves forward.

	As Kennedy once said, "We are great"--America is great, and we all know it--"but we can be greater."  That's the challenge of our times, to move on now, to solve those problems that we all know must be solved.  We're not going to have a future if this arms race continues, if those bombs go off.  We all know that could be it.

	We need a president who keeps us strong but uses strength to keep control of these weapons before they destroy us all.  

	The president said, in that debate, "Whoever could think that this huge national debt has anything to do with interest rates?"  Well, if he believes that, then we won't get on with the central and compelling problem of our time, which is to get that debt down, to get those interest rates down, to restore America's edge in exports, to return health to rural America, which is suffering, I guess, almost than any other area, and to give ourselves room to grow without reigniting interest rates, inflation, and putting people out of work.

	Our future demands that we do that for our purposes, but our children have a right to demand that we not burden them with a trillion dollars worth of our bills.  No generation has ever done that before to its kids; no family would do that to its children.  We need a leader who not only deals with our current problems but also makes certain that those who follow have a society in which they have just as much as potential as that given to us.

	We just came from one of your famous toxic waste dumps here--Weldon Spring--and this is a classic example.  Here we have a toxic waste pit that's radioactive.  There are now fears that it is starting to leech down into the water system.  If there were a tornado, this stuff could be picked up and distributed around the community.  If there were an earthquake, it couldn't be contained.

	They've known about this.  Tom Eagleton and Bob Young and others have been crowding them to clean it up.  They haven't done it.  About five days ago, it was announced that I was going there, and three days ago, they announced they are going to clean it up.

	That happened to me in Long Island a couple of months ago.  Three days before I got there, they had had bulldozers come.  It looked beautiful.  If I only had 761 days left in this campaign, I'd go to every toxic waste dump in America and clean it all up.

	That community reports leukemia levels double the national average, and for four years, they did nothing except risk the public health of the community even though they have the resources and the responsibility to deal with it.  Of the some seven-hundred toxic waste dumps in America that are dangerous, they cleaned up only six in these last four years, even though the law and the resources are there to get them cleaned up.  It is inexcusable.

	We need leadership that understands that protecting our air, water and our land and our public health is a part of building our future for our children as well.

	We're going to win this election, but you have got to hold on tight.  The last couple of months, sensing there might be trouble, they have started to use what I call a strategy of political grave robbing.  They have a luncheon honoring Eleanor.  They rejoice in John Kennedy.  They even tried to use my old friend Hubert Humphrey, and last week, they went down and picked up Harry Truman's railroad car in Florida and brought it to Ohio.  It's going to be remembered as the Great Train Robbery.

	While he was in the right car, he was on the wrong track, and the American people know the difference.

	This country has unlimited potential, but it takes leadership to lead our country, to unite it, to identify the real problems and get on with the business of solving them.  To do that, you need a president who's in charge, in touch, and in command.  That has not been the case, as we have seen in Lebanon and elsewhere, in this runaway arms race over these past four years.

	We've got to move on with leadership that will move us in a sound and solid, practical and caring way to build the future of this nation.  I'm confident that I can do that.  I'm confident that I'm ready, above all because, as you well know, I have traveled this country; I have listened to the American people; and what I say is not theory.  It is not based on polls.  It's based on what I read all right, but above all, it is based on thousands and thousands of conversations of the American people and taking questions from the citizens of this country.

	I know what Americans want.  I know their dreams.  I know their hopes because I have talked to them.  That is what this country needs.  With your help, I'm going to carry Missouri.  With your help, I'm going to win this election.  With your help--do you want a picture?  With your help, we will sign that autograph in the Oval Office.

	I'll do one other thing.  On the day that Mr. Reagan was nominated, he went down Pennsylvania Avenue, watched the inaugural parade, went into the White House, went into the Cabinet Room and took down Harry Truman's portrait and replaced it with Calvin Coolidge's.

	I make a pledge to the people of Missouri that, when I'm elected, I'm going to go down Pennsylvania Avenue.  I'm going to watch the inaugural parade.  I'll cheer when Missouri goes by.  I'll walk into the White House and I'm going to take Calvin Coolidge's portrait and put Harry back up there where he belongs.

BUDGET DEFICITTOXIC WASTE     3# ÿ" ù" õ" í"
 â" Ý" Ø" Ï" Ç" Å" ²" §"	  	  e: