Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0906.002SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/06STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCNATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION2,032 WORDS

	Thank you, Jesse, for that very kind introduction.

	In the first round of this campaign, Jesse changed American history.  And now he's going to change American history again.  Because in the last round of this campaign, Jesse is going to help me defeat Ronald Reagan.

	They say that at the end of the rainbow is a pot of gold.  The truth is, there's some one thing more valuable than that; At the end of the rainbow is Jesse Jackson.

	I'm honored to speak to you today.  We are no strangers to each other.  Over the last generation, we have worked together to create the most successful, peaceful revolution for justice in the history of humanity.

	It was never easy.  But the struggle was worth it.

	Because we struggled, and didn't hang back, we cut the dropout rate for black high school students and doubled the number of minority students attending college and vocational school.

	Because we struggled, we raised the reading levels of the poorest children in our poorest cities.

	Because we struggled, we helped more than 20 million people work their way out of poverty and cut the number of poor people in our country by half.

	And because we struggled, we enriched our society with a great wealth of talent.  We opened school doors, factory doors, office doors, and government doors--to blacks and browns and women and the handicapped and all who had been unjustly excluded.

	That's what we did together.  But what about Mr. Reagan?

	Thinking about his record, I'm reminded of a sermon my father used to give.  It was based on a text from the Book of Common Prayer:  "We have left undone those things which we ought to have done, and we have done those things which we ought not to have done."

	My brothers and sisters, Mr. Reagan has left undone things he ought to have done.  And he has done things which he ought not to have done. 

	Last year, Mr. Reagan had breakfast with a group of black Republicans.  He told them black Americans would have been better off without everything you and I have fought for.  He said that all that progress "threatened the character of our people."

	He was dead wrong.  Our work didn't threaten our character.  It strengthened our society.  Mr. Reagan didn't understand that twenty years ago.  He didn't understand that four years ago.  He doesn't understand it today.  And there's no reason to think he'll understand it if he gets four more years in that White House.

	Mr. Reagan's plan is to undo the work of a generation.  He must not get away with it.

	Twenty years ago, I fought for the right of indigent defendants to free legal counsel.  I didn't do that so this administration could trash legal services.

	I didn't fight for fair housing legislation in 1967 and 1968 so this administration could pretend those laws don't exist.

	I didn't put myself on the line to support desegregation so this administration could reward segregation academies with tax breaks.

	I didn't put my name on the Voting Rights Act of 1965 so this administration could try to take your name off the voting lists.

	I haven't stood up for equal opportunity and affirmative action so his administration could condemn half our black youth to unemployment.

	I haven't fought for full employment so Mr. Reagan could gut job training.

	I haven't pushed for minority entrepreneurship so this crowd could gut that program.

	I haven't fought for children so Mr. Reagan could throw 3 million kids off school lunches.

	I haven't insisted on strong support for black colleges so this administration could cut student aid.

	I haven't worked for a strong, independent Civil Rights Commission so this administration could trash it.

	I haven't spoken out for human rights around the world so this administration could cozy up to the apartheid government of South Africa.

	And I didn't take that long, slow, sad walk through the streets of Atlanta behind the casket of Martin Luther King to hear today, sixteen years later, that the march for civil rights and economic justice is over.

	This week, Mr. Reagan kicked off his campaign by telling us, "You ain't seen nothing yet."  And you know what?  He's right.

	When it comes to civil rights, we ain't seen nothing yet.  When it comes to jobs and economic opportunity, we ain't seen nothing yet.  When it comes to human rights, we ain't seen nothing yet.  When I comes to any of the things a just, caring president ought to have done, we ain't seen nothing yet.

	Mr. Reagan's economic philosophy can be summed up this way:  A rising tide lifts all yachts.  Now we need a president who'll push for jobs, make our economy grow, and raise the boats stuck at the bottom.  And you'll get him--in Walter Mondale.

	In the 1960s, you could finally sit in the front of the bus.  In the 1970s, you could finally drive the bus.  Now you need a president who'll fight for your chance to own the bus company.  Here I am.

	I believe in hard work.  So do you.  No one is asking for a handout.  All anyone wants is a chance to work.

	In America, work is everything.  Jobs mean dignity.  Jobs mean identity.  Jobs mean self-respect.  Jobs mean strong families.

	When Mr. Reagan took office, he put up the portrait of Calvin Coolidge in the Cabinet Room.  Coolidge once said that when more and more people are thrown out of work, the result is unemployment.  I say that when more and more people are put back to work, the result is justice.  And that is exactly what I'll work for as president.

	As it says in the text, Mr. Reagan has not done the things he ought to do.  He has not used government as a force for social justice.  But at the same time, we have watched him try to do with government what he ought not to do.  His supporters on the far fringes are urging him on to inject government where it must never go.

	Listen to Jerry Falwell, whose benediction at the Republican convention called Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush "God's instruments for rebuilding America."

	Or read the so-called  Christian Voice Report Card, which flunks Geraldine Ferraro on "moral/family issues" because she supports the nuclear freeze.

	Or scan something called the Presidential Biblical Scoreboard, which as much as brands me anti-family and un-Christian.

	I do not call for the suppression of these voices.  The same freedom that permits me to worship and speak my mind also protects them.  There can be no rationing of the First Amendment.

	But I am alarmed by the rise of what a former Republican congressman calls "moral McCarthyism."  A determined band is raising doubts about people's faith.  They are reaching for government power to impose their own beliefs on other people.  And the Reagan administration has opened its arms to them.

	Twenty-four years ago this month, in the heat of his own presidential race, John Kennedy went before the Greater Houston Ministerial Association to confront a different religious issue.  And he did it by stating--as he put it--"not what kind of church I believe in, for that should be important only to me, but what kind of America I believe in."

	Today, I follow his example.

	I believe in an America where all people have the right to pursue their faith not just freely but also without insult or embarrassment.

	I believe in an America that insists on the wall of separation between church and state.  That freedom has made our faith unadulterated and unintimidated.  It has made Americans the most religious people on earth.

	I believe in an America where government is not permitted to dictate the religious life of our people; where religion is a private matter between individuals and God, between families and their churches and synagogues, with no room for politicians in between.

	The worst kind of religion is the kind imposed by government.  A prominent Baptist preacher of another generation said it right:  "Christ's religion needs no prop of any kind from any worldly source, and to the degree that it is thus supported is a millstone hanged about its neck."

	Moreover, history teaches us that if government is allowed to interfere with religion, it will corrupt our faith, divide our nation, and embitter our people.

	I do not believe Mr. Reagan understands this.

	He told a prayer breakfast in Dallas that religion needs defenders against those who care only for the interests of the state.  His clear implication was that he welcomed such a role for himself.

	The queen of England, where state religion is established, is called "Defender of the Faith."  But the president of the United States is the defender of the Constitution.

	A president has no higher role.  And Americans have only one president at a time.  He must use his leadership to unify us.  He must dispute his opponents with respect.  Our president must rejoice in the noise of public argument; it is the music of freedom.

	No president should attempt to transform policy debates into theological disputes.  He must not let it be thought that political dissent from him is un-Christian.  And he must not cast opposition to his programs as opposition to America.

	Last month, in Dallas, Mr. Reagan attacked those of us who are trying to preserve the separation of church and state.  He supports a constitutional amendment instituting school prayer, with the prayers chosen by local politicians.  In Dallas, he said that anyone who opposes that amendment is "intolerant" of religion.

	Baptists are opposed to Mr. Reagan's amendment; I would not call you intolerant of religion.  Jews, Methodists, Presbyterians, Lutherans, and other church groups also oppose his amendment.  And they are also not intolerant of religion.

	Presidents, and those who would be president, have responsibilities.  Judge us by whether we understand them.  Judge whether we honor the spirit of pluralism and the letter of church-state separation.  Judge whether we unify America.  Judge whether we denounce bigotry and divisiveness.

	All my life, I have fought anti-Semitism, racism, and every other spiritual obscenity.  All intolerance is ugly, whether it wears the sheets of the Ku Klux Klan or spreads the slurs of the Christian Voice.  All hatred is poison, whether it comes from the mouth of Rabbi Kahane or the radio program of Louis Farrakhan.

	I condemn them all--and I call on Mr. Reagan to do the same.

	Recently, Mr. Reagan has been implying that to look straight at our country's challenges is to run down America.

	He's wrong.  All Americans are proud of our country.  There is not a party that believes America is great and a party that does not.  There is not a party of optimism and a party of pessimism.

	But America did not become a great nation by pretending that our problems do not exist.  We did it by facing them and tackling them.

	Martin Luther King knew that.  He called it "creative dissatisfaction."  As he once said, "Let us be dissatisfied until every man can have food and material necessities for his body, culture and education for his mind, freedom and human dignity for his spirit."

	I say, "Let us be dissatisfied until we have built a great future not for some Americans, but all Americans."

	Let us be dissatisfied until discrimination and intolerance are things our children only read about in history books.

	Let us be dissatisfied until we can look back on poverty and hunger, and say, "We have overcome."

	Let us be dissatisfied until there are jobs for every pair of hands that want to work.

	Let us be dissatisfied until our youth no longer waste their time on street corners or waste their lives on drugs.

	Let us be dissatisfied until the victims of oppression--from Johannesburg to Warsaw, from Manila to Cambodia--can join us and breathe the sweet air of freedom.

	Let us be dissatisfied until our children no longer have nightmares about nuclear war.

	And let us be dissatisfied until we have a just and caring president in the White House.

	Thank you very much.

CIVIL RIGHTSFREEDOM OF RELIGIONRELIGION--DISCRIMINATIONSCHOOL PRAYERAFRICAN AMERICANSSEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE     ù/ i/ c/ _/ W/
 L/ G/ B/ 8/ $/ "/ / ¸.	 s 	 g 	 T 	 <  /   e: