Speeches\1980\rep\S80R0904.001SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)09/04STUMPJACKSONVILLEFLORIDAFLCombined Businessman's Club Luncheon2357 WORDS


	All across this land I have found a longing among our people for hope. A longing for belief in ourselves and the vision that gave birth to this nation; for the values of family, work, neighborhood, peace and freedom that are at the heart of the American dream.

	Jimmy Carter would have us believe that dream is over or at least in need of change.

	This election concerns what has already been done to the American people and what would continue if we are given four more years of disaster.

	Because of the failures of this administration we face an unprecedented situation:

	For the first time in the history of our country we face three grave crises at the same time, each one of which is capable of destroying us: our economy is deteriorating, our energy needs are not being met and our military preparedness has been weakened to the point of immediate danger.

	The Carter record is a litany of despair, of broken promises, of sacred trusts abandoned and forgotten.

	Eight million out of work. Inflation running at 18 percent in the first quarter of 1980. Black unemployment at about 14 percent, higher than any single year since the government began keeping separate statistics. Four straight major deficits run up by Carter and his friends in Congress. The highest interest rates since the Civil war--reaching at times close to 20 percent. Productivity falling for six straight quarters among the most productive people in history.

	We were promised there would not be an increase in taxes for the low and middle income people--the workers of America. We have had imposed on American families the largest single tax increase in history.

	His answer to all of this misery?

	He tries to tell us that we are "only" in a recession, not a depression, as if definitions--words--relieve our suffering.

	Let it show on the record that when the American people cried out for economic help, Jimmy Carter took refuge behind a dictionary. Well if it's a definition he wants, I'll give him one. A recession is when your neighbor loses his job. A depression is when you lose yours. Recovery is when Jimmy Carter loses his.

	I have talked with unemployed workers all across this country. I have heard their views on what Jimmy Carter has done to them and their families.

	They aren't interested in semantic quibbles. They are out of work and they know who put them out of work. And they know the difference between a recession and a depression.

	Let Mr. Carter go to their homes, look their children in the eye and argue with them that it is "only" a recession that put dad or mom out of work.

	Let him go to the unemployment lines and lecture those workers who have been betrayed on what is the proper definition for their widespread economic misery.

	Human tragedy, human misery, the crushing of the human spirit. They do not need defining--they need action.

	And it is action, in the form of jobs, lower taxes, and an expanded economy that--as president--I intend to provide.

	Call this human tragedy whatever you want. Whatever it is, it is Jimmy Carter's. He caused it. He tolerates it. And he is going to answer to the American people for it.

	In 1976 he said he would never use unemployment as an economic tool to fight inflation. This year in his economic message he called for an increase in unemployment--to fight inflation.

	In 1976 he said he would bring unemployment and inflation both down to 3 percent.

	Unemployment is now around 8 percent, inflation is 12 1/2. They were 6 percent to 4.8 when he started.

	In 1976, he ran as a candidate on the slogan: "I'll never lie to you."

	After hearing that line about twenty times I was reminded of Ralph Waldo Emerson's line: "The louder he talked of his honor, the faster we counted our spoons."

	More than three years after he became president, he finally came up with what he calls a new economic program. It is his fifth new economic program. He talks as if someone else has been in charge these past three and one-half years. With two months to go until the election he rides to the rescue with a crazy-quilt of obvious election-year promises which he'll ask Congress for--next year. After three years of neglect, the misery of unemployment, inflation, high taxes, dwindling earning power and inability to save--after all this, American workers have now been discovered by this administration.

	Well it won't work. It is cynical. It is political. And it is too late. The damage is done and every American family knows who did it.

	Under the Carter administration, America's foreign and defense policies have been politicized as never before.

	The Secretary of State openly describes himself as a "political" secretary, not at all reluctant to do the Carter campaign's bidding. It's as though he is standing in line to volunteer. It represents a shocking break with the tradition of that high office, and it is unworthy of the standards set by his predecessors, such as Secretaries Stettinius, Marshall, Acheson, Dulles, Rusk, Rogers, Kissinger and Vance, to name a few.

	In a separate and disturbing incident, Mr. Carter's Secretary of Defense has breached one of this nation's most closely held military secrets in a transparent effort to divert attention from the administration's dismal defense record.

	Mr. Carter must take full responsibility for playing a dangerous political game with America's national security--a game which ignores and undercuts our long-held tradition of a bipartisan national security policy. He clearly wants to be reelected so badly that he is willing to hide his real record by fabricating a fictitious one for his campaign.

	In trying to create the illusion of actually having a defense policy, by making public what the administration calls its new "targeting strategy," confusion has been the principal result. The Secretary of State did not approve the strategy, was not consulted on it, and apparently didn't even know anything about it.

	Later, Mr. Carter's defense secretary outlined the strategy in what was called a major speech, linking it to a new presidential directive. He emphasized that it wasn't anything new at all--just a restatement of existing strategy.

	The State Department doesn't agree. It doesn't know what to believe.

	Secretary Muskie is still confused. White House officials say it really isn't any of the Secretary of State's business anyway.

	When Defense Secretary Brown outlined the so-called strategy, he admitted at the same time that the force upon which the strategy depends--our ICBM force--cannot survive an attack.

	Equally alarming is the way in which the Carter administration has sought to hide the fact that it does not have the forces necessary to meet the so-called "targeting strategy" or meet the many longstanding requirements to protect our security.

	Jimmy Carter tells us that "we have strengthened every single element of our strategic deterrent" and that "American strength remains not only unsurpassed for the present, but equal to all our needs of the future."

	Yet, repeated testimony by the most senior defense officials of this administration directly refute that.

	For example, Mr. Carter's own chairman of the joint chiefs of staff has acknowledged that we would have been better off had we followed the Ford administration's balanced five-year defense plan.

	The commander-in-chief of the Strategic Air Command says this country does not have the forces necessary to support the administration's new "strategy" and has told Congress that whereas we had a three-to-one advantage in relative force measures in 1976, today "no U.S. edge exists in any of these same measures."

	The Secretary of the Navy and the chief of naval operations have complained that our navy is inadequate to fulfill its basic defense requirements.

	The Secretary of the Army and the Army chief of staff have warned that cuts by the administration mean that the Army will not be combat-ready.

	This, ladies and gentlemen, is what Carter's defense policy comes down to.

	It is a shocking commentary on the state of disarray which today governs the defense policies of the Carter administration. The President's attempts to obscure that fact by suddenly portraying himself as a champion of strong defense cannot change the sobering fact that we are in a precarious military situation that shocks those on the inside and on the outside, worries our allies and pleases our adversaries.

	Our national security programs have been--and continue to be--systematically compromised by Mr. Carter. He has repeatedly opposed congressional attempts to increase defense spending. His argument: increases in defense spending would lead to less, not more, defense, and they could not be spent usefully anyway.

	Now, I ask you, how does that square with the facts: our vulnerable strategic forces, a reduced navy, an army which is not combat-ready, planes that won't fly because they lack spare parts, and servicemen that are woefully underpaid.

	One of the most blatant example Of the Carter administration's efforts to obscure the truth has occurred in just the past two weeks.

	It is the story of the Carter administration's willingness to actually compromise our long-term national security for a two-day headline.

	A week ago today, in sworn testimony before the House Armed Services Committee on Research and Development, the editor of the Armed Forces Journal, Benjamin F. Schemmer, revealed how the Carter administration deliberately breached one of the most closely held military secrets in the Pentagon.

	Mr. Schemmer told how the Defense Department called him in and gave him for publication purposes details of a super-secret project--plans for the development of technology called "Stealth," which is said to enable our aircraft to evade radar detection.

	The implication of the material he was given was that the technology of the project would make the plane "invisible" and that the deployment of this technology will change the military balance.

	Then, just four days after Mr. Schemmer was briefed by Carter's Under Secretary William Perry on the program and encouraged to publish an article, the Secretary of Defense, Harold Brown, called a press conference to tell the American people that because of "leaks" to the press it was no longer "appropriate or credible" to keep the program a secret.

	It is no wonder that the editor of the Armed Forces Journal described the Defense Department's action as "irresponsible." Mr. Schemmer said the information was leaked for what he clearly recognized as "political purposes."

	What the Defense Department deliberately leaked, in order for Secretary Brown to justify calling his press conference four days later, was some of the most tightly classified, most highly secret weapons information since the Manhattan Project.

	I understand the Stealth project was so secret that some of the civilians working on it had to agree to allow the government to tap their phones.

	Military officials who have served this nation in the very highest capacities tell me they cannot recall such a serious breach of national security secrets.

	The law provides severe penalties for anyone violating military weapons secrets of this magnitude.

	In this case, because the breach of secrecy was blessed and sanctioned by the Carter administration itself--clearly for the sole political purpose of aiding Mr. Carter's troubled campaign--there will be no such penalty. But the fact remains, it has dealt the nation a grievous blow.

	Since the "Stealth" aircraft would not have been ready for use until the 1990s, the Carter administration's action has now given the Kremlin a ten-year head start on developing ways to counter this type of ultra-sophisticated weapons system. The KGB is. no doubt gleefully celebrating this unearned triumph.

	This kind of blatant politicization of the Department of Defense has left a dark blot on the proud traditions of the Pentagon and the dedicated military leaders who serve our national defense interests.

	But, worst of all, the administration's decision to disclose and then exploit, for political purposes, this super-secret technology in an effort to blur its dismal defense record, is a cynical misuse of power and a clear abuse of the public trust.

	We have seen example after example of the politicization of the nation's foreign policy and defense.

	Now, Mr. Carter's Secretary of Defense, Mr. Brown, has demonstrated that he knows how to play the game, too. He has not only shown us that he is willing to team up with the political operatives of the Carter campaign, but that he will drag others at the Pentagon into the campaign with him.

	It is one thing to be "political," inappropriate as it is for the Secretary of State. It is, however, both unacceptable and intolerable for a Secretary of Defense to play politics with America's national security by causing vital weapons secrets to be leaked in order to justify "official disclosure."

	The development and initial funding for "Stealth" aircraft actually began during the administration of President Ford. But, it took Jimmy Carter's administration to exploit the secrets of the project for purely political purposes.

	Today, Secretary Brown was scheduled to testify before the House Committee on Armed Services about his role and that of the administration in the Stealth breach of security.

	The defense and the security of this nation is not a partisan issue. Mr. Brown owes Congress, the Committee, and the nation a full explanation of this whole sorry episode.

	You usually won't find me quoting Senator Ted Kennedy--but in this case I'm willing to make an exception.

	Senator Kennedy has remarked that the chief characteristic of Jimmy Carter is that he is always being surprised.

	And the Senator is right.

	He's surprised to discover his policies have led to inflation.

	He's surprised that fighting inflation by unemploying millions is unpopular... and destructive of family values.

	He was surprised by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.

	He was surprised to discover that canceling the B-1 bomber, postponing or delaying the MX missile and cruise missile and Trident submarine programs and stopping production of the neutron weapon would be destructive to our military strength.

	I think he's due for one more surprise--on November 4th.
AIR FORCEECONOMY, RECESSIONARYGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMILITARY PREPAREDNESSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWEAPONS MODERNIZATIONECONOMY, RECESSIONARYSECRETS, OFFICIAL     c9 /9 )9 %9 9
 9 9 9 û8 ô8 ò8 Î8 Ä8	   	 — 	 ‚ 	 e 	 P 	 ;  &   e: