Speeches\1992\dem\S92D0916.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)09/16STUMPLos AngelesCALIFORNIACAMaxine Waters Employment Preparation Center2745 WORDS
	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.

	I want to thank Congresswoman Maxine Waters for her leadership in support of this project and of my campaign. I'd like to thank Warren Curitanne and all the people from the school board and the school district who have supported this fine project. I want to acknowledge the leaders of my campaign in California: my campaign director, John Emerson; Ed Waters; and my campaign chairman nationally, Mickey Cantor, from Los Angeles, who's here.

	I want to say a special word of thanks to the school principal, Dr. Alton Arnold, who is from Arkansas, and I'm proud of that. I want to thank your student body president who led the Pledge of Allegiance and all the students who helped me to understand the work that's going on here today. I was looking at him up here leading the Pledge of Allegiance, and I was thinking that he might be asking you to vote for him someday. He looked pretty good to me.

	I want to introduce some other people whom I met this morning. Along with all the elected officials and the entertainers and the community developers, I met four young men and their pastor today who have been in large measure responsible for the truce that has existed on the streets for the last four months in this community between the gangs. And I want to bring them up here. Their names are Charles Raschell, Leon Gullett, John Payne, Victor Salisbury, and the Reverend Carl Washington. Let's give them all a big hand. Reverend Washington and Reverend Ewell, who work with these young men. Let's give them all a big hand.

	Let me tell you, these young men who used to worry about how they could fight each other are now worrying about how we can all build up one another. They're doing voter registration, supporting education; and it's up to me and the rest of the people in this country who can make a difference to give them and the people they represent some opportunities so we can prove they did the right thing by bringing a truce to the streets.

	I'm glad to be back in South Central LA. I want you to know that, unlike most politicians, I came here three years before the disturbances of last spring. I was here twice before I started running for president, once along with my wife, to meet with community leaders. And I want to introduce her. She's the person who got the good cover in Time Magazine. Let me say that--[shout of "We love you, Hillary."] Thank you.

	Folks, when I came here last spring and met with community leaders, some of them in Maxine Waters' home, she and Sidney opened their home to me, and then I walked down the street and I met with African Americans, I met with Asian Americans, I met with Latinos. And everybody I talked to said there'd be a lot of pretty words said, but they were afraid that after a year had passed, nothing would have changed. And let me say that I think what is at stake in this election is the question of whether anything is really going to change. I do not want to win this election in forty-eight days simply to change my address and to go to Camp David on the weekends. I want your life to change. I want it to be better. The students I met today know that we can't go on for four more years without a national economic strategy to rebuild our cities and our country without a program to provide education and training and opportunity for all of our people; without a way to make our streets safer and to bring our people together again. They know that or they wouldn't be here in school.

I have found all over America that people know they need independence, not dependence. They want a hand up, not a handout. They want empowerment, not entitlement. But somebody's got to get about the business of doing it and quit talking about it.

	I have offered a plan to rebuild this country that would focus significant resources on communities like Los Angeles and South Central Los Angeles and give the people that I've met in this fine education center today a chance to make it in life, give your communities a chance to be revitalized. And I want to talk to you about it today in very clear, specific terms. When I met with people here after the disturbances and I walked the streets, I found that nobody really expected salvation from the national government, but they did want the opportunity to get education, the opportunity to get a job, the opportunity to borrow money to start businesses, and the opportunity to see when investment is made in these communities that the people who live here are put to work. That's what people said to me that they wanted. And that is what my plan does.

	It's based on three fundamental ideas. First of all, that people everywhere have good ideas and could start businesses if they could borrow the money to get into business. And we need to bring free enterprise to South Central Los Angeles and to the inner cities of America and to the rural communities of America.

	Second, that people everywhere can learn and everybody ought to have the opportunity to get the education and training they need to compete in a global economy, like they're getting in this institution here.

	And, third, the best social policy anybody ever devised was economic growth and a job for everybody who wanted to work, and I'm going to give you that kind of economic program if you'll give me the election in forty-eight days.

	For the last twelve years, we've tried it another way. It's been called trickle-down economics. The theory of trickle-down economics--now, listen, this is a serious deal. The serious theory of trickle-down economics is that if we keep taxes low enough on the richest Americans, they would make wise investment decisions that would put all the rest of you to work. Now, we tried it their way for twelve years. In 1980, we had the highest wages in the world. Now, we're down to thirteenth. For the last ten years, more than two-thirds of the American people have worked longer hours for less money to pay more for the basics of life. Unemployment has gone through the roof. There are more people working for government now than are working in factories in America. I say we can do better. It's time to try a new idea.

	Under my theory--[chants of "We want Bill."] Thank you. What I want to do is to give you the ability to take care of yourselves. I want to put education and skills and money in your hands and see if you can do better than trickle-down did. I believe you can. I believe we also ought to give incentives to people with money, too, but the tax incentives I offer could be claimed by them only if they invested money and made it the old-fashioned way, in creating jobs for Americans here at home, new factories, new businesses, new investments in our cities.

	I know this will work. For ten years and more, I've worked hard in my state to develop an economic strategy that put people first. Our state has ranked first in the nation for the last year and a few months in job growth in the private sector. Our income has been growing much more rapidly than the national average. And we have dramatically increased the education and training opportunities available to our people. I know we can do it, but we have to have national leadership to do it.

	You cannot have capitalism and free enterprise without capital. One of the problems with poor communities is the people there are kept poor because no one wants to give them the chance to prove that they can make free enterprise work, too--and I want to change that. The first thing I want is a national network of at least one hundred community development banks set up in the biggest inner-city areas in this country and in the poorest rural areas to make loans to the people who live in those communities. They can make money doing it and they can create jobs.

	By my count, there are only five such banks now. The first one, in Chicago, helped to revolutionize a poor community there on the south side of Chicago. We started a bank like it in Arkansas and gave money to poor people in rural areas, and we proved they could make money, hire people, and pay their loans back, too. And if we had a hundred banks like that, where people had the old-fashioned idea that they ought to loan money to the people who lived in their neighborhoods, who were known by their neighbors, who could be trusted to pay their bills, and who had good ideas to start businesses in the communities, we could revitalize South Central LA in a very short time. (Cheers, applause.) And I don't mean just starting businesses that are big. I think we ought to make small loans to little folks who have good ideas. Not long ago--the community development bank in my state has a good-faith fund that makes real small loans to poor people. They loaned $575 to a woman on welfare to start a day-care center, and guess what? She started a day-care center. We need this kind of approach. She didn't have a balance sheet, she didn't have a credit rating, but the people in her community knew she could take care of children, knew she was an honest woman, knew she could be trusted to pay her bills, and they made a decision based on that. She hadn't missed a payment, she got a chance to start a business that will succeed. That is the kind of thing we ought to be doing all over America. We can move people from welfare--to payroll and businesses if we've got a system to do it.

	At the same time, I want to give people incentives to invest in all of our communities. I want the banks in this country that are supposed to be reinvesting in their communities to either invest or put their money in a community development bank and let them invest. There is enough money to go around. We can put a hundred million dollars from the federal government into it, and then we can get people in private banks to put some money in too, because they should be required to invest some of their money in these communities, and if they don't want to do it, let the community development banks do it.

	But let me say all of you know, particularly those who are students here, that even if you get money, if you don't know what to do with it you can't go very far. So we've got to have more education and training starting with Head Start for every child who needs it, going up through public schools and then having funds that will be able to flow into centers like this one. And look at our program--[microphone failure]--is it on? You know something folks--[microphone failure]--

	AUDIENCE MEMBER: It must be a Republican.

	GOVERNOR CLINTON: I'm not paranoid, but this has happened the last three times I have spoken. But I'll wait if you will. I have been waiting for twelve years to change this country, I can wait a little while longer. I want to make it possible for funds to flow into centers like this one. We need a national apprenticeship program. Ten percent of the students in this institution are from local high schools. They are doing their academic program at their high schools, they're coming here for skills training. We ought to make it possible for every student in the country who is not going to a four-year college to do two years in high school and two years after high school of apprenticeship training to get good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

	CLINTON: Ten percent of the people in this school are from the GAIN program. They're on welfare and they're trying to educate and train themselves into the work force. But that program is not funded fully. We ought to provide enough money so that nobody is every encouraged to stay on welfare. Fund their education, fund their child care, fund the medical coverage for their kids and they'll move into the work force through centers like this.

	And finally, let me say we have funds through a job training program for a lot of the other adults that are here, but the funds are inadequate and they're mired in hopeless federal bureaucratic requirements that make it very difficult for a lot of these students to comply with the requirement of the federal Job Training Act. I want to clean that act up and make it flexible so these people can get this education that they need, and we're going to do it.

	AUDIENCE MEMBER: With you President [missing text] no discrimination in the United States.

	CLINTON: That's right, no discrimination. That's what we're talking about here, giving you opportunity.

	AUDIENCE MEMBER: I love you, I love you, I love you.

	CLINTON: I love you too. Let me finish my talk. Give him a hand. Give him a hand.

	Let me say one other thing.

	Okay, sit down, we heard you. Let me tell you, I've got one other idea that would affect a lot of people in this school. I want you to listen to it. Today a person on welfare loses that welfare if they have more than $1,000 in assets. This administration wants to give a capital gains cut to encourage the wealthiest Americans to save more and invest more. We're ready to spend billions of dollars to do that, but we won't send one red cent to help the poorest Americans save for their own welfare.

	My friend, Mike Espy, the first African-American Congressman from Mississippi since the Civil War, has come up with a way to give the poor a chance to get ahead. It's called an Individual Development Account. It would encourage poor Americans to set money aside in special savings accounts that they can use for their education, their training or starting a small business. My plan provides for $100 million to match with the money that poor people save for themselves and would let even people on welfare have $10,000 worth of assets before they lose their benefits. That would give poor people a chance to participate in the free enterprise system.

	The last thing I want to tell you is we've got to put the American people back to work. Unless we have a growing economy making capital available to business and educating and training workers, we'll still not create the jobs. We've tried trickle-down for twelve years. I want you to give Al Gore and Bill Clinton the chance to invest, to educate, to cooperate, and to compete. We're going to create millions of new jobs in America and opportunities so that people we educate and train, people we give the capacity to go into business, can make a living and bring this economy back. Don't you know that we would diminish the racial tensions in this community? Don't you know we would diminish the tensions between rich and poor in this community if everybody thought that if they worked hard and played by the rules they could get ahead. I'm tired of seeing people who do that ground down, and I want them to be lifted up.

	I ask you now, if you want to see the backlog ended in institutions like this and everybody who's lined up for these education services get them; if you want to see loans being made to people in your neighborhood; if you want to see businesses starting up again; if you want to see this economy going again; if you want to see us creating jobs in the private sector, not just in government, again, vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore in forty-eight days and we'll revitalize this community and all of America.

BANKING/LOANS/CREDITBANKS--MINORITY OWNEDEDUCATION--GENERALENTREPRENEURSHIPJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGPOVERTYURBAN AFFAIRS/AIDURBAN RENEWAL     N< < < < <
 ý; ø; ó; è; Þ; Ü; ±; §;	 ‡ 	 s 	 ^ 	 L 	 < 	 %     e: