Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1017.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/17STUMPDENVERCOLORADOCOMARTIN MARIETTA CORPORATION3242 WORDS

	Throughout this campaign, I have spoken of my mission to build a better America. But that mission does not stop at the water's edge. America has an international mission; to work for peace and democracy throughout a world too often afflicted by war and oppression.

	For over forty years we have borne this burden. I think Americans should be proud of our record. We've kept the peace. We've deterred aggression. We've secured alliances and friendships on every continent, in every corner of the globe. Led by the American economy, we've seen unprecedented global international growth. And for the past eight years, we've helped democracy to spread and take root all around the world.

	But the fact is, we're facing new challenges, and new opportunities. The post-war era is over. The world is changing fast and the next century will soon be upon us.

	That's why it is all the more important for us to understand the role that our defense has played in securing the peace. The role our military forces must continue to play if America's future is also to be secure. And this election is a referendum about that role. Whether America will continue its policy of peace through strength. And which of us, myself or my opponent, knows how to maintain America's strength and how to use it to keep the peace.

	Today, Americans can face the world with our heads held high, with pride, confidence, and optimism in the future. What a dramatic change from the situation we faced eight years ago, when we were simply unprepared to deal with aggression. And why? Because other nations, friendly and unfriendly nations alike, knew that many of our army divisions were unready, that we had aircraft grounded for lack of parts, that we had ships unable to sail for lack of crews and ammunition. That we had an increasingly low-tech military in an era of high-tech defense systems. They knew that our diplomats simply lacked the negotiating leverage provided by a strong defense--the knowledge that we could deter aggression because we were capable of defeating it.

	President Reagan and I worked to restore our diplomatic credibility and flexibility by rebuilding our defenses. We called our policy Peace Through Strength. Some people may not like those words, but I'll tell you this. That policy was supported by the American people in 1980, reaffirmed in 1984, and it's going to be reaffirmed again in 1988.

	What did it mean to restore our strength?

	Let's look at readiness: since 1981, overall ship readiness has increased 125 percent.

	Let's look at training: since 1981, live fire training exercises are up 30 percent. And the 1987 REFORGER exercises featured the largest transatlantic deployment of U.S. forces to Europe since Normandy.

	Let's look at equipment: since 1981, stocks of prepositioned equipment in Europe have grown three and one-half times. The firepower of our heavy armored and mechanized divisions has grown by 25 percent. In 1980 our Air Force, Navy and Marine fighter squadrons had only 600 late model planes. Today, they have over 2,500 top line fighters--a four-fold increase. The number of U.S. Navy major surface ship combatants has grown by 41 percent.

	And above all, let's look with pride at the brave young men and women defending us today. Equal to the best in our history, according to each member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And 93 percent high school graduates, compared to 68 percent in 1980.

	In short, America is standing tall again.

	But you know, if that was all we did, the critics might be right to claim that we didn't have a national security strategy. Because if there is one lesson of the post-war era vital to our security, it is that arms and diplomacy must go hand in hand. Our defense policy and our foreign policy must work together if we are to succeed.

	So we did that. We coordinated our defense policy and our foreign policy. And, notwithstanding the critics, we succeeded. We used our strength to pursue peace.

	The critics said, you'll never bring the Soviets to an arms control agreement if you build and deploy intermediate range missiles in Europe. We did it and the INF Treaty, the first to destroy a whole class of nuclear capable weapons, was achieved.

	And in the process two significant precedents were set.

	First: asymmetrical reduction--the Soviets took out many more warheads than we did.

	Second: on site intrusive verification. Both principles have applicability for the arms control agendas of the future.

	The critics said, you'll never get strategic arms reduction on weapons with the Soviets if you modernize, or if you launch an SDI program. We did it and the START talks, which promise a 50 percent reduction, are well underway.

	The critics said, American military power is useless in dealing with terrorism and aggression. Well, tell that to the students who were rescued in Grenada, to the happy people of that island now living under democracy. Tell that to the victims of Libyan terrorism and aggression.

	The critics said, American strength can't help the victims of Soviet aggression. Well, tell that to the Mujahedeen, the tortured people of Afghanistan.

	So I'm for continuing the policy of peace through strength because it works.

	As I've said, our program in 1980 was to rebuild our defenses, put our diplomacy on a sound footing so we could stop aggression, advance arms control and help democracy. As a nation, we invested a great deal and worked hard. And we did it. We have a strong defense. And if I'm president, we're always going to have a strong defense.

	Now the issue is, how are we going to preserve that strength, keep that leverage for the challenges ahead of us? For make no mistake, we are facing very challenging circumstances.

	First, although some may not want to talk about it, our adversaries have not been idle while we've been making up for lost time. Soviet military spending has not slackened. The Soviet tank armies are still poised to take the offensive in Europe. So we cannot rely on good intentions alone in East-West relations. So long as the capabilities for aggression are there, we must be able to deter it.

	Second, defense technology is changing. Electronic warfare techniques call for the most modern command and control systems. New conventional weapons are emerging with much greater range and firepower. Impressive strides are being made in missile defense. Submarines are quieter. The Stealth aircraft technology is nearing deployment. We cannot afford to fall behind in modernizing our defenses.

	Third, while balanced nuclear and conventional forces are still the heart of our defense, the relationship between them is changing. We are moving toward smaller nuclear arsenals, more complex conventional weapons. Arms control negotiations are going to be radically affected by our choices.

	Fourth, after completing our recent build-up, we are facing important fiscal restraints on our resources. We do not need major increases in defense spending nor can we afford major decreases. We do need to spend more efficiently.

	Now there are some who pick just one of these challenges and say we can ignore the rest. My opponent, for example, emphasizes conventional defenses while he's viscerally uncomfortable with anything related to our nuclear arsenal. But the truth is that conventional defense alone can't do the job of deterring war. We've kept the peace for forty years because we have understood the relationship between conventional defenses and nuclear forces--that they work together to raise the cost of aggression at any level of force, nuclear or conventional. But an excessive focus on conventional defense ignores this sound strategy. And it also ignores the reality that conventional forces are by far the most costly part of the defense budget. A new armored division costs $3.8 billion. Another day's readiness costs $2 billion.

	We must deal with all of the challenges to our security in a balanced and realistic way and because we've been successful in restoring America's strength, we're in a good position to do so.

	I see four essential questions that must be answered correctly if America is to have a secure future.

	First, how are we going to modernize our land-based deterrent?

	My opponent, trying desperately to jump into the mainstream, now says he recognizes that we need such modernization to preserve our triad of land, sea, and air nuclear forces. But there is strong reason to doubt that he would do it, especially when it comes to modernizing our land-based missiles. He still opposes the MX and he thinks the Minuteman costs too much. So he says he's going to work with Congress to find another way.

	Wake up Governor, we've done all that. In 1983, we developed a bipartisan consensus on the road to modernization called the Scowcroft Commission. Senator Nunn supported it. Senator Bentsen supported it. The Commission called for the deployment of a certain number of MXs as a stopgap and the development of a mobile ICBM--called the Minuteman--as the basis for a new generation of deterrent forces. More recent studies favor an MX on-rail garrison. The real choice now is to find a possible mix between the two, not to reopen the issue all over again. It would take a decade to develop another new weapons system, leaving our land-based missiles increasingly vulnerable and obsolete.

	And my opponent has said something else that should give Americans reason to doubt his intentions. He has said, "Nobody is going to tell me that we need to continue testing." Well, Governor, if we don't test our weapons, if we ban ballistic missile flight testing, as you've also suggested, how in the world are we going to develop new weapons? How are we going to retain confidence in what we've got in the arsenal?

	These are the facts, Governor. We need to modernize. We need to test. And we can't defend America with blueprints.

	I'll work with the Congress to phase in the Scowcroft Commission plan, not to waste a decade running away from the problem. That's just another freeze--declared or otherwise--on modernization.

	It's especially important to move this issue quickly. For in the absence of an American willingness to modernize our ICBMs, we will reduce our leverage to achieve or objective of diminishing the Soviet first-strike threat. The freeze tactic didn't work with INF. It won't work with START.

	Now the second question we've got to answer. Are we going to continue the Strategic Defense Initiative? My opponent has discovered belatedly that what he calls a "fantasy" is no fantasy to America. I want to research and to deploy a missile defense system, as soon as it's practical. And the White House Science Council--a bipartisan group of eminent scientists--has just reported that there is "solid technical progress in just about every facet of SDI."

	My meeting at Martin Marietta with leading specialists on SDI research has added to my confidence about the future of strategic defense and the emerging possibilities. We're making headway on interceptor technologies and on a space surveillance and tracking system--and these advances have already led the Defense Department to reduce significantly its estimate for the cost of a phase one deployment.

	I'm determined to press ahead. I will not leave America defenseless against ballistic missiles.

	And doesn't it make sense to consider a brand new system that threatens no human life--that goes after no weapons on the ground anywhere--that only guards against incoming missiles?

	But what does my opponent want? He now says that he'll spend a billion a year on the "fantasy" of SDI so that if the Soviets violate the ABM Treaty, we'll be able to respond. But Governor, the Soviets are already violating the treaty with their radar at Krasnoyarsk. And what is your response? To argue for deep cuts in SDI research back to a level that's just a waste of money. Why spend a dime, if you think it's a fantasy?

	Third, how are we going to further improve our conventional forces? My opponent has talked about a conventional defense initiative to be financed from "savings"--by that he means cancellation of strategic defense research and other strategic programs. But here are the facts. We already have a conventional defense initiative. It's called the Conventional Defense Improvement Program, the real CDI, and it was approved by NATO in May 1985. It covers all those items--the ammunition stocks, the war reserves, the early mobilization of European forces, armor-penetrating munitions--that my opponent has suddenly discovered.

	And another thing. It's time the liberal governor stopped spreading, what I'll call charitably, "misinformation" about the state of our forces. It's not 1980 anymore. Our divisional war fighting capabilities have improved by an average of 60 percent since 1980. We've got the combat aircraft--Navy, Marine and Reserve--to fill the carrier decks in wartime. Notwithstanding my opponent's claims, only a few of the A-6s are grounded because of wing cracks, not one-third. We've got the money to fix them as fast as the manufacturer can do it.

	Governor, it's time to stop running down our defenses!

	My opponent's willingness to cut two carriers indicates his total lack of understanding of our military. Of course, if you oppose our liberation of Grenada or have doubts about hitting Qaddafi, or our role in the Persian Gulf, then the carriers don't matter. But just consider this. The governor does not propose to cut our naval commitments, only our forces. We did that in the late seventies and you know what happened. Fewer carriers and men to go around, longer sea duty, family strains, enlistment problems, shortage of trained people, more accidents, less competence.

	No, we're not going back to a one ocean navy for a three ocean commitment!

	We need to make choices on defense. And as we move ahead with plans to modernize strategic and conventional forces we will need to do it within budgetary constraints. One tool for helping to make those choices is the use of the concept of "competitive strategies."

	Competitive strategies is a concept as American as apple pie. It's just plain common sense applied to our military problems. The idea is simply this: We should invest in military systems that play to our strengths, not Soviet strengths. Competitive strategies recognizes that some weapon systems are likely to have a greater effect on the Soviets than others--either raising the Soviet uncertainty about being able to carry out a successful attack and therefore bolstering deterrence or giving them a reason to invest in weapons that don't threaten us.

	Let me explain what I mean. The Soviet military is very rigid; decision-making is highly centralized; there is little delegation of authority or room for improvisation at lower command level; Soviet military doctrine and plans particularly in Europe permit only limited variation. This very rigidity creates an opportunity. If the Soviet plan can be disrupted, or if the command and control links can be broken so that Soviet forces at lower levels are forced to improvise and act on their own, the Soviet military will become more and more uncertain about the possibilities of success. And that's going to make them less likely to attack in the first place.

	That's why competitive strategies emphasize emerging weapons such as stand-off missiles, remotely piloted vehicles, multiple rocket launchers, and stealth systems that can disrupt the rapid movement of Soviet forces, their command and control and their ability to carry out their plans.

	The competitive strategies approach is designed to get us to think smart and to rely upon our advantages in new technologies.

	This initiative, coordinated with the already existing NATO plans, will help to give us extra punch from our conventional forces.

	Now for the fourth question: How to reform the Pentagon and the procurement process to give the American people a more effective defense?

	On this issue my opponent and I share a rare agreement. We both denounce fraud, waste, and abuse. And we both favor the Packard Commission reforms.

	The real issue is, who will best carry them out?

	Well, the head of that commission, Dave Packard, supports me and not my opponent, for a good reason. He knows that I'm going to put his reforms into effect because I understand that those reforms can't be carried out piecemeal--can't be directed only at the dedicated Pentagon professionals trying to do their jobs but also must be directed at the Congress of the United States--a problem my opponent never mentions.

	In the last five years alone, the Congress has forced the Pentagon to spend billions on weapons we don't want and bases we don't need.

	That's why we should work with Congress to change our complex procurement laws, that beg to be abused and combine all of them into one single government-wide procurement statute.

That's why we should move to a two-year budget cycle and multi-year funding for major weapons systems.

	America's security shouldn't have to get on the congressional budget roller coaster every year.

	And that's also why we must cut the bureaucracy, and I don't mean cutting the guys who repair the ships and fix the lanes. I mean eliminating unnecessary layers of senior and middle management, often mandated by congressional micro-management, that just pile on the paper.

	American history tells us that we've always done best in defending our country when we've been united. I think that lesson applies not only in war but also in peace. So the way to carry out the Packard reforms is not to point the finger of blame but to extend the hand of partnership. To establish a new compact with the Congress and to work together so that we give the American people a more efficient and capable defense. That's why if I am elected I pledge to work with the Congress of the United States to carry out our national security goals. On questions of our security, we're not Republicans or Democrats, we're Americans. As president, I want to do all I can to restore and revitalize that bipartisan spirit in foreign and defense policy.

	You know, our Constitution makes the president also the commander-in-chief for a good reason. Our founders understood well that military force exists not for its own sake but to support our foreign policy, our national interests. A president must be a shrewd protector of those interests. As Teddy Roosevelt said, "No public men have a right, whether from shortsightedness, from selfish indifference, or from sentimentality, to sacrifice national interests which are vital in character."

	And what are those vital interests today?

	I truly believe that America has the opportunity over these next few years to bring about a more secure world. A more peaceful world. A world of more democracy and more freedom. And that's where our vital national interests are to be found.

	I believe that I have the experience to protect those vital interests, to use our strength to advance peace and freedom. And that's what this election is all about; that is what's at stake. Do we continue peace through strength? I say yes. And there's another thing I say. I'm running hard. I'm standing on the issues of what kind of America we want and what kind of American values we want. And I mean to win.

	Thank you very much.
DIPLOMACYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY--CONVENTIONAL FORCESSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)MILITARY PREPAREDNESSMISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS MODERNIZATION     8M M þL úL ðL
 èL ãL ÞL ØL ÐL ÎL ³L ©L	 ã 	 Ú 	 Â 	 ² 	 •  u  `  I   e: