Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1031.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/31STUMPTampaFLORIDAFL2,913 WORDS

	I'm proud to be an American, and I know you are, too. 'm proud to be the nominee of the Republican party, and I reach out to Independents and Democrats and Perot supporters. Let's change America. Let's change America. Let's change presidents.

	It's good to be in Tampa. And of course, today is Halloween. All the kids are dressing up, doing scary things. That's the way it is in the White House every day.

	Can you imagine what would have happened if one of these things had happened in the Bush White House? Can you imagine the outrage, the outcry? And I guess when you do it every day, people go, "Oh, well, that's just Bill Clinton, don't worry about it." Just got those 900 files down there and all these--you know, he got this guy named, what's his name, Livingstone, who used to be a bouncer, then he made White House security chief. Fits right in with the rest of them down there.

	So I--you know, there are five days left, as Bob Martinez said--five big days, and the polls are starting to close, and they're going to close on November 5.

	In this campaign, I believe I'm speaking for people across America regardless of party, it's time to restore strong and principled leadership in the White House--principled leadership in the White House.

	I don't believe we can stand four more years of broken promises--and a new ethical scandal every week--every week a new one, every week a new one. Four years ago, President Clinton said he wanted to be the president in the worst way, and now he is.

	This is a nonpartisan address, if you haven't picked that up--no--. My campaign is about telling the truth, and the truth is that the federal government is too big and spends too much of your money--your money.

	Now in these final days before the election, the White House is out telling everybody, "Oh, you never had it so good. Everyone is better off in America."

	But you can't square that with the economic facts. The economy is slow as has been pointed out by the president of ConnieMac, and it's getting slower. Economic growth was cut in half the last three months. It's down to 2.2 percent. As the President indicated, they inherited a strong economy, and now we have a weak economy.

	And what does this mean? It means it's bad news for people out there working for wages, and businessmen and businesswomen trying to make it go. It's disastrous for low-and middle-income wage earners who've been squeezed by higher taxes and more regulation, and we believe it's time for a change. It's time for a change, it's time to change presidents and we're going to get it done.

	What else is happening out there? Sales have barely grown at all in the last three months, and inventories are piling up. And when businesses aren't seeing their sales go, every economist will tell you that job layoffs are just around the corner. You wait and see, it will happen.

	Exports grew in the third quarter by a tiny 0.6 percent. Compare that when President Bush left office. They grew by 6 percent--ten times as great as far as exports are concerned. So he inherited a strong economy. The bad news just keeps on coming. He says, oh, we never had it so good--never had it--well, he's never had it so good, but--what about the people out there working for a living--what about the people working for a living? The consumer confidence has dipped.

	I met a guy the other day--President Clinton said in the debates--they weren't really a debate--he showed up and I showed up and that was about the end of it--but---he says, "I've created 11 million jobs." I said, "Yeah, I met a guy the other day that's got three of them."

	You got to have three jobs just to pay the bills, to keep the family together, and that should not happen in America. In many cases--I'll bet there are cases right in this audience--where the husband's been working, the wife's been at home--you both want to work, that's fine, but now you're forced to work. Women are forced to work, in many cases--homemakers, mothers, whatever--just to pay the bills. One parent works for the government, the other works to pay the taxes. Taxes have never been higher in America. They're 40 percent--40 percent of what you earn.

	Now we have a Mack plan--I call it the Dole plan, since it's catching on. The Mack plan, the Big Mack plan: Cut taxes. That's Connie's way, that's my way. It's going to happen--15 percent across the board, $500 per-child tax credit--one child, 500; three child, 1,500; 10 children, you're probably too busy to fill out your tax returns---but that would be $5,000.

	And then, as Connie said, we're going cut the capital gains rate in half, to create more jobs and more opportunities all across Florida.

	And that is only Phase one. Phase two is a flatter, fairer, simpler tax, and we're going to end the IRS as we know it--end the IRS as we know it.

	We're also going to say when you work all your life, and your kids work with you, and you build up a little business or a farm or whatever, you shouldn't have to sell part of it when somebody passes on. You ought to be able to keep your farm or keep your business. We're going to provide--estate tax relief is coming your way.

	Now the President and the Vice President call our plan a "risky scheme." Those are their words, not mine--risky, sort of devious, sort of a plot, you know, something sneaking up on people. Well, they'd know how to do it. If there's anything risky, they'd figure it out.

	But if there's any risk in America, the big risk would be reelecting Bill Clinton for big government, higher taxes, more regulations. That is what I call a risky scheme, a risky scheme.

	Under our plan, the average family of four making $30,000 in the state of Florida, it's $1,261. This is a Main Street not a Wall Street tax cut. Even the President said he could use it, in the first debate. And he'll get it if he leaves his change-of-address card, we'll send it to him next year. So--

	Now, to some people--to some people, $1,261 is not a lot of money, but it is to a lot of people. If you're making $30,000 it's a lot of money. It's four or five days of--a month of child care, it's mortgage payments, you know, maybe even taking a vacation with your family. There's nothing wrong with that. Better you flying around the country than Hazel O'Leary. She's been flying around for years.

	Well, we don't give 'em hell, we just, like Harry Truman said, tell them the truth and they think it's hell, that's the difference.

	But I want to address another serious problem. It's called Medicare. And I know you--I bet you've all seen these scary ads that Republicans are going to take away your Medicare, we're going to put you out in the street, going to take you off the rolls.

	Well, just the other day, we learned that the Medicare trust fund lost $4.2 billion last year. That's more than ever before. And we need to fix it because it's going to go belly up here in four or five years unless something is done. This is a problem that cries out for leadership, but we don't have any leadership in the White House. We've never had any leadership since he arrived in the White House and we don't have it now.

	And so obviously, senior citizens are worried, and so are their children, who want the best for their parents. But how does the President respond? He responds by playing political games with Medicare, trying to scare seniors to get their votes.

	And I'll give you a case, a true case. I was visiting a nursing home in Florida, and this one lady was being wheeled out in her wheelchair and I could tell she was very ill. And she said, "Senator, don't take away my Medicare." And the lady pushing the wheelchair said, "It's all she sees all day long are these ads every day--every hour, every two hours, whatever; Bob Dole will take away your Medicare. Bob Dole will push you off the rolls."

	Let me tell you something, all the income my mother had was her Social Security and Medicare. When she was alive, every time I'd go she'd say, "Now, Bob, don't touch my Social Security." I said, "I'm not going to touch your Social Security, I'm going to try to protect it." And I wouldn't betray her for anything in the world.

	So all the seniors out there, keep in mind that I keep my word. I'm not Bill Clinton. Let's stop--thank you--let's stop scaring senior citizens. Thank you.

	The Washington Post, not known as a frequent Republican contributor--calls this a "Mediscare" campaign and says it's a campaign based on distortion and fear. USA Today calls it false and misleading; not Bob Dole, not President Bush, not Connie Mack, not the Republican--these are objective--sometimes--papers.

	I call it irresponsible. The White House should not be in the business of distorting the truth and scaring senior citizens, a very vulnerable group in America.

	When I listen to all these horror stories, sometimes I think that Dick Morris has been replaced by Stephen King---at the White House. And these Medicare or "Mediscare" tactics are intended to attack my campaign, but they really are hurting every senior in America because, when you're alone and you see something on television, or you hear it on the radio or you read it in the newspaper, you're inclined to believe it; nobody to talk to.

	The President's ignoring the problems. He has ignored the problems. His political games are not just misleading, they are dangerous because they divert us from the real job ahead; that's getting the economy back on track. So I want to restore the health of Medicare for every single senior who depends on it.

	And on top of "Mediscare," Bill Clinton has hit millions of seniors with a tax increase. He doesn't tell you about the tax increase on seniors. If you make $25,000, he proposed, in Social Security benefits--if you make $25,000, he wants to tax 85 percent of your Social Security benefits. Not a single Republican voted for that. It was passed by Democrats and signed by Bill Clinton. So I want the seniors of Florida to know who's really hurting seniors. Six to 8 million seniors are paying higher taxes. We're going to repeal that tax increase in our economic plan.

	So, that is the Clinton record on seniors. He ignores their real problems. He raises their taxes, and then he plays on their fears with millions and millions of negative, misleading ads.

	Maybe the money's coming from Indonesia, maybe it's coming from India; who knows where these days? Foreign aid has finally gotten to America. So--every day, we have another reason to wonder how low will this White House go?

	How low will this White House go? And I'll promise you one thing, is there any trust it will not violate? Let me say one thing: I will never play politics with Medicare because too much is at stake. Seniors don't want scare tactics, they want straight talk. Straight talk.

	And I have a message I want to send directly to seniors. We will honor your contributions to America by honoring America's commitment to Medicare. And my plan which Bill Clinton has attacked increases Medicare spending by 7 percent a year, almost double the inflation rate. And I've worked a lot with Mike Bilirakis on this. He understands it as well as anybody in Florida. So--

	This is more than Bill Clinton proposed in his own health care plan. And over the next six years Medicare benefits will rise on average from $5,200 to $7,100, an increase of $1,900 per senior. These are the facts, Mr. President. These are the facts, senior citizens. Don't let them fool you or lie to you any more. My plan also--our plan will end the Social Security tax increase. Americans worked their whole lives for those Social Security benefits, and they should not be taxed away to pay for Bill Clinton's pet spending programs. He got--he took $24 billion away from seniors in Social Security benefits--24 billion. Then he's out trying to frighten people on Medicare. And I know things look bad right now for Medicare, but it's not hopeless.

	I remember how bad things looked for Social Security back in 1983. But I served on a commission with then-Florida Congressman Claude Pepper, who was known as the champion of senior citizens. We put politics aside.

	We had a bipartisan commission appointed by President Reagan: Tip O'Neill, a Democrat; Howard Baker, a Republican. And what did we do? We saved Social Security, so 40 million people still get their checks on time.

	It was a big job, and we took it out of politics and we did it together. We didn't argue. We didn't blame each other. We acted, because there are millions and millions of Americans depending on us. And on Medicare we must act again.

	So, what will I do? I'll do what I said I'd do. The last bill I introduced before I left the Senate was to create a bipartisan Medicare commission sort of patterned after the 1983 Social Security commission.

	And today let me announce that my first appointment that I'm going to recommend will be Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Democrat who worked with me on Social Security in 1983, and Senator Connie Mack from the state of Florida. They'll be on that bipartisan commission. And both have agreed to serve because they recognize how urgent and important the task is.

	Remember, Moynihan's a Democrat. He was very active in saving Social Security in 1983. He understands how the commission works. Connie's been a leader in trying to save Medicare and to return some sanity to some of the debates. The Mack-Moynihan commission will not play politics. It will find solutions. That's what happens. That's what you need to happen sometimes. You take it out of politics. And we will do that in my administration.

	And let me say finally this. I want to thank you all for being here this morning. I want to say also, you know, if I had a dollar for every time Bill Clinton leveled with the American people, I'd keep it. If I could think of something.

	But this campaign is really about telling the truth. It's about America. It's about your family. It's about your business. You know, President Bush served with great distinction, got shot down in World War II, rescued at sea, became a great president of the United States.

	President Clinton goes way back to 1965 to check my record. Well, I could go back and check his record in the sixties, too, but I won't do that today. So he's out here running ads trying to scare senior citizens saying Bob Dole voted against Medicare. We had a better plan called Eldercare, which also provided drugs. We thought it was a great idea at the time. It didn't happen, so I've been a strong supporter of Medicare.

	But let me say this: the campaign is about the truth, and it's about one more thing. It's about voting on November 5, it's about being proud of the vote you cast. I am so proud of the vote I cast for Ike Eisenhower, I've never been anything but proud. I want you to be proud on November 5 and a year from now and five years from now and ten years from now--and I want your kids to be proud.

	And I want to get Mike and Dan and Frank--Charlie, Bob, come on up here, and all the candidates come up here with us right now. We're going to--these are the--some of the members of Congress, Bob Martinez, the former drug czar, Charlie Crist, a great state senator, Frank--Frank's coming up--has done a great job as an education secretary, the kind of guy I'd look to for help when I get there. And Mark Sharp, who is going to be your new congressman in this area.

	Thank you very much. Keep in mind--will work. We're going to make things happen because I believe America understands--America understands integrity and honesty and decency, and as President Bush said, when you step foot in the White House after you've been sworn in, you have a very high obligation to the American people--Democrats, Republicans--and that's to keep the public trust--keep the public trust. That is the highest office in the land, in the world, and I will keep the trust, and I will keep my word, and I will tell the American people the truth.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
ECONOMY--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNINCOME TAXINHERITANCE TAXMEDICARESENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITY     ‡? S? M? I? ??
 7? 2? -? (? !? ? ?	 m 	 ] 	 ? 	 5  &     e: