Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1017.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/17STUMPRiversideCALIFORNIACA4,469 WORDS

	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

	Now I'm very honored to be in Riverside again, in fact to be in this room again. I was here with Ken for breakfast, I think about three years ago, except I didn't get breakfast. I remember that. So--but in any event...

	You know, the Clinton-Gore team have given the California Gold Rush new meaning. They're now holding fundraisers in Buddhist temples, where you take a vow of poverty before you can get in. And they raised about fifty grand there. I think they have their own laundromat. They just launder this stuff right out in the street. Then they take it inside and pass it out, and then they give it to you. I'm confused.

	But. We're going to get tough in this campaign. You haven't seen anything yet. Last night was a warm-up.

	We couldn't engage the President. He didn't want to talk about the issues. He didn't want to talk about those 900 FBI files that this bartender's rummaging through. Nobody knows how Craig Livingstone got in there. But he's the White House security chief. Makes you feel good that you're not inside.

	So. I do drive by every morning. Looks good. Looks nice. Nice address. Nice place to live. And we're going to move in in January. So that's going to...

	Well, back in August we had our convention in San Diego, and we spent a lot of time in California. We're going to spend a lot of time in California the next nineteen days. And we're going to...[missing text].

	And at the close of my acceptance speech I said I was the most optimistic man in America. And on Wednesday morning November 6th, Bill Clinton will be the most surprised man in America.

	And I can't help but be amused at the way President Clinton has been sort of taking California for granted. He thinks that just because the White House has Hollywood on its side that that makes California Clinton country.

	I've got some news for them. And it doesn't come from a focus group. It comes from my heart, from everything I know about the people of this state and of this country. California is not Clinton country. It is in the heart of California--is still Reagan country. That's what California is. And on November 5 America will declare that it's Dole-Kemp country. We're going to win.

	And Clinton is also betting that the tax revolution that began in California has now subsided. Wrong again. Let me put the question to you right here, do you still believe you have the right to keep more of your own money?

	Yes. Do you still believe it's your money? Or is it his money? Right. I tried to remind him of that last night. It's not your money, Mr. President. It's their money.

	You remember Bill Clinton's pledge last night--again, last night--come to think of it, back in '92, he came out and said, "The centerpiece of my first four years is going to be a tax cut". And all you who got that tax cut, as I said, ought to vote for him. But nobody got the tax cut. Now he has a targeted tax cut, but nobody's going to get it. He never hits the target. Nobody's going to get it. And he had the gall to stand there last night and say you got to watch these politicians who promise a tax cut before an election. I couldn't believe it. I thought I was in Disney World or somewhere. What did he tell you in 1992?

	So my view is this, it's been more than ten years since the American people have had a federal tax cut. Well, when Jack Kemp and I are elected, you're going to get it. You're going to get a tax cut and a capital gains cut.

	We're going to cut the capital gains rate so we can create more jobs and more opportunities. We're going to have a $500 per-child tax credit.

	This is a family tax cut. It's not a Wall Street, it's a Main Street, tax cut. For the average family of four in Riverside, it would be about $1,261. Now to some, oh, that's not a lot of money. Well it is to somebody making $30,000 a year. That's four or five months of day care or maybe health care or maybe something else. Maybe even having a vacation with your family. We think that's very, very important to spend more time with your family. And as I said in the first presidential debate, former President Clinton's going to be eligible, too.

	We're not going to exclude anybody. Everybody's going to get this tax cut. But he has to leave his change of address when he leaves. We don't know where to mail it. But if he mails that in, he'll get it. Now--he'll get it anyway. He's going to get it one way or the other. But that's just phase one.

	In phase two, we're going to have a fairer, flatter, simpler tax system. And we're going to end the IRS as we know it. We're going to end the IRS as we know it.

	And it was also here in California that the American people first began to rethink quotas. And that conviction, too, is echoing across this country. The law is a place where all citizens of every background must stand as equals. In America what counts in the end is merit and character. And that is why I strongly support the California Civil Rights Initiative. And I call upon the people of California to turn out and make their voices heard.

	When I hear people defending quotas, I think back to my friend Hubert Humphrey. And he was my friend. Now there was a true champion of civil rights. Do you know what he said about quotas on the Senate floor? He promised to "eat the pages of the civil rights bill" if anyone can find in it "language which provides that an employer will have to hire on the basis of percentage or quota relating to color." Hubert Humphrey.

	Now, if Hubert were alive today, no doubt about it--he'd have a bad case of indigestion, because he really believed this. He was a strong advocate of civil rights, but not an advocate of quotas or preferences.

	And the President said that right now--he looked you in the eye and said he was opposed to quotas or preferences. That's not true, Mr. President. You know better than that. You know your Justice Department has intervened in cases. You know what happened in the New Jersey case, Mr. President. You can't keep telling people things that aren't accurate. And the overwhelming majority of Americans and Californians believe as I do--that we should promote equal opportunity for all without regard to race or gender or ethnicity.

	This is America--equal opportunity for all.

	But we believe it's wrong to use quotas and set-asides and other preferences that only serve to pit American against American and group against group. And this is America, and our goal must always be equal justice before the law--not discrimination, not discrimination in any form.

	As I said at the convention in San Diego, if anybody believes the Republican Party is sort of a safety net for those who believe in bigotry or racism, the exits are clearly marked for you to walk out of as I stand here without compromise. This is the party of Lincoln.

	And instead of the focus being on race, gender, ethnicity--it ought to be on those who are economically disadvantaged. And CCRI doesn't bar that approach and my bill in Congress doesn't bar that approach. We ought to be out there reaching out to low-income Americans, giving them a jump start regardless of race, color, gender, whatever.

	Now on other issues, I know that Bill Clinton will tell you--you've got to support him, he'll say, because he's been in California twenty-eight times-twenty-eight times. I remember one of the trips well. Haircut time.

	The truth is--I try to get mine locally, but you know--the truth is that there is today a great political divide between Washington and our western states. Ask the people of Utah. He's been quite a friend to Utah, too. He just nationalized a vast stretch of Utah to please some well-heeled environmental lobbyists back in Washington, D.C., and Hollywood.

	And just like that, Bill Clinton put millions of acres of the western United States under federal control. Didn't even ask Congress. Didn't even call the governor of the state. Didn't even have the courtesy to call the governor of the state of Utah. So President Clinton likes the West, all right. He likes the West so much, he seizes a large portion of it at every opportunity. And we're going to set things straight again. We're going to end the war on the West and end the war on California.

	And whether the issue is property rights or conservation policy or the Endangered Species Act or regulation or taxes, our western states should not be taking orders from faraway potentates on the Potomac.

	We ought to move it back closer to the states and closer to the people--follow the 10th Amendment to the Constitution, which is only twenty-eight words in length. And what it says, in effect, unless the federal Constitution gives the power to the federal government, or denies it to the states, the power belongs to the states and to the people. And that's where it ought to be.

	Our Founding Fathers were right. Send it back to the states--and back to the people.

	And something similar can be seen when President Clinton comes out here to California. Each time, he announces with great fanfare another grant for this program or that program. Now just about every campaign stop, he draws another $100 million or so from the Treasury--the way you or I leave a tip at restaurants.

	You know what it costs to get into Chicago for their convention? Somebody added it up. He went by train. It was about $12 million per mile--of your tax money. Every time the train slowed down, he'd drop off a bundle somewhere. A billion here, a billion there. You know what Senator Dirksen said. "It soon adds up to real money." This is real money. But there's one important difference. It's not his money he's spending on political favors. It's the taxpayers' money. It's your money, and don't forget it's your money. And we think--we think you know how to spend it better than the federal government.

	Now, you've heard the President talk about my plan to cut taxes as a scheme. And that's the surest proof of Bill Clinton's liberal credentials in the liberal vernacular. When the government takes away the people's earnings, that's called a program. When you want to leave more money with the folks who earn it, that's called a scheme.

	Now, only Bill Clinton could figure that out--and Vice President Gore. I thought a scheme was they kept taking and taking your money--when they promise you a tax cut and give you a tax increase. That's deception. That's a scheme.

	When they try to take over the health care system in America with seventeen new taxes, fifty new bureaucracies, price controls, spend $1.5 trillion--boy, that is a scheme. That is a scheme.

	The truth is that President Clinton likes to take credit for California's success, but he won't accept any of the blame for any of the hardships so many people in California still bear. Here, as elsewhere, working families are struggling to raise their children despite an increasingly violent culture. They're struggling to pay their mortgages or day care, put food on the table. Most taxpayers now pay more in taxes than they do for food, clothing, and shelter combined. Your taxes are now about 40 percent of what you make.

	So, when I hear Clinton--as he was last night--bragging about all the jobs in America he created, it reminds me of the guy last week who said, "Yes, I got three of them". You've got to have three of them now to make a living. And I bet there are some in this room, where both the husband and wife had to go back to work, one or the other, just to make ends meet.

	A strong economy, an end to racial quotas--those are ideas worth fighting for. There is still one other urgent issue that I want to address for just a moment. That is, a strong and a secure border, a strong and secure border in California.

	Now, let me say as clearly as I possibly can, that I believe immigration, legal immigration is good for America. America needs legal immigrants--we always have. And such people are drawn here by desire to build and create things, not merely to take. And they have always been a source of strength and a source of renewal for the United States of America.

	But illegal immigration, that is a very different matter. Now hereto, Bill Clinton comes to this state with sympathetic words for the people of California. But the problem is, when the decision time comes--whenever he has to choose between California taxpayers and the militant groups who demand public support for illegal aliens--he sides with the militant special interests groups not you the taxpayers.

	And let me ask you--and I tried to raise that last night. Who pays the $3 billion in taxes--you do. It may be larger than the whole budget of Arkansas--I'm checking that out, I'm not certain.

	Well, let me ask you a simple series of questions. If Bill Clinton has been such a good friend of California, why has he opposed increases in the border patrol? In his first budget as president, he even tried to cut the border patrol by ninety-three agents. When Congress proposed to place 1,000 additional border agents last year, he vetoed the bill.

	Why are the people of this state paying over $5 billion every year to incarcerate illegal aliens arrested for committing crimes here. Twenty percent of the people incarcerated in California--according to my friend Dan Lungren--are illegal immigrants.

	Now, we tried--myself and Senator Hutchison--we passed a bill, you've gotten a little money. It's about $1 billion now the President's holding--unless he released it today while he was in California--not all of it goes to California, but a good chunk of it.

	Why did Mr. Clinton promise to help with the costs and then renege on that pledge until Congress forced his hands? And why did Mr. Clinton hold up those funds for eighteen months? Why are you paying millions more in taxpayer dollars to provide drug rehab for illegal aliens in prison? You're paying for it. And worse, why are thousands of Californians the victims of violent crimes committed by people who should have been stopped at the border before they so much as stepped foot into this country?

	Look at California's hospitals. If California is such an ardent champion of Bill Clinton, why are you handing over nearly $400 billion a year for medical services to illegal immigrants?

	And now, we're told in the immigration bill that passed, the President also demanded maybe you have drivers' licenses for illegals and you also get Social Security benefits for illegals.

	Where does it stop, Mr. President? What about other poor people in California who happen to be citizens of the United States and citizens in this state? What about legal immigrants? What about the taxpayers in California? And as I said last night we're compassionate. We're a compassionate party. But somewhere you have to draw the line. You just can't have open borders. You can't have open borders.

	As I said, Mr. Cisneros, his HUD secretary, said this was a magnet. When you hold out all these benefits, why shouldn't people want to come to America? I don't fault them for wanting to escape the poverty and the misery in Mexico. But California has about half the illegal immigrants in America. You've got the heavy load. New York is second. Texas, third. But you're way out front with about--what 1.5 or more.

	What about the $2 billion California pays every year to bear the costs of educating illegal aliens. $2 billion. And those costs are not going down, just the opposite. They're going straight up dramatically.

	And why did Mr. Clinton not only oppose Proposition 187, but deride and scold Californians merely for trying to control those costs? In fact, why did the President water down the illegal immigration reform bill passed by Congress to add to all of the above costs you already have?

	In its original form it was a strong tough bill. He changed it to allow illegal aliens to stay in public housing for up eighteen months. He changed it so illegal aliens afflicted with AIDS could not be denied taxpayer-funded medical treatment no matter how high the cost. And when the President finished with that bill, it even opened up the possibilities, as I said, earlier of illegal aliens receiving legal drivers licenses. Now consider what that means?

	It means that if you're out in this country illegally, you can stay in public housing, collect welfare, get free medical care, and even invite family members abroad to come and join you. You might even be able to drive here legally. And with a driver's license you might even be able to register to vote under the motor voter law signed by Bill Clinton.

	The possibilities for electoral fraud are just staggering, and let me add for those children who are illegal immigrants, no one is blaming the children. They didn't do anything wrong. We also understand the plight of the people who in many cases just want to escape poverty to come and work in America. "Alien" sometimes seems a harsh word for such people. But we bear them no ill will. The larger point here is this, it is the duty of the federal government to guard the integrity of our nation's borders.

	And during the last four years it has failed in that duty big time. Time after time after time, the administration has failed. And you are the ones who pay the price for that monumental failure. And that is not the only failure at the border. Right alongside the administration's sorry record on illegal immigration is its dismal record on illegal drugs.

	No state suffers the consequences more than the state of California. In four years of interdiction at our borders, interdiction has dropped dramatically because he cut funding. At the busiest point of entry, millions of vehicles have passed through without even seizing a single kilo of cocaine, when 80 percent of it comes from Mexico.

	He has eliminated hundreds of agent positions from the Drug Enforcement Agency. He has cut hundreds more personnel from the Coast Guard's antismuggling effort. In San Diego, Mr. Clinton's U.S. attorney has sent hundreds of drug smugglers back to Mexico without even charging them--and you can have up to 125 pounds of marijuana. That would be a lot out in my part of the country. That's a lot of marijuana. And they go back and have a chance to come back again to poison our children. Does anyone doubt that they'll soon be coming back across the border with more drugs? Certainly not.

	This record is an insult to every voter in the state of California--Republican, Democrat, or Independent.  And more insulting than that, now he thinks this great record deserves a vote of confidence from the people of California.

	Now, perhaps, never has America seen a politician who brags so freely about promises he never kept, votes he hasn't earned, and goals he's never accomplished or virtues he's never displayed. It is a charming act, but it's wearing thin. It's wearing thin with the American voters. Americans are beginning to see through it and we've still got nineteen days to lift the curtain. The people of California are beginning to see through it. We have cut Bill Clinton's lead in half in just the last few weeks. We're gaining on him every day in California.

	And right here in this one state--he took California for granted not long ago--we're going to fight for every vote--every vote. We're going to pick up members of Congress. We're going to pick up members in the state assembly. We've got a little switch going on here--and in the Senate? Right, Bill? All right.

	And I'm going to fight with everything I have, sparing no effort--I'm going to fight for California, and I will win California on November 5, 1996.

	And I want to prove some of the pundits wrong. I was asked Monday, "Are you out here just trying to save the Congress?" Well, I'm going to save the--I don't know whether I can save them--if I can. These guys don't need saving. Do you, Jerry? Doing a great job.

	We're out here to win the election, to have a Republican president and Republican Congress and get America moving again. That's why we're in California. And that's why we're coming back to California.

	And the greatest ally Clinton has in this election is cynicism. He promised a tax cut in '92 and then broke the promise. He promised so many things and never came through. And some say--they're so cynical anymore--it doesn't matter. He promised all these things.

	They say, well Bob Dole's not going to deliver. They're not going to keep their word anyway. Well, let me just tell you something. I'm certainly not perfect. But you can ask anybody I've served in Congress with, liberal Democrats, Republicans, moderate Democrats, the people who've worked in the Capitol, the policemen and the others that tell you one thing. When Bob Dole gives his word, you may not agree with it, but he keeps his word.

	And my word is you're going to have a tax cut in this country. You're going to have a tax cut in California. My word is my bond. And we're going to stick to it. And I'm giving you my word right now. We think tax cuts are necessary.

	And we're going to limit the size of government. The government is too big and spends too much of your money. It's your money. Never forget that it's your money.

	And when Bill Clinton--did he come out here in 1993, when he raised taxes $265 billion and say, "Do you think you can afford this tax increase?" No, he didn't come out here and ask you that. But now he's saying, "Oh, the government can't afford it." Let me tell you how it's paid for. It's very simple. It's not rocket science.

	He wants to spend 20 percent more over the next six years. I want to spend 14 percent more and give the rest back to the people in a little tax cut, in a Main Street tax cut, to help working families in America. It also has regulatory reform that costs the average family $7,000 a year.

	It has litigation reform, ends a lot of these frivolous lawsuits that put people out of business. I said last night I've had a little experience. When I fell off that platform up in Chico, as I said, on my way down my cell phone rang, and this trial lawyer said, "I think we got a case here, Bob." We've got to stop some of those frivolous lawsuits and putting people out of business.

	And we also have--we are going to put all these block training programs, $5 billion worth, send them back to the states, back to Governor Wilson and the assembly, let them decide how the money should be spent, somebody who lives here and somebody who understands the state of California.

	And we're going to have a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution passed by the Congress with a two-thirds majority and sent to the states for ratification. Because I support it and Bill Clinton opposes it. I support the Flag Amendment, to protect the American flag. I see some veterans here who did a lot for the American flag.

	And if we can't protect our borders, if the federal government cannot protect our borders, then we ought to help pay the costs. It shouldn't be borne by the taxpayers who live in California or Texas or Florida or New York or any other state. If we can't protect our borders, and we will protect our borders, and we will stop drugs at the borders, if we have to enlist the National Guard to stop drugs at the borders, we will use the National Guard in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	And to borrow a phrase from a young lady who asked the question in last night's debate, I will have an administration that practices what it preaches. And I will bring integrity and character back into the White House.

	And I don't want to list all these things I listed the other day. You go back and look what Clinton said about George Bush in 1992 over little trivial things. But all these things just happened. It's nobody's fault. It's like this fundraiser in the Buddhist temple. It's like this rich Indonesian family.

	We don't know how much money they gave--$500,000, $1 million, $2 million--nobody knows because the guy who was giving all this--Gargen--went back to Indonesia. They can't find him. Now, maybe he was making that kind of money.

	But in any event, let's just take a look at the record. Let's take a look at the White House. Let's take a look at Craig Livingstone--who is rifling through somebody's files. Let's take a look at that six-month gap where they said nobody checked anything out. But then this one young lady who testified, under oath, said oh yes, they did check things out.

	So, this is the kind of administration we're dealing with. They'll do anything. They'll look at anything. That shouldn't happen in America. This is the United States of America. The White House should be a place of public trust, public trust not public suspicion.

	When Bob Dole and Jack Kemp are elected, it's going to be a place of public trust. You can count on it. You have my word.

	God bless you and God bless America.

	Thank you.
BUDGET, BALANCEDCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONDRUG TRADE--MILITARY ENFORCEMENTELECTIONS--CORRUPTION/ETHICSENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION--PUBLIC LANDSEQUAL OPPORTUNITYFLAG/FLAG ISSUESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSIMMIGRATIONINCOME TAXLITIGATION REFORMQUOTASREGIONALISM--WESTREVENUE SHARING/BLOCK GRANTSSOCIAL/ECONOMIC CLASSTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERALCALIFORNIAILLEGAL ALIENS      Ec c c c ýb
 õb ðb ëb âb Øb Öb Ëb	 Œ	 |	 Y	 A	 !	 	 ß 	 Î 	 ¾ 	 ¡ 	 – 	 Œ 	 { 	 u 	 d 	 H 	 3 	 )     e: