Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1004.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/04STUMPFARGONORTH DAKOTAND2626 WORDS

	Now ladies and gentlemen I have been in a hard campaign, a new kind for me, and quite frequently it has its moments of frustrations and irritations, and certainly of puzzlement.  But it has, likewise, certain moments when you get a smile.  One of the most pleasant of those experiences in this campaign is the chance to meet with Americans, to look in their faces, to gather some idea of what they are thinking, because the most important thing in the United States is public opinion.  That is the strangest thing in any free country:  it wins wars; it tries to keep the peace; it is the governing factor, of course, in our form of government.  And it is a great inspiration as you go around the country and begin to get it in segments, partially here, partially there.  Sometimes you get it by letters, sometimes by telegrams, sometimes by shouts, advice from the roadside.  All of it is important and I have learned far more from you, the American people than I have been able to impart to you.

	There are other things that are amusing and I am going to tell you about a few of them this evening.  I understand, or at least my friends have told me, that another campaign preceded mine a few days ago through this city.  Now from its rear platform I am told, salvo after red hot salvo was fired at me.  Now, to such of my friends as may be concerned, I merely say that I have been shot at by real artillery.  I am far too old to be greatly disturbed by noisy but harmless blanks.  However, it seems that we are supposed to accept that kind of racket as typifying the purpose or nature of the current Democrat campaign: sound without substance; promises without performance; howls without harmony.  

	Now, the whole is blended into a raucous din and jangle led for seven years now by the drum major of the administration's band.  He asserts that the Democrats must march to the weird clatter he inspires, but his hand-picked lieutenant shows definite signs of annoyance, even disagreement.  He has gone so far as to imply that the drum major has made a mess of things.  This agreement of his with the rest of us about the mess in Washington puts the die-hard Fair Dealers in a storm.  So confusion reigns among them.  And now we are getting an educated accent welded on to the old Democrat demagoguery.  But the noise grows wearisome, the confusion grows frustrating, and we are certainly tired of paying the piper.

	Here is one of the blanks that was fired at me.  You and the people of the West have been asked to believe that there will never be another dam or reclamation project if I am elected president.  Now, let's get the record straight.  A half century ago a Republican President, Teddy Roosevelt, I believe he lived here a while--and a Republican Congress gave us our basic reclamation law.  Under it our great multiple purpose projects in the West have been developed.  In the intervening years, both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have provided a fund for building these projects which adds so greatly to the wealth of the nation.  Reclamation did not come as a bounty from the administration.  We had a sound reclamation policy before we had the Fair Deal or the New Deal, and we will go right on including that policy next year after the Fair Deal's worn-out lease on Washington has been terminated by the people of this country.

	My friends, I think I can add a personal touch.  After all, my boyhood was Western.  I have lived here in the West and with Westerners.  I have listened to their problems, lived with their problems and in fact, I happen to be one of those who went through the Kansas flood of 1903 which was never surpassed until we had this 1951 performance.  Anyone who thinks I am not interested in flood control and all the reclamation projects that we have in sight and others which can stand the test of practicability is just simply talking through his hat.

	Now, let's have some experiences some others have had with what has been humorously dubbed the Fair Deal.  A bus driver in Maryland wrote me last week about his experience under the Fair Deal.  He said, "Sure, wages have gone up."  But then he said, "Taxes on most of what my wife and I had to buy went up faster than my pay envelope."  Then he said, "If this keeps up much longer, General, we will have to be plowed under with the pigs and the potatoes."

	As I came in to this building I was handed a note.  The address is Leeds, North Dakota.  In this case I am going to break my habit and read the name of the man who wrote it.  I am sure when you hear it you will understand that I think he wouldn't mind.  He says, "Dear Ike:  First of all, I want to tell you that I am a farmer, born in Norway 88 years ago, and came to the United States in 1886.  I have lived in North Dakota for 66 years, and 59 years ago I homesteaded north of Leeds, North Dakota, where I still reside."

	Now I will skip part of his letter.

	"This is a wonderful land and I know that you will see to it that no harm shall come to it because you know how to handle an enemy.  I would also like to tell you that we farmers are now finding out that the American dollar in our pocket is not as big as the Democrats have made it appear through their magnifying glasses."

	I like the way this man looks forward.  He is 88 years old. "I am anxious for your success, a Republican administration, and prosperity without war.  Very sincerely yours, T.A. Skie."

	As I left Brookings I was handed this letter:  "We have heard a lot about what the Democratic Party has done for the farmer and how they have maintained prices at parity levels.  But hog prices in April of this year went down to 76 percent of parity and I lost 15 hundred dollars on 100 hogs I had ready for the market.  Thousands of hog raisers were hit the same.  The Democrats are long on promises and short on performance."

	You understand, of course, that I agree thoroughly.

	A second letter from a Brookings party.  After telling me his experience with the prices of hogs through the years he says, "What made these hogs increase in price from $4.15 in 1940 to $13.25 in 1942?  Was it Democratic prosperity or was it war?  Hogs today are selling at $19.50 a hundred-weight, and are losing me money.  Just the cost of corn to make 100 pounds of pork costs $19.50; nothing left for proteins, labor, and housing.  Does that sound like the hog men today never had it so good?"  And he concludes, "We are in danger of losing all that our boys fought and died for."

	There are a lot of other parts to this verbal barrage.  For example, the Republicans are accused of attempting to abolish social security.  Sheer bunk!  What the Republicans have said is this:  our purpose is to keep the dollar from going down further so that there will be no further erosion of your savings account, of your bank account, of your insurance policy and of your bonds.  But instead of seeing those things go down the drain of inflation you will keep them, and moreover they have said that where inflation has already overtaken some of these things, these amounts, and they have gone down below decency, that must be corrected, which means corrected upward.  They have also pledged in their platform to expand social security to go to classes not so far covered.

	Then we are accused of wanting to abolish the farm program and the price support.  Well, some things are so false you don't know the right words to use, at least in polite society, for condemning them.  I went to Kasson and on behalf of Republican leaders, and with the concurrence of the great men of the party, at least all that could be reached in time, I stated exactly what we meant to do, and the present 90 percent parity price in the farm program was sustained and supported completely.  Moreover, we pledge that these programs in the future, as it comes time for them to be revised and brought up to date as all programs must be, it will be farmers that will be brought in to Washington whose counsel and advice will not only be sought but, it will be heed.

	In Omaha the statements made in the Kasson speech in Minnesota were extended.  It is in the record as to what the Republican Party expects to do, purposes to do, with price supports, with REA, with cooperatives, with all of those things that mean so much to farm life today.  And that means perishable products as well as nonperishables.  So all of this talk about the Republican Party trying to put the farmer in the poor house is about as weak an argument as they could develop.  They say we want to abolish good times, that everybody will be out with a tin cup on the bread lines.  I made a talk the other night at Peoria where I took to pieces this so-called Democrat prosperity to show that the only advance in living standards the American people have made in the last 20 years was during the five years of World War II.  I do not believe that America wants a prosperity that is based upon the risks and sacrifices that men have to make in uniform against an enemy.

	I believe that with the resources this country has in its broad acres, in its opportunities for material development, through science, through further development of reclamation projects, with the skill of its workers, the intelligent advancement of its farming community, the leadership it has in the educational spiritual world, with 155,000,000 people, with the great productivity of its factories--do you mean to say we can't take that and so develop our relationships with the world, that we can't be prosperous without war?

	All we do in war is spend our time, our money, our substance to build things that are sterile, that we can't use.  We can't eat them.  They are not pretty.  There is nothing about them that is needful, except to protect what we have.  When we can have that production for the benefit of mankind, of course we can prosper without war.

	I have been accused of wanting to cut soldiers' pay.  This comes to my mind because we were talking about war.  Imagine, forty-one years in uniform, living with the young men and the young women of America with my whole belief and faith in this country tied up in those youngsters--and I want to cut their pay when they are over defending us, whether it be over in Germany, in Korea or anywhere else?  Can you imagine anything worse?  Someone took language from some testimony I gave long ago when we were discussing a different kind of defense system for the United States, took that language and deliberately distorted it into an allegation or statement that I would cut the pay of a man in Korea because he was drafted.  Such a falsehood I couldn't imagine.  Also that I wanted to extend his term of service.  Why should I want to extend his term of service?  I believe that we should share this burden democratically, equally, but I certainly do not believe that one man, having done his share, should do somebody else's.  They said I wanted to abolish the rotation system that brings a man out of the danger zone after a reasonable time.  Of course, I don't want to do anything like that.  After all, I originated that rotation scheme, I think, in World War II.

	I bring up those things, ladies and gentlemen, not because they bother me; I merely want to show you how completely starved the opposition is for a real issue in this campaign.  They are going around making all sorts of false charges and allegations, whimpering and whining up and down the countryside, trying to scare the American people--and the American people don't scare easily; of that I am sure.

	The Republican Party believes that there is a mess in Washington and that that mess does certain things to us that we don't need to have done, and that we don't like.  For example, as long as we have a government in Washington that does not excite your pride, that does not unite you behind it in the greater issues of our time, then such a government does not have prestige and strength abroad, and if it does not have prestige and strength abroad the only influence it has on the foreign nations, that we want to bind to us with bonds of friendship, is with dollars, and dollars don't keep good allies.  It has to be friendship, understanding, belief, confidence.  This is a moral and spiritual thing we are in and not just a material one.

	If you have the kind of government that this crusade is determined to offer you, you will have a government that will examine, with a critical eye, all of these crazy spending programs of the national government.  It will eliminate deficits, as its first step toward bringing down taxes and toward making your dollar sound.  As quickly as it can, and as peace looks a little more probable on this earth and we can get expenses down by elimination of duplication, waste--and there is lots of waste--then taxes can begin to come down and then costs can begin to come down.  But above all, no matter how much of these prices, these costs and these taxes are demanded by the times and by the necessities of the situation, you do not need to pay for dishonesty--and you have.

	As you know, the collector of internal revenue in one of our great districts is a high federal official.  Nine of them have been relieved for malfeasance or for cheating, or for something else wrong.  Some are behind bars--not long enough--but they are there because they lined their pockets with your money.  That has got to stop.  That is one thing that you don't have to stand for. 

	So the pledge that this new government would make would be:  it would try to be fair and just, as the Almighty would give it the power to see what is fair and just.  It would try to be friendly; it would remember that it is of the people and by the people and is not just ruling over people.  It would keep its long nose out of your business except when it has to come as a friend and helper. 

	And finally, it would give you just common, woodshed honesty.  That is the biggest pledge; that is the kind of pledge that can be made and kept.  We do not intend to outbid anybody else with promises.  Their promises are so shopworn, after twenty years of use, that they are no longer much good anyway.  But a pledge of honesty and decency, fairness, justice and friendliness--that is what the Republicans bring and lay before you this evening.  You make your decision.

	I thank every one of you for coming out and hearing me this evening.
AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCOST OF LIVINGELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMILITARY PERSONNELRECLAMATION PROJECTSREGIONALISM--WESTSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     À9 ó9 ë9 ç9 É9
 u9 p9 k9 f9 Z9 X9 X9 N9	 ¯ 	 ” 	 ≈ 	 ß 	 ä 	 x 	 d 	 S 	 D   e: