Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1103.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)11/03TELEVISIONNEW YORKNEW YORKNYELECTION-EVE2158 WORDS

	General Eisenhower: Good evening, folks.  Usually at this final hour in a political campaign, people are engaged in showing to all of the folks of the United States as much as they can of the candidates.  Tonight, we are reversing that process.  We understand the people all over the United States--they are the Republicans, the Citizens for Ike and Dick, and the Democrats who are associated with us in this crusade--are going to put on a show of their own. 
All we know about it is that it is in the nature of a report to Pat and Dick and to Mamie and to me.

	Now, the point of the show is that you are to share it with us.  As we sit here to take a look at what they are going to do, you look also.  So, in that way, we all get to be almost in your living room.  So, let us all sit together and find out.

	Senator Nixon:  All I can say, General, is this has been a perfectly wonderful show and a wonderful evening in every respect--going all over the United States, getting an opportunity to see the people who have worked for your election.  To hear them report has been really the way to end a political campaign.  I have never seen it done before and I don't think it will ever be equaled again.

	There is only one thing that was missing tonight, one disappointment that incidentally you and Mrs. Eisenhower share with over half-million American families.  That was your son John could not have been here with us.  He is in Korea, of course.

	I would just like to say, giving my own personal testimonial, having traveled forty-thousand miles campaigning for your election tomorrow, that I have found people all over America who are convinced that you are the man who can give America and the free world the leadership that will finally bring peace--peace in this nation--and bring prosperity which is built on peace.  That is what we all want.  I think, too; that I can report to you, and in doing so also report to the people who are listening to this program and seeing it, that one of the other reasons people are joining the Eisenhower crusade all over America is that they trust you.  They trust you not only to deal with the problems internationally, but they trust you in dealing with the problems here at home.

	Having grown up myself during the depression years, I know that there is concern in many families about the possibility of another depression coming.  I think they feel that, with your firm hand at the wheel of state, there will never be another depression, that you will use every facility of the government to avoid it.  I know that that is the case.  I know that the people have faith you will give that kind of leadership.

	Then, one other thing I want to say in the nature of a personal testimonial, and I am through, is this.  I have found in traveling through America that our crowds--and yours even more so--have been filled with young people of grade school age and high school age.  It has been wonderful to see them.  I remember when I was going to school, I studied American history, and studying American history to me was a great experience because we have a great
history.  We have had some great presidents in our history.  Some have been Democrats, we will have to admit, and some have been Republicans.  But all of our great presidents have been men of whom we have been proud.

	I think there is no reason more important than this that millions of Democrats as well as Republicans are going to vote for you tomorrow--that is, they are convinced you will restore to the White House in Washington, D.C. the real dignity that that office should have.  They are convinced that you are a man who will so conduct himself that neither the young people of America nor anyone else will ever be ashamed of our president.  They are convinced that you are a man they can be proud of.

	Just let me say that I am convinced of it, too, and that both Pat and I have considered it a privilege to talk to America many, many times a day and to work for your election as president of the United States.  I am convinced that tomorrow the verdict of the people will be a victory for you, and for me, of course, incidentally.  That, of course, is unimportant.  Primarily, it is going to be a victory for America.  That is important.  It is important to all of us in America.

	General Eisenhower: Dick, you will pardon me if I stand up.  Of course Mamie and I have been very proud of you as our partner in the great effort that we have been carrying forward.  Now as we enter the last very few minutes of this campaign, I should like to speak to all of you people there in your living rooms for just a moment just as I have talked throughout this whole campaign.  That is, while I speak to each group, I am speaking to no one.  I am speaking to all of you--to working men and women, to wives and mothers, professional people, white collar people--that great, so often forgotten class, white collar people--the aged, the young, the youngsters, everybody, farmers, city dwellers and everybody else.

	Now, the first thing I want to express this evening is my thanks--my warm thanks to all of you.  Not just those who took part in this magnificent show tonight which brought such a thrilling performance to us, but to all of you whom I have had the great privilege of meeting during this campaign, just because you are Americans.  Now, my friends, during this campaign, there has been a great speculation about what has happened to me.  The opposition, lost for a program of its own, took to the program of saying something has happened to the old Ike, he has changed.  Now, actually, this is a little bit odd because anyone who wanted to take the trouble to listen or to read the things that I said during all the years I was at Columbia would find that I said, then, exactly the
same things I have been saying recently.

	In fact, I repeated the general beliefs by which I live just at the beginning of this campaign.  I put them down in ten points.  The first one was to increase America's strength--its spiritual, its creative and its material strength.

	The second one was to win a just and lasting peace, secured by the strength of a free world.  The next one was to build a prosperity not based on war.  And then to make America's promise of equality a living fact for all Americans.  The next one, to strengthen and extend measures for the security and welfare of the people.  And then to protect the earnings and savings of the people from the double toll of high prices and high taxes.  To serve the worthy
interests of every group, and yet to make the single test for each policy, "Is it good for all America?"

	Next was to restore honesty to government.  Then to insure by means which guard our basic rights that those who serve in our government shall be Americans of tested loyalty.  And finally, to revive in every American the great faith that he can achieve a better future for himself and for his family.

	Now, my friends, those things are a part of my life.  I believe them.  I believe government must devote itself to making those things come true; not just as a governmental activity, but through encouragement and leadership in private enterprise, in the municipality, in the state, everywhere where Americans live. I have a faith which makes me believe that these things can be done, that America has a glorious future, that we haven't even started yet. We are now going into a new atomic age, with new adventures of science that are going to carry us forward, and I believe we have got a standard of living, a standard of security, both individual and national, that is going to outdo anything we ever heard of.

	I want to tell you where I got that faith.  Some of you may know I was born in Denison, Texas and I was raised in Abilene.  I was one of six boys.  We were very poor.  And here is where I think my first and possibly my greatest item of faith and pride in the United States arose.  We were poor, but the glory of America is that we didn't know it then.  I had to grow up before I knew that, measured by anybody's standards, we were rather poor.

	Our parents were deeply religious.  They lived their religion.  The Bible was a very living thing in their lives--from morning until night every day of the week, every week of the year.  I remember so well my mother's favorite story was of Lincoln's three cents that he happened to overcharge a customer one day.  He walked miles through the rain and mud to take it home.  My mother was a great
pacifist.  She was born in the Civil War and she grew up with a horror of war.  I think it hurt her when I went in the Army.  But so much did she believe in the right of each of us to choose his own calling that she never for a moment stood in my way.  She said, "Just go ahead, son, and do your best."

	Well, as you know, there came World War II and then finally Normandy.  And out of all that--and, of course, you know I have been given different types of honors by all of the allied governments that were associated in that war--I think the greatest thing that I brought back from the war was the knowledge of friendship with thousands--literally hundreds of thousands--of GIs.  I know of no single GI in all the AEF who didn't believe that I was his friend--that I would try to do whatever I could for him as long as he lived--whether he stayed in the Army or was a civilian, but especially if he were a disabled veteran.  I promised also to those men to help care for the orphan and the widow whose  father or whose husband never came home.  I promised them I would always do my best for them.  That promise still holds, and it doesn't make any difference where I am.  I can be in civil life, a contented president of my university, or on a farm, or in a position of highest responsibility, but I shall never forget America's obligation to those veterans of all services.

	Now, of course, all my life I have been fortunate enough to work with America's youth.  I believe in them.  America's youth, you know, really owns this country.  If I am lucky, we will say I own twenty years worth of America.  But every youngster with normal expectancy owns sixty years.  It is very important for him to make certain that the decisions we make now are those that he wants made.

	Finally, after I went to NATO and came home, working there in the cause of peace to which I am dedicated, I became a candidate.  One of the reasons is that so many of my friends led me to believe that there possibly was a service here that I could do.  So, because I love this land which has been so good to me and my family, has conferred high honors upon me, and whose people have entrusted to me their most precious possessions--their young men and women and their liberty--I still want to serve America.   So, if you want to summon me to your service, I promise I shall still serve the cause of peace.  And, of course, another reason, a very definite reason, for my wanting to serve wherever I can serve best is my children and my grandchildren.

	Now, of course, none of this can be done alone.  We need a team. That team has got to extend down in to the home in America. Every one of us has got to help.  So it isn't merely senators and congressmen and the governors and the state assemblies.  Each of us must take an interest in our government.  Keep alive every minute your love for freedom, your love for America, your determination that all of us will see that disaster of no kind will ever again
attack this country--internally or externally.

	And now, my friends, I think the campaign is over.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHVETERANS     6. . ü- ø- î-
 à- Û- Ñ- É- Á- ¿- ³- ©-	 ^ 	 G 	 & 	  e: