Speeches\1972\dem\S72d1010.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/10TELEVISION2894 WORDS

	Tonight, I ask you to think carefully about an issue that has troubled me more than any other for the last nine years--the war in Vietnam.

	On September 23, 1963, I warned that our deepening involvement in the affairs of the Vietnamese people was "a policy of moral debacle and political defeat."

	Under three separate presidents--two of them Democrats and one of them a Republican--I have opposed this war. During these same long years, Mr. Nixon has supported the war. This, I think, is the sharpest and most important difference between Mr. Nixon and me in the 1972 presidential campaign.

	Mr. Nixon has described the Vietnam war as our finest hour. I regard it as the saddest chapter in our national history.

	Our problem with this terrible war does not stem from the lack of bravery or skill on the part of our fighting men. Indeed, no better American army has ever been sent abroad. Our problem is that we have asked our armed forces to do the impossible--to save a political regime in Saigon that does not even have the respect of its own people. I have been to Vietnam more than once talking to our GIs. They have told me in countless conversations of the frustrating and impossible nature of this assignment.

	Before the 1968 election, the Republican candidate, Mr. Nixon, told you that he had a secret plan to end the war. He refused to discuss the details, but he asked your support in the election, and he offered peace in return.

	That promise has been broken, and the destruction in Southeast Asia has increased.

	The war goes on for our sons who are still ordered into battle. It is true that men have been withdrawn from Vietnam, but half a million American fighting men ranged in the Pacific, Thailand, and Guam are still carrying this war to Vietnam.

	Tonight, as I speak to you, some of these men may die. Forty percent of all the Americans lost in Vietnam have died in the last four years--died under the present administration. Since January of 1969, 20,000 young Americans have come home not in glory, to the cheers of a grateful country, but in death, to the bitter tears of their families. The secret plan for peace will forever remain a secret to them.

	The war goes on also for our prisoners in North Vietnam. Tonight, on the other side of the world, they sit and think of us--of their homes, their families, of children who are growing up without fathers, of a country they may never see again. And in the last four years, 550 more Americans have been taken captive or listed as missing in action, more than 100 of them in the last six months. And if anyone says that the promise to end the war has been kept, let him tell that to the families of the brave men who waste away in the cells of Hanoi. Now, Mr. Nixon says we must bomb and fight to free our prisoners. But just the reverse is true. We must end the bombing and end the fighting if we are ever to see these prisoners again. Prisoners of war come home when the war ends--not while the war continues.

	The war also goes on for the millions of Americans like you who bear its cost. Every single week this war claims $250 million of your taxes. Every week it inflates the cost of everything you buy. Each week it costs $250 million that we need to employ men to rebuild our cities, to fight crime and drugs, to strengthen our schools, and to assist our sick and elderly.

	Since he came to the presidency, Mr. Nixon has spent $60 billion of your money on this war--$60 billion of your taxes to kill human beings in Asia instead of protecting and improving human life, in America--$60 billion in the last four years--not for a cause, but for a mistake, not to serve our ideals, but to save the face of our policy-makers.

	And the war goes on also for the people of Indochina. Indeed, they are literally being crushed under the weight of the heaviest aerial bombardment the world has ever known. The bombing of Indochina has doubled under the present administration, and while General Thieu is secure in his palace, six million of his fellow Vietnamese are victims--people dead, maimed or driven from their homes. Most of these people are not enemies, but innocents. Our bombs bring them not freedom, but terror. Bombing does not save their land. It destroys it.

	The reality of this war is seen in the news photo of the little South Vietnamese girl, Kim, fleeing in terror from her bombed-out school. She has torn off her flaming clothes and she is running naked into the lens of the camera. That picture ought to break the heart of every American. How can we rest with the grim knowledge that the burning napalm that splashed over little Kim and countless thousands of other children was dropped in the name of America?

	Now, there are those who say that you will accept this because the toll of suffering now includes more Asians and fewer Americans. But, surely, conscience says to each of us that a wrong war is not made right because the color of the bodies has changed. We are all created in the image of God.

	As a bomber pilot in World War II, like millions of you, I did what had to be done. Our nation took up arms and laid down lives because tyranny threatened all that we held precious. I loved America enough to offer my life in war thirty years ago. And for nine years I have loved this country enough to risk my political life to call us home from a war in Asia that does not serve the interests and the ideals of the American nation.

	What, after all, is our purpose in Southeast Asia?

	Now, we used to say that we fought in Vietnam to stop Communist China or to stop Communist Russia. But these nations are now quarreling among themselves, and Mr. Nixon's public opinion ratings have gone up after he was wined and dined in the Communist capitals of Peking and Moscow. How can we really argue that it is good to accommodate ourselves to a billion Russian and Chinese Communists--but that we must somehow fight to the bitter end against a tiny band of peasant guerrillas in the jungles of little Vietnam?

	Incredible as it seems, when all is said and done, our purpose in Vietnam now comes down to this: Our policy-makers want to save face and they want to save the Saigon regime of General Thieu. Now, that is a fundamental difference between President Nixon and me on the issue in Vietnam. It is a choice, after all, between saving face or saving lives. It is a choice between four more years of war, or four years of peace.

	The Nixon position is that the Thieu regime represents self-determination for the people of South Vietnam. Let me tell you what I think his regime represents.

	I think our support for General Thieu actually denies the people of South Vietnam the right to choose their own government. The Saigon lawyer, a former president of Rotary International, who had the courage to run against General Thieu four years ago, was sent to jail for five years. Last year, General Thieu issued a decree to force all the other candidates out of the race. This year, he abolished all the local elections, so he could extend his dictatorship to every village in South Vietnam. General Thieu has closed newspapers, simply for printing the truth. He has presided over the execution of 40,000 people without trial on the mere suspicion that they did not support his policies.

	The Thieu regime stands for the theft of billions of dollars of our aid, stolen by powerful officials to enrich themselves while their countrymen are in the grip of starvation and disease. And every GI who has served in Vietnam knows that is the truth.

	Corrupt Vietnamese officials have enriched themselves putting heroin into the veins of a hundred thousand of our GIs. The same poisonous heroin from Southeast Asia is now being shipped into our cities, our suburbs, our streets, and even into the schools of America. And every Vietnam GI knows that is true.

	This corrupt dictatorship that our precious young men and our tax dollars are supporting cannot be talked clean by official lies. And it cannot be washed clean by American blood. Instead, our own most precious values are corrupted by the very government we fight to defend.

	Mr. Nixon would continue the war to preserve General Thieu's power. On that, he and I disagree. I say: General Thieu is not worth one more American dollar, one more American prisoner, one more drop of American blood.

	Mr. Nixon and I also disagree on how to find peace, and this is the second fundamental difference between us.

	He has chosen what he calls "decisive military action" to end the fighting. Despite all the highly publicized "secret" meetings with the other side, he has persisted in the belief that we can find peace only in a wider war. But the escalations of 1965 and 1967 were also "decisive military actions" and they did not end the war. They only increased the killing and increased the costs.

	Mr. Nixon's invasion of Cambodia, made without the approval of Congress as required by our Constitution--that was a "decisive military action," but it did not end the war. It only brought the war to more people who had been living in peace and it brought Communist rule to two-thirds of that previously neutral country.

	The mining of North Vietnamese harbors was a decisive military action, but it did not end the war. The supplies still flow into the South, and our adversary is reported by our own observers to be as strong as ever.

	For nearly thirty years, the people of Vietnam have been at war. For nearly thirty years, the Japanese, the French, the Americans have tried "decisive military action" to win a satisfactory peace. And for thirty years, each, in turn, has failed.

	Now, the answer to failure is not more of the same. And yet I fear continued war is what the Nixon administration has in store if they stay in power.

	Secretary of Defense Laird recently admitted to a Congressional Committee that the fighting could continue far into the future under present policy.

	Four years ago last night, on October 9, 1968, Mr. Nixon, as a candidate for president, said to a crowd in California--and I quote: "Those who have had a chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance." Now Mr. Nixon has had his chance. He could not produce peace in four years. And we have every indication that he cannot produce peace in eight years.

	So I ask the American people: Shall we break free at last from General Thieu? Shall we forget about saving face and begin saving the soul of our nation? Shall we demonstrate that we are determined to stop the killing and to stand for peace? My answer is, "Yes."

	Let me now set forth the specific steps that I would take as president to carry out that determination.

	Immediately after taking my oath as president, if the war has not ended by then, I would issue a national security directive to the Secretary of Defense, to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and to our commands in the field, with the following orders:

	Immediately stop all bombing and acts of force in all parts of Indochina.

	Immediately terminate any shipments of military supplies that continue the war.

	Immediately begin the orderly withdrawal of all American forces from Vietnam, from Laos and Cambodia, along with all salvageable American military equipment. And we will assign whatever transportation is required to complete that process and to complete it within ninety days--a time period that I have been told by competent military authority is well within our capability.

	Second, I would issue the following instructions to our negotiators in Paris:

	Notify the representatives of the other side that we have taken these steps to end the hostilities, and that we now expect that they will accept their obligation under their own Seven Point Proposal of 1971--to return all prisoners of war and to account for all missing in action. We will expect that process to be completed within ninety days to coincide with our complete withdrawal from the war.

	We would further notify all parties that the United States will no longer interfere in the internal politics of Vietnam, and that we will allow the Vietnamese people to work out their own settlement. The United States is prepared to cooperate to see that any settlement, including a coalition government, gains international recognition.

	Third, I would send the vice president to Hanoi to speed the arrangements for the return of our prisoners and an accounting of the missing. I would also instruct our diplomats to contact the opposing parties in Laos and Cambodia in order to secure release of prisoners held in those countries, and an accounting of missing in action, including American civilian newsmen now missing in Cambodia. There are six known prisoners in Laos, and nearly three hundred missing. No effort has been made to secure their release.

	Fourth, after all of our prisoners have been returned, and we have received a satisfactory accounting for any missing men, I would order the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs to close our bases in Thailand, to bring home any troops and equipment still there, and to reassign elsewhere any ships still stationed in the waters adjoining Indochina.

	Fifth, as the political solution in Vietnam is worked out by the Vietnamese themselves, we should join with other countries in repairing the wreckage left by this war.

	Sixth, I would ask the Congress to take immediate action on an expanded program for our veterans. I think it is simply a disgrace that our government is able to find these young men to send off to war, but somehow we look the other way when they come back in need of an education or decent medical treatment or a decent job.

	Now, like many other veterans of World War II, I received a four-year education under a generous GI Bill of Rights. I think Vietnam veterans need that help more than those of us who fought a generation ago, because we came back with the welcome of a nation that knew we had fought and won a necessary war. The Vietnam veterans come back to a country that largely believes this war was a mistake. So, we ought to literally put the arms of this nation around these young men and guarantee them either a good job or a fully funded higher education. Months ago, I sponsored in the senate a Vietnam Veterans Bill of Rights that would do precisely that.

	Finally, when the war has ended, when our troops and prisoners are home, and when we have provided for the veterans of Vietnam, we must then consider the young men who chose jail or exile because they could not in conscience fight in this war. So, following the example of earlier presidents, I would give these young men the opportunity to come home. Personally, if I were in their position, I would volunteer for two years of public service on subsistence pay simply to demonstrate that my objection was not to serving the nation, but to participating in a war I thought was morally wrong.

	We are not a vindictive or mean-spirited people. And we must act as Lincoln told us--"with malice toward none and charity for all." We must bind up the wounds of this nation, and we must bring all of our sons back. In that same spirit, we must oppose any so-called war-crimes trials to fix the blame for the past on any citizen or any group of citizens. Vietnam has been a terrible experience for all of us, on every side of this issue. And this is not the time for recrimination. It is the time for reconciliation.

	So, this is what I would do to bring America home from a hated war. And it is a program that will work. The people of France were once trapped in Vietnam, even as we are, but in 1954 they chose a new president, Pierre Mendes whose highest commitment was to achieve peace in Indochina. His program was very similar to mine. And within just five weeks, the war was over. Within three months, every last French prisoner had been returned.

	Now, I ask you to remember that I speak to you as one who has publicly opposed this war for nine years. I ask you to remember that my opponent has supported American military intervention in Vietnam ever since 1954. I ask you to recognize that every detail of my position is fully out in the open. It is a public plan--not a secret plan.

AMNESTYCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEMILITARY RECRUITMENT--RESISTERSPOWS/MIASSOUTH VIETNAMSOUTHEAST ASIAVETERAN BENEFITSVIETNAM WAR     X@ $@ @ @ @
 @ @ ÷? ÷? ÷? ÷? ÷? í?	 † 	  	 ^ 	 ? 	 6 	 ) 	    e: