Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1028.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/28STUMPLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACATOWN HALL OF CALIFORNIA2887 WORDS

	In just 11 days, you and millions of other Americans will go to the polls to determine who will lead America into the next decade, and who will lay the groundwork for American greatness in the next century.

	The next president will succeed Ronald Reagan when he joins you as a resident of this great city. And before I go further, let me just take a moment to pay tribute to President Reagan. He has restored America's pride. He has righted the ship of state, and no matter who wins the presidency, we will be required to invoke the words of Isaac Newton: "If I have seen further, it is because I have stood on the shoulders of giants."

	When Ronald Reagan first ran for this high office, he framed the question that is central to the choice you must now make. In 1980, he asked the American people to consider one simple question: "Are you better off today than you were four years ago?"

	Back then, after four years of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale, the answer was a resounding "No," and Ronald Reagan and I were called upon to bring about a change.

	By 1984, that change was underway. The force of our philosophy of lower taxes and a strong national defense was beginning to be felt across this great land, and when we posed the question again--"Are you better off today than you were four years ago?"--the answer was different. The country was headed in the right direction. America was back on its feet. The people this time answered "yes," and gave us an overwhelming mandate to continue the change we had begun.

	Now we find ourselves at the next quadrennial crossroads. We've talked about many issues in this campaign.

	We've talked about creating safer streets through laws and tough sentences for those who commit violent crime. Listening to and working with law enforcement officers like your outstanding police chief, my friend Darryl Gates, I will crack down on crime and drugs; and I will appoint judges who have a little more sympathy for the victims of crime and a little less for the criminals.

	We've talked about protecting the environment. And, working with your fine Senator Pete Wilson, I will move to enhance California's environment--by promoting alternative fuels, working for clean air, and expanding national parks like the one in the Santa Monica Mountains not far from here.

	We've talked about maintaining the strength of our national defense, so that we can follow up on the INF treaty by working for further reductions in nuclear arms. And I will keep America strong.

	We've debated everything from energy, to plans to save for college, to making childcare more affordable in this campaign.

	But when you step back for a minute from all the proposals and ideas and position papers, when you consider what this election is all about--this one central question again rises above all the others. Are you better off today than you were eight years ago?

	And I would submit that the evidence is clear--for the vast majority of Americans, the answer today is a resounding "yes."

	To those who say this has been an "issueless" campaign, I say they are wrong. There is this critically important issue--and there is the overriding question of which approach to government will make Americans better off still.

	I would like, this morning, to review, in a factual way, the evidence--the clear evidence--that Americans at every level are better off. As Sergeant Joe Friday of the LAPD used to say, "Just the facts, ma'am."

	Well here are the facts.

	If you had opened the newspaper on October 28, 1980, you would have seen the inflation rate here in California humming along at over 13 percent. Nationwide, the inflation rate was also in double digits--averaging about 13 percent. Costs of everything from hamburger to houses were rising faster than people's wages. Americans were losing buying power.

	Today, the inflation rate is just over four percent--both in California and across the country. For the last five years, inflation has averaged only about 3.3 percent. It has been held in check--and I intend to keep it in check.

	What does that mean for American families? Well, the cuts we've made in the inflation of food prices mean that the average American family--which spends about $100 a week on groceries--saves $3,000 a year on its grocery bill. That's right. Three thousand dollars a year, just on food. Right in your pocket.

	On inflation, Americans are better off.

	Turn the clock back again, and consider interest rates. At the end of 1980, the prime rate of interest stood at 21.5 percent. Mortgage interest rates were soaring. Businessmen couldn't expand to create new jobs. Entrepreneurs were having trouble borrowing at those outrageous rates to start new firms. And young families couldn't afford to get a mortgage to buy their first home.

	In 1980, the cost of housing was increasing so fast that prices would double every six years. And housing was simply becoming unaffordable--the average American family had only 69 percent of the income needed to buy the median priced home.

	Today, look at the newspaper. That prime rate has been cut in half. Mortgage rates are down. With inflation cut, it would take more than twenty years for housing costs to double. And today, the middle-income family has 110 percent of the income needed to buy the median-priced American home.

	And what does it mean? The average American family, taking out a $98,000 mortgage, saves $340 a month in mortgage payments. That's right--about $4,000 a year--because of the decrease in mortgage interest rates.

	Yes, interest rates are down, and American families are better off.

	And how much were families earning? Well, in 1980, American families were in the midst of the worst two years in the postwar history of the United States for family income. The income, adjusted for inflation, of the median American family--the one right in the middle--fell by over five percent from 1979 to 1980, and another 3.5 percent from 1980 to 1981. No wonder Americans rejected Jimmy Carter's economics!

	Now my opponent likes to play games with these statistics. He is eager to point out that real income hasn't grown much since 1973--and he's right. But he is much less eager to tell you why--real family income dropped like a rock the last time we let a liberal tax-and-spend governor take over the White House, and we, the Reagan-Bush administration, have had to work overtime to make up all that lost ground.

	But we have made it up, and then some. Real family income fell in total by 7 percent under the Carter-Mondale administration, and it has risen by 10 percent under the Reagan-Bush administration. And the experience of California is typical. Per capita income here, again adjusted for inflation, is up by over 11 percent since we took office.

	What does this mean? It means that the real income of the average American family, the one right in the middle, is $3,000 higher than it was in 1981.

	But what's especially impressive is that the gain has been widespread--that inflation-adjusted income fell for every segment of the population, from the bottom fifth to the top fifth, under Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. In fact, the percentage drop was greatest for low-income families.

	Family income has risen for every group under our administration. Americans from top to bottom are better off.

	And income has risen for all demographic groups. The median earnings of women, adjusted for inflation, fell by 6 percent under Carter and Mondale; they rose by 11 percent under Reagan and Bush.

	The income of the average black family fell by 8 percent under Carter and Mondale; it rose by 9 percent under Reagan and Bush.

	And it's not just because we have more two-earner families now. My opponent likes to claim that families are better off only because women have been forced to go to work.

	Frankly, that strikes me as sexist--because it implies that women wouldn't choose to work unless they had to. But let's ignore that. Even if you break out the data and examine just families in which both husband and wife work, the result is the same. Median income for two-earner families fell by 4 percent under the previous administration, and it rose by 10 percent under ours.

	The reason, of course, is jobs--yes, good jobs at good wages. You know, yesterday was the birthday of one of the presidents I most admire--Teddy Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt once said that, "Far and away the best prize that life has to offer is the chance to work hard at work worth doing."

	By this most important measure, we have helped enrich the lives of millions of Californians, and millions of Americans. Right now, 2.2 million more Californians are working than were on this date in 1980. Nationwide, since the depths of the recession, we've created over 18 million new jobs. And a higher percentage of Americans are at work today than at any time in our history.

	Now you may have noticed that my opponent is not talking much any more about one of his earlier campaign themes, "Good jobs at good wages." I think he decided that it wasn't doing him much good to be talking about our accomplishments.

	These jobs are good jobs. Again, my opponent uses some funny numbers to try to undercut the prosperity that Americans are experiencing across this land. Leave it to the pessimists to always be looking for the tunnel at the end of the light.

	But the study my opponent usually cites, performed by two liberal economists, includes the low wage jobs created in 1979 and 1980, arguably the two worst years for the American economy since World War II.

	The fact is that sixty percent of the jobs we've created since taking office pay better than $21,000 per year. This compares with only 17.5 percent of the jobs created in Jimmy Carter's term in office that paid this much.

	And four out of five jobs created in the last year were in categories that paid over $26,000 per year. The jobs are getting better, and the recovery is still going strong.

	I saved perhaps the most important statistic for last--and that is the change in taxes paid by the working men and women of this country.

	We cut income tax rates by 25 percent in 1981. And in 1986, we reformed that tax code, and told six million low-income working families, you don't have to pay income taxes any more--you should be able to keep more of what you earn.

	Well, those tax cuts put money right in the pockets of American families--a total of $6,000 for the average family. And this year, right now, the average American family would be paying $2,200 more in federal income taxes under the high rates--a top rate of 50 percent on earned income, 70 percent on all income--that Jimmy Carter left us.

	Those tax cuts put money in America's pockets and jobs in America's cities and towns. They unleashed the longest and strongest economic expansion in American peacetime history--70 months and still going.

	So by now you've heard me say what I'm going to tell Congress--"read my lips"--but today let me say this to all Americans--you have new economic power, and I'm not going to let them take it away from you.

	I cite this barrage of statistics for a reason. It's easy to forget, now that America is on the move again, just how bad things were back in 1980. It's easy to take our prosperity for granted sometimes.

	But it's important to remember those "days of malaise," because that malaise was created by policies--exactly the same policies that my opponent now wants to return to.

	Los Angeles is the movie capital of the world--and if my opponent is elected, the movie will be called "Malaise Two: The Sequel."

	I recite these statistics because they demonstrate, in certifiable terms, that our low tax and high opportunity policies have worked.

	Now my opponent has charged that our policies haven't addressed the concerns of average working families in America.

	Well, I've traveled all over this country during this campaign; I've met thousands upon thousands of wonderful, hard-working American families. And not once during this campaign has a working man or woman come up to me and said "Mr. Vice President, if you get elected, please raise my taxes."

	Not once has a working mother said, "Please bring us back to double-digit inflation."

	Not once has a young entrepreneur said, "Please, we need those 21.5 percent interest rates."

	No, working families have had enough of the policies that put our economy on its deathbed and sent family incomes into free fall.

	Their concern is how to keep this recovery going. And their concern is my concern.

	I have laid out many plans to broaden this unprecedented expansion.

	Expanded Head Start for disadvantaged young children. Urban and rural enterprise zones. College savings bonds. More open markets for American products. Expanded research and development. Removing barriers--and I feel strongly about this--in order to bring the 35 million Americans with some form of disability into the economic mainstream. Expanding opportunities for women and minority business owners. Building better schools in which excellence is rewarded. Expanding the childcare options available to working parents. Incentives to restore the health of our domestic energy industry. Job training--like that originated by my running mate, Dan Quayle--that trains workers for productive jobs in the private sector.

	The list could go on forever. But we will not be able to afford any of this--we will not be able to expand the recovery--if we put our prosperity at risk by returning to the tax and spend policies that almost ruined our economy.

	Of course there are problems--big problems to be solved. I have made a specific proposal, the flex freeze, to get the huge deficit down. I have called for giving the president that line item veto that 43 governors have--but I will not make these problems worse by taxing this economy into slower growth.

	On the other hand, my opponent has proposed spending plan after spending plan. He has called our 1981 tax cut bill--the one that put $2,200 this year in the pocket of the average American family--"one of the worst bills that Congress ever could have passed." He wants to torpedo the prosperity we've worked so hard to achieve.

	And what I ask of you this morning--what I ask of all Americans in these next 11 days--is to consider whether you really want to let him do it. Do we really want to go back to those days of high inflation, high interest rates, high taxes, and low expectations for America?

	Today is an anniversary. One hundred and two years ago today, the Statue of Liberty was dedicated in New York Harbor. On that day, President Grover Cleveland said, "We will not forget that Liberty has here made her home; nor shall her chosen altar be neglected."

	Think of all that we have accomplished in the century since then. We Americans have done great things.

	But I see great things still ahead for America. Our work is not finished yet.

	In these past few years, we have been the engine of economic growth that has pulled the world into a new era of prosperity. We have been the friend of liberty that has helped lead the world to a new era of peace.

	And when you go into that voting booth in a very short while, I hope that those are two words you will remember--peace and prosperity. Peace means you can sleep at night knowing that the world will still be there in the morning. Prosperity means you can sleep at night knowing that opportunity will still be there in the morning.

	You know about our mornings. But I ask you to consider: What kind of morning would electing the liberal governor of Massachusetts bring?

	Will it be gloomy?

	Will the dark clouds of pessimism and limited possibility obscure our vision?

	Will we be able to hope for a brighter day?

	The American people are better off today than they were eight years ago. And precisely because we are, we can dream great things. We can reach new heights. We can build a better tomorrow.

	Now that we have peace and prosperity, we can't afford to put them at risk.

	Our mission is too important. The stakes for the cause of freedom around the world are too high.

	Liberty has made America its home. Now let's keep making that home even stronger healthier, and more secure than we find it today.

	Thank you, and God bless you.

INCOME TAXINFLATIONINTEREST RATESJOB GROWTH/CREATIONWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEECONOMY--GENERAL     °@ |@ v@ r@ h@
 `@ [@ V@ K@ A@ ?@ (@ @	 Z 	 P 	 G 	 9 	 &   e: