Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1009.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/09STUMPSEATTLEWASHINGTONWAEXCERPTS2013 WORDS
	I want to talk with you tonight about the demands for leadership in America at this crucial point in the history of this nation and of the world. Let me be perfectly clear that in my judgment these demands go beyond any ever faced before in the record of mankind.

	Three forces are loose in the world today. One is communism. It is a force only for evil. It promises only tyranny. It is a cancerous growth. There can be no compromise with it.

	The second force is the revolution of a third of the world, the emergence of the people of most of Asia and Africa from centuries of poverty and ignorance and oppression. This can be a force for great good or for great evil. These people will emerge either into freedom or into Communism. The road they take will be determined in large measure by what we in America do about this; and our own fate may well depend upon their choice.

	The third force is the release of atomic energy.

	The discovery of nuclear energy is probably the most momentous discovery, certainly one of the most momentous discoveries, in the history of man on this planet. It brings to man incredible power for good and for evil. It brings to man the power to destroy all life and the power to enrich life beyond man's pre-atomic dreams. It is the destiny of our generation to decide whether that power shall bring the blessings of peace to all mankind or the mutilation if not extinction of human life on this planet.

	It is this third force that I want to discuss particularly here tonight. 

	I want to make it perfectly plain at the outset that I propose to discuss this issue in blunt political terms. Four weeks from today the people of this country will have their one chance in four years to vote on how they want to meet the confluence of these three forces. I think it is only reasonable to believe that one or more of these forces may well--during these next four years--turn the course of man's existence on this planet, perhaps for all time, toward or away from freedom and peace.

	And I say this about how we of the Democratic party propose to meet the demands of leadership in this situation: First, we shall insist that it is the people alone who can furnish the guidance and the decisions which are called for. This means telling the people the truth about these prospects--these great opportunities and this great danger.

	And I say that the present Republican administration has not told people the truth about any one of these three crucial facts of history. 

	Second, we insist that this future can be met only by a government dedicated to the proposition that the interests of all the people, and of no narrower group, must guide the policies of this nation.

	And I say that the present Republican administration, like other Republican administrations before it, is narrowly representative of a limited interest, the largest interests, and is committed to the proposition that by serving them the general welfare is served, too.

	Third, we insist that this future will be met only by an administration--by a president, an executive, who assumes the full responsibilities of his elected office.

	And I say, whatever the reasons, that the undue delegation of responsibility and authority by the President is hazardous at any time, let alone times such as these, and diminishes the office of the presidency.

	Fourth, and finally, we insist that new answers are going to have to be found to the new challenges we face. And I say that the present Republican administration--dominated by men whose first concern is to preserve things as they are--has steadfastly and for four years now rejected every new idea that has been advanced. I deny that with the future rushing toward us America can stand still.

	I want, as I have said, to talk particularly tonight about America and the atom. I have talked on other occasions of the overwhelming necessity of curbing the use of the atom for war. And I will talk of that again, probably next Monday night. May I say of this tonight only that the suggestions I have made about this have been answered by the Republican politicians--including the President--only with sneers and astonishing distortion of what I said, and with implications that even talking about this prejudices the nation's security. But if the Republican politicians, including the President, have so little understanding or sympathy with attempts to save man from the greatest horror his ingenuity has ever devised, I am glad to note that many scientists do understand what is at stake here. I read in the paper only yesterday that one of the foremost scientists, Dr. Ralph Lapp, said in supporting the position I have taken that the halting of bomb tests "must inevitably come" and that the ending of the tests is not harmful to national security.

	I call attention to the fact that my proposal to find a way to stop the exploding of the huge hydrogen bombs has always been made without criticism of the present administration policy of hydrogen weapon development which President Truman began. It reflects a desire that I am sure is deep in the minds of all mankind. I have indicated my complete willingness to accept any better proposal for accomplishing the same purpose. But I can't accept the apparent administration position that we are powerless to do anything to stop this headlong race for extinction.

	But I want to talk tonight to the use of the atom not for war, but for the enrichment of the lives of men and women living in peace. The discovery of nuclear energy has brought great hope as well as great fear to the world. We must work and pray that our hopes may triumph over our fears. Our hopes lie in the use of nuclear energy to enrich and not to destroy life.

	Here in the Northwest you know, for you have seen the importance of power to economic development. Modern civilization has staggering energy requirements. The world will use, in the last half of this century, more energy than was used from the birth of Christ to the year 1950. The story of modern man is in large part a story of how he has used coal and oil and gas and falling water to multiply a million-fold the power of his muscles.

	Twenty years from now, here in the United States alone, we will need additional generating capacity as large or larger than our total capacity today. But this is only part of the picture of the great need which atomic energy will fill in the future.

	Our government is committed to a great "atoms for peace" program, which was announced by President Eisenhower in an address before the United Nations in December 1953. We committed ourselves to share our knowledge and know-how and materials with other countries to advance peace, freedom, and economic progress in the world. While this program is still largely in the blueprint stage, it has created great expectations, particularly in the underdeveloped countries throughout the world.

	Exaggerated ideas of the economics of atomic power may possibly be entertained, but there is reason to hope and expect that atomic power will be great boon to power-poor and high-cost-power countries. Atoms for peaceful power must become an essential part of our Point 4 program.

	Because of the existence of abundant lower-cost power from other fuels in this country, we have not had the same incentive to press ahead with development and have lagged behind the British, and, in all probability, the Russians in developing programs for the building of full-scale atomic power plants. It is true that we are operating more than a dozen large reactors for the production of plutonium and many smaller research reactors. We have also built a few atomic power plants for submarines. But we do not yet have a single reactor in actual operation designed for the production of commercial power, and only one such is presently under construction. In short, we are by no means maintaining our leadership in the atomic power field.

	While we have spoken much of the peaceful use of atomic energy for power as a means of lifting the standard of living in power-poor countries and have committed ourselves to cooperate with them in making atomic energy available to them for this purpose, we have failed to develop, at home, a sufficiently vigorous reactor program to enable us to do so. As Professor Henry DeWolf Smyth, a former member of the Atomic Energy Commission, has written in a recent article in Foreign Affairs, "How can we offer to build reactors abroad without building enough reactors here to know what we are doing? How can we expect to send materials and helpful information abroad if we let our technology fall behind?"

	The difficulty comes from the fact that the Atomic Energy Commission has abdicated its major responsibility in this field to the private power industry. The Atomic Energy Commission frankly expressed the view "that while it must take the lead and carry most of the burden of developing nuclear power reactor technology, industry should take the initiative and assume major responsibility for full-scale prototype reactors." The result of this policy, most experts believe, is that we in America are not advancing nearly as rapidly as we might in harnessing the atom to peaceful uses.

	Before science can extract power from the atom as cheaply as from coal, oil, or falling water, years of costly experimentation still remain. There are at least 100 ways of producing atomic power that scientists consider worthy of exploration. Progress in this field depends on attacking on a multitude of fronts, each offering great hopes, but no certainty of success.

	Clearly, this is not a job for private enterprise alone. Private concerns, responsible as they are to the stockholders, quite properly have an eye on the profit-and-loss ledgers. They cannot be expected to gamble on bold new types of nuclear power plants--plants that may open the door to new miracles, but may also end in failure, and the wasting of large investments.

	This is not a question of excluding the private power industry from its full participation in the development of an atomic power reactor program, or even of competing with the power industry. Rather it is a question of helping private industry through the costly period of experimentation and of hastening the day when atomic power can be produced cheaply and safely--by private enterprise.

	If we are to maintain our technological position and leadership in the field of atomic power and fulfill our responsibilities under the atoms for peace program, we must build power reactors not only of the type which may be immediately useful to the private power industry in this country, but also of more experimental types which carry greater hopes for ultimate success, but also greater risks of immediate failure.

	I favor the fullest cooperation between government and private industry, but not the abdication of public responsibility in this field with the result that little progress will be made.

	The Eisenhower Administration has not prepared, and evidently is not preparing, to carry out the atoms for peace program for which it took responsibility before the world. It has resisted the efforts of the Democrats in the Congress to give the Atomic Energy Commission full authority to fulfill that responsibility. It has shackled atoms for peace--a great program which stirred the imagination of the world--to the parochial needs and predilection of the private power industry.

	It has shown a lamentable want of understanding of what atomic power means to the have-not peoples of the world in their struggle for a better life. It is abandoning the leadership to others, of great task of making the greatest discovery of our time a blessing and not a curse to all mankind.
NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGNUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     ¨. t. n. j. b.
 U. P. K. D. :. 8. 0. &.	 5  ! e: