Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1027.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/27STUMPSAN DIEGOCALIFORNIACARALLY1,960 WORDS

	Thank you very much for that very kind introduction.  She gave a better speech than I'm going to give because she went right to the issue.  You may not know it, but there's another thing about Joan that should be mentioned--she's from Minnesota.

	I come to you today in San Diego to ask for your help, not for me but for our country and for our children and our future.  This election is wide open.  The issue is in your hands, and the question is whether you will take that power and help us win.

	They are trying to tell you that the election is over.  They're trying to tell you that the polls say I'm behind.  Well, I've got a message, and that is that polls don't vote.  People vote, and we're going to win this election.

	There probably has not been an election in this century when the stakes have been higher.  This is not an issue about jelly beans and pen pals.  There are fundamental differences between the two candidates.  It all became obvious last week.

	I kept wondering why Mr. Reagan kept talking about my friend John Kennedy.  I was chairman of Minnesotans for Kennedy, and he was chairman of an outfit called Democrats for Nixon.  Then somebody gave me a copy of a letter I'm sure you've heard about, in which he said that Kennedy's ideas are drawn from Karl Marx and Adolf Hitler.

	I thought he'd say, "I didn't write that letter," or something, like he does on most things.  Instead of that, the next day, he said, "That's a good letter because," he said, "whenever you help people through government, you're going down that road toward dictatorship."

	We fundamentally disagree.  I fundamentally disagree.  I believe that this good, caring country of ours needs a president who's using a government as a positive force to help people, to move us forward toward a good and decent life.

	Today I'm asking you to help me build America's future.  I want this country to grow.  I want there to be jobs for our children.  I want the future right here in our nation for America.  I want those debts down.  I want those interest rates down.  I want America number one in international commerce.  When there are jobs, I want them to be in America.  When there's an American standard of living, I want it here, and if there's a future, let it be for the children of American parents.

	Secondly, I want an America where our kids come first.  I want to invest again in the human mind.  I want this next generation to be the best-educated in American history.  I want every young American to have the same chance I did to go on to college or vocational school, so that every American has a chance for the fullness of American life.

	Have you noticed?  I've been in San Diego just a few hours.  The clouds are parting; the sun is shining; and there's joy in the land.  I want an America where the president understands that it's his duty to protect our air, our water, and our land and our public health.  I never want to see another James Watt, another Ann Gorsuch, anywhere in that federal government again.

	I want an America where each generation fulfills its responsibilities to the others.  My parents brought me up as yours did you.  As it happens to all human beings, the time comes when you retire.  When that time comes, the rest of us ought to be sure that that Social Security and that Medicare is there for our fathers and our mothers.  I will protect those programs, and I will see to it that that cloud is lifted from the shoulders of our seniors.

	This morning, I want to emphasize one part of the future of our country that each American must think about before you vote on November 6, and that's the issue of justice in America.

	I believe that justice is more than the letter of the law.  I believe it's the spirit of our values.  Justice in America is a big idea.  But the Reagan concept of justice is technically narrow, ideologically [missing text], and spiritually empty.

	Just look at their record.  They trashed the Civil Rights Commission.  They've taken justice out of the Justice Department.  The head of the Civil Rights Division opposes affirmative action for women and minorities.  The chief of their Anti-Trust Division said he would be content if there were just one-hundred companies in America.  His next trick is to nominate Ed Meese as attorney general of the United States.

	This crowd has sought to make justice the monopoly of the few.  They've tried to wipe out all of the legal programs that help senior citizens, that help tenants, that help consumers, that help the poor people.  They gave taxpayers' money to schools that discriminate against women and then blocked the Civil Rights Act of 1984, which was designed to prevent it.

	If they had had their way, there would be no effective Voting Rights Act on the books at all.  They tried to give tax money to segregation academies, and for the first time in modern history, the Supreme Court of the United States went out and hired its own lawyer to represent the Constitution, because the Justice Department was on the other side.

	Now they want politicians to write prayers for our children.  They want to impose this religious litmus test in the selection of our federal judges.  They want the federal government to interfere in the most personal and religious decisions made by each of us in our own lives.

	My fellow Americans, think about that.  Is that where you want America to go?  And so, in a strange and bizarre twist, these alleged advocates of a weaker federal government would use the power of the state to intrude upon the most personal and religious aspects of our lives.

	They doubt the capacity of the American people to worship in their faith and to choose wisely for themselves and their families, even though, for two-hundred years, Americans have done a perfectly good job without the help of government.

	They demonstrate an appalling ignorance of our history and a cynical contempt for the wisdom of the American people.  Mr. Reagan, the American people are the most religious people on earth because we've kept the politicians out of our churches and our synagogues and the preparation of prayers.

	To breach the wall between the church and the state is to corrupt our faith and divide our people and distort our politics.  Justice in America is ultimately in the hands of the Supreme Court.  The next president could well appoint the Supreme Court majority for the rest of this century.

	Justice Rehnquist, Nixon's gift to the far right, recently said that it's all right for the president to pack the Supreme Court.  Think about this.  For a half a century, the Supreme Court has been the guardian of the most peaceful revolution in the history of any society on earth.  Whether it's civil rights or women's rights or consumers' rights or personal liberty or protecting the environment, thanks to the Supreme Court, America has opened doors and expanded justice.

	That Supreme Court has acted on that motto over the door of the Supreme Court that says, "Equal justice under law."  That court has held the highest and the most powerful, including a president of the United States, to be accountable before the law alongside the poorest in America.

	They have fought, sustained, and stood for justice and helped this nation grow and prosper into the most just society on earth.  The Earl Warrens--that great Californian--of this century understood what justice really meant, and they helped move our nation to the highest levels of political and personal freedom and decency of any society on earth.  They remade our nation so that our values are reflected in our laws.

	Today, far more than ever before, the children of the poor, young black Americans, young Hispanic Americans, young women, can dream of dreams that no other generation ever dreamed before.  Don't let them take it away from us.  Don't let them!  Don't let them!

	For twenty-five years, I've been a part of that fight for justice, for civil rights, for women's rights, to help the poor, to educate our children, to protect the environment, and I am proud of every day of it.  Every day of it.

	None of it would have been possible without that Supreme Court.  Concentrate on that issue, because you're picking the Court for the rest of this century.  This crowd would close those doors that we've opened, and they would follow the dictates of a far-right fringe.  They would seize our temple of liberty and turn it over to judges who have passed the approval of the Jerry Falwells of our time.

	If Mr. Reagan gets four more years, the far right will get five more justices.  Don't let them have them!  Don't let them have them!

	Mr. Justice Cardozo once said, "The process of justice is never finished.  Today, as in the past, it calls for the bravest and the best."

	If you want justice to be in good hands, if you want the bravest and the best in charge of American liberty, then pull the lever that says Mondale-Ferraro on November 6.

	I want an America that stands for human rights around the world--from the jails of South Africa and the Philippines to the jungles of Central America, to the trade unions in Poland, and to the prisons of the Soviet gulag.

	I see an America that stands strong against our adversaries but is also strong in the pursuit of peace and in the pursuit of arms control.  This president stands condemned for permitting the most runaway arms race in the history of nuclear warfare.

	We're not more secure.  The world is less safe.  He hasn't made any progress at all.  He is the first president since the bomb went off to have such an abysmal record.  Now he wants to match the arms race on earth by extending the arms race into the heavens.  I'll have none of it.  I will stop it.  I ask your help in bringing it to an end.

	Finally, I believe we all want a president who brings us back together again.  Today, this president likes to say America should be a shining city of the hill.  So it should be.  The reference is from America's most famous sermon by Reverend Winthrop, delivered to the Puritans over three-hundred years ago as that ship entered Boston Harbor.

	In that sermon, Reverend Winthrop told his fellow voyagers what he wanted them to do so that America might be that shining city on the hill.  The president forgets those words, and it's the same thing missing from his administration.

	This Reverend said:

	"Let us be a shining city on the hill.  We must strengthen, preserve and comfort one another.  We must bear one another's burdens.  We must look not only on our own things, but also on the things of our brethren.  We must rejoice together, mourn together, labor and suffer together.  We must be knit together by a bond of love."

	And so we must be again.  We must pull this nation back together.  We must be a community and a family where we care and worry not just about ourselves but about each other.

	I come today needing your help.  We must carry California.  You can make the difference.  I believe that it's time for new leadership.  I believe it's time for America to move on.  Give us your help.

	Thank you very, very much.

CIVIL RIGHTSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATESUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTS     o, ;, 5, 1, ),
 , , , , , ÿ+ ú+ ï+	 x 	 l 	 8   e: