Speeches\1980\rep\S80R0910.001SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)09/10STUMPCLEVELANDOHIOOHPublic Square Rally (Excerpt)1863 WORDS
	Now let me tell you about some damage that may not be as obvious. It is the damage this administration has done to our energy security, to our ability to remain free of OPEC, and to our ability to fuel the kind of economic growth that can provide decent jobs for the poor and the unemployed.

	Recently I came across a speech that has much to tell us about the energy situation today.

	The speaker said: "Our nation must act. Neither the world economy nor the American economy can withstand a continuation of present circumstances and trends." He demanded that "we move boldly toward a goal of reasonable national energy self-sufficiency."

	These words were spoken by Candidate Jimmy Carter--on July 11, 1975.

	Now let me tell you about some damage that may not be as obvious. It is the damage this administration has done to our energy security, to our ability to remain free of OPEC, and to our ability to fuel the kind of economic growth that can provide decent jobs for the poor and the unemployed.

	But President Carter called for the "moral equivalent of war" and created the Department of Energy which is the bureaucratic equivalent of surrender.

	The world and the nation cannot withstand a continuation of current policies.

	He has tried to hide the reality of this increasing threat to our energy security with misleading rhetoric and incomplete facts. Last month at the Democratic National Convention, he boasted that "we've reversed decades of dangerous and growing dependence on foreign oil" and have a program to "secure America's energy future."

	When I read those words I recalled when Winston Churchill expressed the opinion that a parliamentary opponent's statements were scarcely believable.

	His opponent angrily demanded: "Sir, are you accusing me of lying?"

	Winston said: "Not at all. But I do believe you commit terminological inexactitudes."

	I have to say that Mr. Carter's view on our energy situation might have more to do with his desire for re-election than it does with the facts of energy.

	The facts, which Jimmy Carter will not admit, are that America does not have an energy policy now and we do not have a secure energy future.

	What we have is a future of planned cutbacks and slow growth. Of lower incomes and few jobs. And of dangerous dependence on OPEC, far worse today than at any time in the past.

	It does not have to be this way in the future. But we have to act now. And the only way to do this is to change administrations in Washington.

	For three years and eight months, Mr. Carter has led us to believe that there is an acute shortage of energy resources in this country. The truth is, America has an abundance of energy. But the policies of this administration consistently discourage its discovery and production.

	Those policies have brought little but misery to the American people. Gasoline prices are twice as high as when he took office. We've had long gas lines and the ever-present threat of another oil cutoff. And skyrocketing heating oil prices have forced many Americans on fixed incomes, especially our senior citizens, to make the cruel choice between food on their tables or fuel for their homes.

	Our entire economy--our people's jobs and our standard of living--are in jeopardy because of our crippling dependence on OPEC oil. Yet the saddest part of this Carter mess is that one of its own reports establishes beyond any doubt the fact that we can be more self-sufficient in energy.

	Such a report was placed on the president's desk this year. It is the Carter administration's annual report to Congress, and it deals with the energy resources of our country. Prepared by his own Energy Department, this report, along with reports from the U.S. Geological Survey, shows that on the basis of current rates of consumption, America has a proven and potential forty-seven-year supply of oil, including oil shale, twenty-seven-year supply of natural gas, and at least a 321-year supply of coal.

	These are not my figures. They are official estimates by Mr. Carter's Department of Energy and the U.S. Geological Survey, both of which tend to be conservative in their estimates. They demonstrate that right now in America we have abundant potential energy supplies if this administration will only allow Americans to find, produce, and use them. We have more than enough energy resources to meet our needs until the fuels of the future, such as solar power, fusion, hydrogen, tar sands, and ocean thermal energy conversion are developed.

	Why hasn't Mr. Carter told us that? Why has he chosen to talk about how little fuel we have, rather than how much? And why has he chosen to mislead Americans into believing that the only way out of the energy crisis is more federal programs? Government regulations and production barriers are two of the chief causes of the energy crisis we are already in.

	When Mr. Carter says we don't have enough energy at home, what he really means is: his policies won't let Americans find and produce the energy they need.

	Nowhere is this more evident than in the field of oil production and exploration.

	Mr. Carter's oil excise tax will reduce oil production by more than 500,000 barrels of oil a day in 1990--enough oil to fuel nearly one-quarter million cars. Other estimates of the production loss are more than three times as great, including oil equivalent, a production loss equal to more than one-fourth of our oil imports. Any energy tax that reduces energy production by so much is a bad tax.

	Mr. Carter has burdened offshore oil-drilling leases with such stringent restrictions that it is almost impossible to begin production. Less than 3 percent of the Outer Continental Shelf has been leased.

	He has not sold a single on shore lease in Alaska. Instead, our government has locked up nearly one hundred million acres of Alaskan land, including potentially oil-rich areas near Prudhoe Bay. Companies cannot even test these lands to find out how many billions of barrels of oil are hidden beneath the surface.

	His policies are no better in other areas of energy.

	He extended price controls on natural gas, which will hold natural gas production far below its potential.

	He promised to dramatically increase coal production, but then signed two major bills making it even more difficult to mine and use coal. After three years, according to yesterday's Wall Street Journal, Mr. Carter's Interior Department has given full approval to coal mining plans in only three of twenty-four coal states. As a result of these and other actions by the Carter administration, 22,000 coal miners--including 5,000 here in Ohio--are out of work, and almost one-eighth of our coal capacity lies idle.

	And Mr. Carter has done almost nothing to reduce the ten-year lead time it takes to bring safe nuclear power plants into operation. In his speech to the Democratic Convention and in other recent major addresses on economics and energy, he has never referred once to nuclear power.

	Here is the Carter record compared to our energy picture in 1976. These are figures from his own Department of Energy's August Monthly Energy Review:

	Crude oil production in the continental United States has declined 11 percent.

	Crude oil imports on average for the first half of this year have increased 6 percent.

	Oil imports from the Arab members of OPEC have increased 16 percent. We are importing 33 percent more oil from Libya, one of OPEC's most unreliable suppliers.

	In addition, our oil import bill has more than doubled. We will be sending an estimated $80 billion overseas this year alone.

	And our oil lifeline in the Persian Gulf is in greater jeopardy than ever before, with the Soviets occupying Afghanistan and a hostile government controlling Iran.

	If OPEC decides to impose another oil embargo on the United States, we are powerless to stop it, powerless to do much about it at home but sacrifice our standard of living, our mobility, and our people's jobs, meaning an economic disaster far worse than the one Mr. Carter's economic policies have already caused.

	One of my first duties as president will be to implement a balanced energy policy of both production and conservation, including a strong domestic energy production program that utilizes all of our nation's energy resources to the fullest extent possible.

	We will get America producing again. Coal, oil, natural gas, shale oil, solar, geothermal, and safe nuclear power. Every available resource we have must be used to free us from OPEC oil domination.

	The Carter plan is just the opposite: lock up resources, hold down production, and stifle fuel use with unnecessary regulations. Then threaten Americans with the specter of gasoline rationing and four-day work weeks until they slash their energy consumption.

	We do need to conserve. We do need to eliminate energy waste. But let me tell you this: any president can reduce our energy use if, like Jimmy Carter, he deliberately puts two million people out of work in a single year. If that's Mr. Carter's idea of good energy policy, I don't want any part of it. We can--and must--conserve energy, but let's do it the right way.

	We need increased energy efficiency, not energy deficiency. Americans want energy conservation, not energy deprivation.

	And most of all, our people need jobs. I totally reject any energy policy which can succeed only by putting people out of work. If we are to provide the jobs our people need, our prime mission must be to produce more energy here at home. If the choice is between dangerous dependence on OPEC and a permanent depression brought on by drastic, arbitrary slashing of fuel use, that is no choice at all. It is a cruel hoax on the American people. And it is a hoax that will end when the Reagan administration begins.

	The American people have been held hostage by the OPEC countries long enough. And if I am elected, we will do everything in our power to produce the energy we need to free ourselves of OPEC. We will use energy more efficiently. We will encourage widespread development of alternative energy sources.

	In creating a new energy policy, our principal goal will be to ensure the energy security of all Americans in order to prevent the kind of shocks and surprises which have plagued us during the Carter years--the natural gas shortage in the winter of 1977, the gasoline lines in the spring of 1979, and the skyrocketing gasoline prices in 1979 and 1980.

	We can increase our national energy security, and that is the kind of energy policy we will provide. 
COAL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESENERGY--ALTERNATIVE SOURCESNUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES--FOREIGN COUNTRIESENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     * \* V* R* H*
 >* 9* 4* +* '* %* * þ)	 © 	 ’ 	 w 	 V  -   e: