Speeches\1972\dem\S72d0925.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/25STUMPBILLINGSMONTANAMTEXCERPTS FROM WESTERN STATES WATER AND POWER CONFERENCE2574 WORDS

	It's great to be here with my neighbors on the high plains.

	Out here we can see a long way--all the way to the White House and a new administration next year.

	It's a lot more possible today than it was a month ago. Because, in growing numbers, the people in this country have become as fed up as I am with the war in Vietnam and special interest government there at home.

	There are a great many issues in this campaign--the war, high prices, unemployment, crime control, and so on.

	But today I want to address myself to the particular concerns of this conference--the need for a national policy for water and power, here in the West and throughout this country.

	When John F. Kennedy spoke to you here in Billings in 1960, he promised to appoint men to the regulatory agencies who would put the public interest first. He made good on his promise.

	When Richard Nixon was campaigning in 1968, his campaign manager, Mr. Mitchell, addressed a group of bankers, and promised that if Mr. Nixon were elected, he would appoint more bankers to make government policy.

	He made good on that promise.

	Under the administration of Richard Nixon, the banks, the conglomerate giants, the oil and utility corporations and their coal subsidiaries have received the tender loving care of our government.

	And the little fellow has had benign neglect.

	Just recently we learned--and the full facts have not yet come to light-- about the sale of American wheat to Russia. Who benefited? The Russians did. We bailed them out of a severe shortage. A few big grain dealers did. They reaped windfall profits. And who paid for it? First, the farmer who grew the wheat and sold it at a low price because his government didn't tell him the truth. And second, the taxpayer who will now have to pay at least $100 million in unnecessary export subsidies.

	And now those grain speculators want to crawl through a tax loophole that would exempt 50 percent of their windfall profits from any tax at all. Those fellows aren't just sharks, they're hogs.

	This is just one example of a long series of special deals for special interests. You have to go back to the time of Warren G. Harding to find an administration so beholden to and dominated by big business as the one we have today.

	And let me say today that kind of government is going to end--not in four years but in four more months.

	In no area of our national life has the special interest character of this administration been clearer than in its attitude toward our nation's resources.

	The present Secretary of the Interior is an Easterner who cares little and understands less about the problems of the Western Region, which has historically been the special concern of the Interior Department.

	Mr. Nixon's Assistant Secretary of Interior for Water and Power Resources, James Smith, is a former executive of a major gas utility. For several years he was a lobbyist for an association of private power companies, big grain interests, and barge shippers.

	Under his leadership, the Bureau of Reclamation undertook the North Central Power Study, working hand in glove with the major private power companies. The small consumer-owned utilities were included only after their vigorous protest. But the power magnates still controlled that study.

	As a result, it calls for the development of several giant power plants in the coal fields of Montana and Wyoming--without any regard whatsoever to the devastation of the land and water of farmers and ranchers which would result from unrestricted strip mining.

	It is this kind of callous disregard for the people and the people's land that you and I protest in the Nixon administration.

	Mr. Nixon has loaded the Federal Power Commission with friends of the utilities and big oil companies. Like the Department of Agriculture, the FPC has a revolving door that connects it to special interest groups. Commissioner Carl Bagge resigned to become president of the National Coal Association. Commissioner Lawrence O'Connor became vice president of Standard Oil of Ohio. And Bagge was replaced by a consultant to natural gas companies, Pinckney Walker, while O'Connor was succeeded by a lawyer for one of Mr. Connolly's big Texas oil companies, Rush Moody.

	Do you wonder why the Federal Power Commission has repeatedly handed down rulings favorable to powerful special interests?


	Just last month the Commission took a major section of the natural gas industry out of effective federal regulation. Instead of the traditional area rate-making proceedings that have been upheld by the courts over the years, the gas producers can now come in with sales agreements at any price and ask for approval.

	Fifteen of my colleagues in the Senate formally entered a protest in that case. They estimated the cost to consumers of the increase through this technique would be $15 billion a year. The potential windfall to the industry, over the life of the estimated reserves, will be up to one trillion dollars.

	Not surprisingly, the Nixon Commission ruled against the senators and handed that enormous windfall to the big corporations.

	The Commission argued that gas is in short supply. The fact is that the United States government has never obtained an impartial independent estimate of the gas reserve of this country. 

	I think it's time we had a Power Commission that will protect the public interest, the interest of all the people, instead of fattening giant corporate treasuries.

	The failures of the Nixon administration reach far beyond the FPC.

	Richard Nixon's Department of Justice has been a disaster, from ITT to the fight on crime. But nowhere has its failure been more glaring than in its abandonment of the antitrust laws when it comes to protecting the resources of the West.

	In recent years the big oil companies have been buying up competing fuels. They want to achieve shared monopoly control of all fuels consumed in this country. They already own most of the major coal production in the United States and a large share of the uranium production. Since natural gas is found with oil, they control that too.

	More than two years ago coal and oil prices began rising fast. Members of Congress demanded a grand jury investigation of possible collusion and price fixing in coal and oil. But Richard Kleindienst and Richard Nixon said no. They passed the buck to the Federal Trade Commission. And you and I know what the chances are of reform there--zero.

	And before this election is over, we should be told which Texas oil millionaire monopolists kicked in to the $10 million slush fund to reelect the President.

	The Nixon administration has turned its Western water resource policy into the same drive to create private monopolies over natural resources. These same big oil and coal monopolies want options on federal water for coal gasification, power plant construction, and other development of the rich coal resources they have been given. And under the Nixon administration they're getting what they want. And they are trampling on the historic land rights of Indian tribes in the process.

	Richard Nixon has taken the old Republican policy of "no new starts" and made it the basis of a total distortion of the time-honored standards by which resources projects are measured. The administration's Water Resources Council has proposed a discount rate for calculating the costs of water resources projects which would be tied to the "opportunity cost of money" rather than the real cost of money to the federal government. This approach totally ignores the fact that public and private projects involve a different degree of risk. It ignores the fact that capital is not always easily raised. The result is that the benefit-cost ratios on new water projects have been estimated incorrectly at too high a figure to make needed new projects feasible.

	High officials of the Nixon administration have talked about "phasing out" the 2 percent REA loan program. They have frozen loan funds appropriated by the Congress--impounded money for public land management and funds appropriated by Congress to offset alkali damage here on the Northern plains.

	Richard Nixon has talked a great deal about the environment.

	But he has done precious little to protect it.

	Today, one-third of all American streams violate federal pollution standards. Industrial waste is poisoning our rivers, oil spills are fouling the beaches, and the administration is virtually idle, except to encourage offshore oil drilling. As things stand now, it will take a five year investment of $42 billion to clean up our waters--and more than half of the pollution comes from industry.

	Richard Nixon has tried to sabotage the law requiring federal agencies to weigh "environmental impact" before undertaking projects. He did his best to gut the strongest water pollution bill that has ever been enacted in this country, the Water Control Act of 1972.

	An estimated 40,000 corporations broke the pollution laws between January 1970 and June of 1971. This administration enjoined only thirty-seven of them. The "national permit program" they have adopted as their policy in this vital area is nothing more than a license to pollute at will the air and the waters of America. This administration impounded $700 million for environmental protection in fiscal year 1971, $56 million for rural water and waste disposal and $200 million for basic water and sewer facilities.

	You can tell a President's priorities by the money he impounds. You don't see Mr. Nixon impounding money for bombs or napalm to drop on Vietnam.

	I could go on and on. But I don't need to tell this audience that the Nixon administration has been bad news to everybody who is interested in the water and power resources of the United States.

	It has stopped public power development in its tracks, handed one preferment after another to the oil and coal and power giants, allowed pollution to run wild, encouraged monopoly, and ignored the consumer.

	I think it's time to turn those policies around.

	The waters of this nation belong to the people. The energy resources of this nation belong to the people.

	Those resources should be developed for the benefit of all the people, not for a few giant corporations.

	That will become the national policy in a McGovern administration.

	This is not a question that is of interest only to a few people in the Western states. Increasingly it is a question that affects the daily lives of people from New York to Los Angeles.

	This country is headed for an energy crisis. In some areas, that crisis is already upon us--we can see it in New York when electric power fails and lights go out in hospital operating rooms, people are stuck in elevators, and millions of homes and offices go dark.

	America's per capita consumption of energy is more than six times the world average. But there is more behind this crisis than increased use. Unwise pricing, poor management and shortsighted policies by both industry and government have brought us to where we are.

	The next Secretary of the Interior is going to have to face up to that fact. Only the wisest public policy can avert calamity. The time has come when almost as a matter of survival, we simply must manage our power and water resources wisely in the public interest.

	That is what I intend to do as your President.

	And so today I want to state the outlines of my program for developing and conserving resources of the West and of the nation.

	First, I will appoint a Secretary of the Interior--and Assistant Secretaries--who will put the public interest first, not the special interests. And men who know the West, where our resources lie.

	Second, I will appoint to the Federal Power Commission members who will look after the public interest, not the selfish special interests.

	Third, I will appoint an Attorney General who will vigorously enforce the antitrust laws and stop the growth of monopolies.

	Fourth, I will instruct the Secretary of the Interior to develop water and coal and other energy sources on public lands under strict environmental regulations. That means, among other things, strict regulation of strip mining on flat lands--so the land worked will be left not a wasteland, but a garden.

	Fifth, I will instruct federal resource agencies to discontinue mineral leasing, including the leasing of coal lands, until a coordinated public interest policy for their management has been devised. And the development of that policy should be done with public involvement, so that environmental factors will be given their due.

	Sixth, I will instruct the Bureau of Reclamation to work with the public, not with the big power companies, and to plan water projects for the people, not the oil monopolies.

	Seventh, I will restore the Rural Electrification Administration as the principal credit source for generation, distribution and transmission cooperatives. We must maintain adequate funding for a 2 percent loan program.

	Eighth, I will fully fund federal programs and vigorously prosecute federal laws to restore the quality of America's waterways and protect the environment around us. If Richard Nixon vetoes the water bill--as he might--I will have it reintroduced. If he signs it, I will have it fully funded--and strictly enforced.

	Ninth, I will repeal the "no new starts" policy of the Nixon administration and resume multipurpose development of our water resources for the benefit of all the people, where such development is sound environmentally and represents its best and fullest use.

	Tenth, I will make the energy crisis a matter of urgent study, including whatever technological research is necessary for energy conservation, for converting Western coals to gas, liquid fuels, and electric power, and for new generators on existing hydro-dams.

	Eleventh, I will urge the Congress to enact legislation authorizing a national grid along the lines of the bill Senator Metcalf and I introduced this year, which would bring the benefits of steady, low-cost electric power to every home in this country.

	Twelfth, I will enlarge and protect our national parks, national forests, wilderness areas, scenic rivers and historic places and monuments.

	That is my program for water, for power, and for the West. I have tried to tell you plainly what I propose to do as your president. Many of you here today have known me for years, here in Montana, over in South Dakota, back in Washington. I like to think that those who now [missing text] me believe that when I say I will do something, I'll do it.

	We live in the most dramatic part of America. We have learned to live with nature and to harness it where we can. And we know that we can only do so together.

	Our exploration of space has taught us many things. None of them is more important than the fact that we may well possess the only planet in the universe that is hospitable to life as we know it.

	Only a few inches of soil, only a thin layer of pure atmosphere, only a little clean water, only a few minerals stand between us and extinction.

	This Earth of ours is our most precious heritage. It is ours to use wisely and love deeply. Nothing less will ensure a hospitable dwelling place, here in the plains and mountains we love, and throughout this country, for our children's children.

AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSBUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONCOAL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSNATURAL GAS INDUSTRY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESRECLAMATION PROJECTSREGIONALISM--WESTSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSWATER POLLUTIONENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESWATER RESOURCES     > Ó= Í= É= Á=
 µ= °= «= £= œ= š= c= Y=	 I	 -	 	 ù 	 Õ 	 ½ 	 ¥ 	 ‡ 	 q 	 ] 	 L 	 5  &   e: