Speeches\1988\rep\S88R0909.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)09/09STUMPROCKFORDILLINOISILILLINOIS FEDERATION OF REPUBLICAN WOMEN1,492 WORDS

	We have a mission this fall--a mission that will shape America's future into the next century.

	It is a mission of hope for a safer and more peaceful world, and for a growing, optimistic America. That's what's at stake in this election. That's why I'm running hard. Working hard. And I mean to win.

	Peace and economic growth--those are the two great issues of any presidential campaign. And as I go around the country talking about them, I feel both proud and determined--proud of our record and determined to build on it.

	Yesterday I was in east Texas, at the Longhorn Army Ammunition Depot in Marshall, and what I saw there was unforgettable. I witnessed the deliberate destruction of two Pershing missiles--two intermediate-range nuclear missiles. Last week the Soviet Union destroyed some of their SS-20 missiles.

	These acts of destruction were acts of peace--the result of our historic agreement to destroy an entire class of nuclear weapons.

	For the first time in the nuclear age we have taken a step beyond the setting of limits on nuclear arms--we have moved to reduce them.

	We have lived now for forty-three years with the awesome destructive power of atom bombs. We have lived with the strategic concept called Mutual Assured Destruction. It has kept the peace; but I believe, as President Reagan believes, that there is a better way. I believe that we can build a safer world, in which the only bombs in children's dreams are the ones that are thrown in a football game.

	We are moving in the right direction. We saw that yesterday in Marshall, Texas, and we can see it in Geneva, Switzerland, where Americans and Soviets are sitting down together to discuss ways to cut our strategic arsenals in half and create a more stable peace. I will have no higher priority as president than building on this progress.

	There is a chasm that is wide and profound between my opponent's beliefs and mine. For forty years there has been a bipartisan consensus in this country that peace comes through strength. But my opponent is far outside that consensus--far out on the left-hand side.

	We wouldn't have achieved an INF treaty if we hadn't deployed our Pershing missiles in Europe. But my opponent was out there calling for a freeze--a freeze that would have locked in the Soviets' monopoly.

	And we won't achieve further arms agreements with the Soviets by giving everything away before we reach the bargaining table.

	My opponent is against the MX, the Minuteman, and flight testing for missiles--a policy that adds up to the planned obsolescence of our land-based deterrent. He's waffled on the B-1, said he wouldn't deploy Stealth or the Trident missile. He wants to scrap two carrier groups. He's against ASAT and he'd cancel SDI. Sometimes he gives the impression that he's opposed to every new weapons system since the slingshot.

	I make this solemn pledge to you: I will not allow America to be made weak again.

	Look around the world. Peace is breaking out all over. Freedom and democracy are on the march. Our policy of peace through strength is making the world a safer place. We've worked hard to give America a stronger defense--and we're not going to let them take it away.

	And there's another thing we're going to fight for--and that's the unprecedented economic growth we have enjoyed for the last six years.

	It's very generous of my opponent to keep using the words "good jobs at good wages." It's not very often that a Democrat goes around reminding the voters about Republican achievements.

	Nearly eighteen million jobs. Ninety percent of them full-time. Two-thirds of them in categories which pay over $20,000 a year. Income is up, and employment is at record levels.

	Under the last Democratic administration, family income, adjusted for inflation, fell by 3.5 percent. Since we took over, it has risen by more than 10 percent. What does that mean? It means the average American family, the one right in the middle, is earning $4,000 a year more than it would under Democratic policies.

	The other day, my opponent complained about interest rates. What he forgot to say was that when his party left office, the prime rate was over twice as high as it is today--it was 21.5 percent.

	Lower interest rates mean a more vibrant economy, and they mean millions more Americans can afford to own homes. Compared to 1980, the typical mortgage costs almost $3,000 a year less in interest payments.

	And here's the most important point of all: The typical American family is paying $2,200 less in federal income taxes now than it would have under the 1980 rates.

	Income up, house payments and taxes down--a typical homeowning family is almost $10,000 a year better off today than it would be under Democratic policies.

	We've worked hard to rebuild America's prosperity--and we're not going to let them take it away.

	My opponent says he will raise taxes only as a last resort. Well, last resort or first resort, when a politician talks like that, you know that's one resort he's checking into.

	Let me tell you my position--I will not raise your taxes, period. I know that Congress will push. They'll try to raise taxes, and I'll say no. They'll try again, and I'll say no again. And then they'll try again, and I'll say:

	Read my lips: No new taxes.

	Now, our economy could not have grown as fast as it has without the increased participation of women. Two-thirds of all the new jobs created since 1980 have gone to women. The unemployment rate for adult women is now below the rate for adult men.

	From 1980 to 1985, the number of businesses owned by women increased by almost half and the income for these businesses increased three times as fast as for businesses owned by men.

	For our economy to continue growing, women will be even more important in the years ahead. But as fast as the work force is changing, the work place hasn't always kept up.

	Today women working full-time earn 70 cents for every dollar earned by men. Now, that's up from 62 percent since 1979--but it's not good enough. There's only one amount that a woman should earn for every dollar earned by a man--and that is one dollar.

	Equal pay for equal work is not a slogan, not an opinion, not an interesting idea. It is a right. It's a right to be protected with vigorous enforcement of the law--and that's what I mean to do.

	We must also keep up with the increased need for childcare. As recently as 1960, only 19 percent of women with children under six years old were working. By 1985 that number was 54 percent.

	My opponent and I agree on the need for more childcare. But, typically, his answer is to build a bureaucracy. My answer is to increase parental choice.

	Our proposals would cost roughly the same amount. But the legislation he supports would spend up to a quarter of that on bureaucracy.

	I have proposed a "Children's Tax Credit" of up to $1,000 for working families with low incomes, for every child under age four. The money wouldn't go to licensing bureaus and standard setters--it would go to parents... and it is parents who should determine the best care for their child--be it at home, with friends or relatives, at a neighborhood center or a center run by their church.

	Barbara and I have five kids and ten extraordinary grandchildren. I know where I want child-care decisions left--and it's with Mom and Dad, not Uncle Sam.

	The changing work force is just one of the many challenges we face in the years ahead as we seek to sustain our economic growth. But challenges present opportunity as well as danger.

	Frederick Jackson Turner once wrote, "Since the days when the great fleet of Columbus sailed into the waters of the New World, America has been another name for opportunity."

	Through all these years, remarkable as it seems, that is still true today. We still are, as Lincoln said more than a century ago, "the last, best hope of man on earth." Our mission is to keep it so.

	You are my messengers. If you help me get the word out--if you help us get out there--into the small towns and union halls, the churches and the suburbs and the malls--if we work together, hard, undaunted, and undiscouraged, then we will win. Our vision will prevail--and we'll continue on, toward a new American century.

	Thank you very much.

BUSINESS--WOMENCHILD CAREECONOMY--GENERALEMPLOYMENT--WOMENINTEREST RATESMILITARY PREPAREDNESSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME--WOMEN     Ð! œ! –! ’! ˆ!
 €! {! v! n! f! d! =! 2!	 Ä 	 µ 	 « 	 › 	 Š 	 | 	 g 	 3 	  e: