Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0904.003SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/04STUMPWASHINGTONWA2282 WORDS

	Thank you very much, my colleague in the United States Senate, Warren Magnuson, who has just introduced me here so generously tonight, and I want to say in response to what Senator Magnuson has said that I am very grateful to have his strong voice and his dedication by my side in this important effort in 1972. I think many of you know that over the years of my service in the United States Senate I have been especially interested in the problems of hungry people. I think it goes back to the years when I was a youngster growing up in very difficult times and when I came to see hunger face to face on the part of people around me. I have never forgotten what it did to them and so it has been an interest of mine that has stayed with me, not only during my years in the Congress, but during two years when I was privileged to serve as director of our Food for Peace program under the late President Kennedy.

	But one of the things that I appreciate about Senator Magnuson is the fact that when reports began to come into Washington about hunger right here in his own city, he took the floor of the United States Senate, he went into the committee rooms and he put through a bill to provide $20 million in emergency food assistance to deal with the problems of hungry people here in King County and across this country, and it was then we saw the familiar pattern that has characterized the Nixon administration in so many ways--they looked at that money that had been appropriated through the leadership of Senator Magnuson, and with the approval of the Congress of the United States, and with the support of these four congressman who are on the stage with me tonight--Congressman Foley, Congressman Mead, Congressman Hicks, Congressman McCormick--with the help of all of those men, they looked at that appropriation and they sat on it and they did nothing, and they said we couldn't afford to meet the problems of hungry people here in America. And that is what is wrong with the priorities of the Nixon administration.

	I think the time has come in this country when we need a leadership that is more interested in exploring the hunger on the face of a little child and in doing something about the anxiety on the face of an unemployed worker than they are in exploring the dark side of an unknown planet. This is the change that we need, and we need some other changes in this country. We need an administration that will not only end the killing and destruction and waste that is now going on in Southeast Asia, but we need something just as important or maybe more important than that. We need to learn the lessons that this conflict has taught us and if we learn those lessons, never again will we commit the young men of this country to die for a corrupt military dictator ten thousand miles from our shores.

	We are going to hear a lot of false charges in the course of this campaign. I read the other day a statement from some Republican politician that George McGovern doesn't care about the American prisoners of war in Hanoi. Well I want to say to that gentleman that my heart aches for every one of these young men who has sat in those prison cells for too long a time, but I have enough common sense to know that the only way we are ever going to bring those men out of their prison cells is to end the bombing and end the war that keeps them in their cells.

	You are going to hear too that George McGovern is a radical. Well Senator Magnuson originated in my part of the country and he knows something about the attitudes of people in South Dakota and that part of this land and I can assure you that we don't elect very many radicals to the United States Senate from the state of South Dakota. I saw this sign behind me and I appreciate it--it says "Seattle Loves George McGovern"--I want you to know that I not only love Seattle but I love this country enough so that I want to call it to a higher standard than the one we are now following under the Nixon-Agnew administration.

	Now basically the struggle in which we are involved in 1972 is a struggle between the Republican philosophy of government and the Democratic view of how the priorities of this nation ought to be directed. It is a struggle to take government out of the hands of social interests and put that government back in the hands of the people of the United States. I heard the President say today, or at least I read it in the press, that he believes in the work ethic rather than the welfare ethic. Well let me say to Mr. Nixon that all of us can agree with that, but what are we to say about a president who gives us the work ethic on Labor Day and the other 364 days out of the year he presides over economic policies that have added two million unemployed persons here in the United States. And when he talks about welfare, let us remember that when he took over the White House in January of 1969 there were only 9 million people on the welfare rolls of this country. Today, three and a half years later, there are fifteen million on the welfare rolls, not because they want to be, but because of the economic mistakes of this administration, that their mistaken view of how you picture a sound economy has dried up the jobs, raised the interest rates, has tightened up on the economic machinery of this country to the point where people who had jobs a few years or even months ago are now walking the streets looking for jobs that are not there.

	So we are engaged in a struggle with an administration that does not know how to produce a full employment economy; an administration that has mismanaged the economic affairs of this country until they have produced the worst inflation and the worst unemployment and the biggest federal deficits that we have had at any time in modern memory and that has to end.

	We are also engaged in some other struggles in 1972. We are engaged in the kind of political agents who were willing to invade our party headquarters in the dead of night with their rubber gloves and their wiretapping equipment and that has to end. We are engaged with a group of people who are seriously setting out to raise a campaign war chest of $245 million and that is not going to be an easy challenge to meet. They filled the White House not with servants of the country, but with clever public relations experts whose function is to manipulate the people of America. And that technique of political manipulation was born some twenty-six years ago in the state of California with a pair of men called Murray Chotiner and Richard Nixon, and that same tricky pair is operating as a partnership in 1972.

	I have seen a lot of friendly signs out here tonight. I did see one out on the side of the hotel that said "Democrats for Nixon." The national chairman of that club is the former Secretary of the Treasury under Mr. Nixon, the Honorable John Connolly of the state of Texas, and I want to say this to Mr. Connolly--we will let you go to the Republicans with your oil billionaire friends and we will take the oil workers and the dock workers and the aircraft workers and all the other working people of this country. This election is not going to be decided by the John Connollys of this country. It is going to be decided by the ordinary rank and file citizens in every state in this Union.

	I know this fight is uphill. I know I am behind in the polls. I know we are short on money. I know we have made some mistakes, but I have had to fight uphill every single step of the way in sixteen years in public life, so this is nothing new to me. And I want you to remember that those same public opinion polls that show me running so far behind Richard Nixon are the same polls that had me at three or four percent just thirty days before we won the Wisconsin primary and went on to win the Democratic Presidential nomination. So I am ready for this uphill fight against Richard Nixon, and I believe we are going to win that fight. I think we are going to win primarily for one reason, and that is because we have some sense of the greatness and the decency and the goodness of America that the people of this country want restored to the very highest councils of government.

	And I want you to listen to a note that my seventeen-year-old daughter typed on a piece of paper and handed to me on last Saturday. It is the words to a song that is familiar to most of you and I read the concluding lines of that song: "The foes will rise with the sleep still in their eyes and they will jerk from their bed and think they are dreaming; they will pinch themselves and squeal and know it is for real--the hour when the ship comes in and then they will raise their hands saying we will meet all your demands but we will shout from the bows your days are numbered and like Pharaoh's triumph they will be drowned in the tides and like Goliath they will be conquered." And then she went on to add this note: "Your ship has been caught in a storm at sea for a while, but I know on election day you will surprise the world and that your ship will come in--Love, Mary." And then this P.S.: "Keep this in your pocket and read it over when you get discouraged."

	Well, everybody in a political campaign who has been around at all knows that there are times when you get discouraged, but when that happens to me, I think of the people who are dying in Southeast Asia, and I think of those young Americans who are still stuck in those cells in Hanoi, some of them for five or six years, and I know that we can't afford to get discouraged, and that we can't afford four more years of needless dying and destruction ten thousand miles from our shores. I think of men and women without jobs and I know we can't afford four more years of that. And it is not necessary in this country. We can provide a decent job for every man and woman in America who is able to work if we set our policies and priorities on a proper course. And I think of other things: I think of hungry children right here in King County; I think of young GIs, some of them hopelessly hooked on heroin; I think of young mothers who can't pay the grocery bill; and I know we can't afford another four more years of that. I think of the wiretappers; I think of the war mongers; I think of the purveyors of racial fear and I know that the people of the United States don't want four more years of that. I think of lonely old people living in poverty and all of us here tonight who are young or are in our middle years ought to remember that we have one thing in common, and that is that some day we will be old, and some day we won't have the strength and capacity that we have today, and we want to make this the kind of a country where we can look forward to those older years with happiness and confidence and some reasonable measure of security and I am glad to be on a platform with congressmen and a senator and another senator who isn't here, Senator Jackson, who has fought for better programs for these older people and for the working citizens of this land.

And I think about some other things when I recognize the difficulties of a national presidential campaign. I think about the harassment of the free press in this country that they have received at the hands of this administration and we can't afford four more years of that. We cannot afford four more years of a leadership that has no vision at all of America's greatness because in the ancient words "where there is no vision the people perish." So when we are prone to get discouraged let us remember the old hymn that the black slaves sang a hundred years ago: "Sometimes I get discouraged and think my work's in vain and then the Holy Spirit revives my soul again." I have been with the people of this country today in Ohio, California and here in the state of Washington tonight and I am not discouraged. My spirit is revived; my hopes are high; the main sail is shifting; our ship is coming in and with your help we are going to prevail in 1972. We are going to bring America home to the great ideals with which we began.

Thank you very much.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYFREEDOM OF THE PRESSHUNGER (UNITED STATES)POWS/MIASPUBLIC OPINION/POLLSSENIOR CITIZENSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVIETNAM WARWATERGATE     E0 0 0 0 ÿ/
 ó/ î/ é/ é/ ß/ Ý/ Ý/ Ó/	 – 	  	 k 	 U 	 L 	 8 	 ) 	  	 	 e: