Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1003.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/03STUMPSt. LouisMISSOURIMOSoulard Farmer's Market3550 WORDS
	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

	It is time for them to go. Thank you. Thank you.

	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me say what an honor it is to be here with your congressman, the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, one of the great, great public servants in this country today, Dick Gephardt. I am so honored to be here with him.

	I want you to know that we're going to have a partnership for change in this country, to move this country forward, to end the deadlock, to end the paralysis, put the American people first and put the American people back to work, starting November 3rd.

	I also want to say that I had a wonderful trip through this Farmer's Market this morning and I want to say a special word of thanks to the people inside the Soulard Market. You know, we have shut them down.

	Now, I don't ordinarily do this but I'm going to tell you, after this rally's over, go in there and buy something so they won't go broke on Saturday. Yeah, go in there and buy some broccoli. I like broccoli. I got in this campaign to increase the incomes of the American people, not reduce them. So I want you to go to the Farmer's Market after the rally's over.

	Let me also say that, as all of you know, I think, Al and Tipper Gore and Hillary and I ended our first bus trip here in St. Louis--our first thousand miles--with a great rally, and I'm glad to be back with your mayor and with all the Democratic ticket. I want you to love them all.

I want you to send Jerry Rasmus Soro to the United States Senate. We need some more--I want to work with Mel Carnahan in the Governor's Office. And with Jay Nixon and Roger Wilson. And let me say this--I don't know how many of you saw Freeman Bosley on television last night but he was unbelievable.

	They may not want you to register in this town but I do and we need your votes on November the 3rd.

	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I had a little trouble getting the other side to the debates. I got all dressed up and went to East Lansing. Nobody showed up at the dance.

	Then I got all dressed up and I went to Lexington and nobody showed up at the dance.

	And I was prepared to show up again on Tuesday but--or Sunday, tomorrow, I couldn't get anybody to show up at the dance. I even offered to go on Larry King with Mr. Bush. Which could be hazardous to my health.

	But finally we have reached an agreement for presidential debates. And so I can tell you that the first debate will be on October the 11th, and I can say to George Bush, "Meet me in St. Louis."

	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a great sign here that says, "Bill can fish, George will cut debate." I love it. Let me say to all of you, and make no mistake about it--this is a debate between more than individuals. It is a debate about the great ideas which shape a country's destiny.

	Mr. Bush is a good debater, in spite of all his talk about being at a disadvantage to me because I went to Oxford. I never studied debate at Oxford. Mr. Bush went to a country day school and to Yale. I think he can take care of himself in debate.

	The issue is not whether he's a good debater or not, it's whether he has a good record and a good vision and the answer to that is, no.

	This is the president who promised us 15 million new jobs, and after the last accounting is in, listen to this--there has been a reduction of 35,000 jobs in the private sector in the United States of America. The only job growth, less than a million, has been in government, which he so deplores.

	There has been a reduction in personal income of $1,600, on average, for the American families in the last two years alone.

	Construction and manufacturing and consumer confidence are down.

	There has been a reduction, listen to this--a reduction of nearly 100,000 Americans per month covered by health care. Almost 100,000 of us are losing our health insurance every month.

	Poverty is up. There has been more than twice as many bankruptcies for every new job created in this country. One in ten of our people is on food stamps, the cost of health care, housing, education, and taxes has exploded for the middle class.

	So jobs are down, poverty's up, income's down, bankruptcies are up, construction's down, food stamps are up, health care coverage is down and the cost of health care is up. As my running mate, Al Gore, says, "Everything's that down ought to be up, everything that's up ought to be down. They've turned this country upside down. We're going to put it right-side up in November."

	My favorite line--four more weeks. That's right, four more weeks.

	This is not a debate between two people hurling charges. It is a debate about the direction of the country. As my favorite line that I didn't get in this election, that my running mate developed is, "When they say, 'Four more years,' it sounds more like a threat than a promise."

	I tell you, my fellow Americans, we cannot afford four more years of trickle-down economics. We have tried it their way. Their way is to say that the government has no responsibility to the American people, to the great middle class, other than to cut taxes for the richest Americans and wait for the benefits to trickle down.

	Well, for the first time in seventy years, the top 1 percent of the American people control more wealth than the bottom 90 percent. But the benefits have not trickled down.

	This administration has the worst performance in fifty years.

	I offer you a new approach. Not trickle-down economics, not tax-and-spend economics, but putting the American people first--investing in our jobs here at home, educating our people, controlling health care costs, challenging our people to partnership to compete and win in the global economy. That is what this election is all about.

	And my fellow Americans, the most impressive thing to me, as I have traveled across this country for one year now, is to see how the American people are uniting across regional and party and racial and income lines.

	Just in the last couple of weeks, the Clinton-Gore ticket has been endorsed by the executives of twenty-one high-tech companies in Silicon Valley in northern California. Two-thirds of them are Republicans but they know there must be a partnership between government and the private sector if we're going to compete with good jobs in America.

	In Chicago, over 400 business executives from all across America--over one-third of them Republicans--endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they know we've got to have a partnership to bring our economy back and this administration will never give it to them.

	The other day, Admiral William Crowe, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because he knew--because, he said, he had served his country in uniform for forty-seven years but you can't be strong abroad unless you're strong at home and we have to face the problems of America here at home.

	And just this week, people who were top officials in both Democratic and Republican administrations endorsed our health care plan and said--listen to this--that under my health care plan, all Americans will have basic health insurance. Under Bush's plan, 27 million still won't have it by the end of the decade. Under my plan the average American family will save--they said this, not me--$1,179 a year by the year 2000, while health care costs will continue to explode under the Bush plan. There is no choice. We need a new direction and everybody knows it.

	There is no more painful and gripping example of the neglect of this administration than the recent report on national television that this administration has been spending our tax dollars to finance the shutdown of American plants and the relocation of those plants in Central America--our tax dollars.

	The Agency for International Development has supervised giving low-interest loans to people if they will shut their plants down in America and move them to Central America. But they won't give low-interest loans to people to modernize their plants so they can stay here in the United States. That's what we should be doing.

	They have spent your tax dollars to train workers in other countries to take jobs that were in America, but they won't spend as much money to train people to keep their jobs here in America. It is literally true that this administration has spent $150 million to train workers in other countries and only $100 million to train workers in our country who have lost their jobs because of foreign competition. We've got our priorities backwards and I'll set them straight.

	This administration, this administration spent your tax dollars to advertise the fact that people could shut their plants down here and get 57-cent-an-hour labor in Central America. They advertised it with your tax dollars.

	An employee of your government, paid for by you, was filmed on television saying to a person who said he was a manufacturer from Miami, and he asked this fellow, "Well, if I shut my plant down here and move it to Central America, will these workers be reliable?" And someone you paid for said, "Oh, these people are more reliable than the workers in Florida." Then the man asked, "Well, what about labor unions?" And the person paid for with your tax dollars said, "Oh, you can fire those people. We've got them blacklisted. There's no problem here." A plain violation of international law.

	That is how insensitive they are.

	Now my fellow Americans, let me tell you that I am not against trade and I am not against investment and I am not against helping Central America. You heard Congressman Gephardt talk about John Kennedy. I was inspired by President Kennedy's call for an Alliance for Progress. But when we invest in Central America, I want to help them promote progress in their own country, not poverty there and poverty here. That is the policy of the Bush administration.

	I believe in expanding trade with all nations. A wealthy country can only grow richer by expanding trade. But it has to be on terms that are fair to us. This administration has been taken for a ride. This administration has not tried to help our farmers in trade, this administration has had a very narrow view of what it means to expand trade, and this administration has been insensitive to the fact that two-thirds of the American people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. And you know it as well as I do.

	I say to you that the debate I want is not just a debate about their record but a debate about where we must go. We cannot keep going on with trickle-down. We cannot go back to tax-and-spend, to the idea that if you tax the wealthy more and divide it that we will have a good economy. We have got to grow this economy. We need to grow more jobs, we need to grow faster incomes, we need to grow more opportunity and that is what I offer.

	I ask you to join with me in a new crusade that will give people even more incentive if they invest in American jobs, American factories, American businesses, American agriculture. That's what kind of incentives we need in this country.

	I ask you here in Missouri, where there are so many people who did so much to win the Cold War, not to leave those people out in the cold. Under our plan, instead of just cutting defense we would take every dollar by which we reduce defense, every last dollar, and reinvest it in an American economy for the twenty-first century, putting those people back to work in high-speed rail, light rail, road construction, environmental construction, solid waste, recycling--the kinds of jobs that will build an economy for the twenty-first century. We cannot abandon them. I ask you to support a real education presidency.

	Let me say this very clearly. No president can promise you to make the American economy the way it used to be. No one can promise to turn the clock back. What we have to do is to make all these changes that are going on in the world today beneficial to us instead of harmful.

	We have been punished for long enough because we refused to adjust to the changes in the world. I want change to be our friend, not our enemy. And to do it we have to have a world class system of education and training in this country for people throughout their lifetime.

	And how will we do that?

	We will do that by guaranteeing a program that will say to every high school graduate who does not go on to college, here is two years of further apprenticeship training so you can get a good job, not a dead-end job.

	We will provide incentives to teach every person in the work force today to read at the high school level and to get a high school diploma within the next five years so that they can learn the skills of the new economy.

	And we will open the doors of college education to all Americans. Under our program, any American will be able to borrow the money to finance a college education and pay it back in one of two ways--either as a small percentage of their income after they go to college, when they go to work. Or, even better, by working for two years for our country here at home before or after college.

	Consider this--You think about the life of St. Louis. If every young person from this region said, "I want to borrow the money to go to college but I'll pay it back, I'll be a teacher, I'll be a police officer, I'll work with the elderly, I'll work with people with disabilities, I'll help kids stay out of trouble and out of gangs, I'll work to rehabilitate housing to solve the homeless problem." From the grassroots up we can solve the problems of our country and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	My fellow Americans, this is a debate about whether we can do better and whether we are better. This is a great country. But we are going in the wrong direction and our people, who have worked hard and played by the rules, have been punished long enough.

	This is a great country but we have been divided against one another for long enough. We can no longer afford to be divided against one another by race, by region, by gender. You name it. By every sort of category. This administration, at critical junctures has tried to drive wedges between the American people.

	In the first two nights of that Republican Convention they said that people who weren't just like them weren't Americans. One of their speakers said we needed a religious war. They seemed, at critical junctures for two days, to be more interested in running against my wife than running against me. Well, I'll tell you something. I'm proud of her and George Bush can't win an argument with her.

	You look around this crowd today. There are all kinds of people in this crowd today and we don't all agree with one another on every issue. We don't have all the answers. We know we did not get into this mess overnight and we won't get out overnight.

	We are united by a couple of simple convictions. We don't have a person to waste, everybody counts, everybody has a place in our America.

	We believe in real family values. We know that there are single families, single-parent families, extended families. There are all kinds of families, and the quickest way to break a family is to spend American tax dollars to take their jobs away.

	We believe that the government owes us not only opportunity but responsibility. All of you will have to have the courage to change.

	I am interested in making the American people more independent of their government so they can make more of their own lives. But you cannot do that without a vigorous government working in partnership to make sure we can compete and earn a decent living and get a decent education and get decent health care. Then you will all have to have the courage to do what it takes to make sure we keep up with the pressures and the challenges of the modern world.

	One year ago today, in Little Rock, Arkansas, I declared for president of the United States. You know, when I announced, Mr. Bush was at 70 percent in the polls and I really don't think even my mother thought I could win. But I set out on a journey across this great land. I heard stories of hope and hardship from the snows of New Hampshire to the red clay of Georgia, to the coast of California and points all in between. And I'm honored to be here today to celebrate the first anniversary of this campaign with you in the heartland.

	I have seen some troubling things. I have seen the ugly aftermath of the Los Angeles riots, the awful might of Mother Nature in Florida, the everyday destruction of unemployment and despair.

	I have had countless Americans break down and cry talking to me. Last night as I left Michigan, late at night, a woman came to the fence at the airport and stuck her child's hand through the fence to shake hands with me and she said, "Governor, I am a home builder here. And two years ago my husband and I had $32,000 in our savings account."

	And she started crying and she got all choked up, she said, "Now we have five dollars in it just to keep the account open. Give us something to do again, give us hope again, give us a future again, make a difference again. We need you."

	The thing I want to tell you, my fellow Americans, however, is that things can be better. There is still a lot of hope in this country.

	We're as smart as any people on earth, we have more natural resources, we have more rich diversity that can be a source of strength.

	And I would like to close by reading you something I said a year ago when I entered this crusade for change:

	"I believe with all my heart that, together, we can make this happen. We can usher in a new era of progress, prosperity, and renewal. We can and we must. This is not just a campaign for the presidency, it is a campaign for the future, for the forgotten, hard-working middle class of America who deserve a government that fights for them for a change--a campaign to keep our nation strong at home and abroad.

	"Join with us. I ask for your prayers, your help, your hand and your heart. Together we can make America great again and build a community of hope that will inspire the world."

	I still believe that. Work with me for thirty-two days and we'll take our country back.

	Thank you and God bless you all. Thank you.

BUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESECONOMY, RECESSIONARYEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--GENERALMANUFACTURING--PLANT CLOSINGS     I ‹H ÷H “H  H
 øH ∫H µH ¨H §H ¢H ãH ÅH	 É 	 g 	 R 	 2 	  e: