Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1023.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/23STUMPANN ARBORMICHIGANMIUNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN1,854 WORDS

	Thanks very much.  Let's give a big hand to Gary Hart, who's doing such a wonderful job all over this country campaigning for this ticket.

	To Governor Blanchard; your outstanding senator Don Riegle; to Billford and Sandy Levin; to the other distinguished officials here; to all my friends at the University of Michigan.  The way I see it, anybody who wants to be president should come to the University of Michigan and ask for your vote, and here I am.

	Did you see the debate Sunday night?  Are we going to carry Michigan?  Are we going to win this election?  I knew you had a wonderful student body here.  Now I'm convinced.

	Today this race is wide open.  Today the voters of Michigan and the United States have a choice.  Sunday night in that debate, the American people saw the problem with their own eyes.

	We have a president who cannot talk about a major problem without making a major mistake.  Mr. Reagan is the most detached, the most remote, and the most uninformed president in modern American history.

	We have a president who neither commands nor leads.  It is one year ago today that over three-hundred wonderful young Americans lost their lives in that barracks in Beirut.  Today, on that anniversary, we mourn for them and we grieve with their families.

	Three times in the last year and a half, Americans have been attacked and killed by terrorists in Lebanon.  Time and time again, the president was warned of these dangers by the State Department, by the Defense Department, the intelligence agencies, and even by the terrorists themselves.

	Sunday night, when we talked about Lebanon, what did the president say?  "I didn't do it.  It was a local commander's fault."  Well, we don't elect a president to duck responsibility.  We elect a president to take responsibility and protect our people.

	Then there's Mr. Reagan's secret war in Central America, so secret that he apparently hasn't heard about it.  Today, there is an ugly and illegal war in Nicaragua.  It is pushing us toward disaster and toward the introduction of American combat troops.  Americans are being killed.  Thugs are being trained to assassinate.  It's weakening us and strengthening our adversaries.

	So Sunday night, I asked Mr. Reagan about that.  What was his answer?  He said, "I didn't do it.  Someone in our government did it."  Well, Mr. President, you ordered that war.  You paid for that manual.  It's your secret war, and the American people will hold you accountable on November 6.

	We have a dangerous arms race.  One MX missile contains more explosive power than all the bombs dropped by all sides in World War II plus Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  Of course the Soviets are tough and ruthless, but we must meet them, as all past presidents have, on the common ground of survival.

	I don't doubt the president's commitment to peace, but I come to you today as a public servant who's been involved in every arms control fight over now twenty-five years.  If there's one thing I'm sure of, it's this:  There is no way that the risk of nuclear war will be reduced; there is no hope of containing and reducing that threat, unless you have a president who knows what he's doing and knows how to shape a policy that gives us a chance.

	Mr. Reagan has accelerated the arms race on earth, and now he wants to extend it into the heavens.  If I were a young American, I would really focus on this question, because it's one of the most fateful in the history of nuclear armaments.

	It's your choice.  He wants to extend this arms race into the heavens.  I want to stop it right now and draw the line against it.  It's called Star Wars--killer satellites in space--and delegating for the first time the decision as to whether there will be a war away from the control of the president and into the hands of a remote computer.  It means spending $1 trillion and ending up with a weaker America.

	Sunday night, we got into that issue, and what did Mr. Reagan say?  First, he said he didn't know where these weapons would be located.

	Second, he suggested a demonstration shot of one of these weapons.  If I were the governor of Michigan, right now, I'd call the president and say, "Don't hold that demonstration shot over the state of Michigan."

	Finally, unbelievably, he said we would take the most advanced, sophisticated, technological achievement this nation is capable of, the most advanced computers, the most advanced telecommunications, the most advanced industrial design, and when we get it all done, we'll give it to the Soviet Union.

	I don't think that's either tough or smart.  I wouldn't give the Soviet Union one microchip.  I want to keep it right here in the United States for ourselves and our security.

	Finally, the president must lead toward human rights.  In our debate, the president said the choice is between tyrants or Communists.  He said that's the issue in the Philippines.

	I went to the Philippines as vice president, pressed the Philippine government--Marcos's government--for human rights, called for the release of Aquino, negotiated bases for Subic and Clark Air Field base.  When I left, our security was stronger, and the people of the Philippines knew America stood for human rights.

	This administration took over, and they sent their vice president to the Philippines, who praised Marcos's love of democracy.  This administration does not understand, in the Philippines or anywhere else, that the choice is not between tyrants who say they like us and Communists who oppose us.  There's a third choice, and that's liberty and human rights and democracy that represents the best that our people have.

	It was that higher vision of America that John Kennedy came to this campus to serve twenty-four years ago when he called for the Peace Corps--when he called for matching America's young talent and learning and using it around the world to help others, to teach them how to make progress and to teach that young generation how to lead in our own country.

	It was a classic example of idealism, of tapping our best, and it worked.  We need that kind of practical idealism in this country again.

	Our generation--my generation, the generation of John Kennedy--will never forget that 1960 election.  I was the Minnesota chairman of the Kennedy campaign.  Reagan was running all over the country calling himself the leader of something called Democrats for Nixon.

	During that campaign, he wrote a letter to Mr. Nixon.  I have gotten a copy of it, and I want to read it to you.  This letter said the following.  It's signed "Ronnie Reagan" to Mr. Nixon.  He said:

	"One last thought.  Shouldn't someone tag Mr. Kennedy's bold new imaginative program with its proper age?  Under the tousled boyish haircut, it's still old Karl Marx, first launched a century ago."

	He said:

	"There's nothing new in the idea of government being a big brother to all.  Hitler calls this idea 'state socialism.'"

	Now we've got Mr. Reagan running around this country claiming he was a friend of John Kennedy, but in 1960, when we needed John Kennedy and certainly didn't need Richard Nixon, Mr. Reagan was saying Kennedy's ideas came from Karl Marx and Adolf Hitler.

	I say they came from the idealism of America, and they rest with the best of America.  There's a big difference, and we all know it!

	This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's about toxic waste dumps that give cancer to our children.

	It's not about Bush's locker-room language.  It's about a country that respects women enough to elect Geraldine Ferraro as vice president of the United States.

	It's not about whistle-stop train rides.  It's about students who need to go to college and vocational school and need some help to get through it.

	It's not about having your picture taken at McDonald's.  It's about old folks who don't have enough to pay for medicine.

	This election is not about being proud of our Olympic athletes.  We all are.  It's about the civil rights laws and the laws that prohibit discrimination against women that permitted the best Americans to participate and win the gold for us at the Olympics.

	This election is not about sending a teacher into space.  It's about educating this next generation right here on earth and here at the University of Michigan.

	This election is not about Republicans putting television commercials on TV.  It's about Jerry Falwell putting justices on the Supreme Court.

	This election is not about arm wrestling.  It's about arms control and getting a president who knows what he's doing.

	This election is far more than a choice between two candidates.  It's really a referendum on the future [missing text].

	I want this country to prosper and to grow, to get that national debt down, to unburden your generation of that debt, to get those interest rates down, to let this economy grow, to produce the jobs and the high technology here in this country, to get out in front again so that the future is here in this country.

	I want this nation to again realize that our greatest wealth and our greatest hope is in the training of our people.

	Not far from here, I was able to go to the University of Minnesota because tuition was cheap and because I got the GI Bill.  Generations like me at these great land-grant universities [have been able], just as you here today are able, to have a more marvelous and beneficial life, you're better able to understand the world in which you live, to rejoice in the spirit and in the arts, be more successful in your personal life and more successful as citizens because of what this university has made possible for you.

	I want every American to have a chance to fulfill the highest calling in their life.  I want education and science and training and learning to be a birthright of every American, and we need a renaissance in education to get it done.

	I want a nation that again understands that this air and water and land of ours is not just for our generation to chew up and spit out, pollute and poison; that America is forever, and each generation is a trustee of the beauty of this land.

	I guarantee you that, as president, I'm going to enforce those laws and take polluters to court and not to lunch.

	I want an America in which fairness is once again accepted and demanded.  I will enforce those civil rights laws.  We will ratify that Equal Rights Amendment.  We will pay equal pay for comparable effort, and no one will be denied because of discriminatory reasons.

	This is America at its best.  This is America moving forward.  I say the time has come for new leadership.  The time has come for America to move on.  Help me in this cause.

	Thank you very, very much.

CENTRAL AMERICAEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSHUMAN RIGHTSLEBANONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)PHILIPPINESSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)TERRORISM     A+ + + + ˚*
 * Î* Ê* ›* ’* ”* Ω* ≤*	 Ã 	 Ω 	 ù 	 { 	 o 	 h 	 4 	 ) 	 	 e: