Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0924.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/24STUMPKENOVAWEST VIRGINIAWV1749 WORDS
	You know, I am talking a lot these days, folks, but this is one place I didn't know we were going to see a soul.  But after all, this is the pleasant part of political campaigning, the opportunity to meet Americans face to face, whatever they are doing.  I particularly like it when people can take an hour off from their work and drop down to the railroad yards and I get to see them and exchange ideas.  The way I exchange ideas, of course, is that I do a lot of talking, no question about it.  I talk about a lot of things that are bothering me, and which I think are bothering our nation as we go into this political campaign.  

	Then I get all sorts of answers from you people.  I get them in strange ways.  Sometimes people just shout at me from the crowd, or shout at me as the train goes along.  Sometimes the language is not entirely of the radio and television type.  But they let me know what they mean.  Then, at other times, they send me telegrams after the train pulls out.  Now, you can't do that today in most places because after Senator Nixon's speech last night, there were so many telegrams on the Western Union that they won't accept any more in most places.  There are a good many hundred thousand people in the United States today proving they like Dick, and I like him too.  As a matter of fact, we are going to see him tonight.  He is going to come into Wheeling tonight, and he and I are going to have a talk.  He will come in swinging and he will go out swinging; you know that.

	One of the things Senator Nixon and I have been talking a lot about is the failure of this government to advance the cause of peace in the world.  Only seven years ago we had armies, navies and air forces that made us the most powerful military force in the world, and we know that we have always been the most powerful productive nation in the world.  We know that our inventive genius, the skill of working men and women, is higher than anywhere else in the world.

	It is difficult to understand how any kind of leadership could have brought us through a succession of crisis that keeps us troubled and hysterical--Turkey, Greece, the Berlin airlift, and finally Korea with 120,000 casualties and not ended yet.  It doesn't look like the foreign policy has been handled very brightly.

	This question of peace and war, of course, is not merely a question of troubling our hearts when our boys are over there or are about to go in uniform, but it is a question of the terrific expense it puts on us.  It makes our budget go up.  It is now 85 billion dollars.  I don't think many people have any idea at all what 85 billion dollars is, and I confess I am one of those.  I haven't any idea.  But I do know that even when they are taxing us just as much as they think the freight will bear, we are still twelve percent short of meeting our expenditure program.

	How can we go on like that?  We pile debt on debt.  If we were just stealing from our grandchildren's and our children's piggy banks, that would be one thing.  We are doing that, all right.  But while we are doing it we are piling up deficits that make our money cheaper.  Any money that anyone here has put into a government bond that he bought because his government asked him to and he wanted to be loyal and a good citizen; any money he has put into a life insurance policy; and money he has put into a savings bank--is worth less than when he put it in there.  After all, to get the same basket of groceries today that you got for $10 only ten years ago, you now have to take more than $20 to the groceries to purchase.  It is not the grocery man's fault.

	Do you know what the president of the Retail Association told me the other day?  He said, "I will tell you what storekeepers and the butcher shops and people who sell things to you have become.  Those storekeepers are Uncle Sam's collectors of all the taxes you think you don't pay."  Everything you buy has prices boosted up by taxes.

	They have kidded me a little bit because I have talked to a lot of people and told them they pay a hundred concealed taxes on every boiled egg.  They said, "Oh, this is the egg and Ike."  Okay, but I don't see anything so funny about piling up taxes on everything we buy in most states.  At least in one state I visited they told me there were 192 taxes on a gallon of gasoline.  Now, the question is how long can we go on with this kind of thing?  First, the nation is spending more than it takes in.

	Next, with its tax rate so high, they can't tax us more.  And finally, getting us to the point that the government itself reported that in 1950 the average city family spent $400 more to take care of its shelter, its clothing, and the other things it needed than that same family took in the way of wages.  In other words, they are forcing the householder, forcing families to be just as foolish in their spending programs as is the national government.

	And finally a lady wrote me a letter the other day, and this is what she said, she said, "General, I would like to vote for you, but I want one promise.  I want you to promise that the tax money I pay actually gets to Washington."  She had read too much about these cases of tax collectors, big and little, lining their own pockets with our tax money.  A few of them, thank goodness, have been caught up with and put in the penitentiary where they belong, but just in three cases--those in St. Louis, Boston and San Francisco--those three collecting offices collected $5.5 billion dollars of our taxes, and those three all had to be relieved, and at least two of them are serving in jail.

	Now, I don't know how much they are getting a month while they are in jail, but they must have a lot socked away, if you got this administration to prosecute them.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, what I am going up and down the road doing is this:  I am telling people there is a story, and that of course is only part of it.  You can take each one of these things and you can talk about it for half an hour, each one.  But there is the story of what is happening to you abroad and at home.  Now, the question is:  What are you going to do about it?  You have the answer, the first answer, in your hands.  That is registering and voting.  You decide what you want for the next four years; but there is one thing that I must point out, ladies and gentleman.  An election is sort of a critical time.  But it is not the end.  

	The way we can have good government is for you people to cooperate with your government, to ask it to give you frequent reports of what it is doing in the world of peace, how far it is taking you into its confidence.  Is it treating you like grown-up and free Americans, or is it treating you always like you were 6 years old and just about to start in the primary grade?  Does it fear you so much that it doesn't dare tell you what the essentials of its foreign policy are, why it is spending so much money, why we can't get rid of crooks.  I will tell you this--and this is the one pledge I make as I go around, ladies and gentlemen:  if you want to entrust the Republican Party with the cleaning up of the mess in Washington, that is fine.  And you get this pledge from them in return:  a Republican Senate, a Republican House, and Republican officials in your Executive Departments that will make itself the servant of the people and not their arrogant masters.  It will try to avoid digging its long fingers into your pockets and your business.  It will try to conduct your affairs so that any minute you can call for an accounting and it will give it to you.

	In short the entire government will work for the good of 155 million people, not just for this group, for that group, but for all Americans.  Now, in this crowd, ladies and gentlemen, there are numbers of men who are my old comrades in arms.  Some of them may have fought in the Far Pacific; some may have had duties that kept them in the U.S.; many of them went abroad with me.  And I used to see those fellows along the roads, in the camps, sometimes at reviews, in their barracks, in their kitchen, wherever; and we used to talk about why we were fighting.  And we came to the agreement in simple terms that we were fighting to keep America the kind of land that we believe it to be--a land of freedom and opportunity, not a land dominated by a Hitler or by any group of bureaucrats.  The reason I am in this political campaign, my friends, is in a continuation of that promise.  I am trying to do my part to keep America the kind of country we have always known, which means first of all that you must have a government you can respect and other nations will likewise respect it because you do.  

	Now, for a fellow who didn't expect to make a talk, I have done enough talking.  I do have aboard a man who just got aboard here at this place, Senator Revercomb, who is now a candidate for election to the Senate.  Naturally, I hope that he is elected.  He is a good Republican and will help put over the kind of program I am talking about.  Before he comes out, I would like the privilege of bringing out Mrs. Ike and presenting her to you.

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS--TAXATIONCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECOST OF LIVINGTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     Ç$ “$ $ ‰$ $
 q$ l$ g$ a$ T$ R$ R$ H$	  	 q 	 _ 	 > 	 0 e: