Speeches\1980\rep\S80R0930.001SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)09/30STUMPNEVADAIOWAIALounsberry Farm2875 WORDS
	First let me say thanks to Roger Jepsen whose advice and counsel on farming and other vital matters I have found invaluable. As you know, Roger is co-chairman of the Reagan-Bush Congressional Advisory Committee on Agriculture and I know the people of Iowa value his hard work and dedication as I do. As a member of the Senate Agricultural Committee, Roger has brought the values we share to national policy decisions.

	Roger, after November you won't be lonely in the Senate because you're going to be joined by Chuck Grassley. Chuck, as you all know, is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and knows from long experience the needs of farm families. He is doing the two things necessary for victory in 1980: talking common sense to the people and telling the truth about his opponent's record and his own.

	I especially want to see Iowa represented by two such fine leaders in the Senate because it was here in Iowa that so many good things began for me. I like to think that an Iowa team in the Senate might be working with a Reagan-Bush Administration putting into action common sense values we all share.

	Farming is by far the most significant factor in the kind of economic progress Iowa has made. But to Iowans farming is something more than a means of making a living--it is a way of life. It is, in most cases, the center of family life.

	So it is good to be here, at Bob Lounsberry's family farm to speak of matters of such vital concern to family farmers here in Iowa and all across the United States.

	The Farm Progress Show reminds us that American farmers always have been in the forefront of progress for the sake of their families and for the sake of our country.

	But progress is the last word you think of when you consider what Jimmy Carter's policies have done to the American farmers.

	His policies have been an unprecedented disaster. If government payments were made on the basis of damage done by government, farmers all over America would be collecting disaster payments right now.

	The family farm, the heart and soul of American agriculture, has been hardest hit. Despite his promises, tens of thousands of farm families have been forced from the land during the past three and a half years.

	In order to see just how bad this administration's record is, let's take a look at what was promised--and what has been delivered.

	In 1976, Candidate Carter made much of his own background telling farmers he understood their problems.

	But we all realize now he is the problem.

	Four years ago, on August 25, 1976, he came as a candidate to Iowa to discuss his views on farm policy.

	He said: "We need a true and continuing partnership between consumers, producers of food and fiber and our own government."

	Six days later, he told an audience in Washington, DC: "We will fight inflation by creating agricultural policies which will both maintain the income of our farmers and ensure stable food prices for our consumers."

	If only farm families could pay bills with promises; could buy equipment and fuel with promises; if only they could clothe, feed and educate their children with promises.

	But what Candidate Carter in 1976 promised and what President Carter since 1977 has done are not the same--to put it in the most charitable terms.

	Candidate Carter said he would fight inflation. But President Carter has, in effect, issued a statement of unconditional surrender to inflation.

	Candidate Carter said there would be a "partnership" with farmers and consumers and government. But President Carter sees Washington as the senior partner and treats farmers and consumers as silent junior partners whose only function is to keep quiet and pay the bills.

	Candidate Carter said there would be a "stable, predictable and coherent" farm policy. Anyone here who knows where that policy is should notify the lost and found department because it hasn't been seen in three and a half years.

	Farmers have been given the highest farm operating costs they have ever seen, and one of the biggest one-year drops in realized net farm income in our entire history, down 20 to 25 percent just this year. But farmers know that's not the whole story. Each of those dollars is smaller, will buy far less, because of inflation. It's all but incredible to see what really has happened to farm income when adjustments are made for inflation. Based on what the dollar would have purchased in 1967, the net income from farming in 1980 will be the lowest since the early 1930s--in the depths of the great depression. In 1973, the highest net income year ever for U.S. farmers, it was $25.1 billion in 1967 dollars. This year in those "real" dollars it will be down to $9.8 billion, about one-third of the 1973 income.

	This administration has hamstrung agricultural productivity with a multitude of government regulations which have added immeasurably to costs of producing food and fiber.

	It has damaged the credibility of American farmers as reliable suppliers of wheat, of corn, of soybeans--of all farm products, by embargoing agricultural exports to the Soviet Union. The result has been costly to American farmers and ineffective in our foreign policy. I am pleased that the U.S. Senate voted last Friday to shut off funds to implement or enforce the embargo. This Senate action was a vote of no confidence in President Carter's embargo policy. The canceling of our grain contracts was Jimmy Carter's way of sending a "message to Moscow." All he succeeded in doing was hurting U.S. farmers and the U.S. taxpayer.

	He has appointed to high office in the Department of Agriculture persons with no experience in--or knowledge of--agricultural production or marketing. Farmers, ranchers, and the entire food industry have paid dearly for the unfounded attacks on nutritious, farm-produced foods unleashed by these activists.

	He has neglected agricultural research. Jimmy Carter's Secretary of Agriculture has publicly stated that federal research funds will not be used to develop labor-saving machinery.

	He has degraded the Farmer Cooperative Service within the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

	You can call them Carter's Seven Deadly Agricultural Sins if you want to--or Carter's Seven-point Program for Agricultural Disaster. But whichever, it is a record of indifference, incompetence and inflation. It is a national disgrace.

	Do you remember Candidate Carter going around the country in 1976 telling everybody about the Misery Index? He calculated the index by combining the rate of inflation with the rate of unemployment. The higher the total, the worse off we are. He said the Misery Index was the worst in fifty years. It was 12.5 percent in 1976. Today, after three and a half years of his policies, it is 19.1 percent--the Misery Index has become an Agony Index.

	Farm wives don't need a statistical index to tell them that there's fewer and fewer dollars left over for the family's needs. The old adage, "The harder I work the farther behind I get," is well known to farm families today. Farm wives know the worry, the pain, and the frustration of doing without, of postponing purchases of things they really need, of seeing children reach college age with no tuition money in sight, of huge interest payments if they borrow money. That is what President Carter has done to the most productive people in history.

	Carter inflation just doesn't take away dollars from our pockets. It takes away hope from our hearts. It erodes the spirit of the elderly I and the poor and those who work, pay their bills, and then pay taxes on an ever increasing scale.

	Inflation is a spiritual as well as an economic evil and Jimmy Carter has stood by while this evil has chipped away at the very heart and soul of Americans, including every American farm family.

	There's nothing that makes me angrier than the smugness of this administration in the face of the disasters it has caused. There are no apologies, no admissions of error, no attempt to do something substantive about these tragedies. All we get is the politics of evasion, the politics of public relations and empty rhetoric.

	Well, let's get America back on the track, moving ahead again and let's begin with American farms. The American people want policies based on confidence and optimism, progress and growth, not the gloom-and-doom, aimless leadership we've seen in the last three and a half years.

	The first step that has to be taken is to have the federal government stop robbing American farmers through inflation.

	When Mr. Carter took office he inherited an inflation rate of 4.8 percent from President Ford. Right now it is 12.1 percent.

	Iowa is the home of wrestling champions--so you know what I mean when I say that his inflation has pinned the American farmer to the mat and held him there.

	We have to break that hold and we can do it, with the help of the American people.

	My first goal will be to lead this nation out of the economic disaster brought about by this administration. This can be done!

	We must make a bold commitment to genuine economic growth. We must restrain the growth in federal spending. We must bring the growth in the supply of money back into line with our economy's ability to increase its output of goods and services. We must reduce the tax rates now imposed on the earnings of our people so they will be able to invest in our future.

	I will place farmers and those who understand farming in policy positions in the U.S. Department of Agriculture so it can be a help--not a hindrance--to America's farmers.

	I am firmly committed to the aggressive expansion of agricultural exports. The Reagan-Bush administration will cooperate fully with the very fine export promotion programs which farmers have developed and for which farmers are providing much of the money. I promise to give farm exports direct, personal, presidential support; to insist that access to foreign markets be kept free of unreasonable trade barriers.

	I will name a U.S. Trade Representative who will pursue this objective aggressively as we continue international trade negotiations. And we will not stand idly by while foreign governments subsidize exports which compete unfairly with our farm products. I will direct the Commerce Department to move promptly and firmly when such dumping cases are brought before it.

	We will make full use of the Eisenhower Food for Peace Program. In terms of lives saved and health improved, this program is one of the most constructive in all history. All over the world representatives of the great voluntary agencies for overseas relief are moving food produced on our farms to provide essential nutrition for the poor and helpless.

	I will call upon all departments and agencies of the federal government to immediately review their regulatory programs with the objective of freeing farmers from unnecessary and counterproductive regulations and reports, while working to improve the protection of the health and welfare of all citizens.

	I will support conservation of soil and water and will encourage appropriate local, state, and federal programs to give vitality to conservation practices. It's not only important to farmers but to future generations who must rely on the productive capacity of this country to meet food and fiber needs. Voluntary participation and adequate incentives are essential to effective conservation.

	And speaking of future generations--today the family farm is an endangered species because of one part of our tax system. I will seek to phase out of existence that tax which today is forcing families to sell farms and family owned businesses when a death makes them subject to the estate tax. It cannot be justified on the basis of needed revenue and is excessively punitive in its effect.

	I will do everything in my power to ensure that the energy needs of America's food supply system are met. America needs the food and fiber that farmers produce, and a predictable and uninterrupted supply of energy at competitive prices is essential if farmers are to get their work done. I will do whatever I can to emphasize the development of fuel farming. As promised in the Republican platform, alcohol and other renewable energy sources should contribute to making America energy independent.

	Let me say a few words about the current farm act which expires next year. It is essentially a continuation of the government farm programs developed by the Congress in the early 1970s, with the assistance of two outstanding Republican Secretaries of Agriculture and with the assistance of farmers and their farm organizations.

	As we prepare to write a new farm bill for the 1980s there are difficult and important issues that must be taken into account. These issues include: (1) the use of food as an international policy tool; (2) the impact of inflation on farm incomes; (3) rapidly rising land values; (4) availability of agricultural credit; (5) cost of production adjustments under commodity price supports; (6) the consequences of soil erosion; (7) the adequacy of current rural development efforts; (8) sufficient energy supplies for agriculture; (9) the preservation of the family farm; (10) adequate research and extension; (11) agricultural trade; and (12) a revitalized rural transportation system.

	I am convinced that farmers have no desire to return to the policies we had when government, not farmers, decided what would be planted and how much to grow, but we will not turn our backs on programs that have sought to assure the farmer a reasonable income and the consumer an abundant and reasonably priced supply of food and fiber. I believe improvements can be made without abandoning the programs that have proved themselves in the past.

	In working on any new legislation I will consult with and listen to farmers and ranchers as well as the Secretary of Agriculture, members of Congress, and the farmer's own organizations.

	What farmers need in Washington is not just voices. They need more ears at the highest level of government.

	I promise this in regard to the 1981 Farm Bill; the entire thrust will be to make farming profitable again.

	Profits are essential to the farmer and to the consumer. They are vital to the future of the family farm, to our productive agriculture, and to feed ourselves and the hungry around the world.

	That's the key word--profit--that's my goal for American agriculture. Farmers deserve to get a return above their costs and to get a profitable return on their hard work and investment. I want farmers to get a fair shake. And when we get this economy back on track again and get control of killer inflation, farmers can have a vigorously strong marketplace within which they can work toward the goal of achieving full parity.

	When I became governor of California--a state which if it were a nation would be the seventh largest in terms of gross income in the world--the farmer's voice had not been listened to in the governor's office for some time. We changed that. I worked closely with California farm leaders in successful efforts to expand California farm exports, to improve and expand agricultural research, to protect livestock and poultry from disease, to expand plant pest control programs, and to streamline the State Department of Agriculture.

	It was a privilege for me to serve as governor, for eight years, of the nation's number one farm state in terms of gross income. Agriculture in California means dozens of different crops, all kinds of different problems. It's a state where the markets are vital, where market orientation has long been the rule. The experience I had with California farmers is one I am proud of. I think that, together, we accomplished a great deal. I'd like to try that on a national scale.

	To make all of this possible is the challenge of the future, a challenge which will require the kind of leadership which can stimulate and motivate a vigorous spirit of progress with all Americans in both rural and urban areas. Leadership among agriculture, labor, business, industry and government must all face the challenge and, with God's help, we will lay a foundation during the next four years for an even greater America.

	I ask for your support. Help us to bring about for all Americans--rural, small town, urban, and suburban--a rededication to those values which motivate our campaign: family--work--neighborhood--peace--and freedom.

	Jimmy Carter has turned his back on American farmers. And in a larger sense on the American people.

	Farmers are patriots first. You know what has been done to our national security; to the prestige of this country. You know what has been done to the hopes and dreams of your families. But you also know who you are and what you are capable of doing. Let us, today's living Americans, restore the dream that gave birth to this nation.

	Let's make America great again--and where better to begin than on the American farm. 
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSCALIFORNIAEMBARGOES/SANCTIONS (FOOD)--AGAINST THE SOVIET UNIONENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESHUNGER (WORLD)REGULATION/DEREGULATIONAGRICULTURE--GENERALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMINFLATION     ÎC ∑C ±C ≠C £C
 ôC îC èC âC ÖC ÉC tC jC	 	 ¯ 	 ‡ 	 ƒ 	 ∫ 	 Ü 	 o 	 a  J  6  	 e: