Speeches\1968\rep\S68r1015.002SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/15STUMPMIAMIFLORIDAFLMIAMI RALLY, DADE COUNTY AUDITORIUM4548 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, Governor Kirk, Congressman Herlong, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, Lieutenant Governor Finch: I want you to know that it is a very great privilege for me to begin the last three weeks drive in this campaign in a city, in a state that has meant very much to me through the years, and I thought I would share with you in this audience here in Miami today, as we begin this last three weeks drive, some of the memories I have of this state in the political memories.

	I am proud of the fact that it was in this state that I made the decision to become a candidate in 1968. I am proud of the fact that it was in this state that I received the nomination for president of the United States on the Republican ticket. I am proud of the fact that in addition to coming to this state over the years for recreation and having many, many personal friends, here, that I have a lot of political friends.

	I am proud of the fact that every time I have been on the ticket, in 1952, in 1956 and in 1960, we have won Florida, and we are going to do it again.

	And I think also you will be interested to know that we have just completed our last planning session of the campaign. We will not be back to Florida between now and November 5th. We are going to leave it to you and you are going to do the job for us to be sure that we do win it on November 5th.  That planning session which has just been completed, and the results of which I have just announced to 100 members of the national press corps, is one which will mean that we are undertaking, starting today, a day that will take us from Florida to North Carolina to Tennessee, and then on to Kansas City and Missouri, all in one day, that we are beginning the most intensive campaign three weeks in history. More issues, more people, more appearances, more miles traveled than any time in history. I call it the blueprint for victory, and that blueprint will have on it, "Made in Florida."

	And I want you to know why, as I stand before you today, that I am here with optimism, not overconfidence, but optimism, about what is going to happen on November 5th. Not only where we have been and what we have seen, but also what we have seen so symbolically here today a moment ago, when I stood between two men, and what we have seen all over the country.

	I am sure that as you see this audience here and as you have seen the great audiences on television across the nation or heard them, you probably wonder whether this is the usual kind of a political campaign in which the partisans come out and cheer for the partisans. And I think you will be interested to note that there are several factors that are different this year, and I have been campaigning as Sid Herlong has indicated, two years longer than he. He came to the Congress in 1949. I came in 1947. So that makes me more of a veteran than he is, but as I have looked over those years, I have had an opportunity to see what is happening in America, to judge the great crowds and the tides that are running. And this year something different is happening. This year there is a new spirit in the air. This year people are not voting party as usual or politics as usual. This year Americans recognize that we must think of the country first and the party second, and that's why Sid Herlong is up here today.

	My friends, another thing that I have seen in unprecedented numbers, I have seen Democrats and Independents out at our meetings, because Democrats and Independents are going to join Republicans in getting new leadership that is bigger than party, that is as important as the nation itself. And that is why in these meetings it has been so exciting to see thousands of young people out. The young people are on the march, and they are on our side this year. And they are going to be with us. That's why this year it's so exciting to see so many people that have a stake in new leadership. Those that look at the present administration and recognize that we need a new direction, and I refer in that instance to our Cuban Americans that are here today, we welcome you and we pledge the new leadership that you want.

	And now I am going to make a statement, and I want you to listen to it very carefully, with regard to what could happen on November 5th. I believe that if this were a straight up and down vote, a vote in which the American people were asked whether they wanted to elect a man who pledged to continue the leadership of the next four years that we have had for the last four years, it would be the greatest landslide in history. We'd win two to one, because two to one the American people, Republicans, Democrats and Independents, recognize this single fact:

	When a nation is in trouble, you don't turn to a man who helped to get you into trouble to get you out of trouble. That's as simple as that.

	That is why today all over America, if it were a straight-out race, there would be no question about the outcome. And that brings me to the key point that I wish to leave with this audience today, and that is that only by dividing those that are against this administration and the man who would have it succeed for four more years, only if we divide our strength can Hubert Humphrey be the next president of the United States.

	And I say, my friends, this is a time to recognize that we must unite behind a man who can win, and we can win. Give us that chance, and we will provide that leadership.

	Because, my friends, when a nation needs new leadership, it is necessary to unite. It is necessary to unite as you are going to unite in Florida and across this nation. And I want to tell you what you are uniting for, because as we look at this campaign let us recognize there are many things we are against. And all of us are disturbed about some of the things that Sid Herlong described so eloquently, the problems at home, the problems abroad, and the fact that all we have in prospect is four more years of the same if we continue the man who has been Vice President in the last four years.

	But as we look at what we are against, let us also recognize that this is an opportunity for the American people to make an exciting choice as to what they are for. How we can move forward, move forward to a new era of progress, move forward to new leadership at home and new leadership abroad. And that's the key point, the choice that will unite Americans, the choice between what we have had and what we can get, not what we can get in terms of what we are going to get from government, but what we can get in terms of new opportunity and new leadership for America at home and abroad.

	That's what we are talking about. And now for these next few moments, I would like for you to forget whether you are a Democrat or an Independent or Republican. I would like for you to remember only that you are an American citizen with the greatest power that any individual can possibly have to determine the future of this nation for the next four years and the future of the world perhaps for the next eight to twelve or fifteen years.

	Remember that in this state we have great Democrats and great Republicans. Remember that in this state we need both in order to win. And I am proud to be on the platform here with a man who did prove that it is possible for a Republican to be elected governor in the state of Florida, Governor Kirk.

	I am proud to be on the platform here also with a man like Sid Herlong who is a Democrat but a man who recognizes that now we must not think in partisan terms. We must get the leadership for America. And I think you should be interested to know that across the nation this is happening.

	Today Senator Frank Lausche is announcing that he is supporting the Republican candidate rather than the Democratic candidate. And on Sunday, Lieutenant Governor Robert Finch will tell you, on Sunday an unprecedented action occurred. For the first time in a long and distinguished career, the President of the United States--the President of the California State Senate, one of the most respected men in the Democratic party in California and the nation, for the first time announced that he was going to support our candidacy, Senator Hugh Burns.

	So all over the nation it's the same. And the reason this is happening is that these men, Democrats as well as Republicans, recognize the choice. And here is the choice. In the field of foreign policy the choice very clearly is this: Look at what has happened to America over the past eight years. Yesterday Dwight Eisenhower celebrated his seventy-eighth birthday. And when he left the presidency this nation was respected in the world. This nation's strength was unquestioned. We were the leaders of the forces of peace in the world, and we had been at peace for eight years. And now what has happened?

	We haven't had peace for four years. We have seen respect for the United States go to its lowest point in our history. We have seen also that every place we look in the world, apart from Vietnam, the United States is worse off today than it was eight years ago. There isn't a place, Latin America, the Mid-East, Africa, Asia, or Europe, where our foreign policy is not in disarray, where we do not need new leadership. And so the question is, shall we continue for four more years the kind of a policy that has brought no peace abroad, that has brought the United States respect to this low point, that has reduced our strength.

	And, my friends, I say we can't afford four years of Hubert Humphrey in the White House with that kind of leadership. That is why in so many areas I have laid down case by case the necessity for new leadership in foreign policy, new leadership, for example, in Europe, because we must have that if we are going to unite that great alliance and have the ability to deal from strength with the Soviet or any other who might threaten the peace of the world. New leadership with regard to the basic problems of war and peace, having in mind as we look at the difficult war in Vietnam that for four years they have had the power, the military and the economic and diplomatic power and the support of the loyal opposition. We hope and I hope that between now and this election they may be able to bring the war to an end. But I would also say this, my friends, that looking at that war, if they have not done so, then rather than four more years, why not give us a chance, and we will do what they have been unable to do. We will bring an honorable end to that war. We need to reestablish respect for the United States. The American flag under our administration, I pledge to you, will not be a doormat for anybody, at home or abroad.

	We need to recognize that the forces of freedom are certainly to be considered not only in far-off Vietnam and in Czechoslovakia, but ninety miles from our shore. Let us remember that on the Island of Cuba a man who owes his every power to the Soviet Union is in charge. Let us remember there is no freedom there. Let us remember also that he is exporting revolution all over the hemisphere. And let us also remember that over these past years, the United States has not had an adequate policy to support in an economic and diplomatic and political way the forces of freedom here in the United States and in Cuba, and we will have that kind of a policy.

	My friends, I think, for example, it is necessary to reexamine the economic policies of the United States toward nations that persist in trading with Communist Cuba. I think we need to do that. But there are so many areas here that we can discuss, but simply let me say this. My friends, what is on the line is the most difficult problem of our time, not only ending the war in which we are in, but the new policies that will avoid either a nuclear war or another Vietnam. And it is not easy. I would not suggest to any of you that there are any simple solutions to any of these problems. But I do know this. Based on experience, based on background, based on traveling all over the world, I think I have found some of the answers. And I know this. The present answers are wrong. They are inadequate. The present team is inadequate. We need a new team, and I am going to give you a new team.

	We need a new policy. I am going to give you a new policy. You give me that chance.

	My friends, I would point out to you that I had a pretty good teacher. I served with and under a man who ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's the kind of leadership that we can bring to the United States. So there is the choice at home.

	I ask you again, think as a Republican, as a Democrat, as an Independent, think beyond that. Think as an American citizen above party, and the question is four more years of the old policies or a new direction?

	I say we have to go new. We need a new direction for America, not just for a party.

	And then we turn to the problems at home, and we see a similar choice. This is the first election in the history of America when a presidential candidate had to talk about peace at home as well as peace abroad. Never have the two been on the plate at the same time. But they have managed to do it in the year 1968. And here the choice is clear. On the one side a man who has defended the policies of the last four years in the field of the preservation of law and order in this country. On the one side a man who defends the record of the Attorney General of the United States. On the one side a man who criticizes me because I have disagreed with some decisions of the Supreme Court.

	And I want to tell you what that issue is and what our problem is. I will tell you why I believe we need a change. We look at the present Attorney General of the United States, and he says there is no significant crime wave in this country. We look at the present Attorney General of the United States, and he says organized crime is only a tiny part, and those are his words, of our crime problem.

	And I say to you that when I look at the record, when I find that crime has been going up nine times as fast as population over the past four years, when I see that at the present time we have polls which indicate that 43 percent of the American people are afraid to walk the streets of their cities at night, when we have had riots in 300 cities, my friends, riots in 300 cities, when we have had 200 dead and 7,000 injured, and then in the light of that record, I say that we need a change.

	And I would say this, that unless we get a change, crime will double in the next four years, and I say that's the choice.

	Rather than having crime double, we will stop the rise in crime. We are going to have a complete housecleaning from top to bottom and get a new team in there that will deal with this problem. We will work with the governors, we will work with the local communities, we will work with people throughout this country to make this nation free from fear again. It can be done. But it requires certainly without question a new approach and new men, not just new speeches.

	And then the other point that I'd make with regard to the courts, let me lay this right out. We hear that anybody who questions the decision of the Court is attacking the Courts. That can be nothing further from the truth. I am a lawyer. I have argued a case before the Supreme Court on a couple of occasions. I respect all the courts, I respect that Court. But, my friends, let me tell you when I was in Philadelphia a few days ago what I found one Court decision had done in three different cases.

	A cab driver had been brutally murdered and the man that confessed the crime was let off because of a Supreme Court decision. An old woman had been murdered and robbed brutally, and then she was--and the man who confessed the crime was let off because of a Supreme Court decision. And an old man had been beaten and clubbed to death and the man who had committed the crime was let off when he was on a spending spree in Las Vegas after he confessed, because of a Supreme Court decision.

	And I say, my friends, that some of our courts and their decisions in the light of that record have gone too far in weakening the peace forces as against the criminal forces in this country.

	That is why we must restore the balance, restore it in a fair and equitable way, but restore it. And I pledge this will be done.

	At the same time let us turn to another basic difference, a difference in terms that Sid Herlong talked about a moment ago, the fact that on the one side we have a candidate who says what he is going to do for the people, and also I have noted some very interesting ads on television. And since many of you are going to be out doing precinct work, I want to nail one right here today. There is an ad on Social Security. Some of you have seen it, haven't you? And the implication of that ad is that if Nixon got in he is going to cut Social Security, he is going to cut Medicare.

	Let me get one thing very straight and very clear. I have always supported Social Security. During the Eisenhower administration we extended it, and we raised the benefits. And not only that, in our Republican platform, and you remember this, we provide for something we should have had long ago, that if prices go up, Social Security automatically ought to go up so that older people do not have to suffer.

	My friends, why would they engage then in such an attack when it is so false? And I will tell you why. Because they want to hide the truth, and the truth is that the older people in this country, the twenty million people who are retired, are among the forgotten men and women in America. Look what's happened to them. Over the past eight years their income stays the same. A little retirement, a little Social Security, a little pension, whatever it may be. And yet over those last eight years they have seen the prices of what they buy go up 20 percent.

	And, my friends, that's wrong. It's wrong for a man or a woman to work hard and then to have his government break faith with him and reduce the value of his dollar when he retires, and we are going to change that. We are going to stop the rise in the cost of living. And, of course, it does not only apply to the retired. You know you often hear it said that you have never had it so good insofar as those who are wage earners, because they have seen some increase in their wages.

	Let me tell you what the facts are. Manufacturer workers in the United States are the most fortunate. They are the ones in terms of increase in prices because they belong to unions--or the increase in wages because they belong to unions, have seen their wages go up and get this figure $14 dollars a week over the last three years. Looks pretty good. But after you have talked to the wage earner, you go talk to the budget-keeper in the house, the wife, and she will say, "I've got less than I had three years ago," and I will tell you why.

	Did you know that every cent of the wage increase and more over the last three years of America's wage earners has been eaten up by increased taxes and increased prices? I say that's wrong and we are going to stop it. We are going to have a real increase in wages, and that's the kind of a program we are for.

	And then, my friends, another basic difference, the choice, the choice insofar as those programs that will deal with the problems that every American wants to have dealt with, the problems of training the unemployed for jobs for which they are not trained, the problems of rebuilding the cities of America, rebuilding them in a way that we can be proud of them rather than ashamed of them.

	How do we do it? And here is the choice. On the one side an administration which for four years has poured billions of dollars into federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare. And what has happened? They failed, those programs.

	We have reaped riots and frustration and failure. And now a man comes before us and he says, "I am going to pour billions of dollars more into the same programs of the past."

	Well, my friends, I say when you are on a wrong road and it takes you to a dead end, get off of it and take a new road, and we will take you on a new road in this campaign. That is why rather than talking in terms of more millions on welfare rolls, our program will put more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. That is why instead of talking about more millions living in public housing, our programs will provide new incentives and tax credits for the building of private housing that people can own if they want to. That's what we stand for.

	That is why in talking in terms of taking care of people, in making them more dependent, people who could take care of themselves, we are going to provide the opportunity for all Americans to move up and out, to move up in the area of private enterprise so that he can become an owner and a manager. Give people a stake in the American system and they will defend it rather than attack it. That's what we are going to do.

	So there is your choice. And here is the great decision that Americans are going to make. If the American people split their votes of protest, their votes of opposition to what we have had over the last four years, it will mean that we get four more years of the same.

	But if the American people can see this great issue for what it is, the most important election in our history insofar as this century is concerned, and the clearest choice in our history, then the American people can get rid of the leadership that we have had.

	We can take a new road, and it's all in your hands. And I want to tell you how important Florida is. Florida is a very close state at the moment. We looked at the polls of all the major states. Florida is one where it's even at this time, even insofar as we are concerned, and the third-party candidate. And so the question is whether this state is going to go off on a third-party kick and not play a role in the great decision for America's future except insofar as it might play a role in simply seeing that we continue for four more years the leadership of the past, or whether this state, as it did in 1952, as it did in 1956, as it did in 1960, recognizes the choice. And, my friends, as I stand here today, I am confident you are going to recognize it. I am confident because I know that my own party, the Republican party, is united here in America. And I am confident, too, because here we have in this state what we need in order to win. We've got outstanding Democrats like Sid Herlong, and with Republicans and Democrats joining together, we can win. But we have to do one other thing. In this hall are perhaps 3,000 people. And you wonder what can you do. That's only 3,000 votes. It's far more than that. I am going to ask every person in this hall with three weeks left to go, we are going to be pouring it on, I am going to ask you to take time off each day and put as your goal talking to somebody who is on the fence. Ten people between now and election. And if you do that, that is 30,000 votes. And 30,000 votes could make the difference in carrying Florida and carrying Florida could make the difference in carrying America.

	My friends, there it is. The challenge to you is to go out and take this message throughout this state, recognizing you are not just fighting for a man or for a party, you are fighting for new leadership for a great nation, for a great people. Leadership that will bring peace abroad and keep the peace, leadership that will bring peace again to our cities and keep the peace, leadership that will put this nation on a new road to progress, leadership that will bring us prosperity without war and progress without inflation.

	There is the cause. Now, let's go out and work for it, and let's win in Florida and in America.
CIVIL DISORDERCOST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALCUBAHOME OWNERSHIPPARTY AFFILIATIONPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYSUPREME COURTVIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME     ¡^ ç^ á^ É^ y^
 p^ k^ f^ a^ Z^ X^ 5^ +^	 … 	 ª 	 ≠ 	 ü 	 Ü 	 Ç 	 t 	 c 	 L 	 = 	 . 	 ! 	  e: