Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1002.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/02STUMPElizabethtownPENNSYLVANIAPAElizabethtown College3,556 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm very--I'm very honored to be here. Thank you very much.

	You're going to get it. Welcome--welcome to this retirement party for Bill Clinton right here today.

	Everybody knows the importance of the great state of Pennsylvania. I know the importance of it and I'm going to carry Pennsylvania on November 5, five weeks from today.

	And I'm very proud to be at Elizabethtown College. I only wish--I only wish Elizabeth could be with me today, but she's out in California. She did a great job on Jay Leno the other night, if you stay up that late. She is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt's trying to reach her.

	And we'll wrap this up as quickly as we can. I know you're in a hurry to get back to class, so I'll do the best...[missing text].

	You have to envy the astronaut Shannon Lucid. She missed six months of negative Democratic commercials.

	Let me say this, I welcome all my colleagues, or former colleagues. Well, Bob Walker's retiring this year. Bob's done a great job in Congress. I know this is not his district, but his home county. And, Bob, thank you for all your good work. You've done a great job.

	And I know that I'm in pretty good Republican territory. George just told me that. And he's done an outstanding job, as has Bill Goodling. And on the Senate side, you've got a good nonpartisan, bipartisan, whatever--you've got two good senators.

	Rick's doing a great job. Arlen's doing a great job. You ought to be proud of both of them. And again, I'm honored to be introduced by my friend, Governor Tom Ridge, and I'm proud that he was introduced by Melissa. Melissa, you did a great job, too.

	Now let me take about ten or twelve minutes--you know, more or less. In the Senate, you never know how long it may take, but I'm no longer a senator, so I don't talk as long as I used to.

	But the American people are now beginning to focus on the real choice in this election, the choice between an old-style, big-government liberal, and a new kind of leadership dedicated to cutting taxes and balancing the budget and trusting the American people. And we trust the American people. And that's the kind of leadership that Jack Kemp and I stand for. And that's why, as I said earlier, we're going to win Pennsylvania and we're going to win across America.

	The American people are now beginning to focus. Our surveys show that only about 27 percent of the American electorate are really focusing on the presidential race. They're going to start. They'll probably start on Sunday in Hartford when we have the debate.

	I'm going to show up, and if I show up, I'll win, because according to the President, he's the greatest ever, he's the greatest ever, and I'll be there. I'll be there, Mr. President. I'm going to ask you a few tough questions.

	But in the weeks ahead, we will use every chance to repeat our message of less government in your life and more growth in our economy, and leadership worthy of your trust. Leadership worthy of your trust.

	When we talk about the size of government, it's not because we think government is bad in itself, because government can do good things. But I believe we must do these things without being a burden on American families. And the tragedy is that liberal big government has been financed on the backs of working families, people represented in this office today and all across America and all across Pennsylvania.

	Over the years, the child deduction has been chipped away to a fraction of its original worth, and the typical middle-class family now pays tax rates that once only millionaires had to pay, and now you're paying the same tax rates.

	And today, incredibly, Americans pay more for taxes than they do for food, clothing and shelter combined, and that's too much. It's about 40 percent. It's time for a tax cut in America.

	This is not just an economic issue; it goes to the very soul of our nation. When Bill Clinton pushed through the largest tax increase in history in the country--raising income taxes and gas taxes and taxes on senior citizens--he didn't just take away money out of the family paychecks. He took away the most precious resource families have; he took away their time. He took away priceless time parents spend with each other and with their children.

	He forced the second parent to work, on that economic treadmill where they had to work harder and harder and harder, just to get by and just to pay the taxes. And since 1994, when the Labor Department started keeping track, the number of Americans working more than one job has gone up 16 percent. It's gone up 16 percent in just two years. The number of women working two or more full-time jobs has risen an incredible 21 percent in that short period.

	Why? because they have to work. One parent works for the family; the other parent works to pay the taxes. And it should not be that way in the United States of America, and we're going to change it.

	And since last year--thank you--thank you--since last year, 20 percent of all new jobs have gone to people taking an extra job so that they can get by. And in some families, as I said, one parent works full time to take care of the family, the other to take care of government taxes. And the real effects of this administration's liberal vision: a devil's bargain in which high taxes force more parents to spend more and more time at work, and less time at home.

	How much better off would our schools be if parents had more time to get involved with their children's education, rather than working full time and overtime just to pay the taxes--38.2 percent to be exact?

	And how much better off would our communities be if both parents didn't have to spend full time, overtime, in the office? They could spend more time being involved in neighborhoods.

	How much better off would our children be if both parents didn't have to spend full time or overtime on their jobs? They could devote more time as guardians and advisers and moral teachers to their children.

	The fact is the family time tax, as I call it, the family time tax levied by this administration is the cruelest tax of all. No wonder so many Americans have been worried that our country is on the wrong track.

	Even Bill Clinton felt it. That's why in the last election he promised--of course, he promised everything in the last election. But he promised an $800 child credit. Sadly, he never got it. And I've been saying to people, everybody who got that tax credit Clinton promised you in Pennsylvania last year, you ought to vote for him again. You ought to vote for him again twice if you can.

	But he didn't do that. He broke his promise, as he's broken so many other promises time after time and day after day.

	So when it comes to a choice between the needs of our families and the needs of his liberal constituencies demanding ever and ever more expensive government, Bill Clinton does what he always does. He takes care of the liberal special interest groups, the liberal alternatives, more taxes and more government.

	But we come at it from a different direction. We want to reduce the middle-class family's tax bill so the parents will no longer be wage slaves to liberal big government. And we base it on this simple principle, and what is that principle? It's your money. It's your money. It's your money.

	It's not my money. It's not President Clinton's money. It's your money. And you should not have to apologize for wanting to keep more of what you earn. The government ought to apologize, the government should apologize for taking too much of it in the first place. That's where the problem is.

	So our plan starts with a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut phased in over three years, a $500 per child tax credit for children under eighteen, cutting the capital gains rate in half--why? To create more jobs and more opportunities in Elizabethtown and all across America. We're going to eliminate the capital gains taxes for virtually all American homeowners.

	We're going to repeal this big tax hike on senior citizens--affects four to six million seniors on their Social Security. The Clinton tax increase: not a single Republican voted for it in the House or the Senate, I would say to senior citizens in America. And now he's out there trying to scare you with all these negative ads.

	And we'll provide estate tax relief. If you work all your life and save and scrimp and save and your wife works, the husband works, the children work, and somebody passes away you shouldn't have to sell off the assets to pay the estate tax. You ought to be able to keep it.

	And for Jack and me, our tax cut is just the beginning in a move to a flatter, fairer, simpler tax system that will end the IRS as we know it! End the IRS as we know it!

	Now, let me walk through what a tax cut means for a few sample families. Let's say you and your husband--the husband and wife are working and make $40,000 and have one child. Your bill to the IRS will be reduced by $1,055, a 29 percent income tax cut. If you have two children, you'll save $1,488, a 46 percent tax cut. If you and your spouse are making $30,000 a year and you have one child, you'll save $827; two children, $1,261, an 86 percent tax cut.

	Now, to some people these numbers may not sound like a lot of money. But if you're making $30,000, $1,261 is four months of child care, a couple of payments on a house--three payments on the house, personal computer for your family. And keep in mind, this is a Main Street tax cut, not a Wall Street tax cut. This is for America's working families.

	And we have this big chart up here that tells you how it works. The more children you have, obviously, the better off you are. If you have ten kids, you'd probably be too busy to file your tax return, but you get a lot of credit. You get $5,000 credit.

	It's your money. It's your money. I got it right up here: it's your money. It's not my money, it's your money. And that's what this election is all about.

	Now, when President Clinton says he's going to target tax cuts, well, he's never hit the target yet. And to get those tax cuts, you've got to do whatever he wants you to do. He wants to tell you from the government what your behavior ought to be, and if you're a good little boy or girl you get a tax cut.

	It's not his money. It's not your money, Mr. Clinton, and you're going to get the tax cut, too, when you're back in Little Rock, Arkansas, next January.

	And this election is about--and I know this is a great school, and I love public teachers. In fact, one of my teachers, Ms. Simpson--I don't know whether Arlen remembers Ms. Simpson. She was very tough. She used to slap us over the hands with rulers and--of course, I only witnessed, it never occurred to me, of course! But in any event, they were tough in those days.

	What we've got to do in America is take a look at education. And I have a program called Opportunity Scholarships directed at low-income and lower middle-income families in Pennsylvania. And we say this: You ought to have the same right of choice the president has and the vice president has. If they want to send their children to private school, that's fine. But why can't you have that choice? This is the United States of America, and we're going to give you that choice in the United States of America!

	And we're going to take that control out of the hands of bureaucrats and the union leaders, and give it back to the teachers and the parents, where it belongs in the first place, and you're going to have a lot better schools.

	This election is about the 10th Amendment, which I carry around in my pocket. It's not very long; it's only 28 words in length. It's been around a couple of hundred years or more, over 200 years. And what does it say? It simply says that if the federal Constitution does not give the power to the federal government, or doesn't deny it to the states, it belongs to the states and to the people. And we're going to send it back to the states and back to the people.

	It's all about--thank you--it's all about trusting the American people--it's all about trusting the people. And we trust the people, and President Clinton trusts the government. That shouldn't be a very hard choice for you on November 5. Trust the government, or trust the people. I trust the people. It's your money, it's your money, it's your money.

	And the governor talked about drug use. You need an administration who will really wage a war on crime and on drugs, and on smoking and alcohol and everything else. And we're going to wage a war. It's going to start on January 20, 1997.

	And we're going do everything we can. We understand that drug treatment's very important, but drug prevention is even more important. If you never start, you never need the treatment. So we're going to shut off the supply wherever we can.

	So it seems to me that we've got an opportunity here. We've got an opportunity to talk to 12-to 17-year-olds, where the drug use has doubled in the past 44 months; 44 months--that's how long he's been in--almost about as long as he's been in office.

	And after years of success under Presidents Reagan and Bush, the Clinton administration came into office and threw it all away. They didn't have any interest in drugs, or holding down drugs, or controlling drugs. Their record is so bad they don't want the whole story to get out yet.

	And let me tell you a fact there. A congressional committee has asked to see a memo written by the director of the FBI and the administrator of the Drug Enforcement administration, criticizing President Clinton's administration for poor performance in fighting drugs--there's a memo out there.

	But just yesterday, we learned the White House is invoking executive privilege to keep that memo from seeing the light of day. Now we can't see your health records, Mr. President. You can see mine. I'm very healthy. Bob Dole is healthy. You don't mind looking at other people's records, Mr. President. The FBI files. They're all down there.

	Mr. President, it's time to release this memo so the American people will really understand how bad your drug policy's been the last 44 months. And we're going to demand that it be released.

	This election is about keeping faith with the American people. About saying what you mean and meaning what you say, and delivering on the promises you make, and not saying one thing to get elected and something else when you take office.

	So again, Mr. President, it's all about you. It's all about doing what you said you ought to do. You promised everything in 1992. Everything. I don't know of a thing you left out. But what about giving that little memo out to the press? The press ought to have that little memo. They ought to have your health records, too, Mr. President, not just summaries. They ought to have your health records. Let's get it out here for the American people and lay it on the line.

	I would just conclude by saying that I've tried to spend my lifetime keeping my word. The only promises I make are promises I will keep. And I will keep my word when I am president of the United States.

	Our economic--we can sum up our economic program in three simple words: security and opportunity and choice. The security of good jobs with rising real wages and a growing economy. It's not growing now. It's about half the growth it was when you inherited it from President Bush.

	The opportunity for better jobs and higher-paying jobs in a growing private sector.

	And choice. The choice of parents to send their children to the best schools available. Public schools, private schools, other schools, the best schools available. Because children are important.

	And if we're going to get a handle on drugs and crime and all the other temptations out there for young people, we better start educating them in the kindergarten right up through 12th grade and on into college. That's going to be very, very important in our administration.

	Now I want to give you a little quiz here. I always end with a little quiz. This is a college. I never--I always hated these pop quizzes when I was a student.

	But we've only got about thirty-four days left. And I want to ask all Americans to compare our opponent's vision to our vision. Take the Clinton record of high taxes and high spending and a slow growth economy and compare it to the Dole-Kemp plan that lets you keep more of your money, more of your freedom, and get this economy moving again.

	Now, believe it or not--in fact, I saw this myself. I didn't believe it, but I saw it--Bill Clinton says he's not a liberal.

	But I'm going to--and that's where the--this is where it gets harder, now. It's going to get harder here in a minute. But I'm going to ask you what you think.

	What do you call someone who gave you the biggest tax increase in American history?

	What do you call someone who tried to put the government in charge of our health care system?

	What do you call someone who twisted arms in the Congress to kill the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution?

	What do you call someone whose surgeon general tried to talk to you about legalizing drugs?

	And what do you call someone who proposed 484 new spending initiatives costing $2 trillion?

	You got an A. Perfect. You're right. That's the word. Liberal. Liberal every step of the way.

	Now, let me conclude by saying this. This is a very important election. This election is not about Bob Dole or not really about Bill Clinton as personalities. It's about our philosophy. It's about leadership. It's about making tough decisions. It's about you. It's about your children or your grandchildren or your job.

	And what we want to do it very simple. As I said, we trust the people. We trust America. There hasn't been a tax cut in ten years. And I wouldn't stand here and I tell you this over and over and over again. I am not Bill Clinton. I'm not going to promise you a tax cut and give you a tax increase. I'm going to promise you a tax cut and give you a tax cut. And that's what's going to happen.

	And I'm going to promise you, and I promise you and I pledge to you we're going to cut drug use in half in the first term in my administration, the first four years. We're going to protect American children.

	And I will also say if they send me the partial-birth abortion ban, I'll sign it. I won't veto it, I'll sign it.

	We can be pro-life, as I've said, and pro-choice in the--and still be good Republicans. But very few people in America, pro-life or pro-choice, support this awful, terrible procedure. And the president vetoed it, he vetoed it, he vetoed it. And he might--maybe he'll forget that. He probably won't bring that up in the debate, but somebody else may be there to do that.

	What we want the American people to understand, we want the American people to understand what happened in '92, what happened if you promise everything, promise everything, tell everybody it's a going to be a great day.

	Now he's out saying the economy has never been better. Now, he inherited an economy with a 4.3 percent annual growth, now it's 2.4 percent. Is that better? No.

	We've set a new record for bankruptcies. Is that better? No.

	Real wages have gone down. Is that better?

	Consumer debt--because people have to charge more because they can't make ends meet--has gone up. Is that better? No.

	So for all those reasons, there's one bill we ought to veto--Bill Clinton.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
ABORTIONCONDUCT OF LIFE--AGE/HEALTHCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG ABUSE--MINORSEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSFAMILIESGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALINCOME TAXINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDLIBERALISMSOCIAL SECURITYTAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERAL     N ÝM ×M ÓM ÉM
 ÁM ¼M ·M ªM žM œM ‡M |M	 /	 '	 	 î 	 Ê 	 ¸ 	 ~ 	 v 	 [ 	 Q 	 4 	 * 	  	  e: