Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1025.002SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/25STUMPDallasTEXASTXSouthern Methodist University2,764 WORDS

	I want to thank everybody--everybody for--well, it was everybody, I don't know where they went. Can we turn the lights back on? I'd like to see who's here. But in any event. Yeah, turn the lights on. Yeah.

	Welcome to the Bill Clinton retirement party, right here today. As I said this morning--as I said this morning in Houston, it's good to be in the home state of two--leaders both named George Bush, right here in Texas.

	I know that SMU recently got a new president--won't be long when America's going to get a new president, right here. And there will be a Kappa Sig in the White House along with a Tri Delt.

	I want to thank--I want to thank Sam Johnson and Joe Bardon for warming everybody up, and Barry and all the others who have been here. I want to thank Wendy for coming and Ray for coming. Kay has gone to Colorado to help a Senate candidate. Of course, Phil's running his own race.

	I want to thank George Bush for being with us and Roger Staubach and Lee Greenwood. Didn't he do a great job? I tell you. Roger, of course, is number twelve. I have number fifteen--Jack Kemp, number fifteen. And he's doing a great job.

	And we are ready to go and Texas is a big one. I remember coming here a long time ago and I saw a sign early that says "Bob Dole is America's future." Well, I came down as a very young man, as a private in the Army, and went to Camp Barkley, Texas. And they told us at that time we were the future of America and we were the future of America. We saved America, we saved the free world--and now--and now you're called upon to do it again. You're fighting for the heart and soul of America in 1996. Make no mistake about it.

	We cannot afford more weak leadership. We can't afford four more years of weak leadership coming from the White House. We need to remove this liberal crowd and put them somewhere else. And I've got news for them. There are a lot of differences between Bob Dole and Bill Clinton, but one difference is that he's moving out of the White House and I'm moving into the White House.

	And I'm also very proud that Elizabeth is here. She is so talented Eleanor Roosevelt is trying to reach her--that's how talented she is.

	So, I do think it's time, it's time that someone was in the White House who understood a couple of basics, that the federal government is too big and it spends too much of your money--your money.

	And I've got to believe there are a lot of people in this audience today where one parent works and supports the family and the other parent is forced to work just to pay the taxes, which are now 40 percent, the highest they've ever been in history. You pay more on taxes than you do on food, clothing and shelter combined. We need to reverse that course, and we're going to change that course.

	And President Clinton says, "I've created 11 million new jobs." Well, I met a guy the other day that's got three of them. You've got to have about three of them--it takes about three of them to pay your bills. And in many cases, the wife had to go to work, in about 22 percent of the cases, just to pay the bills, because I said you pay more in taxes now than you do on food, clothing and shelter combined. That should not happen in America.

	We're going to turn it around starting in January. We're going to cut your taxes 15 percent. And then there's the $500 child credit, and I see some right along the front row here, for every child under eighteen.

	And then to stimulate more activity and more growth and more jobs for a lot of people leaving SMU and other colleges, we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half. Cut it in half.

	Now, the bottom line is very simple. It's not rocket science. It's your money. Don't forget it's your money, it's not my money or it's not Bill Clinton's money--it is your money.

	And I know there are some out there very suspect, because it was Bill Clinton who came to Texas as a candidate and said, "You can elect me and I'm going to give you a tax cut." Well, you know what happened. Yeah, he got elected--he got elected and gave you the biggest tax increase in the history of America.

	And I want the senior citizens to remember--if there are any senior citizens here; if not, pass it on--President Clinton raised your Social Security taxes on your--he raised taxes on your benefits and now he's trying to frighten you on Medicare and Medicaid and veterans benefits and everything else. As far as he's concerned, we're not for anybody, we're against everybody in America, but we're still running for president of the United States. Mr. President, tell the truth, it won't hurt you--tell the truth.

	Under our program, Medicare will go about 7 percent a year. That's twice the rate of inflation. We want to strengthen and preserve Medicare, just as we did when I was on commission back in 1983 that saved Social Security from bankruptcy. I want to be known as the president who rescued and saved Medicare from bankruptcy in 1997.

	So, in Texas a family of four making $30,000 a year, that would be a $1,261 tax cut, that's an 86 percent tax cut; that means you could pay some daycare, make some mortgage payments, down payment on a car, or maybe even take a vacation with your family--that's all right, too.

	This is a Main Street tax cut, it's not a Wall Street tax cut. This is for working families all across Texas and all across America. And we believe you deserve it.

	Did President Clinton come to Dallas when he raised taxes and say, "Can you afford a tax increase?" No. But now he says the government can't afford a tax decrease, a tax cut. He can't do it but I can do it. That's why I should be president of the United States.

	And that is just phase one. That is just phase one. Phase two is to make the whole system flatter and fairer and simpler, and end the IRS as we know it.

	And let me say, this morning I talked about outrage. I talked about outrage.

	In the next eleven and twelve days, the American people are going to get a big wake-up call and they're going to make a big decision, and they're going to say, wait a minute, what's happening to America? What am I hearing, just the past couple of weeks, with maybe 10 percent of the people who are being naturalized have criminal records because they're going to rush them in before the November election? That's an outrage. It's happening under the Clinton administration. It's an outrage. It should not happen in America.

	Then we have this fellow who said he's related to Mahatma Gandhi way back when his name was Gandhi. He owes $10,000 back taxes, but he found $300,000 to give to the Democratic Party. That's an outrage. That's an outrage. And where is Gandhi? Nobody knows where Gandhi is. He's Gandhi, all right. He's gone.

	And then in this corner we have the great Vice President, Albert Gore, who went out--right--who went out to this Buddhist temple in L.A., where they take a vow of poverty, and walked out with $122,000. And he said, "Well, I thought it was an outreach program." It was. He reached out. He reached out, all right. And he got all their money. Now, how did they get the money? Oh, nobody knows and nobody seems to care. Nobody really cares, because Al Gore's already said that's the end of it. So the media said, "Okay, that's the end of that one."

	Now, then there's this rich--foreign aid is finally coming to America. I knew it would happen. If I lived long enough, we would get foreign aid in America. Indonesia, India and who knows what other countries are going to contribute. But it's all going to Bill Clinton and all going to get him re-elected. And some of those negative ads on Medicare are probably being paid for with this illegal money from Indonesia or India or somewhere else. It's got to stop.

	And then we have the pardon. It's an--I'm just talking about just a few recent outrages, nothing over a week old or two weeks. The pardon--somebody's serving time in Arkansas for contempt of court who used to do business with President Clinton, and he will not say that he will not give that person or persons involved a pardon because they might implicate him.

	That's an outrage, Mr. President. You ought to stand up and say that's not going to happen. You should not inject yourself as president of the United States into that system. You should have said in the first place, "No comment" instead of saying, "Well, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know." He was sending a signal. "Just sit tight and don't say anything. We'll take care of it after the election." That's an outrage. That's an outrage.

	And then to think--I'm not sure if you've heard of this guy named Craig Livingstone. He used to be a bouncer in a bar. He got hired as the White House security chief and he's in charge of 900 FBI files. Now, keep in mind that there are probably FBI files or are FBI files on millions of Americans. It doesn't mean you've done anything bad. These 900 just happen to be Republicans, some who worked for President Bush.

	So, they gathered up their FBI files, they took them down to the White House, and there they've been. They say, "Oh, nobody looks at these. We just brought them over to see what the boxes look like," you know, whatever. And what happens? Where's the outrage in the media? Where's the outrage? There's no outrage. There's no outrage.

	When does it start? It starts today in Dallas, Texas. That's where the outrage starts. It starts right here at SMU. That's where it starts, right here. We will not let these stories be buried on the back pages of section D, C, whatever.

	This is America, Mr. President. Why don't you speak up? Why don't you answer some of these recent allegations--one week, two weeks. Mr. President, Mr. President, where are you?

	Oh, you're out there talking about 100,000 police. We won't live long enough to see 100,000 police from this president on the streets of the United States of America. Tell the truth, Mr. President. Tell the truth, Mr. President. There'll never be 100,000 police on the street.

	And tell the truth about Medicare. Stop scaring our senior citizens. It's not even Halloween yet.

	I remember when Harry--somebody said, "Give 'em hell, Harry." They were talking about Harry Truman. He said, "I'm not giving them hell. I'm just going to tell the truth and they will think it's hell." And that's what's going to happen the next ten days.

	And now we have the president shifting INS people and other people from Texas to California to protect the borders--all politics, all these fourth-year conversions, all these conversions in an election year.

	You know, he's already had two terms. The first term he was a liberal Democrat. Then we elected a Republican Congress, as Joe and Sam know, and then he became sort of a Republican. Then if he gets re-elected, he'll be back to a liberal Democrat.

	He and Ted Kennedy will decide what taxes to raise and whether to give you their big health care plan back, which spends $1.5 trillion--and imposes seventeen new taxes and fifty new bureaucracies and price controls. They'll strangle you. They'll strangle you with red tape. And we're going to stop it. He's not going to win the election.

	And in a Dole administration, we will respect the man and woman who wears the uniform proudly of the United States of America. We will not have 17,000 servicemen and women on food stamps. They ought to be paid enough to take care of their families if they wear the uniform of the United States.

	And we will control drugs and we will reduce drug use by 50 percent, and we'll use the National Guard, if necessary, to stop drugs from coming into America. And I will not appoint anybody as surgeon general who wants to legalize marijuana. Don't worry about that.

	And I will not--another outrage. Here's a drug dealer who gave $20,000 to go to a White House dinner. You know, $20,000; a lot of drug dealers make a lot of money that way. That's an outrage. There'll be no drug dealers eating at my table in your White House when I'm president of the United States.

	So, we've had enough half-truths and evasions and double-talk. It's time we get down to the brass tacks. And we're talking about America and we're talking about your future, everybody in here, everybody's future in here, whether you're--whether you're the Lakeview Patriots or the--that's right--or the Grapevine Mustangs--or the Thomas Jefferson Patriots--or the Lancaster Tigers--or the First Baptist Academy. It's your future. It's your future. And it's the future of the young lady, nine-year-old Michaela, who sang the "Star Spangled Banner". It's her future. It's her future.

	We've got to stop the liberal bias in this country. Don't read that stuff. Don't watch television. You make up your mind. Don't let them make up your mind for you.

	I want a balanced budget amendment. I want a constitutional--I favor it. He opposes the balanced amendment to the Constitution--one reason you ought to vote for me.

	I believe we could have voluntary prayer in school. I'm for it and he's against it.

	We need a constitutional amendment to protect the flag of the United States of America. And I see some of my veteran friends right here; in fact, some 10th Mountain people. I'm for it. He's against it. The list goes on and on and on.

	He says he's not a liberal. He raised income taxes. He raised Social Security taxes. He raised gas taxes. He tried to get what we call a Btu tax. It cost hundreds of millions of dollars, about $1,000 or $2,000 per farm in Texas. He proposed to spend $2 trillion on nearly 500 new proposals. He proposed a government takeover of health care, $1.5 trillion in new taxes and spending. He vetoed the first balanced budget in a generation. He led the effort to kill the balanced budget. And the list goes on and on and on. Well, let me--and I will appoint conservative judges who are worried about the rights of the victims.

	Now, I don't want to make a partisan speech here today--but I want to tell the truth. You don't hear it too often. I want to tell the truth.

	I want you to be proud of the vote you cast, and I want to ask you for your vote on November 5. Can I have your vote? And can I have your support? And will we carry Texas?

	This vote and this election is not about me, not about Bill Clinton, not about Ross Perot, not about anybody else. But let me say to Perot's supporters, we are the party of reform. We are the party of reform. I don't like having to run against two people, because every vote for Perot is a vote for Bill Clinton. And Bill Clinton knows it. I think Ross Perot would know it. If he doesn't want Clinton, he ought to say, "Vote for Bob Dole. " But every vote for Perot is a vote for Bill Clinton. I don't mind beating one person, but it's harder to beat two. But we're going to get it done. We're going to do it, because you're going to be out there helping us, and we're going to get it done.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
BUDGET, BALANCEDCAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONFLAG/FLAG ISSUESGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONLIBERALISMMEDICAREMILITARY PERSONNELSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--GENERAL     È; µ; Ø; ´; °;
 ô; î; è; â; Ñ; Ç; e; Z;	 ı 	 Â 	 ¬ 	 ™ 	 ö 	 m 	 S 	 I 	 A 	 / 	   	  e: