Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1024.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/24STUMPPONTIACMICHIGANMI1899 WORDS

	My friends, I should like, first, to thank each of you who has taken an hour out of his busy day to come here to allow me to bring him a word of greeting and to express a few of the thoughts that I have on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.  You and thousands and thousands and thousands of Americans all over this land are engaged, along with the rest of us, in a crusade.  The first thing I should like to do is to bring out on this platform and introduce to you, again, people whom you well know.  They belong to you but they are also a part of this crusade.  One of them is your candidate for Governor, Fred Alger. And your candidate for the Senate, Congressman Potter.  Let me bring back Congressman Dondero for a second.  Then you will have this part of the team complete.

	I am particularly delighted to be here in this center of industry.  The first thing I would like to do when I come to such a place is to thank every single workman, every single foreman, every single manager that had anything to do with our great war production of World War II.  I was with your brothers and with many thousands of you over in Europe.  Others were in the Pacific.  Some performed their duties in uniforms here at home.  All of us were dependent upon the productivity of America, which meant upon the skills and the devotion of the men who manned our machines, our factories, our farms, and produced all of the other things we so desperately needed and which, in their sum total, gave us such a tremendous advantage over our enemies.  My appreciation, my thanks, and my salute to each of you.

	In this campaign in which we are now engaged, the opposition found itself first obliged to defend a record of the past seven years.  Then they discovered something.  They discovered that that record of the past seven years was such a sorry mess that they couldn't defend it.  The opposition candidate himself pointed out, you will remember, that there is a mess in Washington.  He did add this, that all it needed was a little refreshening.  But he discovered, I think, himself, that it is impossible to refreshen a bad egg.  You have to change it.

	Let's take just the briefest kind of a look at this record.  Abroad, it is a record of failure to lead us toward peace.  Coming out of World War II the mightiest nation on the globe, we have seen our assets and resources so badly used that we have lost China and we have got a Korean war.  This, in addition to all the difficulties we have had in other sections of the globe.  Tonight, my friends, over in Detroit, I am going to devote my entire time on the air to talking about this Korean incident.  I am going to describe the way it occurred and where we are now.  So for that part of this mess I will take no more time at this moment.

	While this was going on, the record also includes an expenditure program which is the greatest we have ever indulged in this country.  The seven years' appropriations since World War II are so staggering as to leave us almost breathless.  Certainly it leaves us with a total inability to comprehend their amount.  Just take one year's appropriations.  Is there anyone here who has the slightest idea what eighty-five billion dollars would look like, feel like, how much it would weigh, how big a space it would fill if you put it up in one-hundred dollar bills?  I haven't the slightest idea.

	As a matter of fact, to show you how indifferent they are to money, a congressional report not long ago had a little item almost lost because it was only twenty-two thousand dollars--my friends, nothing when you consider it alongside of the amounts they are spending in Washington.  But this one happened to be for a lemonade machine for Indo China.  It is important merely because it is indicative of this fact:  That while we must spend prodigious sums, we go ahead and with unbusinesslike methods, with slovenliness in administration, we allow all of that kind of expenditure to be piled on top of the rest.

	But to go on, we have had deficits.  What have those deficits meant to you?  Rising prices.  Today the housewife who goes down to get the same basket of groceries that she got in the first year of World War II for ten dollars has to pay twenty-four dollars and fifty cents; and prices all along the line represent that same order of increase.

	Then on top of all of that, we have had subversion in government.  And when devoted committees of Congress have brought up evidence of what was going on, what have we heard?  "Red Herring", "Smears", and "Red Herring".  Now, is that any way to greet evidence of disloyalty in our government?

	The same thing has happened when they brought up evidence of crookedness, tax collectors just lining their pockets with your money.  Let me tell you this, ladies and gentlemen, the money they take out of your pockets is not half as important as this.  They rob you of pride in your own government, and every American has a right to a government in Washington in which he can take pride, which he can respect, and which he can follow in the great issues of our time.

	In this situation, unable to defend such a record, what has the opposition had to do?  Why, it has had to resort to a campaign of fear.  They try to go around the United States selling a whole bevy of fears.  They sing psalms of hate.  They bring you hymns of vilification.  What are some of their fears?  Well, the first thing they fear is that I, a man who put in forty years in the armed services, would go around cutting the pay of our servicemen, of our Navy, of our Army, Air Force and Marines.  I don't take the time to answer such crazy rumors as that.  I believe that the servicemen with whom I have had the honor to serve in many regions, many climates, have more faith in me than they would in such a lying rumor.

	They fear, next, that my associates and I in this crusade--and remember my associates are Republicans, Independents, first voters, enlightened Democrats, everybody who is sick and tired of what we have been getting--they say and fear we would bring a depression.  What is the first element in a program of peace for which we are all living?  A strong United States.  For the United States to be strong, what is the first thing they must have?  They must be prosperous.  They must have prosperity.  We must have full employment at decent wages.  If we don't have a United States like that, there is no chance for peace in the world.  
	
	The world depends upon us too much--our trade, our leadership, our wisdom, our strength.  All of these are needed if the free world is going to defend itself against this cruel Communistic doctrine.  We would bring a depression?  On the contrary.  We have pledged, time and again, to have the finest brains that this country affords assembled in Washington; and among other things, they will have this job--watching for the first indistinct signs of approaching depression or a recession.  And the instant they see it on the horizon, to begin mobilizing, just like you were mobilizing against war, the full powers of government, of our economy, of the citizens of the cities, of the states, of Washington--everything--to make certain that the prosperity of this country goes marching on so that we can fulfill the destiny in the world we must fulfill.

	Then they say, "Oh yes, all that is all right.  But you want to bust unions."  Well, finally, you wonder how low they can get.  Look, ladies and gentlemen, the last year before I went into the Army my work week was eighty-four hours a week and I worked fifty-two weeks a year.  In these intervening forty years, look what organized labor and enlightened leadership has brought about:  the better things to the lives of men, a prosperity, a decency in life, better education, all the rest of it.  Why would I, at my age--after all, I am sixty-two years, one week and three days old--in all of that time I have been trying to serve America--would I now turn on 155 million people--and that includes the men who have served with me in the armed forces, the men who served them by producing the things they need, the women who served in the armed forces, their friends, their housekeepers, the homemakers of America--and say, "We want to bust unions."

	I made a pledge on Labor Day that was a simple promise.  I said to labor, "Here is what I hope they can always say about me with truth, no matter what position I am occupying, public or private, it makes no difference.  'He was fair, he was just and he was friendly.'"

	I don't believe that any American wants more than that from anybody that he puts in a position of responsibility.

	Finally, they say in this campaign of fear that my associates and I would like to cut social security.  On the contrary, we are committed to its improvement and expansion.  We have repeated this over and over and they know it to be true.  But it is a nice fear to sell if they can get you to believe it.  The one mistake they make is this:  America doesn't buy fear easily.  It has never bought it on any battlefield or any time it has been confronted with any serious problem of any kind.  It meets that problem with courage, with fortitude and stamina.  So they are having a hopeless job when they are trying to scare Americans to death about other Americans.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't come before you to indulge in any contest on political promises.  I have never been a politician in the accepted sense of that word.  I am not a politician now.  I come before you to make one pledge.  This crusade is pledged to this kind of a program to treat every proposal, to meet every project on the basis of what is good for the United States of America.  That is the way we would approach getting rid of Communism in government, dishonesty in all governmental activity, giving you a business-like, straightforward, frugal administration.

	Next, they will be fair, they will be just and they will remember this:  they are part of you, they come from right here in this crowd.  That government will be constituted of the men and women of prestige in every community.  They will be your guarantee that you are getting a fair shake from Washington; that government is working for you and not just working you.

	Before I close, two little points.  Would you allow me to thank these two fine-looking bands for coming out this morning, and then allow me to bring out for a wave to you my Mamie before we leave. 
ELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGOVERNMENT WASTEORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     * á) Û) ×) Í)
 ¿) º) µ) ®) ¦) ¤) ¤) š)	 ¤ 	 † 	 g 	 W 	 ? 	 0 e: