Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1009.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/09STUMPFRESNOCALIFORNIACA1768 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, Governor Warren, ladies and gentlemen:  I can think of a thousand reasons why I am glad to be in California, but I must say that the overwhelming reason that I have adopted after having been here some twenty-four or thirty hours is that I am being astonished at every turn of the road.  Last night in San Francisco I thought there could be no greater outpouring of cordiality and warm welcome than I there saw; and here this morning, at this early hour with you people taking time off from your busy day to come out, I assure you I am completely overwhelmed.  I am delighted and I am very appreciative.

	Last evening, I tried to pay a special tribute to the quality of your leadership, your political leadership of this state.  I am exceedingly proud that my running mate, Senator Nixon, comes from California.  And for your Governor Warren and your senior senator, Bill Knowland, my admiration, respect and affection are deep indeed.  Now, I learned that from this section they are to be joined by a young, new congressman, Congressman Hunter, and I am told that he is going to be a terrific addition to our team.

	I am not going to take your time to expatiate on the wonders of California's climate, its scenery, its industry, even its people, because I am quite sure you are better acquainted with all of those than I.  I can only say that with every other visitor, I pay tribute to them.  The one point I should like to make about the people is that I think you here still preserve in a remarkable degree those qualities of our forefathers that we so much admire and which were so responsible for the development America has so far attained.  That is the pioneering spirit, the drive, the readiness to depend upon yourselves in human progress.  One thing that strikes me so forcedly in coming to this region is here in this great West and particularly in this great state of California there is still so much opportunity for development.

	The United States is growing at the rate of six thousand people per day.  Incidentally, this is one thing you might think of just as an aside.  Do you realize that each baby born today gets, as its first present, a 1,750 dollar share of our national debt?  It is a terrible way to bring a youngster into the world, isn't it?  But in spite of this, ladies and gentlemen, this rapid growth in the United States, your comparative growth in California is far, far 
greater--three and one half million people in a decade 1 and 1/2 million in a year.  You must expand; you must continue to grow with your resources and your industry if you are going to provide all of these increasing millions a happy and prosperous life, the goals of all true Americans.

	So, when I come here to this San Joaquin Valley and I consider the things you are doing, the imagination shown in California in the development of the great Central Valley Project, I realize that you people are really equal to this task of providing a better standard of living for more people every year; and that, my friends, as I see it, is the true purpose of our civilization.  Not only do we increase in numbers, but each year each of those people must have an increasing standard if we are to measure up to the great example set for us in the past by our own forebears.

	Now, I think no one could come to the foremost agricultural country of the United States without talking somewhat of agriculture.  That would seem to be indicated.  But first, let me express my felicitations, my congratulations on the fact that you have, in the dollar value of your products, surpassed any other county in the nation.  That, to my mind, is really something. 

	In 1970 there will be five people sitting down to the dinner table where only four sit now.  Then we begin to realize what this kind of agricultural development means to all America, not just to the county or to the state.  It is important to all of us.

	And it is for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, that these great water projects, these conservation projects, these multiple-purpose dams are supported by the whole country; because they are important to the whole country, its future prosperity, its future living, its future welfare--and it is only right that the federal government and the nation should participate in that, but with this one proviso: that they do not come in here to boss those projects.

	We have today an administration which has proved, over and over again, that it is manned by power-hungry people.  They want to come in and dictate to the inhabitants of an area what is good for them, how they should get it, and later, how it should be controlled.  The essential difference, the irreconcilable difference between the administration in Washington and the crusade of which I have the honor to be the leader, is that we want the development of the United States to be primarily in the hands of the people in the localities where the development takes place.

	The administration wants the power of direction to remain in the hands of the bureaucrats three-thousand miles away and safely ensconced behind a huge mahogany desk, where he probably doesn't know quite as much about your local water problems as you do.

	Now to address myself for a moment, ladies and gentlemen, to the specific problem of governmental participation in farm programs.  Here, again, the essential difference between the administration and the crusade that I am leading and the teammates that I have and whom you have already met from this platform is that we, again, reject the theory that this must be controlled and dominated from Washington.  Now, the Republican Party in its platform and I in my pledges all over the agricultural regions of the United States have pledged our support to existing laws so far as they affect the farm support prices and all that sort of thing, but we insist that reasonable programs must be extended to perishables, other kinds of products other than the six basics that are covered in farm support programs.  And again we say that everything that the government does--am speaking of the federal government--with respect to agriculture must be worked out with the serious influence and counsel and advice of the local inhabitants.

	There is no chance of someone sitting off in Washington and working out programs that are applicable to all parts of this great and varied agriculture of the United States.  Each case is one unto itself.  Each region must have a program properly adjusted to its deeds and worked out with the advice of the people on the spot.  Thereafter--and this is important--it must be operated with their advice and counsel.  We cannot have the farmers of our country unsure of where they stand with respect to the government, their fortunes determined by the whim of someone who knows nothing about the problem.  That is the theory that we reject.

	On this whole question of water use, of the development of our multiple purpose dams and projects in agriculture and everything else, the essential difference between us and the party in power is that we want the federal government to come into your area as a friend, as a partner, to help you on the basis of cooperation.  We reject the theory that the government may stick its long nose into your business in terms of bossing.  If we are to continue the great development that has brought us thus far along the road of America's goals, we must never forget that it is the private incentive, the initiative, the ambition of hundreds of millions of people that brings these things about.  Government produces nothing itself.  It produces no revenue; it produces no wealth.  Anything it has, it takes from you in the first place.  So therefore it must remain the servant and not the master of our people.  So you understand that I am a bitter and lasting opponent to any such monstrosity as the Brannan Plan.  And I am an opponent of any similar thing that tries to bring the federal government into your area as a boss.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, as I proceed through this political campaign there is one thing that I am quite sure of.  It is futile, even as it would be unwise, for me to come before you and attempt to engage in a competition of promises with the opposition.  Over the past twenty years, they have used up every political promise it is possible to make.  Most of them they haven't kept and some they didn't even intend to keep.

	But this is what I can do.  On behalf of the millions associated with me and on behalf of myself and your California leaders with whom I have talked these things over time and again, we can pledge you that we will try to bring to Washington the highest caliber and class of men and women to participate in the executive and other portions of your government that this country affords.  Those men and women will be incorruptible.  Therefore, they will pick their subordinates from among incorruptible people.  And so we will eliminate corruption by preventing it from getting into government in the first place.

	They pledge you, therefore, honest government, fair government, just government, because they will be of the people they will be friends and partners; they will not be bosses and will have no ambition to be bosses.

	Ladies and gentlemen, as I conclude these brief and rather rough remarks, I do want to express to you again how deeply I am honored by your presence here.  The mere fact that you would give me a chance to look into your faces, to bring you a word of warm greeting, to give to you a few of the thoughts on my mind, is an honor I shall never forget.  And I am sure also you will allow me one brief minute to pay my special tribute to those among you in uniform and who have worn the uniform of our country.  For them, I have always felt a special affinity and so, to all the veterans, men and women, and to those in service now, my salute as I say good-bye to all of you.  God bless you all.

AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCALIFORNIAGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZESTANDARD OF LIVINGNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTRURAL DEVELOPMENT     Â' ±' ´' ß' ù'
 è' ä' Ö' ' u' s' s' i'	 Ñ 	 _ 	 U 	 @  .   e: