Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1010.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/10STUMPYOUNGSTOWNOHIOOHYOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY3,924 WORDS

	At the convention in San Francisco, when I was nominated, the first person to come to me and offer his support was Gary Hart.  He's been campaigning for me all [missing text].  Let's hear it for Gary Hart, a wonderful American.

	To my good friends and your great leaders Dick Celeste and Howard Metzenbaum, your local leaders and your mayor, and to each of you, thank you for turning out in such wonderful numbers this morning.  The way I look at it, anybody who wants to be president of the United States ought to come to Youngstown State University and answer the questions of the people of this region.

	Tell me something:  Did you watch that debate Sunday night?  Are we going to carry Ohio?  Are we going to win this election?  Put a people's president back in that White House, where one belongs?

	Sunday night, the American people saw with their own eyes what the problem is.  We've got a president who cannot talk about a single major issue without making a major mistake.  The American people saw that we have the most detached, the most remote, and the least informed president in modern history.

	They saw that we have a president who's not commanding and not leading.  Every American knows that to be strong, to be at peace, to serve this nation's interests, it all begins with a president who's in touch and in charge and knows what he's doing.  This is the central issue in the 1984 campaign.  We must have a president who knows what's involved and will lead us.

	We've just gone through this terrible tragedy with nearly three hundred American lives in Lebanon lost because of not one attack, but now three attacks, by the terrorists.  How could they get away with it?  How, after the Joint Chiefs had said they didn't want those Marines there:  How, after warning after warning that these Marines were in an unprotected position--and yet they stayed there and then were killed; how could they, after that, once again leave our embassy exposed to the loss now of another thirty lives, many of whom were Americans?  How could that happen?

	So I asked the president.  He said, "It's not my fault.  It's the fault of a commander in the region."  That's not why we elect a president.  Harry Truman said it right:  "The buck stops here."  In Mr. Reagan's White House, the buck stops everywhere but there.

	In the secret war in Central America--apparently from Sunday night's debate, it's so secret the president hasn't heard about, even though he's ordered the war to take place--these policies of Central America are pushing us toward disaster.  They are conducting an illegal and ugly war.  Americans are being trained to assassinate, and it is weakening us and leading toward the introduction of American combat troops in that region.

	So the question came up:  "Mr. President, what's going on?"  What was his answer?  "I didn't do it.  Somebody else in my government did it."

	Mr. President, that won't wash.  When we elect a president of the United States, when we're dealing with issues of war and peace, you'll do it, and you'll be in charge of it, and you'll be responsible for what you do in leading this nation.

	We have a runaway arms race, and now the president wants to extend it into the heavens.  It's called Star Wars.  Killer satellites in space, turning the decision of war over to computers, and spending a trillion dollars that will weaken America's security.

	Sunday night, we challenged Mr. Reagan, and what did he say?  First he said, "I'm not a scientist.  I don't know where these weapons will be located."  Well, if you're spending a trillion dollars, that's a good question you might ask an answer for before you go forward.

	Then he suggested a demonstration shot of this weapon.  If I were you, Governor, I would check right now to see if he's planning that demonstration over Ohio, and if he is, I'd oppose it.

	Then he said, "This is going to work out just fine because after America has gotten all of its most advanced technology--the most advanced computers possible, the most advanced telecommunications and engineering, the ultimate outer edge of American high technology, the central source of America's advantage and America's security--when we get it all done, we'll give it to the Soviet Union."

	Well, there's the big difference.  I want to reach treaties with the Soviet Union, but I don't trust them, and I'm not going to give them a single thing that undermines or interferes with the security of our country.

	Today, we meet at this university in this valley when far more Americans and far more citizens in this region are suffering than should ever be the case in America.

	I run for president for many reasons.  One of them is that I was reared in a tradition that said when people are in trouble, government is supposed to be there to give them a little chance, a little help.  All my life, I have fought for that kind of leadership.  I believe, with Lincoln, that ours is supposed to be a government of the people, by the people, and for the people.

	In these next few minutes, I want to talk about that, and what I think we should do together to move forward to put this region back to work.  But I want to begin by citing a difference in philosophies.  Over this last campaign, Mr. Reagan has been trying to steal our Democratic heroes.  He's been saying that he's for Kennedy.  He's even for Hubert Humphrey.  He's for any Democrat who's dead.

	Well, what did he say about Kennedy when he was alive?  I was the chairman of Democrats for Kennedy in Minnesota in 1960.  He was an officer in an organization called Democrats for Nixon.  He wrote his friend Nixon a letter, and I want to cite just part of it.  This is a letter to Nixon signed by "Ronnie Reagan."

	This is one of his quotes:

	"One last thought.  Shouldn't someone tag Mr. Kennedy's bold, new, imaginative program"--this was for economic development--with its proper age?  Under the tousled boyish haircut, it is still old Karl Marx, first launched a century ago.  There is nothing new in the ideology of a government being Big Brother to us all.  Hitler called his 'state socialism,' before, it was 'benevolent monarchy.'"

	That's the big difference between the two of us.  I believe that a president who cares, who leads, just as John Kennedy did, can make and did make a difference in the lives of our country.  That's not Karl Marx; that's not Adolf Hitler, that's America at its best, and we all know it and that's what we want in our nation again!

	Now, several things are needed for this region and for our great Midwest.  Starting from the Iron Range from my own state of Minnesota, all through the Midwest, through Ohio and Pennsylvania, the great industrial and rural belt of this country is in trouble.

	One of the key reasons is this big national debt.  I won't go into the details, but this national debt has doubled the real cost of interest.  It has destroyed America's export markets, and America is now being swamped with foreign imports.

	This is the worst trade year in American history.  In 1980, Mr. Reagan came here and said, "I won't forget you."  He didn't until after the election.  Then his program can be defined in three words, as far as the Midwest is concerned:  "Let it rust."  And rust it has.

	We need to get this national debt down.  We must get those interest rates down.  We must restore America's competitive edge.  We must have a president who understands that it's his responsibility to stand up for American workers and American farmers and American businesses in international trade.

	The second thing we must do is deal with the problem of unfair imports flowing into this country.  When Mr. Reagan took over, he opened up the floodgates, and imports doubled in the steel industry, from some 15 percent to 34 percent.  Nearly two-hundred-thousand steelworkers lost their jobs as a result.  This whole steel industry is shaking and in trouble today.

	I have called for a tough policy of quotas that protects this country from unfair imports of foreign steel and other products.  I have insisted though that in exchange for those quotas, the industry itself must make a commitment to reinvest that money in the industry and not take the money and run and leave the industry, as they've done here in Ohio.

	Mr. Reagan, who hasn't been back to Youngstown since he made that promise, did nothing about those imports for four years.  When I came out with my strong program, finally the fog lifted a little bit.  What did he say?  "We're going to have a system of voluntary restraints, and it'll take place after the election, and there'll be no requirements that any of the money that the industry gets goes back into the industry to modernize it and make it competitive."

	There are three things wrong with it.  One is this president, who did nothing to help you, won't let you know whether it's going to work until after the election.  You tried that once.  Don't try it with him again.

	Secondly, it's voluntary.  That hasn't worked before, and it won't work this time.

	Finally, there's nothing to require the industry to invest back in that industry.  As we know, last time we tried to help them, they took the money, bought oil companies and everything except reinvesting in steel.

	So there's a big difference between a person who understands this problem, has stood up for this problem, believes in a solution that will make a difference, and has made that commitment, and a president who made no such commitment at all.

	Now, this valley is still suffering.  It's suffered terribly under this administration, and it suffered far too much under our administration, and I will admit it.

	I can stand here and say we tried, and we did.  That we offered $100 million in loans, and we did.  That we protected against rising steel imports, and we did.  But it still didn't work.  Youngstown Tube disappeared.  U.S. Steel closed.  And this community is suffering.

	Let's forget the past.  Let's admit that none of us has done what is needed for this region.  The question is:  Who will be better for this region, me or Reagan?

	This is my commitment today.  Listen to this.  Here is what I'm going to do.  In addition to getting the debt down and getting tough on imports, I will meet with a committee selected from this valley.  In the first month of my administration, I will assemble a level of top federal officials chaired by the vice president of the United States, Geraldine Ferraro.

	We will work out a plan with you in my White House, with me there, that brings all the forces of the federal government--the Economic Development Administration, the Urban Development Action Grant, the education and the training and the other facilities.  We will work with you to develop a plan to restore the health of this valley.  I commit the Mondale administration to putting this valley back on its feet, and I'll come back here and see that it's done.

	The fact of it is, they are trying to teach us that when problems are intolerable in our country, we just have to live with it.  I don't think that's what America is about at all.  I think when there are problems, Americans shouldn't have to suffer.  That's what America is about; that's what their president is about.

	I believe that government can be a positive force for justice and decency.  They're trying to tell you it cannot be.  You could not have a more basic decision to make in 1984.

	Ohio is the key state.  You can make the difference.  You can elect the president.  I say it's time for new leadership.  It's time for America to move on.

	We have fifteen minutes for questions.  There's a microphone there, and two down there.  Okay, go ahead.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

	Q:  Mr. Mondale, right now, I am looking for a job, and the only problem I have in looking for a job is that I'm handicapped.  I was wondering if you would do something about that once you're elected.  Try to find more jobs in addition to women and minorities, if there would be a certain number of handicapped people that would be allowed to be hired.

	MONDALE:  This is a classic case of the difference between the two of us.  When Mr. Reagan took office, he tried to slash education for the handicapped by 40 percent in the first year, and I don't think it's an exaggeration, Howard, to say he was planning to eliminate education for the handicapped entirely.

	The Congress opposed it, but the fact of it is that, in addition to that, he cut clear back on some regulations that were designed to protect the handicapped in the way public buildings are built, in the way handicapped can get public transportation.  This administration has been totally insensitive to the needs of the handicapped in training, in travel and transportation, and also in terms of job support.

	Under my program, we would assist the handicapped, along with others, with good economic policies, with special programs that give them a chance to get a job; that encourage employers to hire them; that help employers to make conditions available that make employment possible, because these save the federal money as well as being the right thing to do.

	That's what Mr. Reagan can't seem to understand.  The most precious asset in America is our people.  And when we waste people, when we don't train and give young Americans a chance, we lose money and we also lose our way as a moral people.  That's why I'm with you.  I understand it.  I served on the Handicapped Committee for years.  I know what you're talking about.  I'll be there helping all the way.

	Q:  Mr. President, my name is Ernestine Glover, and I'm precinct committeeman of the Third Ward.  I know your history has been to support civil rights.  Will you continue to support civil rights and upgrade it?

	MONDALE:  Why would this president, after forty years of progress in the elimination of discrimination in America, try over these four years to turn his back on that shared national objective?  I don't think the public supports it at all.

	When I get elected, I'm going to begin with the Civil Rights Commission, and I have two-point platform.  One, I'm going to fire everyone they hired.  The second platform is that I'm going to hire everyone they fired, and we're going to get to work on civil rights.

	Earlier this year, the president went to the Olympics and rejoiced, as we did, in the victory of the Olympics.  But did he stop to think how it was that we won all the gold?  Did he spend a minute reflecting on why that was?

	I think we all know.  At the Olympics, we had whites, blacks, browns, and Asians.  We had everybody.  We had men as well as women.  Because everybody could participate, we had the best, and we beat the whole world.

	That is not a basis just for rejoicing.  It's a basis for remembering that when we enforce civil rights, when we give every American a chance, America is stronger.  This is not something that we do for them.  This is something we do for all of us when we unleash the total power of America and, because of it, are stronger.

	Q:  My name is Kevin Sheldon.  I'm from just down the road.  I realize you're concerned with the national debt.  I have heard it several times, and your solution is to try.  Well, I have a personal debt, and I can't afford taxes being raised.  My personal debt hits home before the national debt hits home.  I have to deal with buying things every month.  The national debt might affect me later in life, but right now, I have to put bread on my table.

	MONDALE:  Let me ask you this.  What is your income?

	Q:  Oh, it's under $2,500 a year.

	MONDALE:  $2,500?

	Q:  $2500.  I take out a Guaranteed Student Loan to go to college.

	MONDALE:  All right.  The reason I ask you that is that you're a classic example of a person who ought to vote for me, and let me tell you why.

	First of all, I'm for student loans and work-study opportunities and Pell Grants, because I got through school on the GI Bill.  I want everyone in this next generation to have just as much chance to go to Youngstown State or anywhere so that they can build their dream just as much as I did.

	Mr. Reagan does not agree with me and tried to cut those programs and eliminate them in many cases.

	Second thing:  This is not an issue of whether taxes are going up.  The issue is, who's going to pay them?  With these $200 billion deficits, the president last year has got a study going to report in December, just like his steel quotas will be known after December.

	And what are they going to study?  They're studying a sales tax, a value-added tax, or a flat tax.  You know what it means?  The same people who got no tax relief--middle- and moderate-income Americans--are going to have it socked to them again, just as they did last time.

	I will leave middle- and moderate-income Americans alone.  They've paid enough, and I'm going to ask the wealthy and the big corporations and the loophole users to join the rest of us.

	Third 

	Q:  One more thing:  Why aren't students exempted from paying taxes, especially in my case?  I take out a loan.  I have the grants, and I still have to work to go to school, but I still pay taxes. I can't afford it.

	MONDALE:  I don't know what you're talking about, but I'll tell you this:  Under my program, any person making $25,000 a year or less will have no tax increases at all.  Under his program--under a sales tax or a flat tax--you're going to be taxed.  Everything you buy and every place you move, you're going to get taxed.  So that's the big difference.

	Under my program, people of low or moderate income, particularly lower income, shouldn't pay taxes because they're having a tough enough time keeping themselves and their families together.

	Q:  Mr. Mondale, most people invariably equate arms control with nuclear weapons.  This is not my question, but it is a question.  Doesn't this give tacit approval to "conventional weapons," such as guns, planes, tanks, chemical- biological warfare weapons, etcetera?

	My question is this:  In the event of non-nuclear war--that is, a conventional war--how does the United States plan to wage this war with an eighth-place, decimated steel industry?

	MONDALE:  Right.  That is one of the key points I've been making, sir, around this country.  It's not just a question--as sad as it is--of this whole industrial belt, the steel industry, the machine-tool industry being devastated, our best jobs going overseas.  That's one part.

	But how do we defend ourselves, how do we fight a war, if we don't have our own industrial base?

	In World War I, in World War II, in the Korean War, that was our big advantage.  That was how we defeated Adolf Hitler because we caught up in two years what he'd been trying to gain for twenty years, because we had our own base here.

	I just talked to the machine-tool [missing text].  Four years ago, we were the number-one nation on earth in machine tools.  This is crucial to defense.  You don't make weapons or shells or planes or ships or anything without machine tools.  We've slipped to the fourth place in the world.  We're now behind the Soviet Union.

	If this keeps up under Mr. Reagan, in a few years, all of our basic machine-tool industry is going to be overseas.  If that happens, and a war starts, what are we going to do?  Plead with our enemies to send us some equipment?

	I want that machine-tool industry; I want that steel industry; I want that essential industrial base right here in the United States.

	Q:  Mr. Mondale, my name is Warren Hartsler and, like many thousands of students here at Youngstown State, I work to put myself through school and I pay taxes on the wages I earn.  I was wondering if you're going to increase student loans and how you're going to lower the deficit while increasing these types of programs?

	MONDALE:  I have a specific budget out, and I've told you what I am going to do because I want to get this deficit down.  It will restrain the overall budget.  It will reduce spending in four years by over a $100 billion.  It will do it in a way that keeps us strong but also does certain things we need to do to build our future.

	One thing we need for our future is to protect Social Security and Medicare, because our senior citizens have no other way to protect their futures.

	The second way we build our future is investing in education and science and training.  Even though that budget has been very severely restrained under my proposals, I add money for education and science and training because that builds the next generation.  That produces wealth.  That enhances our defense.  And it gives every American a chance.

	I think it's in developing a budget that you tell Americans what you believe.  That's where you make your choices.  If you had to ask a question to compare me with Mr. Reagan, I would submit those two budgets.

	I keep our defense strength growing, but I do it in a wise and a sensible way, so we're not wasting money and spending $500 for $5 hammers, so that we have arms control that gives us a chance to stop this madness before it bankrupts and destroys us all.

	As I reduce that spending, I know that this senior generation has to depend on us for their security and their survival.  They paid into that Social Security trust fund.  They worked a lifetime.  They've got a right to expect us to keep that deal and protect them, just as our generation will want those behind us to keep that deal when we're alive.

	Mr. Reagan, as Howard Metzenbaum pointed out, tried to destroy Social Security or cut it substantially.  He's out to destroy Medicare, and, mark my words, if he's re-elected, he's going to do it again, just as sure as anything can be.

	He wants to cut education and science and training that our people need so much.

	He wants to cut enforcement of the environment, acid rain and toxic waste dumps and the other things where we need progress.

	This administration's policies and values are contrary to what the people of this valley need.  It's a test of where we stand.  That's why I say we need new leadership.  It's time for America to move on.

	Thank you very, very much.

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESCIVIL RIGHTSDISABLED PERSONSEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESLEBANONMANUFACTURINGMILITARY--CONVENTIONAL FORCESNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)OLYMPIC GAMESREGIONALISM--MIDWESTSOCIAL SECURITYSTEEL INDUSTRYTERRORISM     £X oX iX eX ]X
 RX MX HX >X :X 8X X X	 m	 _	 C	 7	 '	 	 Ú 	 Ä 	 ¬ 	 ¥ 	 ˜ 	 { 	 G 	 : 	 & 	  	 	 e: