Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0921.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/21STUMPCOLUMBUSOHIOOH5,727 WORDS

	Thank you very much, my dear and delightful young friend, Steve Young.

	You know, I have a hard time understanding what Steve means sometimes when he gets up and speaks.  He is so indefinite it is hard to know how he feels about the opposition.

	Truly, Senator Young, you have once again inspired an audience, you are the living personification of the modern Benjamin Franklin; that is all I can say.  He is always bringing that right touch to the occasion.

	Now, I know that some of our friends are way, way, way back there, but may I tell you that we are going to try to make this meeting good enough so that those of you who are way, way, way back there will have your hearts with us way up here.  That goes for those of you over to my left and my right.

	We have had a wonderful evening, and I want to tell you, it is a mighty hard act to follow after that Jack Sensenbrenner.  I will tell you, it is a good thing that Eddy Fisher sang first.

	And I do appreciate, Mr. Mayor, that you gave me that statue of Columbus, but if you don't mind my saying so, that check from Joe Boyle was even better.  Of course, I have not looked inside the statue yet.

	But I surely do appreciate both.

	Just to tell you how gracious and kindly I feel tonight, Mr. Nixon thinks we have been unfair to him.  I may ask Jack Sensenbrenner to give him the statue and I will take another check.  We are very much indebted tonight to Pete O'Grady, the party officers, and to our National Committeeman--Bert Porter, our National Committee woman, Betty Jane Gaffney, and of course, to all of those who have participated in this program.  I have looked over this remarkable galaxy of talent and it is just the finest program you can possibly have.  But I want to make it very clear at the beginning that I am here primarily for one purpose:  that is to say what is in my heart and what I know is in your heart about a truly wonderful young man that has every right, indeed every qualification, every trait of character, every standard of ability, every quality that is required to serve in the great deliberative body of the United States Senate, and I want everyone here to redouble their efforts, to triple their efforts, to quadruple your efforts to see to it that Jack Gilligan is elected to the United States Senate.

	I said out at the airport, when I get in that White House--by the way, isn't it something that a guy works all his life and he tries to end up in public housing, but I will settle for it; I have been looking it over.  Mrs. Humphrey has been measuring the drapes.  I really won't make too many changes; that is, in the furniture.  But I must say that when I am over there getting lonesome as they say presidents do, I would like to be able to pick up the telephone and say, "Would the two senators from Ohio come over and have lunch with me, or have dinner?"  I know one of them will be Steve.  As long as Steve is around, he will be in the Senate.  He can even bring his mail over and answer it.  He writes short letters, you know.

	But I would like to make sure that the other man that came over is John J. Gilligan, candidate now, soon to be United States Senator.  So let's work for that.

	All of those who have spoken here tonight--my friend, Frazier Reams, Mrs. Helen Karpinski, Mr. McLin, Mr. Ryan, all of those--I know you can help and I know you will.  If you help John Gilligan, you help me.  If you help me, I think it helps John Gilligan.  We are in this together, my fellow Democrats, and together, we can whip any combination of Republicans that anybody ever put up.

	I stopped off at Independence, Missouri, today, while I was there, I, of course say our beloved former President, Harry S. Truman.  It all came about quite accidentally.  Yesterday, I was talking to the man that is going to be your next vice president--and by the way, don't you think we really out did those Republicans?

	I just ask anybody.  I don't care whether you are Republican or Democrat, Independent, what you are, if you have any doubts about the head of the ticket, settle it on the basis of the second man.  I was talking to my dear and good friend, Ed Muskie, and he is a good friend of Steve's, here and a good friend of Jack Gilligan's.  Ed said, "You know, I am in Kansas City and I am thinking about going over and seeing Mr. Truman."  I said, "Hold on, I will change my schedule."  I said, "I am going out to see my mother"  Mother is out in Nuron, South Dakota.  They were having a little party out there today.  I said, "I will fix it up so we can stop off in Kansas City."  And we stopped off and we went over to see Mr. Truman and you can imagine what that conversation was like.  My, it was juicy.  It was really good.  Not a partisan statement was made.  And I asked that dear beloved man, I said, "Mr. President, would you give Senator Muskie and myself just some advice as to how we can do it?  Now, we know what you did, but sometimes we maybe miss the real kernel of the truth.  How do you do it?  How did you do it?"

	He said, "I'll tell you what you do."  He said, "Hubert, you just tell them the truth.  Tell the people the truth and give the Republicans you know what."  Now, Mrs. Truman has cleaned up his language.  But it was an inspiration.  You would like to know, I am sure, that he is feeling fine.  He is really looking remarkably well.  And I was just so pleased to have the chance to see him, because there are many similarities between this year and what happened in 1948--many similarities.  The Republican candidate is acting the same way now that the Republican candidate did in 1948, the same old Dixiecrats are in business.  Strom Thurmond was going in '48, and he is running around with Dick Nixon in 1968--very much alike.  We have all kinds of frictions and fractions and so forth.  As a matter of fact, you know the whole thing is going to come out just like it did in 1948.

	So I am going to be very candid with you tonight.  There is no use in glossing over our troubles.  My campaign, they say, according to the polls anyway, and the surveys, has not peaked too soon.  But I will tell you, speaking of polls, I have got the best one.

	You are sharp tonight.  I can see that.

	And there is another observation that I feel compelled to make.  No one can accuse us of being fat cats, even though I got that check.  Instead, they tell us we are underdogs.  But I thought I had better level with you; that is nothing new with me.  I was an underdog when I ran for the mayor of Minneapolis in 1945--just before I won.  And I was an underdog when I first ran for the United States Senate in 1948--just before I won.  And I was an underdog many, many times in the United States Senate, when I led the fights for such programs as the Peace Corps, and Medicare and Food for Peace and the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty--just before we won--all of them.

	But there are some advantages to being an underdog.  Your ears are closer to the ground and you hear what people are saying.  And there is another advantage:  you run faster.  And sooner or later, your opponent will start looking over his shoulder, and knowing my opponent, when he does, he is apt to trip--I mean trick--up himself.  And that is when you pass him on the inside.  And the important day in this whole business is not September 20th or 21st--that is important.  But the important day, the day that is really going to count, on the day when we wrap up the decision, that is our day.  That is Tuesday, November 5th.  That is when we are going to have our victory.

	Now, you know, we read everyday--oh, my, the publicity is great about that cool, confident, composed Mr. Nixon, the man who campaigns, they say, without running; the man who takes it in his stride and takes it easy, never makes a mistake.  Of course, he never appears on any of the big programs like Meet the Press or Face the Nation and Issues and Answers, either.  But he never makes a   either evades or straddles every major issue.

	Now, some people say that is the new Mr. Nixon.  And I heard a fellow say the other day, no, that is not, that is the old Mr. Nixon.  But my dear friends, what you need to worry about is the real Mr. Nixon.  That is the fellow.

	I have some questions I want to ask tonight.  I want to hear, for example, where Mr. Nixon stands on such a vital matter that affects the life of every one of us in this room as the dangerous spread of nuclear weapons.  Is he for or against that treaty that would stop their spread?  I think we have a right to know.  I know, he says he has taken a stand on 167 issues.  Well, ladies and gentlemen, that stand is just about as firm as a bowl of Jell-O.  In fact, it makes Jell-O look like concrete.

	Yes, I have some questions and I want you to start asking them of your Republican neighbors, and I want you to start asking them from every platform in this State.  And I think I know some of the answers.

	Just let me repeat it again:  Who is it that says he wants to face up to every issue?  Answer every question, meet the people everywhere, but refuses to meet that capable professional press of our country on the great programs like Meet the Press, Face the Nation, Issues and Answers, and has not been on one of those programs for almost two years?  Who is it?  I think I know.  Nixon is the one.

	Who is it, who is the man who is for the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty that is pending in the Senate of the United States now but who does not want to see it ratified now?  I think I know.  Nixon is the one.  And who is it, who is it that is for civil rights, but isn't necessarily for the implementation of the federal law that makes those rights mean something?  You've got it.  Nixon is the one.  Who is it that is for the old people, but opposed Medicare?  Nixon is the one.  Who is it that is for young people and for the rebuilding of our cities, but wants to cut back the programs of federal aid to education and for urban redevelopment.  You know--Nixon is the one.  Who says that Justice Fortas is a distinguished lawyer, a great jurist, but refuses to lead his party in the confirmation of that nomination.  I will tell you--Nixon is the one.  Who is it that is for law and order by doubling the convictions and cracking down on the lawmakers, as he says, but thinks that you can get law and order by cutting back on those sill Democratic programs to train people for jobs, to give them an education, and to help them with better housing?  You know--Nixon is the one.  And who is for the laboring man, but fails to support every law that comes down the lane.  You know.  Nixon is the one.  You bet he is.

	Who is it that is for that family farmer, but said the other day--oh, he was in Iowa.  This is great.  I have to break my stride here, got to stop off and shake hands for a moment.  Mr. Nixon was down there giving a farm message in Iowa and he did something that no other candidate in this country is able to do.  He said he was going to plow a straight furrow with a corn picker.

	Yes, sir, that is the man.  Nixon is the one.  Who is it that is for television debates, but keeps dodging me every time I challenge him?  Nixon is the one.

	On every count, you know the answer.  Now, let's all get together; Nixon is the one.  That is right.  And he is the one that isn't going to win, too.  You can believe that.

	Mr. Nixon said the other day that he was not much for these programs waging war on poverty.  I can see why.  He had more to do with bringing poverty around than anybody else.  Let's take a look and see.  Let's take a look at Ohio.  We need to get down to the particulars, dear friends.

	In 1961, at the end of the Nixon Republican years, unemployment in the great Buckeye State of Ohio was up to 7 1/2 percent of the work force.  In the first seven months of this Democratic year it averaged less than 3 percent.

	Now, my dear friends, you may have just a little Republican trait in you.  My daddy used to say about mother what a wonderful woman she was.  But he said, son, on occasion, she is politically unreliable.  But I got mom's pledge today.  I can come before this audience and tell you, she is going to vote the straight Democratic ticket.  But if you have a little Republicanism in you, and we all sin a bit, you know, don't let it be so much that it loses your job.

	And how about jobs in Ohio?  Let's just take a look at them.  It's hard to believe it, but the fact is that there were 3000 fewer jobs, fewer workers on payrolls in this state in 1960, after eight years of Republicanism, than there were in 1958.  That is a statistical fact.  On the other hand, in 1967, there were 465,000--I repeat--465,000 more people in Ohio on payrolls today than were employed in 1960.  Now, that is Democratic prosperity--eight years of Republicans and you lose 3000 jobs; seven years of Democrats and you have 465000 new jobs.  Let Mr. Nixon face that issue.

	Somebody said to me the other day, they said, you know, I don't think there is much difference between you and Mr. Nixon.  And Mr. Nixon was the first man that spoke up and bless his sweet heart, he did come u with the truth.  He said there is a whole lot of difference.  And he is right.  I will tell you he is.  Three recessions in those Nixon-Republican years; 90 consecutive months of prosperity in these Democratic years.  $175 billion difference in those three Republican recessions.  That is what it cost this country--$175 billion.

	Now, let me tell you, friends, you can go to a lot of horse races and play around a lot with that money.  You don't need to fritter around Republicans to have fun.  Personal income:  real income, adjusted for prices and real take home pay--taxes out and all--grows less than one half of one percent per year in those Nixon-Republican years.  In these last years of the Democratic party since John Kennedy became your president, wherein the Kennedy-Johnson and the Johnson-Humphrey administration personal income in Ohio has grown almost 4 1/2 percent per year.  That is quite a change.  When you compare the last eight Democratic years with the previous eight Republican, it is like comparing Roosevelt and Truman with Coolidge and Hoover.  Or better yet, Ohio State with Slippery Rock.  Or as John Gilligan insists, Notre Dame with Slippery Rock Teachers College.  I will settle for that.

	Don't be fooled tonight, ladies and gentlemen, by double talk, or no talk, or half talk from a man who was part of an administration who brought three recessions to America.  And if he wants to talk about the economy, and that is what he says he wants to do, I suggest he explain it.  So the slogan is these days, Nixon's the one.  Well, I want you to take a look at that little seal you see here, those of you who are close.  Some of you in the back can't see it so I will describe it for you.

	That is the vice presidential seal.  That bird on there, that eagle, he looks a little unhappy, and most vice presidents are.  They have lots of responsibility and no authority and that eagle has his wings down looking like he is ready for a crash landing rather than a take-off.  That is somewhat characteristic, too, may I say.

	But there is another interesting thing about it.  The presidential eagle, you know, has his wings spread out, glorious, the great American eagle.  There in one set of claws, he has a whole sheaf, a whole bunch of olive branches representing this nation's dedication to peace.  Over here in the other set of claws, he has a whole sheaf of arrows representing this nation's strength.  That is the presidential seal.  I got to looking at it so much, I like it so much, I just thought it was mine.  It just looked so nice.

	Then I took a look at mine, and there is that same eagle, looking a little bad, though.  It hasn't been fed too well.  You look over there in one set of claws and there is just one little olive branch.  Now, what do you expect me to be able to do for peace with one little olive branch?

	Let me finish my story, let me finish my story.  And you look over there and you see that one little arrow.  Somebody said to me the other day, Mr. Vice President, what in the world are you saving that arrow for?  And I said, Nixon is the one.

	My friends, this is what this campaign is about.  We are going to have to find from the opposition, we are going to have to continue to pound away on these platforms until the opposition starts to talk to us about what are the real issues.  This dancing around the edges, this flirting around with unreality is no way to aspire to the presidency.  The man you need for president of this United States is not one that knows how to wobble, bob, duck, and weave, not one that knows how to stay away from the cross examination of the press, not one that refuses to face up the hard questions of the day.  The man that you need for president of the United States is someone who will say it like it is and will stand up and take it, and not only take, but will dish it out when it needs to be dished out.

	If there is one sin that afflicts most of us in public office, it is that insatiable desire for popularity.  Ladies and gentlemen, it is nice to have and none of us are without a desire of it.  But I want to say to this audience in all seriousness tonight, what you need in a president is not that he be popular but that he be right.  You need a president--

	I want therefore to talk to you then, in the time that you have given me in this wonderful outpouring of Democratic unity tonight.  I wan to talk to you about what I think are the three realities today in America.  These are the realities that we have simply got to deal with--not the general platitudes or general generalities, generous generalities or pious platitudes, but the realities.  What is it like?  What are the issues?

	Well, the first reality is the absolute necessity of finding some way honorably, some way to find peace in Vietnam and in this world of ours.  That is the first reality.

	And the second reality that every mayor knows about that every city official knows about, is the necessity for peace and justice in our cities and in our nation.

	The third reality that underpins all the rest is the absolute necessity for unity of spirit, unity of purpose amongst these the people of these United States.  And I want to address myself briefly to those three.

	There are no easy answers and there will be none.  In this campaign, I run on the platform of the Democratic party, a platform which points the way, may I say, toward a political settlement; a platform that points the way toward the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Vietnam; a platform that points the way toward the de-Americanization of this war, toward systematic and careful reductions of our combat troops so that the defense of that nation of South Vietnam rests more and more with its own people; a platform that points the way toward free elections open to all major factions and parties that are willing to accept peaceful political processes; and a platform that points the way toward the long term economic, social, and political development of this sad and war-torn land.

	That is what our objectives are.

	Meanwhile, as a citizen, as a candidate, and as vice president, I pledge that I will do everything, and I have pledged this, everything within my power, so help me God, to aid the negotiations that are now underway in Paris and to bring peace to Southeast Asia.  And I pledge to this audience tonight that when I am your president, if peace by that time has not been obtained, if the violence has not stopped, if the cease fire has not been achieved, I pledge to you that my first priority as president of these United States shall be to use all of the power and all of the authority of the Office of the Presidency to find an honorable way to bring an end to that war in Vietnam.

	And the second reality is the necessity for peace and justice here at home and our cities and our nation.  Law and order, yes.  Justice and opportunity, yes.  There is trouble in our country, and we know it.  But I don't think it comes from any lack of faith.  In many ways, it comes from a kindling of hope.  When people have no hope, they are apathetic.  When people have hope, they are restless.  People for the first time, millions of them, see some hope.  We Democrats ought to be proud of the fact that we have inspired hope, new hope, in millions of men and women who previously had no hope.  Ten million of our fellow Americans in these last six years, these last five years, have come out of the dark cellars of poverty into the bright sun light of a new life for themselves.  And others are impatient.  They see that it can be better.  And they know that we can help make it that way.  Now, the simple solution of the frustrated and the frightened when they see this restlessness is to lash out angrily and bitterly at everybody.  Sometimes it is anger that is filled with hate and harsh and ugly voices fill the air.  But let me remind you, my friends, violence breeds more violence; disorder destroys.  Only in peace and order can we build.  There is not a single problem that confronts this nation today that can be settled in the streets.  There isn't a single problem that confronts America today that will be resolved by the extremes of the right or the left, black or white.  The problems that we have will be resolved as we sit at these tables tonight, talking to each other in respect, in dignity, in understanding, in tolerance, in knowledge, and in friendship.

	I want to put it very plainly so nobody will have any doubt about the man that is talking to you--I said law and order, yes; opportunity and justice, yes.  But I make it very clear there can be no justice, there can be no opportunity if a nation is torn apart by wild men, by nihilists, by people that have no respect for free speech, freedom of assembly, or even the right to vote.

	And I say to you that rioting, burning, sniping, mugging, traffic in narcotics, and disregard for the law are the advance guard of anarchy and they must and they will be stopped.  And if I am the president of these United States, I will mobilize the resources of the federal, state, and local governments to see to it that the law is upheld.

	But e will not have observance of the law and we will not have respect for the law just by slogans and words.  And we will not have it by having candidates for the highest office of the land condemn the Supreme Court, which is the ultimate tribunal of this country, and heap ridicule and scorn upon the Attorney General of the United States, which is the chief law enforcement officer of this nation.  You do not teach your children to obey the law and respect the law by condemning justice and condemning the court.

	Abraham Lincoln admonished us one hundred some years ago to teach our young love of the law, observance of the law, to teach it at the mother's knee.  When I hear a candidate for the presidency, and there are two of them doing it, going up and down this country , pouring scorn upon the Justice Department upon the one hand--that has a record, may I say, of more law enforcement under this administration on organized crime by 300 percent better than the previous administration--when I hear them pouring their scorn and their ridicule upon the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, I say there is something wrong and I wonder what kind of deal was made in Miami between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Strom Thurmond.  Something is wrong and you know it and I know it.  Now, the answer to this issue lies in reasoned, effective action by state, local, and federal authority.  And you know that I am the one candidate that has proposed a comprehensive program with 84 separate, specific details to stop crime and violence in this country, and a program to support our local police--to support them not just by words and bumper stickers.  That does not help them.  But to support them with leadership and federal resources and truly desperately needed money for higher salaries and better training and better quality of personnel and modern equipment.

	Mr. Nixon, you are not going to get law and order until we start to respect our police officers by the kind of equipment, salary, and training that a law enforcement officer ought to have.

	I know of what I speak.  I have been the mayor of a great city and I have had the responsibility and I am the only candidate that has ever had the responsibility for supervision of the law enforcement agency of a great city.  And I cleaned up a city, too.  I drove out the organized crime and the racketeers, and I suppressed the violence when it took place in our streets.  And I received the FBI Award for effective law enforcement.  I can say no other candidate can make that claim.

	As mayor of Minneapolis, Minnesota, I fought crime.  And one of my dear friends is here tonight who would tell you of the battle that we had and it was a hard one, a dangerous one.  But we fought it and we won.  And I intend to do exactly the same thing as president of these United States.

	And I never wanted my city to be known only for its police department.  I wanted it to be known for its jobs, for its opportunity, for its human relations, for its education, for its health care and for its housing.  And I intend to use every resource at my command when I am your president to do something about that side of the coin.

	Yes, civil order.  But also civil justice.  And a man who does not speak to you in those terms is indulging in demagoguery.  There is no law and order without justice.  There is no justice without law and order.  Mr. Nixon wants to double the convictions.  Well, if he does, he will have to build a lot of new jails and penitentiaries.  That may be required.  If so, it will be done.  But I have a higher aim, my dear friends.  I am not running for sheriff.

	Why not?  That is an honorable office and it deserves respect.  But the man who serves as president of this country has something more to do.  To be sure, he is the Chief Executive.  But the police power of this nation rests with the states and the local government, and every person here on this platform and in this audience knows it.  So if Mr. Nixon wants to double the convictions, let me tell you what I want to do.  I want to double our efforts to build new neighborhoods, to save new lives and to put new hope in the hearts of our people.  That is the doubling that I want to do and that is the doubling that you want to do.  And we can do both.  We can do both.  We can have a safe society and we can have a just society.  You can never have a safe society without a just society and you can never have a just society without a safe one.  They are one and inseparable.  And listen not to those that would tell you otherwise.

Now, the third reality is the necessity, and you know it for unity and reconciliation in this country--to bind our wounds; to speak to each other as neighbors not as enemies; to look upon each other as fellow citizens, not as strangers; to heal our broken spirits and sometimes our broken hearts.

	We have to ask ourselves a very serious question:  Are we to be one nation, or are we to be a nation divided--two nations, separate and unequal, divided between black and white, between rich and poor, between the north and the south, between the young and the old?

	There are some that would settle for that, I guess.  There are dramatic appeals being made today on that basis.  There is outright racism in some areas.  And in some other places, under some other candidate, it is just the theory of take it easy, don't hurry it, be slow.

	My fellow Americans, some people in this country have waited 196 years.  They have waited almost 200 years for the American dream to be theirs.  And they are impatient.  So I have taken my stand a long time ago.  I have been told that this is an unpopular stand.  I was told that in 1948.  I have been told that the stand I take does not get me any votes.  But nevertheless, I take my stand where I have stood for 25 years of public service.  And that is simply this:  That we can only be one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all, and with one citizenship for every American, regardless of race, creed, or color.

	No president can govern unless it is one nation.  No man in the White House can keep this country moving forward if we are divided and torn by constant friction, conflict, and animosity.  Brotherhood today is a citizen requirement of every single American.  Respect for one another.

	I happen to believe that winning the residency is not worth the price of silence or evasion on the issue of human rights and equal opportunity.  And I have no intention of sacrificing what has been the purpose of my life for the cheap victory that would come by talking with forked tongue to the American people.

	So I say to America tonight, put aside recrimination and dissension.  Put aside fear and bitterness.  Turn away, my fellow Americans, turn away and help others, turn away from violence in any form and from hatred in any act or words.  Believe in what America can do and what America can be.  Remember that this is what Lincoln called the last best hope of earth.

	And it means so much to the peoples of the world.  It spells hoe.  To the people of America, it spells hope and the future.

	Our country will move forward, and I know it will continue to move forward to that new day that I promise you, when we open our hearts to the good that is in them, when we open our minds to the promise of the future--not the mistakes only of yesterday, when we open America, this great and wonderful land that we have heard so much about tonight, this wonderful place where we live; when we open it up for everyone, open it for all--opportunity for all, justice for all, freedom for all.

	Now, that is the promise of America.  And my fellow Americans, that is my promise to all Americans if I am permitted to give leadership this Republic.  I ask your help.  Let's go from this place tonight and let's help build the king of America that we want for our loved ones, for our children.  I need your help.

	I want you to go North in a mighty movement to help this country heal its wounds, to move forward as a mighty force for good and for justice--not only for ourselves but as an example in this world.  Now, let's get to it.

	Thank you very much.
CIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--CONVICTIONSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)POVERTYRACE RELATIONSSUPREME COURTVIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME     œx hx bx ^x Vx
 Jx Ex @x 8x 4x 2x 2x 'x Þ	 ú 	 ì 	 Þ 	 Á 	 £ 	 Œ 	 r 	 C 	 < 	 . 	 ! 	  e: