Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1005.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/05STUMPNEW HAVENCONNECTICUTCTWOOLSEY HALL, YALE UNIVERSITY3007 WORDS
	I feel that your reception has done altogether too much honor to a man whose previous undergraduate association was with a university which has often caused you acute embarrassment and me great joy on crisp autumn afternoons--named Princeton.

	I have also had some considerable association, personal and parental, with Harvard. So it is natural that I have always wanted to attend Yale, too, in one guise or another--but I never quite expected that it would be as an itinerant politician.

	But your president is not only a man of warm hospitality and boundless tolerance, he is also an eminent historian, who knows that American life is made up of many strange things--and that even college students ought to be exposed to some of them. And one of the strangest is a man who runs for president; and a still stranger one is a man who runs for President twice.

Still, if I managed to circumnavigate only the wrong two of what used to be called the Big Three, I am relieved to say that I have a Yale man on the ticket with me--and I want to take this occasion to tell you how proud and happy I am about my running mate, an alumnus of your law school--Estes Kefauver.

	I am particularly glad to be here at Woolsey Hall tonight because I always enjoy speaking at colleges. Now whenever I say this, I can see most of my entourage wince--particularly those eggheads who surround me, all of whom are hard-boiled now.

	You know that word--"egghead" is interesting. Some people think it means that you have a lot in your head, and some think it means that you have nothing on your head. In the latter respect I qualify as an egghead for obvious reasons. But it is when I am deemed to qualify in the former that I am happiest and, curiously enough, that is usually around universities, and especially around university faculties, which I suppose proves something about the gullibility, credulity, and innocence of the learned and the superior perceptions of their charges.

	I said something like this about enjoying my occasional visits to universities in a speech at the University of Minnesota last March, and those eggheads on my staff acted as if this were the reason why I lost the primary. But I would say to these great thinkers, the eggheads, that I really don't believe that they are as unpopular as they suppose; nor do I think that many Americans regard association with them as a criminal offense.

	Now the fact that I enjoy talking at, to, and with university audiences doesn't mean that I don't enjoy speaking at party rallies, too. What I like best, perhaps, is an evening that combines the best features of both--and I think we are going to have an evening like that tonight.

	It has been an interesting campaign, and I welcome the opportunity Woolsey Hall provides to reflect for a moment about it.

	The Republican sales managers thought that the President's endorsement would be enough to make their product go. But now they are having to reconsider their sales campaign--I think they call it "agonizing reappraisal." For they have discovered that the people aren't satisfied just to see the Republican leaders. They also want to hear what they have to say.

	This discovery has caused a serious intellectual crisis in Republican ranks. And it is, of course, why the Republicans recently issued their Macedonian cry for intellectuals. I understand that at this very moment Republican talent scouts are beating the darkest recesses of Time, Inc., the Ivy League, and the Partisan Review. 

	And I say: more power to them. But I say, too, that liberalism, or humanity in government, or real concern for people--or whatever you want to call it--this spirit of newness the Republican candidates are now pretending to--whatever it is, it is not something that a political party can pick up like an acquired accent. It isn't something you can buy by the speech, or on Madison Avenue.

	We've been working on it in the Democratic party for 150 years now. We're not going to claim any patent infringement, for we're trying to improve the product ourselves and we're glad for any help or new ideas. But we're frankly pretty confident that we can beat any competition that relies on words as a substitute for action.

	The Republican candidates can't say with much vigor and enthusiasm what they want to do--because they don't want to do anything very much. They can't promise to accomplish great things over the next four years--without explaining why they failed to accomplish them in the last four. Hans Christian Andersen has already written the story of this campaign. He called it "The Emperor's New Clothes." All that Estes Kefauver and I have been doing is to tell people what they already know: that the Emperor really doesn't have any clothes on at all.

	I think one of the most interesting and significant questions in the campaign will be whether the shock over this revelation will not drive our Republican friends into new excesses. Denied his favorite device of associating Democrats with Communism, at least while traveling a higher road, Mr. Nixon has reverted to the familiar technique of associating Democrats with socialism. This is standard operating procedure in the newly self-styled "party of the future." Only the other day, Ezra Benson, the Secretary of Agriculture, was calling leaders of the northwest grain cooperatives socialists. And, of course, the Republicans have opposed nearly every social advance within the memory of man as "socialistic."

	 I would comment to the Republican leadership--and especially to Mr. Nixon--the wise words of Mr. Nixon's fellow Californian, Chief Justice Earl Warren. "I think of a lot of Republicans have been careless and politically foolish," Chief Justice Warren has said, "in the way they have confused social progress with socialism. In my opinion it does the party harm to yell about socialism every time a government, federal, state or local, does something to serve its people in the fields of health, job security, old-age security, child care, conservation, intelligent use of water resources or in any other general fields in which government today must operate because individuals can't do what is needed for the greatest good of the greatest number."

	I do not think the American people are going to be much more impressed in 1956 by the Vice President's threadbare shouts about socialism than they were two years ago by his loud shouts about Communism. I really believe we have outgrown this kind of politics.

	I am not opposed to a hard fight. Indeed, there are some who seem to think I have been fighting too hard in this campaign. I was somewhat consoled the other day, however, when an old friend, comparing the 1956 campaign with 1952 said--a bit sourly, I thought--"I am glad at last to see the declarative sentence begin to triumph over the subjunctive."

	Hard-hitting, factual debate is the essence of democracy. Innuendo, smear and slander are not. They debauch the language of politics: they defile the dialogue which is the means by which free society governs itself. George Orwell once said that, if you want to corrupt a people, first corrupt the words in which they express themselves. The English language can take a lot, especially in election year, but there are limits to the burden of deceit and infamy which it should be asked to bear.

	This is a point in the campaign when it seems worth recalling the ground rules of political responsibility--and I mean in terms of self-reminder as much as criticism, of perspective--then I can only say that in the heat of battle even the obvious sometimes becomes blurred and worth reasserting.

	Perhaps there is too much of the commonplace in the old injunction that victory is, after all, not an end in itself. Yet I often think that the single greatest difficulty about running for responsible public office is how you can win without, in the process, proving yourself unworthy of winning.

	Don't misunderstand me: I mean to win in November. But the perception that you can pay too great a price for victory--that the means you use may destroy the principles you think you cherish--is fundamental to Democratic responsibility. If the rule itself seems over-obvious--that there is something more to political accomplishment than electoral victory, then let me suggest two propositions that are both its corollary and its test.

	I don't believe any victory is worth winning in a democracy unless it can be won by placing full trust in the members of the democracy. I mean giving people the hard facts and the hard decisions--trusting their sobriety and their judgment--regarding them not as the customers of the government, to be sold, but as the owners of government, to run their own affairs. I mean resisting today's temptations to rely on soft-soap, slogans, gimmicks, bandwagons and all the other infernal machines of modern high-pressure politics in this age of mass manipulation. The promise of such manipulations is contempt--contempt for people's intelligence, common sense and dignity.

	The second corollary is that the political party can never be considered an end in itself. It is only an agency for a larger purpose.

	Again, let no one misunderstand me. I believe in party loyalty and party responsibility. I am a Democrat, a good party Democrat, a very proud Democrat. But that very pride depends upon my heartfelt conviction that this party is an instrument for carrying out certain principles for the establishment of certain values. What is of fundamental and lasting importance are the ideals a party incarnates, and the purpose of the party is to make government serve our lives as it should serve them.

	It is easy and proper and very right to assert that the fortunes of our party are, in the long view, closely and integrally related to our national welfare. Our long history of public service--its many contributions to that welfare in time of crisis, domestic and foreign--can leave no doubt of this. What is more important is to be sure we keep it always in mind that the fortunes of our party, even in the short run, are of infinitely less importance than the national interest as it is conceived by all our citizens in and out of direct party affiliation or allegiance.

	Surely it is appropriate for us to consider the issues that face us in those terms. The most important fact about any year, including the quadrennial one of national election, is its own identity, its standing apart in its own niche in time, its own remoteness from the years that have gone before, its uniqueness as the only gateway through which we may enter into the years ahead.

	At Chicago, a few weeks ago, we Democrats were given a most timely and eloquent reminder of this fact by a great lady who, more than most, is entitled to recall the glories of years which have dropped over the far horizon.

	"The world," Mrs. Roosevelt said, "looks to us again for the meaning of democracy, and we must think of that very seriously. There are new problems. They must be met in new ways. We have heard a great deal, and we were fired with enthusiasm by the traditions of our party. Thus, the new problems we face cannot be met by traditions only, but they must be met by imagination... And it is a foolish thing to say that you pledge yourself to live up to the traditions of the New Deal and the Fair Deal--of course you are proud of those traditions... but our party must live as a young party, and it must have young leadership. It must have young people, and they must be allowed to lead ... they must take into account the advice of the elders, but they must have the courage to look ahead, to face new problems with new solutions."

	Is it not the very essence of greatness, in a person as in an institution, to face squarely the often uncomfortable fact that the world moves on with the inexorable succession of the years? New problems arise, new challenges are presented, and, most important of all, new opportunities are provided which, if not seized upon with courage and energy and imagination, are shouldered aside by the relentless cycle of time.

	I do not believe that we Democrats have the answers for 1956 simply because we had them for 1952. No more do I believe that the Republicans have them for this present moment in time simply because the country turned to them in 1952. And the greatest mistake we as a people could make would be to confuse 1956 and 1952 simply because the same two individuals are carrying the party standards.

	As one of those individuals, I am peculiarly exposed to the temptation of thinking that the issues are the same because the faces are the same. But I try to resist it because I know that to yield is to defy the overriding law of life, which is change. And the way I resist is by continually asking myself: What is this election really about this year? What are the watchwords of the past which have no relevance for the present? What should we be thinking, planning, initiating, doing--now?

	I think the central issue is 1956, particularly for the uncommitted voter, is that complacency contains the seeds of decay, not of growth. It is at war with our national genius. It falsifies the tradition which has taken shape in sharp and glowing outline throughout our 180 years as an independent people. In the few periods when its siren song has been heard most loudly in the land, it has been a prelude to a harsher melody in which the saddest note is one of mourning for what might have been.

	We have heard a very great deal, and we are going to hear a lot in the weeks ahead, about prosperity and peace. But surely the uneven measure of prosperity we now enjoy, and the restless and uneasy peace in which we now find ourselves, were not achieved by standing still and admiring them. We have become the world's envy because we never stopped raising our sights, because we constantly set new goals for ourselves even as we gained the old, because pretty good was never good enough.

	I do not believe that it is in character for us as a people to rest in contemplation of the schools we have when we know we need more, to pause in the building of a prosperity which has no place for the family farmer, the little business enterprise, the displaced worker, and the aging pensioner. I do not believe we really believe that we have peace while the world is divided into hostile camps and smoldering in between, and we are spending $40 billion a year for war.

	In our hearts we know we must be up and doing, probing ceaselessly for new breakthroughs in our endless striving for solutions for today's problems and for the new ones that tomorrow will find on our doorstep, searching always for better answers than the ones we have been able to come up with thus far. We know that the gospel of discontent is the prophet of progress.

	It is our mood that is the issue in this election. From whence is to come the energy to quicken it, the vision to excite it, the courage and will to lead it--to goad it, if need be--forward toward the greater fulfillment it has always demanded. The essence of our faith is the determination to measure today's problems not against yesterday's fears but against tomorrow's hopes.

	To you, the young among us, I say that your generation confronts a baffling and difficult world. Your problems are not those of my generation. Your task is infinitely more difficult. It is not just to find a job for yourself--it is to save a world, a world in revolution. Your task is not to recover a faith but to give that faith reality.

	There have been revolutionary intervals before. They are times of danger and of opportunity--grave danger and exhilarating opportunity.

	You know that America can conquer crippling disease, can discover creative uses for the new leisure which will come in the wake of abundance, can transform our surpluses into a blessing to mankind rather than a burden to the farmers, can strike a mighty blow at the ancient curse of poverty, and can achieve for all Americans that individual freedom, that equality of opportunity, and that human dignity which belong to them as American citizens and as children of God.

	You know, too, that America can restore its position in the world, that it can become once again a trusted and inspiring leader, dedicated not to keeping things as they are but to making the promise of our own Revolution a light for all mankind. You know that we can lead the peoples of the earth away from the false beacons of Communism and slavery to a new age of human abundance and human fulfillment.

	Our national purpose is not just to have an election and get it out of the way. Our purpose is not to watch a horse race in which all we care about is victory and at almost any price. Our purpose is to show how a great nation rises to the responsibility of self-government--and how it emerges from the experience purified in purpose, strengthened in resolution, and united in faith.

	At least, speaking for myself, this is why I am here, and--if you think hard--that is why you are here at Yale. We know our goals: education will help us find our paths.

 

CONDUCT OF LIFE--INTELLIGENCE/COMMON SENSEELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYSOCIALISM     ÙC ¿C ∫C ∂C ÆC
 °C úC óC éC ÉC ÅC dC ZC	 c 	 9 	  	 	 e: