Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1016.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/16TELEVISIONLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACA3620 WORDS

	A letter to me from a lady in the East the other day said, "I am easily swayed by emotion, except when I think, which I occasionally do."

	Well, tonight, my friends, at this fireside, which is really a studio in Los Angeles, I want to talk to you about the question which lies closest to all of our hearts and heaviest on all of our minds.

	It has become our custom to sum this up in one word--Korea--a name and a place that many Americans knew little about until two years ago. But we know a lot about Korea now, and perhaps the most important thing we know is that it is a much, much broader problem than that one word, Korea, implies.

	In June of 1950, the hopes of the world were lifted by the United Nations decision to meet force with force in Korea, to fight to halt ruthless, cynical Communist aggression.

	President Truman's prompt decision to meet the test and his courageous leadership were saluted by all Americans, whatever their party and whatever their station in life, and by free men everywhere.

	General Douglas MacArthur said from his post in Japan that the president's action had "lighted into a flame a lamp of hope throughout Asia that was burning dimly toward extinction." "It marked," he said, "for the Far East the focal and turning point in this area of struggling for freedom."

	We knew in 1950 that the Communist attack on Korea was not an isolated event. We knew that it was part and parcel of a vast drive for world dominion that began long before that Sunday morning when the North Koreans crossed the 38th Parallel. It was intended that the Soviet-directed drive would carry right on through Korea in a few weeks--and far, far beyond, as the West sat indecisive and impotent. Why not? Wasn't that the history of the Japanese invasion of China; of Mussolini's invasion of Ethiopia; of Hitler's conquest in Europe? Wasn't the League of Nations helpless in the face of force?

	There is no other problem on which we Americans need to think so clearly as the problem created by this Soviet drive for world dominion. A misstep, an unwise action, a failure of reason and will could touch off world tragedy. But it is equally true where cool heads and straight thinking and unwavering determination are the guides, the only guides, which can lead us safely to world peace. It is up to us in America to supply this guidance, accepting the responsibilities of leadership which, whether we like it or not, have sought us out and from which we cannot avert our faces.

	We did not choose this struggle in Korea and in the world. We don't want it. But we can't avoid it, and our future depends on its outcome. We face the questions of how we are to wage this struggle and how we are to win it. I want to explore these questions with you tonight soberly and objectively. Like every parent who has sons in the service, I do not want to see the shadows of politics fall across the part your boys and mine must play in the unfolding drama of war and peace.

	Politics must end at the water's edge. For it is not as Democrats or Republicans that we live in the world and meet the tests of history; it is as Americans and as free men and women.

And this is why a bipartisan foreign policy is not only desirable--it is indispensable for the maximum strength and influence of the United States throughout the world because we can be no stronger abroad than we are at home, and no amount of election-year oratory can obscure the truth that our foreign policy has drawn on the wisdom of like-minded men in both parties, that it has been developed with their cooperation, that it has been carried out with their help.

	This campaign might have served to unify and strengthen the American people for the tasks that lie ahead. It might have been used to unify and strengthen the free world. It might have given notice to the Kremlin that America is alert, determined and united.

	It still can, but not if there is to be a constant effort to create disunity instead of unity, to implant doubt instead of confidence, to claim a foresight that never existed, and to discredit not only the competence but even the motives and the integrity of the men who have borne the burden and the pain of the fateful decisions of these years.

	Three weeks ago the Denver Post--a newspaper which is supporting my opponent--published an editorial which I wish you could all read. The first four paragraphs of this editorial recite the damaging Republican record on Korea. Then the editorial goes on to say this: "We bring up these unfortunate records only because we are sick and tired of hearing the responsibility for the start of the war pinned on any one or two persons or agencies. Both Democrats and Republicans should remember that and the less said about who did or did not do what, the better. Instead of crying over spilt milk, let's hear the candidates say plainly how they intend to wipe it up."

	Now, I believe this expresses the view of most Americans. Everyone wants to end the war and to bring the boys home. The question is not that--the question is how?

	What are the alternatives that are open to us?

	Some Republicans suggest that we should withdraw our forces from Korea and quit what they call this useless war. This is the policy of scuttle and run. What effect do you think such a policy would have on reckless men? What effect on the free peoples living in the long, dark shadow of the Kremlin?

	Well, I will tell you what I think. I think that Korea is not the last ambition of the Soviet rulers. Far from it. I think that weakness will never persuade the Soviet rulers to keep the peace. Once they had us on the run they would undertake new acts of aggression somewhere else, and if we pulled out of Korea, all of South Asia would be uncovered and inviting, like Indochina, where the French have fought so long, so valiantly and so expensively.

	No better plan for certain disaster could be drawn up than a plan to withdraw from Korea. I do not know where the next blow will fall nor do you, but that it would is certain. And if we had just turned tail and run in Korea, would we, do you suppose, resist the next blow?

	No, I think we would wait, while one by one our friends and allies fell, until at last, alone and apprehensive, our defense perimeter threatened, we would wait for the blow to fall on us. We might have saved some tax money in the process, in between, but, used this way, saving has a very hollow sound. Withdrawing then, it seems to me, is not a real alternative.

	Some Republicans, including my opponent, say that we should let the Koreans do the fighting.

	Well, let us analyze this proposal. It has been common knowledge, I thought, for a long time that the United States has been training and equipping Korean forces and that these forces are taking on more and more of the burden. I pointed this out some weeks ago and it has been frequently reported in the press over the past three years.

	We know, too, on the authority and in the words of General Van Fleet that Korean soldiers "will never be able completely to replace American troops in Korea as long as there is an active front."

	It takes sixteen weeks to give a Korean infantryman basic training. It takes much longer to train a platoon or a company leader, and it takes a long time indeed to develop good regimental and divisional commanders and to give them the experience that they must have if they are to be successful leaders of their troops. General Van Fleet is doing this job as fast as is humanly possible. Already the Korean divisions outnumber ours.

	And then there is my distinguished opponent's position that only Asians should fight Asians.

	To me this completely misses the significance of the Korean War for America. That war takes place in Korea, but surely no one--least of all the General--thinks that the only object of the attack was the small territory of Korea and the twenty million citizens of the Republic of Korea.

	The attack was aimed at America and the whole free world--and that is why many nations have responded.

	We fought World War II in the Pacific and in Europe, far from our shores, but did that mean that America was not under attack? Of course not. Today we are defending America in Korea. The Korean War is not a war that concerns just Koreans. It is our war, too, because--and there should be no mistake about this--world domination is the ultimate target of the Communist rulers, and world dominion includes us.

	The man who becomes president of the United States is going to have difficult decisions to make, and he is going to need the thoughtful and the understanding support of the American people. And whatever confuses and misleads and deludes the people is destructive of this support--this support without which no president can hope to do his job.

	Now there is one other possible alternative to our present course. Some Republicans favor extending the war to China. This course was advocated by General MacArthur. And, following his return from the Far East, exhaustive congressional hearings were held to assess the wisdom of General MacArthur's advice.

	The Great Debate, as it was called, reached an unmistakably clear decision. The Congress and the American people overwhelmingly rejected this advice to extend the war.

	As to apparent contradictions in the views of the opposition on this score as the political campaign progresses, I shall make no comments and risk no further charges and countercharges in such a serious matter. But, I do say, regretfully, that the fancied advantage of votes from exploiting our natural emotional reactions to the Korean War have been unfortunate here at home, where the people want enlightenment, and abroad, where the people want confidence that the United States knows what it is doing and why. People's minds should not be clouded about a situation which demands clear thinking.

	Now my own views regarding our course of action in Korea offer no miracles. We shouldn't, I think, extend the war to new areas. It would be a serious mistake to tie up our strength in a futile war on the mainland of China, because it would take all our strength and leave the Red Army free to move against the industrial might of Europe. It is not our purpose to bring the world a single step nearer the tragedy and the bloodshed of world war.

	Our purpose is peace. We must continue to press in every conceivable way the negotiations in Korea. I am keenly aware of the fact that most people in this country feel that there just must be some way that these negotiations can be pressed to a conclusion. We must keep the United Nations military forces in Korea at that strength which, with Koreans, will be necessary to withstand the Communist forces. Otherwise we will lose the negotiations and we will also lose the chance of settlement in Korea which we have now almost won.

	We must continue to train and to equip South Korean forces as rapidly as we can so that they can assume as much of the burden as possible.

	They are a brave people. You know what they have been doing only lately in these past weeks at White Horse Mountain. They themselves want to do as much of the job as they possibly can, and I know that our Chiefs of Staff are pressing this training and this equipment program in a way that ought to remove it from the debates of politicians.

	We must continue to rotate our soldiers so that the burden will be shared as fairly as possible. So far only a very few men have had to spend more than one winter in Korea. We want to keep it that way, and, if possible, to improve that situation.

	We will, by this policy--by perseverance--win the military decision in Korea. With settlement by negotiation and the victory of arms that was substantially won when we drove the invaders back across the 38th Parallel, we will have stopped, or stalled at least, what would otherwise have been the extension of Communism all over South Asia, and a long stride in the movement of this menace toward our own shores.

	But this does not answer the full question in your hearts. Nor does it even suggest the measure of hope and expectation in mine. What comes after Korea? Are there to be only more Koreas on other soil, but with American boys being called upon again and again to die so that civilization may live?

	I have, throughout this campaign, tried to recognize steadfastly the stern demand that the role of leadership in a troubled world makes upon this nation of ours. I have not painted, nor shall I, any false picture of an easy tomorrow. Yet, you must know that in my heart--yes--and clearly in my mind, is only the one expectation that is, I know, in yours, the expectation of peace--of lasting peace--of peace not for future generations but for ours, of peace without another Korea and without another war.

	I would not, I could not, say this to you unless my expectation had firm foundations in fact and in reason. First, there is the fact that our strength here at home now approaches that point where Russia can never afford to test it. This strength lies not alone in the nearly four million well-equipped, well-trained men in our armed forces--men whose invincibility of spirit the Communists now know at first hand. Behind that front line there is operating now an even more productive supply line than our fabulous industrial genius developed during the last war--the highly skilled and free labor force, a management force of unparalleled inventiveness and resourcefulness, an agricultural force which will supply every demand.

	It is an equally important fact that our allies are also growing daily in strength--the strength of restored moral purpose--the strength of the confidence that we have helped to give them--the strength of arms--and, perhaps most of all, the strength of a growing unity that may well emerge in history as the most important development of these times.

	Men are at work today drafting a constitution for the United States of Europe. Age-old rivalries are being replaced by cooperation within Europe and between Europe and Great Britain and the United States. Strong, new ties, based on common interests, are binding closer together the United States and the free nations of the Pacific. Around the world free men are learning how to cooperate in the struggle against poverty and illiteracy and disease, against the ugly conditions which have in the past bred so many wars.

	There is also the fact that the United Nations is moving now toward its maturity. All of us feel discouraged sometimes about the difficulties which arise around the United Nations tables. And I know, because I sat there myself for many long, weary, frustrating months. Yet, we know that for every veto there, for every setback which makes headline news, there are new steps ahead. It cannot be expected that nations which have spent thousands of years living aggressively apart will learn now in a moment the art of living harmoniously together. We know that the United Nations will succeed, for all of the peoples of all of the nations know that it must succeed.

	It is in our developing strength here at home, in these victories over poverty, in these steps towards unification of the free world, as well as in Korea that the battle for peace is being won.

	I see three stern, menacing realities in this situation. One is the harsh, ugly fact that the Communist masters of Russia seek the mastery of the world and that fact will not end with a settlement in Korea.

	The second stern reality is the fact that Korea is still a battlefield, and that our boys--our sons--are dying there. No confidence in our growing strength at home can give us any real satisfaction until that day when they come home. We can't take one ounce of real satisfaction from anything else--from any other gain--until the daily human tragedies which are Korea are stopped.

	The third stern reality is that the building of our military might at home and the strengthening of the whole free world are placing terrific demands upon our resources. It is costing us awfully in money to build these defenses so that we can be sure that the malevolent lords of Communism will not plunge us into a war in which the atom would destroy us all. We dare not stop because of the price tag when what we are buying is the preservation of civilization. But we must take every precaution against weakening ourselves in the process of building our strength. We must practice the most extreme of housewifely economies in our spending. We must, too, be sure that those nations which are our friends and allies realize that there are limits to our strength and that if we over-train or overtax ourselves they will, with us, suffer the consequences.

	We are going to do everything we can to save the free world, and we will save it, but only if they help us to help themselves. So, there are the stern realities. But there is, too, the light of our hopes and expectations, shining as clear through the clouds as that beautiful evening star that I saw last night from our plane as we came into San Francisco.

	We must reckon with realities and find lessons in our failures. But we are entitled, too, to count our gains--and we will err if we take counsel only of our fears. A mad force is loose in this world. Yet scores of other nations have learned now in seven short years to recognize that in cooperation there is salvation. There is war in Korea. Yet, in a dozen other nations we have dug out the roots of war and of Communism, for those awful strangling weeds grow from poverty and ignorance and fear of men about their neighbors.

	I do not say to you that tomorrow there will be peace. I say to you, though, that we are today moving faster toward peace than mankind has ever moved before. And I say, too, that I find fair and sufficient reason for the belief that we will reach that peace without another war. That must be done, else life itself and the design of its maker would be a bitter mockery.

	And now I'd like to take just the few minutes we have left to chat with you a little more informally. I guess you know my feeling that even the serious business of a presidential campaign can be improved if we relax a minute now and then while we talk.

	I have been on the go a lot lately. It isn't an easy job--this traveling across our country from coast to coast, urging people to support the Democratic party, our principles and myself. But it is a grandly rewarding experience that has afforded me an opportunity to see so much of our country. And, as it unfolds rapidly, like a motion picture, you get some impression of the variety, the might, the majesty of the United States of America.

	It is a humbling experience. To confront the possibility of being responsible for at least the execution of its policies and the suggestion of its programs--to do that and do it well--to do it in the interest of all of the people, with so many conflicting views and such a variety of interests, is a job that staggers the imagination, the human mind, the human heart.

	This, however, is, under our constitutional system, an assignment that you give to one man. Anybody who would be so bold as to presume that he had all the answers, or was confident enough of his own intelligence to be sure that he could find the right answer and find it every time, would be a dangerous man. I don't know all the answers myself and I doubt if anyone does.

	I do think, though, that our hope of finding those answers lies in this party of ours. I believe the record establishes it and that the projection of our future on the basis of these policies of the past makes it manifest. But, whatever man is assigned this responsibility, he can only succeed--he and your congressmen and your senators--with the support, the confidence, the good will--and I must add, the patience, of the people--people like you--and, most of all, with your prayers.
ALLIES/ALLIANCESBIPARTISANSHIPFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)UNITED NATIONSKOREAN WAR     ÷N ¢N úN òN êN
 ÉN ~N tN iN _N ]N ]N SN	 i 	 Y 	 K 	 3 	   
 e: