Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0920.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/20STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCHISPANIC CONGRESSIONAL CAUCUS2,156 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Congressman Garcia, Bobby, for that kind introduction.  As you know, at the Democratic National Convention, my nomination was very much in doubt.  And I asked myself, "What can I do to get this nomination in an easy way?"  I thought for about three minutes, picked up the phone, called Congressman Garcia, and I said, "Would you place my name in nomination?"  He did.  And I won unanimously.  The nation thanks you for your superb chairmanship of this caucus over the past four years, that's seen it started, grow, and become a very, very important force in American life.  And we know that, under Bill Richardson--you know, if I looked like Richardson I could make something out of myself--we know this fine new member of the House will be a superb chair of the caucus, and this caucus is already coming into its own with absolutely magnificent members--appreciated and respect in the House and across our nation.  My old friend Esteban Torres, who served as ambassador to UNESCO, is now a superb member of the Congress, the chairman of the House Agriculture Committee.  In this day of crisis in rural America, every farmer in America, every person who depends upon a healthy rural America, is grateful that Kika de la Garza is chairman of that Agricultural Committee.  That's code, Mr. Chairman, for putting a little more money into Minnesota.  To Marty Martinez, the new congressman from California, to Ed Roybal, who is one of the most important leaders in the Congress, and an old friend of mine, to Ron De Lugo and Baltasar Corrada, both superb leaders in the House, and to the brand new member of the Hispanic Caucus, Al Bustamante from Texas.  We're glad to have you with us, as well.

	I often say that I have traveled this nation more than any living American.  I say that because if I traveled any more I wouldn't be living.  But I found out something that the nation is just beginning to understand.  And that is that that sleeping giant is still awake, strong, growing, and Hispanic America is coming into its own in positions of leadership all over this nation.  State capitals, mayors, legislators--wherever you go we find Hispanic Americans leading, demonstrating how it should be done.

	Just this past Tuesday, I was at USC.  I wasn't alone.  And while I was there, a young, gold-medallist--Paul Gonzalez--presented me with a pair of boxing gloves.  I think Tip O'Neill gave him the idea.  And as that young American stood there, he really symbolized what this blessed country of ours is all about.  And when Mr. Reagan attended the Olympics and rejoiced at the magnificent success and the dominance of our young Americans at that Olympics, he spoke for all Americans.  But I wonder if, as he stood there, he asked how it was that America was the best on earth.  How it was that we won in practically every category.  I think a moment's reflection, just an hour in front of a television watching that Olympics, would have given the answer.  We won because all Americans were there.  White, black, brown, Asian, native Americans--everybody.  And not just young men, but also young women.  And the reason we could draw on all the talent is that for many years we fought for civil rights to knock those doors down so we could tap the talent of everyone.  And we fought for Title IX, adopted ten years ago, which for the first time permitted young women to develop their skills and participate.  That victory by our young Americans made us all proud, but it also taught us a lesson.  And that is when we open doors, when we let everyone participate, we are not doing something for someone else, we are doing it for everybody--and America is the stronger.

	I come to you tonight as a friend.  We are no strangers.  We have worked together over much of two decades now.  Together in the sixties, when I chaired the Senate Subcommittee on Migratory Labor, we worked to expose the shocking conditions of farm workers and their families.  We wrote the first laws to bring some justice to immigrant laborers.  We took the first steps to protect their health and provide education.  Together we fought to adopt that Voting Rights Act and to adopt the charter of civil rights.  Together we adopted the first bilingual education act and all these years we've been building to strengthen it.  We fought the deal with youth unemployment and the problems of respect and dignity for Hispanic Americans.  

	Today, all that we did is under challenge.  This administration has opposed practically all of those efforts.  Today, they throw you parties.  They throw you campaign money like there's no tomorrow but when it comes to substance, they throw you bones.  They think they can make Hispanic Americans forget four years of neglect and keep them happy with a few fiestas.  They think they're flattering you.  It won't work.  They say they have a perception problem.  And they do.  They can't see you at all and you can see right through them.  And that's a perception problem.  They are giving you an empty piñata, four months of crepe paper and four years of hollow promises.  And you know the difference.

	The record is there and it's clear.  The highest Hispanic unemployment rate in decades, especially among young Hispanics, an all-out attempt to slash bilingual education.  They successfully trashed the Civil Rights Commission and turned it away from being a conscience of our country; and tried to fire Bambi Cardenas, the only Hispanic member of that commission.  They fought to weaken the Voting Rights Act and every Hispanic knows that that's the source of strength, and that's why we have a Cisneros, and a Pena, and Anaya, and the congressman that we rejoice in here this evening.  They turn the clock back on appointments of Hispanic Americans to the judiciary and in positions of power throughout the administration.  And that's why the stakes are so high in this election.  This election will decide what happens to all the progress that we've made over these last two decades.  Will we move forward, or will we slide back?  That choice is that important and that clear.  This election is nothing less than a referendum on your future and our nation's future.

	Tonight I want to discuss just a few issues that I think will determine what kind of future we'll have.

	First of all, economic opportunity.  Let me say something about the Hispanic community to the nation here.  I have traveled for years throughout Hispanic America.  I've never had one person come up and ask for a handout.  I've had people come up and ask for a chance to get a decent job so they can care for themselves and their families.  Hispanics want to work.  Hispanics want to help.  Hispanics want to move forward and do their job.  What you ask for is the right of all Americans, through the tools of education, the laws to prohibit discrimination, and the chance to have a job, to be an entrepreneur, and to prosper.

	Let us look at one of the key programs for progress, The Minority Entrepreneurship Program.  One of the biggest problems in our center cities, in our ghettos, in our barrios, is that there, very few people--very few residents of those communities--own their own business.  And one of the reasons unemployment is so high is first explained by the fact that the people in their own community do not own their own businesses, making their own profits, so they can hire people in their own community.  Everyone has a stake in restoring the strength of that program.  The Entrepreneurship Program can change that.  It opens doors to minority businessmen and women and can improve the quality of life in this nation.  This administration has virtually abandoned that program.  Last year, while federal procurement rose to $130 billion, involvement by Hispanic firms actually dropped by billions.  A recent survey of major cabinet departments found that not one of them could provide information on its efforts to increase procurement opportunities for Hispanic-owned firms.

	I am here tonight to pledge that I will reverse that course.  I will recommit the government to opportunity for minority entrepreneurs.  I will staff the Small Business Administration with people in positions of power, including Hispanic Americans, that will make the Section 8-A program really live and work for all Hispanics.  And I will make sure that federal program set-asides are used to help minority entrepreneurs get a fair chance.  One of the reasons that I'm talking about this budget is to get an economic policy that guarantees long-term, sustained economic growth that provides jobs for our people.  To those who say it's really working fine, please come with me to the valley in southern Texas and I'll show you how it's working.  We need to get these deficits down and a strong program.  We need budget cuts, but we need to protect things that make a difference in the lives of Americans.  Social Security must be protected.  Medicare must be protected.  Education must be protected.  People must have a chance.

	Second, we must assume justice for Hispanic Americans in our immigration laws.  These are difficult issues.  We must address them, but we must do so both effectively and humanely, and that is why I oppose the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.  As written, it would be dangerous for an employer to hire a Hispanic.  We need a law which encourages employers to hire Hispanics.  We need immigration reform which is fair.  We need strong presidential leadership, and I will provide it.  We need to work with the Hispanic community to build upon the workable, comprehensive solutions proposed in the Roybal bill.  And I will work with all of you to bring that about.

	It's time that we have a Central American policy that understood the history, the traditions, the hopes, and the aspirations of the people of Central America.  They are people, too, and have to be understood.  They are entitled to their aspirations.  We need a policy of strength, but we also need a policy that works with our friends in that region, that understands that they know the region and that they can help us through diplomacy to find peace and restore dignity and peace to that region.  To do that I need your help.  This year you've given it to me unfailingly.  I don't believe Walter Mondale would have been nominated if it hadn't been for the support of the Hispanic community across this nation.  And I understand something that I believe is not as widely understood as it should be.  What needs to be understood is not that Hispanic America needs help, it's that if Hispanic America can be unleashed, if we can tap your talents, if we can open those doors, if we can bring the knowledge and spirit that you can bring to all walks of American life, this country will be much, much stronger.  I need your help.  I need your support.

	Last Saturday night, in this hall, President Reagan and I appeared before a banquet of Italian Americans.  And during the evening the President gave a moving rendition of a story of an Italian family that immigrated to the U.S.-- came here poor.  The first job the head of the household had was as a milkman.  In the next generation the head of the household was a letter carrier.  In the third generation they had a bright young son, and they helped him get through medical school, and as a doctor, he saved the life of the president.  Mr. Reagan said, "I know that because I was the patient."

	A compelling story.  But two days ago there was a column written by that doctor in the Los Angeles Times that describes why I want to be president.  And it went something like this.  "Mr. President, we are all thrilled that your life was saved and I'm glad I was a part of it.  But you should know that the reason I was able to go through medical school is that I had the help of a low-cost federal loan.  You should also know that those modern miracles of medicine of which you speak are almost entirely the product of federally supported research in our National Institutes of Health and in our great schools of medicine across this country."  And finally he said, "My father and my mother are on Social Security, and my father has received the help of Medicare on more than one occasion."  And he concluded by saying, "There are many in America who can do it entirely on their own.  But there are many like me who need a little help."  Don't we all?  

	Thank you very much.  Gracias.

BUSINESS--MINORITY OWNEDBUSINESS, SMALLCENTRAL AMERICACIVIL RIGHTSENTREPRENEURSHIPGOVERNMENT APPOINTMENTS--HISPANIC AMERICANSIMMIGRATIONUNEMPLOYMENT--HISPANICSVOTING RIGHTSHISPANIC AMERICANS     í1 ¹1 ³1 ¯1 §1
 œ1 —1 ’1 ˆ1 t1 r1 U1 J1	 ¾ 	 ¦ 	 — 	 ˆ 	 | 	 l 	 A 	 6 	    e: