Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0928.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/28TELEVISIONMILWAUKEEWISCONSINWITELECAST3423 WORDS
	Good evening.

	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roosevelt.

	You people were told, two or three minutes ago, that this is a paid political program. And I have been told that this means that by now a larger number of you are turning the television knobs to something more exciting than a political speech. I'm going to ask you to wait just a minute.

	I am a strong believer in the right not to listen. And when you make as many speeches as I do you soon become an authority on how boring political speeches can be--especially to the fellow making them! But what I want to talk about tonight lies very close to my heart and, I think, to yours. I am going to urge a little that it is very much worth some of our time. If you are a boy or girl in grade school, or a teenager, if you're in college now--then my subject this evening is you.

	And if you are the mother or the father of a child in school, or of a youngster heading that way--then I think you will agree with me that the matter of education in America today--and tomorrow--is about as important a question as there is. I guess, for myself, with three boys of my own--all in school, but all pretty well along in school--I count the importance of education second only to peace on earth. It won't help to educate them if there isn't a tomorrow for them to enjoy and, I hope, improve.

	And if you are not a student or a parent, you are an American citizen and you know the value of education to the earning of a livelihood, and, even more important, you know the value of education to the growth, development, and the security of this country and its freedom.

	School started again this month. And in hundreds and thousands of communities this opening of school brings new realization that things on this front just aren't right; they aren't what they should be.

	For some of you the problem is that your child can only go to school half a day because the schools in your town are so overcrowded; or the new school isn't finished. You are wondering whether a part-time scholar can learn the fundamentals properly.

	Or perhaps you have a child in a classroom that has thirty-five or forty pupils in it. You know this means that if your child doesn't catch on to his reading lesson on the first go-round, it's just too bad. The teacher isn't going to have much time to give him special attention.

	We are short, in America, classrooms for 5 million children. 

	Or maybe your child has a teacher who is on an emergency certificate. This means, in plain words, that she isn't fully trained and qualified as a teacher, according to the minimum standards of your state. Your school board hired her because it simply couldn't find one who was better prepared. In 90,000 schoolrooms in America, class was called to order this morning by an "emergency teacher."

	Or even if your child's teacher is fully qualified, you're probably aware that she is, in all likelihood, underpaid. In fact, maybe she's doing babysitting or other jobs nights and weekends to make ends meet. The average earnings of teachers in America's schools are today 10% less than the average earnings of workers in America's factories.

	Or perhaps you are more concerned about the overall quality of the education your child is getting. You are wondering if he is learning the skills of mind and hand he will need to live in this world that is so much more complicated that the one you and I grew up in--and whether he's getting enough of what a good teacher can tell him of democracy's meaning, and of how to tell what is good from what is bad or just mediocre, and of the difference between truth and untruth. 

	It is natural that you should be concerned about all these things in terms of you own children. I wonder if you realize what multiplying the school problems of your children by thousands and even by millions adds up to. It adds up to a crisis for our schools that presents, in my judgment, a very great danger for our country.

	First, but only because it is most obvious, we are terribly short of classrooms. The figures show that with the tremendous increase in the number of school-age children, and even with an all-out local school building effort in thousands of local communities, we are losing ground, falling behind, at rate of 50,000 classrooms a year. This means that unless something drastic is done, there will be over a million new school-age children each year whom we do not have classrooms for. We'll have to jam them in beside the others.

	And I should warn you that just five years from now there will be thirteen children in our elementary schools for every ten there now.

	Second, although the school building shortage is bad enough, the teacher shortage is far worse.

	Schools are not really made of stone and wood; they are made of teaching. Wherever the great teacher Socrates was, there was a school--in the open streets of Athens, at a dinner table, or in a prison facing death. Jesus, speaking parables, made a school of the barren shore of a lake.

	It is teaching, far more than a school building, that determines the quality of the education our young people get. And the worst of it is that we cannot see what is happening to the teaching in our schools. We do know, though, that just in numbers we are hundreds of thousands of trained teachers short right now, and this situation too is getting worse--the shortage is increasing at the rate of 50,000 teachers a year.

	Here is the most staggering fact of all: if we want college-trained teachers for our children, one-half of all our college graduates during the next ten years will have to go into teaching. Well, they won't. And classes will get bigger and teaching standards lower.

	The third problem is that a lot of young men and women who want and who deserve a college education cannot get it today. One hundred thousand of our ablest high school students today stop their education short primarily for economic reasons.

	I can't be indifferent, nor can you, to the fact that this crisis in education has arisen in this age of abundance in this richest of all nations in the history of man. It does us a grave injustice.

	And I think we are wakening now to a full realization of what we have been doing to the future of America. It isn't the figures I mentioned that shock us. What does drive this failure home is its now all too familiar symbols: the roaring cut-out of the hotrod car, teenagers' beer cans strewn along the roadside, juke box blues dishing up love and religion in identical groaning tones, the rural-delivery mailbox ripped off just for laughs, and switchblade in the hands of a city teenage gang boy.

	Most of our children, who are sound and sensible, can take all this and leave it alone. But among a minority--and this minority has grown bigger in recent years--there is emerging a frightening spirit of cynicism, arrogance, wanton destructiveness, a toying with violence; and, underlying all this, a sense of disrespect for the standards of the past, and a carelessness about the future.

	Another measure of this failure emerging in the now familiar statistics which show that our schools and colleges are not meeting the growing demands of our country: specialists, for young men and women trained to do the important jobs of our society: to be scientists, engineers, doctors, nurses, social scientists, technical experts; above all, teachers.

	It has taken a divided and competitive world to bring these shortages home. We are worried when we hear that Russia is producing two engineers for each one we turn out. But even if the Soviet Union disappeared from the face of the earth in a clap of thunder, even if Cold Wars and hot wars were suddenly to become a thing of the past, we would still have the problem of developing enough talents to man the posts of the New America and to help make the world a better place to live.

	How can these things be? How can the wealthiest nation on earth, which for a decade has been boasting about its ever-expanding economy, fail to keep producing that most humble but most important thing: yeast for its bread?

	The biggest material problem we have, of course, is money: money to build schools and to pay teachers a salary that will attract the teaching force we need. We are spending about $10 billion a year now on education--about 2.5 percent of our national income. The costs of doing the job we need to do will be much higher still.

	We have wanted and we have tried to meet our educational needs at the local level. And we are going to insist that the control of education stay in our local committees, particularly in our county and city and village school boards. This is the crowning feature of our democracy at work--that the citizens of a town should determine what their own children should be given in their own town's schools. Here, surely, in this way of doing things, is a seat and safeguard of our individual liberties. The central power has no control over our separate minds.

	But two great changes make it plain now that we are going to have a draw on federal tax funds for part of money to pay our educational bill. One change is the fantastic expansion of our schools. In early days our schools were for the privileged few. Today they are truly for all, and this autumn we have enrolled thirty-three million children! The other change is a great shift in our means of gathering taxes--a shift which has resulted in the serious inadequacy of the property tax. And that is the tax from which we have traditionally financed our schools. It is about the only source of our local revenue. In relationship to the national product, the property tax yields only one-quarter as much as it did twenty-five years ago.

	This means that we really have no choice now except to use federal funds to bolster up our educational program. In fact, this has been agreed upon, at least in principle.

	Now what are we doing to meet this problem?

	While we were falling behind at an alarming rate in school building and in the recruitment of teachers, the President first proposed an elaborate scheme that might have been of aid to bankers, but not to our schools. Next, when the White House Conference on Education was finally held and, of course, gave the idea of federal aid for school construction a firm mandate, the President, now three years ago his inauguration, finally proposed another bill that seemed to me sound principle but inadequate. But when a similar proposal introduced by Democratic Congressmen Kelley came on for a vote in the House, a large majority of Republicans voted against it, while the majority of Democrats voted for it. 

	It must be said, in fairness--and leaning far over backward in fact--that the situation on that vote was complicated by other factors which crossed party lines.

	But I say I am sure, in equal fairness, that with strong leadership from the White House, many Republicans would have supported that bill. As it was, in the midst of the debate this spring, a Republican congressman read a letter from President Eisenhower, which was hardly helpful, in which he said "unless we are careful, even the great and necessary educational processes in our country will become yet another vehicle by the believers in paternalism, if not outright socialism, will gain still additional power for the Central Government.

	I do not know whether this letter accurately reflects the President's view on this vital matter. But I would not expect much leadership on behalf of our schools from anyone who does entertain these philosophical misgivings about federal aid.

	To sum up, we have had, during these four years, fine words, conferences, and lofty, high-sounding proposals about education. We have no action and no results.

	Now what of the future?

	Because there are so many facets to this problem, and because their full discussion would take a good deal more time than we have tonight, I am preparing and will issue within the next few days a written statement outlining the course it seems to me we should follow. But I want to indicate briefly how it seems to me we should help our local governments do what we all want to do for our children and for our country's future:

	First, we need a national educational policy, and we need it just as urgently as we need a coherent foreign policy and defense policy. The goal of this educational policy must be nothing less than the achievement of the fullest possible development of each individual's capacities and talents. It should aim, not just at getting more children into more classrooms for more years, but at making each child's education a richer and more challenging experience than ever before.

	And I might add that in an indirect sort of way the recruitment of teachers is really a responsibility, too, of those who set all our national and foreign policies. For it is how we speak and the tone of voice with which we speak to our own people and the world that does or does not recruit teachers and any other leaders of thought. A science largely restricted to missiles, hydrogen bombs--a science of weapons, whether for defense or for sale--does not attract enough able people who have seen all the death they want to see in our time. Only a science of health, of hope for man's future, a science that holds human nature in affection and awe, can attract new talent into its halls.

	Second, we have reached, indeed we have passed, the time for action in the commitment of federal funds to aid the states in their educational programs. These federal aid programs must include aid for school construction. The bill, which was before the Congress this year, should go far toward meeting this need. But federal aid program must also, in my judgment, be broadened to help meet the hidden crisis in education today--the teacher shortage. Perhaps we should leave to each individual state determination of whether its share of federal funds should be used to increase teacher salaries or to build new buildings. We will have to face and resolve the questions of whether those federal funds should be granted outright or on a matching basis, and whether they should be distributed on the basis of need, or both.

	I want to mention here, regarding these details, only that it seems to me imperative that we ensure against federal funds being used to reduce or supplant state or local support for education, and that we ensure also against these grants ever being means of transferring to the federal government any degree of control over the content of the educational process.

	Third, I think we should investigate thoroughly, and adopt unless serious difficulties are disclosed, a national program of college loans or scholarships. Such a program could be devised to meet two acute problems. One is the unfairness and waste, as I see it, of any competent, ambitious young American's being denied, for economic reasons, the college education most boys and girls in this fortunate country are now able to get. I don't think 100,000 boys and girls who want to go on with their schooling and have the stuff to use it should be denied that chance. Such a loan or scholarship program could also, particularly in connection with grants or loans for graduate work, be used to attract able young men and women into the fields of expert and professional training--like teaching and science and engineering--where we are today so dangerously short of adequate manpower.

	Here again there are obvious problems of detail: whether these grants should be in the form of loans or scholarships; how the individual's economic need should be turned over to an independent organization, outside the government, as had been done with the eminently successful Fulbright scholarship program. I don't think these details present any insuperable difficulties.

	Through these programs of federal aid to the states and federal scholarships or loans to qualified young men and women, I think we could go a long way toward giving our children a chance to realize their talents and fulfill their promise.

	Now I realize that programs such as those I have suggested don't come free, or even cheap. Experience as governor of one of our largest states has given me a healthy respect for the price tag on any program of this kind.

	But I would say this: first, the costs of these programs are not nearly so large as their opponents will try to pretend. Second, I think every dollar invested in a child's education will be repaid--with interest--in his increased productivity as a member of the American society and economy.

	And third, I think the American people hold nothing superior to the future of their children. And I am completely convinced that the nation, which can afford the best automobiles, the brightest television sets, and the biggest aircraft carriers in the world, can also afford the best schools. Indeed, we cannot afford to be penny-wise, and people-foolish.

	Having said all this, I hardly need to add that it is for me a basic assumption of any program for the better education of our children that we mean they should all be treated as completely equal, regardless or race or creed or color or economic condition.

	And now this final word. I have said this is a task for leadership. But, leadership in a democracy can be no more than the capturing of a people's will and the channeling of people's power to realize their own ideals. I believe so strongly in what I have said here tonight that it makes me uncomfortable that there is nothing any one man can do about it alone. And I do appeal to you for your help if you think about these things as I do.

	I appeal especially to you mothers. I chose this night to discuss this subject, frankly, because this is Democratic Women's Day. I salute you who are the heart of the party I speak for. As Woodrow Wilson said many years ago: "Without your counsel we should be only half wise." You are always active in politics for a constructive purpose. You see so clearly that government has a direct bearing on our homes, the future of our families, in fact, on all our lives.

	But my appeal tonight goes surely beyond any partisan line. And if this business of our children's training does perhaps bear in more sharply on the consciousness of America's women than its men, I want nevertheless to issue tonight's challenge to all of us as Americans.

	It's a marvelous thing to be an American. And it isn't just a lucky break. It's an unresolved responsibility, a responsibility to make this country a sounding board for new ideas, a welcomer of everything free and hopeful, a generous nation, the eternal home of liberty and the temple of truth--a responsibility, in short, to make America what we started out to be--and what the whole Free World expects.

	If we're going to meet this responsibility, we've got to make our ideals the blueprints of our actions, demand that what we believe in can be accomplished, put all we have into it, and refuse to take no for an answer.

	This is the spirit I have been trying to describe as the New America. And because you and I can only approach the future, and find our fullest satisfactions in what we can hope our children will do, I say that for me the dream of the New America begins in the classroom.

	Thank you, Mrs. Roosevelt. And thank you all. Goodbye.
CHILDRENEDUCATION--FACILITIESEDUCATION--SOCIAL PROBLEMSEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDTEACHING PROFESSIONTEACHING PROFESSION--SALARIESYOUTHEDUCATION--GENERAL     ≈L ëL ãL áL L
 rL mL cL ZL QL OL GL =L	 û 	 ñ 	 Å 	 g 	 G 	 4 	    e: