Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0906.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/06STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCINTERNATIONAL CONVENTION OF B'NAI B'RITH2,329 WORDS

	Well over a century ago, when the B'nai B'rith charter was written, your founders ensured that your organization would always fight religious persecution and advance human freedom.  Those principles protect not just one faith but all of us.

	This morning, they are my subject here.  In a few hours, I will speak of them again to ten thousand black Baptists.  My message is addressed neither to Jews nor Christians but to all Americans who cherish the integrity and freedom of religious belief and expression in our nation.

	A few weeks ago, on the eve of the Republican Convention, forty-five thousand ministers received a letter from the chairman of Mr. Reagan's campaign, Senator Laxalt.  "Dear Christian Leader," it began.  And before it ended, it had defined Mr. Reagan's supporters as "leaders under God's authority."

	Most Americans would be surprised to learn that God is a Republican.  And if Senator Laxalt's letter were an isolated example, one might dismiss it as partisan zealotry.

	Unfortunately, it is not an exception.

	Listen to Jerry Falwell, whose benediction at the Republican convention called Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush "God's instruments for rebuilding America."

	Or read the so-called Christian Voice Report Card, which flunks Geraldine Ferraro on "moral/family issues" because she supports the nuclear freeze.

	Or scan something called the Presidential Biblical Scoreboard, which as much as brands me antifamily and un-Christian.

	I do not call for the suppression of these voices.  The same freedom that permits me to worship and speak my mind also protects them.  There can be no rationing of the First Amendment.  To protect anyone, it must protect everyone.

	But I am alarmed by the rise of what a former Republican congressman calls "moral McCarthyism."  A determined band is raising doubts about people's faith.  They are reaching for government power to impose their own beliefs on other people, and the Reagan administration has opened its arms to them.

	I express my alarm both as a public servant who has loved and studied our Constitution and as a Minnesota preacher's kid who has drawn strength from his faith.

	My dad was a minister.  My mom was a director of religious education.  My wife Joan's dad is a minister.  I was taught to believe in the God of the Old and New Testaments--a God of justice, of mercy, and of love.  I was taught that we bear witness to our faith through a life of commitment, consideration, and service to our fellow men and women.  In learning my own faith, I was taught to respect the faiths of others.  Learning to love our country, I was taught to love all the people who live here.

	What I am doing here today is something that, in twenty-five years of public life, I never thought I would do.  I have never before had to defend my faith in a political campaign.  I have never thought it proper for political leaders to use religion to partisan advantage by advertising their own faith, and questioning their opponent's.

	But the issue must be joined.  I am encouraged to read that Mr. Reagan does not intend to speak more on it--or, at least, not much more.  But before he slips out the back door, there are a few fires in the house worth putting out.

	Twenty-four years ago this month, in the heat of his own presidential race, John Kennedy went before the Greater Houston Ministerial Association to confront a different religious issue.  And he did it by stating--as he put it--"not what kind of church I believe in, for that should be important only to me, but what kind of America I believe in."

	Today, I follow his example.

	I believe in an America where all people have the right to pursue their faith, not just freely but also without insult or embarrassment; where religious freedom is not a passive tolerance but an active celebration of our pluralism.

	I believe in an America that gives--as George Washington wrote to the Touro Synagogue--"to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance."

	I believe in an America that has been a home and refuge for people from every faith.  Our government is the protector of every faith because it is the exclusive property of none.

	I believe in an America that honors what Thomas Jefferson first called the "wall of separation between church and state."  That freedom has made our faith unadulterated and unintimidated.  It has made Americans the most religious people on earth.  Today, the religion clauses of the First Amendment do not need to be fixed; they need to be followed.

	I believe in an America where government is not permitted to dictate the religious life of our people; where religion is a private matter between individuals and God, between families and their churches and synagogues, with no room for politicians in between.  I do not for one moment claim a partisan monopoly on the beliefs I have just outlined.  They are the common heritage of all Americans:  Protestants, Catholics, and Jews; Democrats and Republicans--everyone.

	There is no more uplifting power on earth than a religious faith which cannot be coerced and is tolerant of other beliefs.

	To coerce it is to doubt the sturdiness of our faith.  To ask the state to enforce the religious life of our people is to betray a telling cynicism about the American people.

	Moreover, history teaches us that if that force is unleashed, it will corrupt our faith, divide our nation, and embitter our people.

	Today, that force is being wielded by an extreme fringe poised to capture the Republican Party and tear it from its roots in Lincoln.

	It is troubling that Rev. Jimmy Swaggart, who insists that Catholicism is a "false religion" and that Jews are damned to go to hell, is a welcome policy adviser at the White House.

	It is disquieting that a presidential aide, unsatisfied with the religious purity of some White House staff, has urged her colleagues to "get saved, or get out."

	It is ominous when Rev. Falwell brags that, if Mr. Reagan is re-elected, "we will get at least two more appointments to the Supreme Court."

	At the Republican Convention in Dallas, moderates were driven out.  An ambitious crowd with fire in its eyes seized control of the platform, the podium, and perhaps the future of the party.

	And they are not disappointed in the performance of their presidential candidate.

	Religion, Mr. Reagan told a prayer breakfast in Dallas, needs defenders against those who care only for the interests of the state.  His clear implication was that he welcomed such a role for himself.

	The queen of England--where state religion is established--is called a Defender of the Faith.  But the president of the United States is the defender of the Constitution--which defends all faiths.

	A president has no higher role.  Whatever his private beliefs and religious practice, a president must be the guardian of the laws which ensure America's religious diversity.

	Americans have only one president at a time.  He must use his leadership to unify us.  He must dispute his opponents with respect.  The civility of our public debate depends on our willingness to accept the good faith of those who disagree.  Our president must rejoice in the noise of public argument; it is the music of freedom.

	No president should attempt to transform policy debates into theological disputes.  He must not let it be thought that political dissent from him is un-Christian.  And he must not cast opposition to his programs as opposition to America.

	Last month, in Dallas, Mr. Reagan attacked those of us who are trying to preserve the separation of church and state.  He supports a constitutional amendment instituting school prayer, with the prayers chosen by local politicians.  In Dallas, he said that anyone who opposes that amendment is "intolerant" of religion.

	B'nai B'rith is opposed to Mr. Reagan's amendment; I would not call you intolerant of religion.  Baptists, Episcopalians, Methodists, Presbyterians, Lutherans, and other church groups also oppose his amendment.  And they are also not intolerant of religion.

	Tuesday, in Utah, Mr. Reagan attacked again, accusing us of favoring "freedom against religion."  Instead of construing dissent from him in good faith, Mr. Reagan has insulted the motives of those who disagree with him--including me.

	I don't doubt Mr. Reagan's faith, his patriotism, and his family values.  And I call on him and his supporters to accept and respect mine.

	I refuse to permit my political opponents to divert the debate from the real questions facing our future by questioning my faith, my patriotism, or my family values.

	Yesterday in New York, a group of Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant leaders called on both parties "to reject categorically the pernicious notion that one brand of politics meets with God's approval, and that others are necessarily evil."  And they urged both parties to commit themselves "to the spirit of religious tolerance and mutual forbearance that is indispensable to a free society."

	I accept that challenge--for myself, for Geraldine Ferraro, and for the Democratic Party.  And I call on Mr. Reagan to do the same.

	Presidents, and those who would be president, have responsibilities.  Judge us by whether we understand them.  Judge whether we honor the spirit of pluralism and the letter of church-state separation.  Judge whether we unify America.  Judge whether we denounce bigotry and divisiveness.

	All my life, I have fought anti-Semitism, racism, and every other spiritual obscenity.  All intolerance is ugly, whether it wears the sheets of the Ku Klux Klan or spreads the slurs of the Christian Voice.  All hatred is poison, whether it comes from the mouth of Rabbi Kahane or the radio program of Louis Farrakhan.

	I condemn them all--and I call on Mr. Reagan to do the same.

	Over the last generation, waves of change have swept our nation.  No institution has been untouched:  religion, marriage, business, government, education.  Each has been questioned, and each has struggled toward new foundations and new rules.

	By and large, it has been healthy for us.  Our society is stronger, and not weaker, because women now have more opportunities and more choices.  Our economy is stronger, and not weaker, because business must protect the environment.  Our government is stronger because its leaders are accountable to a more skeptical public.  Our churches and synagogues are stronger because they have struggled toward new ways to connect with their communities.  Our schools and colleges are stronger because they opened their doors to the richness and diversity of America.

	But change is not easy.  Many Americans have been upset to see traditions questioned.  They have watched durable values give way to emptiness.  And too often they have seen that void filled recklessly or self-indulgently.

	I join those Americans in their concerns.  I stand with them in condemning the explosion in drug traffic.  I share their outrage at child molesting.  Anger at street crime is legitimate.  An epidemic of teenage pregnancy is a national calamity.  A blizzard of pornography is indecent.  Low standards--whether they infect the classroom, the workplace, the government, or the street corner--are a threat to all of us.

	From the turbulence and unease, a great yearning has been born in America in recent years.  It is a quest for stable values.  It is a search for deeper faith.  And it deserves welcome and respect.

	You can see signs of it in the new discipline that parents are asking from children.  You can see it in the new emphasis on commitment that young people are bringing to their personal relationships.  You can see it in the renaissance of religious faith.  You know something hopeful is happening in America when Hillel is blooming on campus.

	But the yearning for traditional values is not a simple tide.  It has undertows.  And in the hands of those who would exploit it, this legitimate search for moral strength can become a force of social divisiveness and a threat to individual freedom.

	The truth is, the answer to a weaker family is not a stronger state.  It is stronger values.  The answer to lax morals is not legislated morals.  It is deeper faith, greater discipline, and personal excellence.

	Roosevelt said that the presidency is preeminently a place of moral leadership.  Our president sets the moral tone for our nation.  He is a mirror in which we see what kind of people we are.  And when he speaks of family, faith, and flag, he must invoke such charged words to include Americans, not divide them; to inspire confidence, not arouse fears.

	Family must not become code for intolerance.  Religion must not become code for censorship.  Neighborhood must not become code for discrimination.  Law must not become code for repression.  Work must not become code for callousness.  Flag must not become code for jingoism.  Peace must not become code for war.

	Lately, Mr. Reagan has been calling his party "America's party."  I hope he does not mean to suggest that the other party--my party--is un-American.

	For there is not one party that believes in God, and one that does not.  There is not one party that is for family life, and one that is against it.  There is not one party that would weaken America, and one that would strengthen it.  There is not one party that believes in America's greatness, and one that does not.  There is not one party that is patriotic, and one that is not.

	A moderate Republican who would not have been comfortable in Dallas and whose name was barely mentioned there--President Eisenhower--put it in these words, with which I close:

          We--Republicans and Democrats alike--are
          motivated by the same loyalty to the flag; by
          the same devotion to freedom and human
          dignity; by the same high purpose for the
          nation's security and its welfare.

	"Within our hearts and minds, he said, "in all things that are vital to the Republic, we cannot be partisans." 

CHRISTIANITY--FUNDAMENTALISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--PATRIOTISMMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESRELIGION--DISCRIMINATIONFREEDOM OF RELIGIONSEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE     8 Ð7 Ê7 Æ7 ¾7
 ³7 ®7 ©7 Ÿ7 ‹7 ‰7 a7 V7	 – 	 z 	 _ 	 I  1   e: