Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1003.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/03STUMPTENNESSEETNTri-City Business Group Luncheon/East Tennessee State University1,471 WORDS

	[Missing text]...right now in the Clinton administration we have the slowest recovery in this century. The last quarter, when President Bush left office, was 4.3 percent growth. The average in this administration is 2.4 percent. And what difference does that mean? It means a lot of difference. It means creating a lot of jobs, it means better wages.

	And we've had wage stagnation for four years. For four years, the working people out there haven't gotten any raise at all. Oh, I know President Clinton said last year that--or last week, I guess, that family income was up. Certainly it is, because more people are going to work in a second job. He said, "I created 11 million new jobs." Yeah, I met a guy that's got three of them, you know. You've got to have one, two or three jobs if you're going to make it work. Now, if a husband and wife want to work, that's fine. They might want to stay home with their children, which I think's fine. You force people into the workforce we call it a "family time" tax. It takes time away from their family, time away from their community, time away from everything else they'd rather do. You've got one parent working for the family and the other parent working to pay the taxes, and the taxes have never been higher. Nearly 40 percent of what you make goes in taxes--38.2 percent, to be exact.

	Now, I'll be told on Sunday you can't do this. Well, I can do it. I know he can't do it. He already demonstrated he can't do it. When he came to Tennessee in 1992, he promised you a big tax cut. And I've always said everybody who got it ought to vote for him.

	"You got the biggest tax increase in the history of America," I said one day on the Senate floor. And Senator Moynihan, who's a good friend of mine, a Democrat from New York, said, "No, no, that's not right; in the history of the world." So I modified it to accommodate Senator Moynihan, who's a friend of mine. He promised you--he said a middle class tax is going to be the central--sort of the centerpiece of his first four years. Then he said, "Well, I only taxed 1.1 percent of the American people, only taxed the rich." Don't forget that Btu tax that he wanted to put on everybody. That was about $87 billion worth of taxes on everything you turned on to heat yourself or cool or whatever. Even the Democrats couldn't take that. So he came up with a $32 billion gas tax increase. Billion. And you might justify that, say, oh, we're going to put it in roads and highways. They didn't do that. It went into the general fund so they could spent it on more of their goodies.

	And then don't forget, as I've been saying, that the president is a liberal. And he doesn't like that. But it's out there. Remember the health care takeover try? One-seventh of the total economy. They're going to take over health care. It would have been seventeen new taxes? Price controls? Fifty new bureaucracies? Spending $1.5 trillion? And I read recently where somebody said, "Well, that's the right model. He may try it again if he's reelected."

	So, I want people to understand, the election's really not about me or Bill Clinton; it's really about you and your business and your kids and your grandkids and the future and their education, and crime and drugs. And mentioning drugs, right now we're trying to get a document the FBI director hand carried to the President telling him how bad his drug policy was. Well, the president's claimed executive privilege. He doesn't want anybody to know before November 5th. Now, they've got a lot of files down there they know about everybody else. You know, I'd like...[missing text].

	I understand he went to sleep reading mine--and Howard's. So let's lay it out on the table, folks. This is about America, and it's about America's future. And I certainly don't want to offend any Democrats here. My parents were Democrats, and they're the best people I even knew. In fact, they didn't change for a while. And now they're both gone. But this is important business. This is not partisan. It's not about Bob Dole. It's not about Bill Clinton, as I said. It's a decision you will make. And Tennessee, as Howard pointed out and Jimmy pointed out, is a key battleground state. If we win Tennessee and Kentucky we're going to be there. We may get there another way, but I know we'll be there if we win Tennessee and Kentucky. And that means getting out the vote. It means encouraging people to take a look at our economic plan. This is not a gimmick.

	You know, Jack Kennedy had a tax cut in 1961--President Kennedy. Remember the investment tax credit and lowering the rates and all those things? And the economy went wild. It was growing at 6.4 percent. Now it's 2.4 percent. Ronald Reagan had the biggest tax cut in the history of America, and the economy went right back up again--created more and more and more jobs, better paying jobs, more money. It even puts more money in the Social Security trust fund, because more people are paying taxes. It puts more money into the general fund, because more people are paying taxes on larger salaries. And don't believe the pundits. Don't believe the--some of the elitists in the press. I haven't met any, but I understand there's some out there. Don't believe all these people. It's your money. It's your money. You start with that premise. You get up in the morning. You got ten bucks left over, this is my money.

	Now, what President Clinton wants to do--he said, "I want to give targeted tax cuts." Trouble is, nobody ever hits the target. Nobody knows where the target is. Nobody's ever gotten one. Would you buy a used...[missing text]. And finally, it's about credibility. How many times do you have to be promised something and not get it before you finally begin to wonder? Would you buy a used election promise from this guy? I don't think so.

	So, that's what this campaign's all about. It's about keeping your word to the American people. It's about leadership. It's about making decisions. It's about the future of the country as we prepare to go into the next century. And I say hopefully, modestly, that one thing when I left the Senate, the same was said of Howard, and I'm certain the same was said of Jimmy Quillen by our colleagues on both sides of the aisle, when Bob Dole gives you his word, that's it.

	You know, I grew up in the time we didn't have to sign contracts. We just said "Okay, it's a deal." And that was it in Russell, Kansas. Didn't have too many deals in Russell, Kansas, but now and then we had one. And it was a deal. Your word was your bond, good as gold. They can't do all those things any more. But I'm excited about this campaign. I'm excited about my running mate, Jack Kemp. I think I made a great choice. He's out there every day. He understands the economy. There are two four-letter words you can teach your kids: Dole-Kemp. So keep that in mind between now and November 5th.

	The time is getting close. One of our surveys showed that only 27 percent of the American people are tuned in on the presidential race as of now or as of a week or two ago--27 percent. That means there are a lot of people out there who have yet to take note of what's happening. And I find that encouraging. And we think we have a great opportunity here. And I want to thank you for letting us come. Again, President Nicks, thank you very much. I again thank my friends Jimmy Quillen and Howard Baker and all my other friends. And Bill's going to be your new member of Congress, and I'm going to be working with Bill Jenkins. That's going to be exciting.

	We're going to get this done. We're going to get the economy moving again. We're going to make America a better place, and we're going to keep our word. And we're going to expect our allies to keep their word. And those on the other side are going to know where we stand when they contemplate some action that might cause problems somewhere around the world. That's what a Dole administration will be about.

	I thank you very much, and God bless America.
ECONOMY--GENERALTAXATION--GENERAL     '  ó í é ß
 × Ò Í Í Ä Â ‚ w	 ! 	  e: