Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1102.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)11/02STUMPGrand RapidsMICHIGANMI2,212 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Thank you. I think I smell victory in the air.

	Let me say, first of all--let me say, first of all, what an honor it is to be here and to be in Jerry Ford's hometown--a great American hero, an outstanding president, and my dear friend. I said in 1976 Ford-Dole were two-letter--two four-letter words you could teach your children. Now it's Dole-Kemp--two four-letter words you can teach your children.

	And I can't think of a better way to demonstrate to people across America what we're really talking about, what the governor has just spoken about. We can talk about the issues, and the issues are very important. But the bottom line that people want to know--can I trust this man? Can I trust this woman? Will this man and this woman keep their word? Even though I may not agree, will they give me their word? Will they keep their word? Can I trust them? Can my children trust them? Can my business trust them? Can my community trust them? And I'm beginning to think that maybe character does count. I've been wondering myself if character counted.

	But you listen to President Bush and you listen to President Ford--and I'd like to see if they'd just walk up here a minute, just stand with me for a minute, one on each side. Yeah, right here. Yeah. This--this is it. This is integrity right here. This is integrity in the White House, right here, right here. Thank you.

	And I can't let this occasion pass without mentioning someone who isn't here, and that's President Ronald Reagan. His spirit--his spirit is present in this campaign--a spirit of hope, a spirit of optimism, and a deep belief that America's greatest days lie ahead. He was always the greatest optimist in the world. And he proved he was a great leader. And we love Ronald Reagan, and we wish him well.

	This is a very special day. We're in the home stretch now, and this is my second stop in a nonstop ninety-six-hour march to victory. And we will not stop--and we will not stop until we've reached every worker, every family, and every voter in America, because I believe the stakes are high, and America deserves better than four more years of broken promises and a new ethical scandal every week.

	Four years ago--hold it, hold it--ninety-six hours from now you won't be saying that. But in any event, four years ago, Bill Clinton said he wanted to be president in the worst way, and now he is.

	And I believe that in the end--that in the end, the voters of America will make a judgment based on the content of our character and the positions we have taken on basic issues. And this sometimes gets lost in the back and forth of the campaign--all the horse race, who's ahead, what's the poll.

	I never met Governor Blanchard. Whatever happened to him? Never met him. All right. He's gone, he's gone. Yeah. But he was way ahead.

	But this election's come down to a few central convictions and a few stark contrasts.

	I want an across-the-board tax cut because I believe you're sending too much of your money to Washington. You ought to keep it in your paycheck. Now you pay about 40 percent of what you earn for taxes--40 percent.

	But President Clinton says--President Clinton says, "Well, we don't--the government can't afford it." Now did he come to Michigan in 1993, when we had the largest tax increase in the history of America, and ask you if you could afford it? No.

	And you got it, and 70 percent of that tax increase is paid by small businessmen and small businesswomen, and senior citizens, and everybody who drives a car. You're paying it--not the rich he talks about--not the rich. And I want to balance the budget, and I want a constitutional amendment to balance the budget, which he killed in the Senate last year.

	And I want Ronna Romney there to help me get it done. Yeah, right here. Yeah, right here. I want Ronna there to help me get it done. And I want Nick and Dave and Peter and Vern up here. Come on up here. I'll need their help, too, in the House.

	We are going to change America for the better. Give us a Republican in the White House. Thank you. Thank you.

	I also want to give parents--working parents--low-income parents and low-middle-income parents--the opportunity to send their children to the school of their choice--because I believe--I believe no child--I believe no child in America--and I know many parents with low income don't have the choice--but no child in America should be forced to attend a bad or a dangerous school. And we will change that in my administration.

	But Bill Clinton disagrees. He would rather take advice from the powerful unions and their leadership in Washington. But in my administration, my top education advisors will be America's parents and America's teachers--America's parents and America's teachers.

	And I would say to the young people here tonight--and there are a lot of young people here tonight--I want you to take a look, and I hope you weren't part of the--I hope you weren't part of these statistics, but drug use in America increased--it doubled in the last four years under President Clinton--ages twelve to seventeen. And if you've never started, don't do it now. If you started, stop. Don't drink. Don't smoke. Don't use drugs. It'll ruin your body, ruin your future, ruin your opportunities. And the leadership's going to be up to you. And I'm going to cut teenage drug use 50 percent in my first four years.

	And I will work with Governor Engler--unless he's somewhere in the administration--to abolish parole for violent felons. And I will elect--and I will appoint judges who respect the rights of the victims and strictly construe the Constitution of the United States of America.

	And you send me the partial-birth abortion ban, and I will sign it. I will not veto it. Whether you are--whether you are pro-life--whether you are pro-life or pro-choice, I will listen to Dr. Everett Koop, who said this procedure is never necessary. It's late-term abortion. It kills the child.

	And President Clinton, though he always--he always tries to have it both ways, said, "Well, if they'd have done this, I would have signed it." Yeah, if they'd have done everything else, you wouldn't have been president either. But--this is a terrible procedure. It ought to be outlawed, it ought to be banned, and I will sign it, and the Congress will pass it.

	And I have other differences with Bill Clinton, too. One of them I think of right now is he's going to be moving out of the White House, and I'm going to be moving into the White House.

	And I want to strengthen and save Medicare. I don't see any senior citizens here, but if one shows up, I want to be sure they understand this. Don't be frightened by all the ads from the labor bosses and the Democratic Party. They're trying to scare senior citizens. Don't believe it. Under our plan, Medicare grows 7 percent a year--twice the rate of inflation, 39 percent over six years. We're going to preserve and strengthen Medicare just as we did back in 1983, when I was on a commission that rescued Social Security from bankruptcy--and I will be known as the president who saved Medicare.

	And let me say--President Ford, talk about nostalgia--I remember a long time ago, when I went to Battle Creek, Michigan--Percy Jones General Hospital--it was a long time ago.

	It was a very difficult time in my life. I couldn't walk. I couldn't feed myself. I couldn't do anything. Well, I could have fed myself early, but we had some very attractive nurses, and it took me a long time to learn. So I'll confess I did drag it on a bit, but at any rate--I learned then about the generosity of the people of Michigan. They would come to visit us. They'd take us out for rides. They'd take us out for dinner. And I even got into the car business. I lined up in a--with an Oldsmobile dealer in Battle Creek. And you could only have a car if you were a disabled veteran. Of course, I had a captive market in the hospital, and I was selling cars like mad, and I got 6 percent. But then the government said I couldn't do it anymore.

	I have always believed in free enterprise, just like you do. And I remember--I remember in 1947--because I was in that hospital a long time--in 1947--the war was over--I remember I was looking through my--my archives. When I left the Senate, they gave me boxes and boxes, and I discovered about two months ago a letter written by a second lieutenant at Percy Jones to my father in Russell, Kansas. It said, "Dear Mr. Dole: This is to inform that you son's recovery is questionable. We will do all we can. If you wish to contact the hospital, please do so."

	Well, I survived that. We're going to survive this, and we're going to win again. We're going to win again.

	So I want to conclude--conclude by saying that I have--I've long--you know, in '88, when I was running against Vice President Bush, every place I'd go, they'd say, "Well, this is Bush's home state." I don't know how many states George Bush had, but I was in about twenty-five of them. So this time around we hired a genealogist, and I found relatives that I never knew I had in all these states.

	And because I was in Battle Creek for two and a half years, I claim Michigan as a home state, and I want you to all support the home state candidate.

	And finally, I want you to be proud of your president. I want you to be proud of your president. Just as you were proud of President Ford, just as you were proud of President Bush, I want you to be proud of President Bob Dole.

	And I promise you one thing. I know a lot of people are cynical about politicians; they say, "Oh, they're all alike. You can't tell them apart." Well, I can tell them apart. We can tell them apart.

	You ask Spence Abraham. He's been looking them over. He can tell them apart. The governor can tell them apart. But let me tell you this: I've served under seven, eight, or nine presidents--started with Eisenhower. My first vote was cast for Eisenhower, and I'm very proud I voted for Eisenhower. And I've been proud of it ever since, and I'll be proud of it till the day I die, and I want you to feel the same way on November 5, when you cast your vote for president of the United States.

	The presidency--you know, I've watched all the presidents, and they have their weaknesses, and some have more than others, and all have their great strengths. One thing I've learned--it's always seemed to me that once you're sworn in, and once you walk into the White House as president of the United States--think about this now for a moment--as president of the United States, you assume a higher obligation than anybody in America or anybody in the world, when it comes to honor, duty, country, integrity, and keeping your word--keeping your word.

	And when I see--when I see what's happened the last four years in the White House--violating the public trust time and time and time again--I say it's time to go. It's time for a change. Back to Little Rock. Let's go.

	And as President Ford said--as President Ford said, it will happen, and I've got a--I'm--you know, I'm about ready to make a prediction here. If we carry Michigan, I'll be the president of the United States--if I carry Michigan.

	And so we're now going to get out on a bus--we're going to board a bus--and we're going to drive to Detroit, and we're going to make some stops along the way. Then, at two in the morning, we're going to fly to Bergen County, New Jersey, meet Governor Whitman there at 4:30 a.m. in a truck stop--and then have a sunrise breakfast near Philadelphia with Governor Tom Ridge. And we're going to go on and on and on because--the last time--the last time I--the last time I fought around-the-clock for my country was in the hills of Italy of 1945----and we're going to do it again. We are going to do it again. And I need your help.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
ABORTIONBUDGET, BALANCEDCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDRUG ABUSE--MINORSEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSMEDICARETAXATION--GENERAL     Å/ ‘/ ‹/ ‡/ }/
 u/ p/ k/ _/ W/ U/ J/	 Þ 	 Ö 	 Æ 	 ¥ 	 ‡ 	 u 	 ; 	  	  e: