Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0919.005SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/19STUMPKANSAS CITYMISSOURIMOMUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM2638 WORDS

	I am told that if I tried to describe bad government to the average Kansas Citian, he wouldn't say in the old Missouri phrase, "Show me."  He'd probably say instead that right here in Kansas City, he had already been shown!  He never wants to be shown again!

	I take it for granted that most Kansas citians know exactly what a boss politician looks like.  They know exactly what boss politics smells like.  And in the cost to them of bad public management and low public morals, they know exactly what boss rule feels like.

	Here you have conclusively proved that you don't like boss government.  I have a feeling as I go around the country that on November 4th the people of America are going to prove that they don't like it either.

	Without minimizing the effective work done here by others, I want to pay tribute to the women of Kansas city who, when they were faced with bad government, made clean government a crusade.  All over this country women in a like crusade are taking their political brooms in hand.  I have yet to hear of a more powerful political weapon than a broom in the hands of a morally indignant woman.

	And women will understand what I mean when I say that what government is in need of is not "a lick and a promise" kind of cleaning.  It is not in need of merely a fall housecleaning to be followed, maybe, by a spring housecleaning.  What our government is in need of is an all-out and all-through cleaning by an administration which thereafter will keep it clean.

	Now when it comes to outright corruption of any kind, anywhere, you and I know the first thing to do about it.  We believe in jailing the guilty parties and in firing those who have condoned guilt.

	Thanks largely to Republican persistence, there has been a wide-spread exposing of scandals in our federal government.  A good many people in public life or holding public office have been jailed or fired or allowed to resign because of "ill health."

	I think I know what you want in dealing with this situation.  You want an administration that does not leave the discovery and uprooting of corruption to mere chance.  You want an administration which does not wait around until congressional committees are obliged to dig it out.  You are looking forward to an administration which will put every investigative agency of our government on the job and keep those agencies on the job until the last crook and near crook have been run down and run out.  Then I am for going on from there to see to it that we have an incorruptible government because political appointments are given only to incorruptible men and women.

	What is the source of these unprecedented misdoings in our national government?  The answer is not hard to find.  This administration has allowed and helped the machine bosses in our cities to move their kind into federal posts, and to practice on the national level the vicious morals of boss politics.

	I need not recite to you the long list of those who have had and still have a pass to inner offices on the highest levels of government.

	One thing the bosses have not done; they have not quit the party too long in power.  One thing has not happened to them:  the party too long in power has not thrown them out--not one of them.  Who, if that party tried to throw them, would do the throwing?

	Can we trust the party that elevated them, that desperately needs their bought and delivered votes?  You and I know better than that--and so do the American people.

	The American people know the whole sorry record.  Let us look at that record--a recent part of it.  At the Democratic National Convention one candidate for the nomination, a distinguished United States Senator, was far out in front with the rank and file of his party.  In every poll, in every primary vote, he led all others among the rank and file of party members.  But who was this senator?  He was the man who had been going up and down across this country, courageously exposing to the view of the American people, the trail of boss politicians.  He exposed their coast to coast use of politics as a means to promote crime, corruption and organized immorality.

	What happened to the candidacy of the Senator who had done these things?  You know what happened to it:  it ran head on into the city bosses.

	Could it be that they blocked him because he had exposed them?

	And who gave the final conclusive nod--who delivered the votes--that sewed up the nomination for the present Democrat candidate?  The bosses.  The heirs and joint heirs of the Kelly machine in Chicago, the Tammany machine in New York, the Hague machine in New Jersey, and the Pendergast machine in Kansas City--to name a few of them.

	I sympathize with the nominee of the Democrat party because of the company he is obliged to keep.

	Perhaps he may disown that company altogether.  But this is the payoff question:  will the bosses disown him?  Have you detected any signs of alarm from them?  Have you heard any reports that they are dismantling their machines in fear lest their party and their candidate win?  Have you heard that any of them in death-bed conversions have turned Republican?

	Of course you haven't and you won't.  Every one of these bosses will go all out and down the line, to deliver by whatever means, on November 4th.  They will do that, not because they believe their candidate is one of their own kind.  They are smart enough to know that if he were one of their kind neither they nor their party would have a chance to win.

	They are smart enough to know what they need this year.  They need it this year more acutely than in many, many years.  They know above everything else that they need an honest man out in front.  Well, they've got one.

	What they really fear is a Republican victory on November 4th.  That will mean honesty, not only out in front, but honesty both front and back.

	That I can assure you is the kind of government the American people are looking for.  It is exactly what they are due to get.

	You probably get the idea from the press that on these campaign trips across the country I do all the talking.  I am happy to report to you that I don't.  The people also talk.  They talk back and they talk up and don't think they ever hesitate.  They talk by the letters they write me and the notes they leave on the train.  They talk by telegrams.  They talk by the way they shout in strictly non-radio language, "Give 'em this, Ike," or "Give 'em that."

	And nothing I could say to the people could be one-tenth as important as what the people have been saying to me.  North, south, east and west, they have been saying, "We've had too much for much too long."

	Part of the job ahead is ferreting out and punishing individual offenders; but that is only a small part.

	These disclosures of graft, dishonesty, and inefficiency in high and low offices are merely the symptoms of a morbid disease within.  The remedy for such an illness lies far deeper than dealing with external symptoms.

	Before there can be any cure, there must be a probing for the cause.  The doctor cannot write a sound prescription before he has made his diagnosis.

	So here, no true cleaning of our governmental house can be effected until we are able surely to find out how the guilty ones obtained their positions of trust and authority in our national government.

	We must ask, and get the answer to these questions.  How is it possible that such men as these were given high offices of public trust?  What tests were used to ascertain their fitness and their qualifications?  What were their records before they were appointed?  What and whose influence was used?  What debts were being discharged?  What obligations were being incurred?  And, lastly, what services were these men to render to those who sponsored their appointments?

	You cannot cure a disease so long as its roots remain untouched.  We will get at its roots.

	Then we will have in Washington an administration which measures up to the standard set more than a hundred years ago by Henry Clay:  He said, "Government is a trust, and the officers of government are trustees, and both the trust and the trustees are created for the benefit of the people."

	Now the whole country has it on the highest authority that the candidate of the Democrat party must run on the record of the present administration.  That seems perfectly obvious.  That is what the Democrat candidate seems to be trying to do.

	But his efforts to run on the record of this party too long in power seems like the story of little Liza trying to cross the river on the ice--carefully, fearfully, picking her way, jumping from ice cake to ice cake.  She made it--but I don't believe the Democrat candidate will.

	In the record of this administration there simply aren't enough ice cakes that are big enough or safe enough.

	Let us look at some of the other things which the candidate of the party too long in power must try to run on.  Let us look at that recording in terms of your own family, in terms of family affairs and household management.

	Most families have to plan their spending and within reasonable limits, they have to make sure that they do not spend more than they plan.  So do most businessmen.  Have you heard of a single, sizable administration project that did not cost more--multiplied millions more--than the plans called for?  No, the record of this administration in extravagance and waste is a mighty poor record to have to run on.

	If in your family affairs you find that your plan to build an addition on the house is going to cost a lot more than you figured on, what do you do?  You don't go ahead, regardless.  You call up the carpenter, the painter and the brick mason--and you call off the project.  Have you ever heard of an administration project being called off because it cost too much?

	No--I don't believe the American people get any satisfaction from the record of this administration in its irresponsible spending of your money.

	Or take another problem--one that you meet up with every day.  Let's suppose that tomorrow morning you go to the grocery store to do the family shopping.  The grocer has all the things you want to buy.  You have what looks like $20 to buy them with.  But long before you have shopped your way from the vegetable counter to the meat counter, you discover that what looks like $20 isn't $20 at all.  In terms of what that much money would have bought in 1940, your $20 is worth exactly $10.40.  Now don't blame the grocer or the wholesale or the farmer for cutting your dollar almost in half.  They are not the cause.  Like you, they are the victims.  The cause is inflation.  And what is the cause of inflation?

	Let me quote an answer to that question from a recent editorial in a great newspaper:  "Inflation has been the calculated policy of the White House on the labor front, the fiscal front, and the agricultural front."

	Inflation, folks, is another very shaky part of the record of this administration.

	Now the chances are that in your family, your husband today gets more pay in dollars than he got two years ago in 1950.  Two years ago the average factory worker got about $3,000 a year.  Today he is making about $3,500.  But are he and his family $500 better off?  Let's look at that record.  In those two years the income tax this working man has to pay to the federal government has more than tripled.  The purchasing power of his remaining dollars has nose-dived.  The result is that this worker and his family are on an economic treadmill.  And tread as hard as they will, they are not even staying where they were.  They are slipping back.  Their $500 gain in wages has been wiped out by inflation and by taxes.  Today, in what they can buy, they are actually worse off.

	I do not believe that the candidate of the Democrat party will get very far on that record of treadmill prosperity!

	That is the record--but it is only part of the record.  I can assure you that the whole record will be laid out for the American people to take a good look at between now and next November fourth.  I can also assure you that the Democrat candidate will run on that record because he will not be allowed to run away from it!

	Between the Democrat and the Republican parties, there are deep differences.  They are irreconcilable differences.  And these differences add up to determine not only the way our present problems will be solved, but the direction in which America for the indefinite future will be headed.

	The Democrat party has little faith in the people: in their capacities to do for themselves.  The Republican party puts its faith in the people and points to America as proof of what the people can do for themselves.

	Out of its lack of faith in the people, the Democrat party offers as the answer to every problem more government, at more public cost.  Out of its faith in the people, the Republican party offers better government at less cost.

	The Democrat party proposes more and more government in Washington--remote from the people.  The Republican party wants to strengthen government on the state and local level--close to the people. 

	The Democrat party offers waste as a way of life and higher taxes as a virtue.  The Republican party believes with Jefferson that "frugality" is the first among government virtues, and proposes to get 100 cents' worth of good government out of every tax dollar.

	For the most serious of all problems--the problem of war and peace in our world--the Democrat party offers no long time policy at all--but only improvised policies of stop and go, zig, zag and zig.  The Republican party believes that we can have lasting peace in our world.  It proposes that we work out and adhere to an immediate and long-range program for peace that will be clear and positive and to which all America and all peace-loving peoples will rally.

	These differences, ladies and gentlemen, are the issues of this campaign.  They are not issues to be taken lightly, or lightly treated.  They are serious for every American.  That is the way I shall continue to treat them.  Especially are these problems serious for what we oldsters call the younger generation.  Young people with their idealism, their faith and their hopes must have a fair chance to shape the nation which will be theirs.

	My closing words tonight are directed to the young people of America.

	After November fourth, I believe America can once more look with confidence to the future.  That future can be--will be--greater, far greater, than our past has been.  It is my deep conviction that in the years ahead we will realize to the full the promise of America.  That is youth's immediate challenge.  That is youth's long-time opportunity.  That is its lifetime task. 
CONDUCT, OFFICIALCOST OF LIVINGELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSGOVERNMENT APPOINTMENTS--GENERALINFLATIONGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     ˝: …: √: ø: µ:
 ß: ¢: ù: í: ä: à: t: j:	 â 	 x 	 j 	 F 	 &   e: