Speeches\1988\rep\S88R0907.002SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)09/07STUMPBALTIMOREMARYLANDMDCONVENTION OF THE B'NAI B'RITH2392 WORDS

	It's a great honor to address this convention. The B'nai B'rith are children of the Covenant, a covenant that has bound together the Jewish people throughout their long history--through tragedy and through triumph. Through the Holocaust to be reborn in the State of Israel.

	This year Israel is celebrating her fortieth birthday, middle age to most people but just the beginning in the life of one of the world's most creative nations. Over these years, the Israelis have shown the world how to build a new society, how to give old values new life. And the best thing I could say was what I wrote to Prime Minister Shamir on Israel's Independence Day: "I want you to know that I, the president, and the American people stand with you and your country. We shall never falter or waver in our support." Israel has won a special place in America's heart and Israel has given America a new perspective on history. It's a perspective that only a people who know how to beat the odds of history can provide.

	We've got to take that long view as a nation. That's why we have pursued a policy of peace through strength. Of keeping our guard up but also our readiness to parlay. And that's how we were able to negotiate an arms control treaty with the Soviet Union to eliminate a whole class of nuclear weapons.

	In doing so, we were symbolizing the hopes of mankind. But we didn't do this as a unilateral concession, or at the expense of our security. We must never do that and, as president, I never would do that.

	Truly, the lesson for our times is that deployments work better than freezes if you want to get the Soviet Union to the table, if you want to get equitable arms reduction. That strength works better than weakness if you want to get both peace and security.

	The members of B'nai B'rith know this lesson, too. Not so long ago, the Jewish people paid a horrible price for the weakness of the Western democracies. I say, never again. Never again.

	The members of B'nai B'rith also know something else. Your covenant begins with the Jewish people but doesn't stop there. You know that a good community consists of families caring for each other, not only for themselves. You know that a good nation consists of those communities extending the reach of their goodness.

	I like that idea and I believe in it. I believe in an America strong and prosperous, and an America that lives by standards. An America of honorable public service. An America that takes its idealism and makes it concrete by acts of goodness. A kinder, gentler nation. A tolerant America, enriched by the contributions of many peoples and many cultures.

	We may disagree in this country about many things, but we have a lot in common. Reverence for education. Reverence for human life. Reverence for law. Reverence for the principle of separation of church and state. And reverence for the duty of human kindness, to help those less fortunate.

	There's another thing we share. We are concerned about the wider world, about the fate of humanity. You know as Jews, and we all know as Americans, that we must take our place in the ranks, alongside those struggling for freedom. Soviet Jews seeking to emigrate. Ethiopian Jews seeking to find their real home. The State of Israel searching for peace. Our own freedom is diminished as theirs is diminished.

	My friends, these are the hard truths of history. We should not have to relearn them.

	I mentioned earlier that idealism must be translated into concrete acts. Let me take just a few minutes to discuss some very concrete acts that our administration has taken with respect to Israel and the search for peace.

	Back in 1980, we had an idea and it was called "Israel-Strategic Ally." It was a simple idea and a big one. We believed that Israel was not just the object of our sympathy and our goodwill but a full-fledged partner with the United States. A partner fully capable of contributing to our security.

	Well, that caused a revolution in Washington. Lots of people were aghast. We were told that our interests in the region would be jeopardized. That even the use of the expression would set off drastic diplomatic repercussions. Well, they were wrong and we were right.

	Even as strategic cooperation with Israel has gone forward, we have forged a stronger relationship with Egypt, Saudia Arabia, Kuwait, and other Gulf States. Today, it is clear that we can have an alliance with Israel and still pursue better relations with other countries in the area. We can work constructively with those states and not diminish our relations with Israel. This is in our interest and it is also in Israel's interest.

	And despite this some people still have trouble saying the words, "Israel, strategic ally." Well, I don't. Israel, strategic ally. It's got a nice ring to it. The ring of hard, enduring reality.

	What are the results of our efforts?

	Today, the United States and Israel are engaged in joint planning on mutual threats in the Mediterranean. Eight years ago, joint planning was not even in the dictionary of U.S.-Israeli relations.

	Today, the United States and Israel have prepositioned supplies and are building an infrastructure to deal with emergencies. Eight years ago, a former president regarded Israel as a strategic liability--can you figure that?--not an asset to U.S. action in the Middle East.

	Today, the United States and Israel engage in joint military exercises. Eight years ago, the ships of the Sixth Fleet were often forbidden even to buy fruits and vegetables from Israel.

	Today, Israel, through its own hard efforts and U.S. aid, has dropped inflation from nearly 1000 percent to under 20 percent. Its economy has begun to grow again. Eight years ago, U.S. aid to Israel was thought of as a weapon, a way to force Israel to do what it didn't want to do.

	Today, we have a model free-trade agreement with Israel, of benefit to both countries. Eight years ago, this idea hadn't even been discussed, much less put on the agenda for action.

	Today, the United States and Israel are partners in developing new technology, whether it be drones to gather intelligence at less risk to our pilots or the new, urgent project of defense against tactical missiles, part of the Strategic Defense Initiative. Eight years ago, we could only admire Israel's technological achievements from afar, not be partners in their development.

	When someone tells you that missile defense is a fantasy, just think of Israel. Israelis know something about military technology and they know something about real threats. In a region where missiles are dangerously proliferating into the hands of radical regimes, where we've seen the horrors of chemical warfare, missile defense is no fantasy. It's a necessity.

	Israel understands that. Israel understands it is facing a threat like none it's faced before. That's why it was the first country to sign up to joint research and development on SDI. And that's why I am proud that we are working with Israel today on the Arrow project, an anti-tactical ballistic missile to counter [missing text].

	A word on chemical weapons. You know, I've seen a few things in my time. But I thought we had banished forever the sight of human beings tortured by chemical warfare. The sight of a mother trying desperately to shield her child against the drifting winds of death.

	That's why an international effort to make sure chemical weapons are never--never used again will be at the top of my agenda as president.

	Let me sum it up. Eight years ago, strategic partnership with Israel was a dream of many of those who came into the Reagan-Bush administration. Today, we've translated it into reality. And this is my pledge: the American-Israeli strategic partnership is going to be even stronger tomorrow.

	We need that partnership not least to deter a Soviet Union still building its military strength in the area. Talk to the sailors and the pilots of our Sixth Fleet as they contemplate the expansion of Soviet sea power, recently reinforced by the Soviet development of a base at Tartus, in Syria. They know Israel as a friendly place and they are reassured knowing that Israel and the United States are on the same side.

	The U.S.-Israel partnership is fundamental for another reason. As Foreign Minister Peres said, "Israel has never asked the United States for its soldiers, only for its diplomats and peacemakers." Our partnership holds the key to peace in the Middle East.

	We all know that the peace process is at a difficult stage. No one can foretell where the tragic events of recent months will lead. Yet I believe that we can make progress toward peace if we follow these principles:

	First, U.S.-Israeli cooperation is fundamental to our strategic interests. No threat, no stone thrown, is strong enough to divide us. No wedge will be driven between us.

	Second, peace will be achieved through direct negotiations by the parties. It cannot be imposed. It cannot be evaded. The United States stands ready to help such a negotiation, as we have done on a bipartisan basis since the early seventies. But we shall not be party to a proceeding by the UN or any other international group to deny Israel's legitimacy or to force her to accept a bad deal.

	Third, the purpose of a negotiation is real peace. Peace for Israel. Peace for her neighbors. That's what it is all about. We have stood together for too long through too many crises with too many lives sacrificed to settle for an armistice, or a temporary truce or a false peace. Egypt has shown the way. 

	Fourth, as George Shultz has said, the Palestinians must be involved at every step in the negotiations. There will be no peace without them. It's their choice to help end the misery into which this region has been plunged.

	As for the PLO, I will insist that it accept UN Resolution 242, recognize Israel's existence, abandon terrorism, and change its covenant calling for Israel's destruction, before we have any discussions with that organization. I will insist not only because we have made a promise to Israel, but because it is the right thing to do.

	If the PLO cannot meet these principled conditions, then it is obviously not capable of either negotiating or delivering peace.

	The stakes are just too high to be satisfied by ambiguous formulations. We need plain talk. No nonsense. No equivocations.

	And one other thing. I have made very clear that I am opposed to an independent Palestinian state for a simple reason. Such a state would be a threat to the security of Israel and of Jordan, which is crucial to any lasting settlement of the conflict. And, I would add, it would also be contrary to American interests.

	Anyone who has trouble making up his mind on this issue, or who proposes to leave it open, just doesn't understand the dangers to Israel and to the United States; just doesn't understand the very real threats that continue to exist. My administration would not support the creation of any Palestinian entity that would jeopardize Israel's security.

	The creation of a Palestinian state will not lead to peace. But we must be clear on another matter, too. Neither will annexation of the territories by Israel or their permanent control by military occupation.

	There has got to be another way, a better way, and that's what the peace process is all about.

	I understand something about security, and in a Bush administration we're not going to relax our vigilance on threats to the United States or to Israel. And I understand something about diplomacy, too. That's why I pledge to you here and now that we're going to find a way to peace, we're going to keep at it, it's going to be a priority for me as president.

	Let me conclude on this note. In a few days, the Jewish people will be marking a new year. That begins the period of repentance, which concludes with Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement.

	It's a time of soul-searching, something we should all do on occasion, even in Washington.

	It's also a time for rededication to God and to our fellow human beings. To realize that our ideals are worked out here on earth, between each other.

	Perhaps it would not be too much to say that in a democracy, an election serves a similar purpose. At its best, the process reminds us of what our country is all about. Of our traditions, the principles that guide us in everyday life. Of our future and how to make the best of it.

	That's what this election is all about. Building on the peace and prosperity of these last eight years, expanding it to those who deserve more of it, here in America and in the Middle East and other areas of a disturbed world.

	And it's about something more. At the Republican Convention, I declared that I hoped to stand for a new harmony, a greater tolerance. We're on the way to a new century and it's time at last to leave the tired old bigotry behind. There is no room in this country for racism or for anti-Semitism. Not in New York, not in Chicago, not anywhere in this great country. It's the duty of every American, especially those who aspire to leadership to condemn it wherever and whenever it appears. I condemn anti-Semitism now and I will always condemn it.

	So, I've come here today to tell you of my determination to eradicate bigotry, my dedication to spreading prosperity, my determination to spread the peace, to energize the peace process in the Middle East, so that Israel and her neighbors can fulfill at last the vision of turning swords into plowshares.

	That's why I'm here today. To define that mission and to declare my dedication.

	I ask for your help as I work for a better America.

	Thank you.



ANTI-SEMITISMJEWISH AMERICANSMISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)PEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--MIDDLE EASTSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS--CHEMICAL/BIOLOGICALISRAELMIDDLE EAST--ARAB NATIONSPALESTINE AND PALESTINIAN ISSUES     7 Ù6 Ó6 Ï6 Å6
 ½6 ¸6 ³6 ª6 ¢6  6 ‚6 x6	 	 þ 	 î 	 × 	 £ 	 { 	 [  ?  9    e: