Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1021.005SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/21RADIO-TVCHICAGOILLINOISILRADIO-TELEVISION ADDRESS3491 WORDS

	Good evening. I am speaking tonight from a studio in Chicago, just two weeks before the election, and on the eve of my departure early tomorrow morning for a final campaign trip through the Middle West and the Northeast.

	This campaign has been long and it has been tiring. I sometimes feel like the man who, when asked how his invalid mother-in-law was getting along, said "Well, she is still sick, and I sure wish she would get well or something."

	It has been a moving and exhilarating experience for me to meet my fellow countrymen all across the nation.

	I have tried to talk sense. I have tried to talk sensibly. We Americans believe that the old counsel, come and let us reason together, is almost divinely inspired.

	For when men talk commonly about their common problems, they arrive at the noble estate to which we have given the name neighbor.

	Now, as we approach the end of the campaign, I would like to talk to you in the quiet of your home about something very near and dear to both of us: the peace of the world, your sons and mine. I have three.

	As a father, I am deeply concerned about their future in the perilous world that we inhabit. Yet even as I tell you this, I know that no father can feel quite the same about children as mothers feel about them.

	I know that war is harder upon women than upon men, that it outrages their profoundest feelings about life, the home, the heart.

	Who then would not be animated by a passion for peace? Who would not want to so order it that mothers shall have their children, wives their husbands, and girls their sweethearts, instead of surrendering them to war?

	Peace is the end toward which I, like you, would move with all of the strength of mind and body. But peace, in a savagely hostile world is not to be had just for the asking.

	Let us, therefore, raise our eyes above the current controversy. Let us ask ourselves where we are, where we want to go, and how we can get there.

	The central fact, I suppose, of our time is that revolution is worldwide. It is technological, it is economic and it is political--and therefore, it is also moral.

	Scientific inventions of recent years are sufficient to blow the old relationships of nations to bits. The airplane and the atomic bomb have made isolationism impossible for any nation, even a nation which like ours is seemingly sheltered by the great oceans. And now Russian imperialism has come to the scene.

	It is the old would-be conqueror using the new and additional weapon of an idea--Communism. It overran many countries during World War II. It has won millions of converts throughout the world. It works by force and by guile. It has found opportunities for deception because the West has not always been true to its own greatness.

	Some people have felt that their plight was so bad that any change would be an improvement. Too late many of them have discovered that a new tyrant is subjecting them to a slavery worse than any they have ever known.

	Our world then is a world transformed by science and technology, ravaged by war, torn by ideological struggle, a world in convulsion, but a world of hope in a time for greatness.

	It is in this situation that we as Americans find ourselves today. We cannot hide. We could not, if we would. Modern weapons leap any wall, penetrate any cave. Events and our own power have determined that we shall be the leaders of the free world.

	The one overriding obligation of this leadership today is peace. For ourselves? Yes. But this means today for the world.

	A position of leadership is not always comfortable. The most distressing aspect of it is that a leader has to think. He cannot fulfill his responsibilities if he merely says as one of the men of the French Revolution did: "The mob is in the street. I must see where they are going, for I am their leader."

	The responsibilities of leadership require us solemnly to assist the obligations that Providence has laid upon us and prayerfully to chart the course by which we may discharge those obligations.

	We know that we must strike first in this question for peace, at the basic roots of war--that is, at poverty, at ignorance, and at political instability. The solution to the problem of poverty is not to be found in an international giveaway program. A great part of the answer is trade, and trade has to be a two-way street.

	We must lead the way, then, in the progressive reduction of the barriers to trade, in our own economic interest of course, and also in our interest as the leader of the free world, and as a practical matter, we would have to do that anyway, because we cannot go on indefinitely exporting dollars abroad.

	A second phase of the war against poverty is the undertaking by those who know how to produce to teach those who do not. This is the aim of many of the principal programs of the United Nations, and a point of what we call Point IV, one of President Truman's most far-sighted proposals.

	If we can counteract the effects of poverty, counteract the effects of ignorance, we shall have made long strides toward eliminating the threats of both war and of Communist expansion.

	I have often thought that one of the principal sources of Russian Communist power is that it has made the miserable of the world more conscious of their misery.

	But we must lead the way, too, in the establishment of political stability among the nations of the world, a stability based on those understandings between nations which will diminish their fears.

	We set our feet on that road when we joined in establishing the United Nations. The United Nations is, of course, far from perfect. We sometimes hear that it is just a debating society, but at least no man ever got shot by words, and it is through debates in the United Nations and all of its specialized agencies and it is through action by those agencies that we are today promoting an ever wider world understanding.

	But what about the Russians, you say. They have frustrated all [missing text].

	They have frustrated all too many efforts of the United Nations. We cannot cry, "Peace, peace," when there is no peace.

	No, we cannot. But we can keep our heads and our tempers and we can calmly consider what courses are open to us.

	War provides no answer, even though we must be eternally ready to meet force with force. We must insist on our principles and we must never compromise those. We must negotiate when negotiation is possible, break off when negotiation fails, resume when resumption is open to us, and with patience, good will and firmness struggle to obtain peace with justice.

	What we face, my friends, is revolution, and you cannot stop rebellious ideas with bayonets. You can only stop ideas with better ideas.

	I suggest, therefore, that we throw back the challenge of Communism, a challenge to prove the worth of our system.

	What the world needs is an example, and by this I do not mean an example of just material prosperity, or arrogant consent, nor of self-righteousness. I mean an example of moral, of intellectual, of spiritual elevation, of justice, of mercy, of humility, of goodwill.

	The twin ideals that we have pursued to make our civilization are justice and freedom. Justice is the cement that holds the state together. Freedom is something more than freedom from government. It is freedom to become and to remain politically and economically independent.

	We have shown during the past two decades, the past generation, how the pursuit of these ideals can refresh and renew America. We have already come so far that we can never return to the time when in the presence of mountains of wheat there was little bread; when warehouses burst with cotton, but there were few sheets, towels, shirts and dresses; when we had architects, carpenters, and the materials to build houses, decent houses, but millions lived in hovels; when the splendid American dream seemed at a shabby end, and the splendid promises of American life were ashes in the mouths of the people.

	If you had read about such a country in a novel, you would have said that its inhabitants were crazy. Yet that was our way, not so long ago.

	A miracle has been wrought in America. We have made a humane revolution. It has been done without hatred or bloodshed. No man has been deprived of his liberties. The many have been benefited. The few have not been hurt. The many have more bread. The few do not have less cake.

	Behind the miracle that has been wrought with your cooperation lay several concepts. It seems to me they were these: The United States is not dry-as-dust theory in a musty book, it is not our farms, our factories or money. It is our people. They are not the masses. They are the millions of individualistic men and women, pulsing, doing, aspiring persons, persons of flesh and blood. Each has a soul, each a mind, and each a purpose in life.

	Each is sometimes uplifted, and sometimes cast down. As I see it our federal government is not a mere piece of machinery. I would not give you a dime for a man or a political party that had two brains and no heart.

	Nor is government a body of thin-blooded men, remote from the daily lives of the people, of those whom they govern. Most of us believe that our kind of government is a living thing, drawing its life from the lives of the people. We believe that government must be responsive to the pressures of life, that its tasks must be necessitated by the needs of life. That is the environment in which we live. Government must adopt itself to that changing environment.

	We Democrats believe that trees grow from the roots upward, not from the top downward. We believe that the roots of the great American tree are the people. We know that as these roots are nourished, so will the tree grow.

	So believing, you and I, all of us working together, have made the United States the wonder of the world, and let us see how far we have come.

	We have protected ourselves against predatory combinations of capital. We Democrats recognize big business. We need it. We applaud, we are proud of its ability to produce, and produce efficiently. There is an indispensable place for big business in our society, but it must not oust men from their proper places. We have set ourselves to prevent that.

	So doing, we have been accused of usurping the liberties of some of the people. Here let me tell you what Abraham Lincoln once said about this, and I quote him:

	"The shepherd drives the wolf from the sheep's throat, for which the sheep thanks the shepherd as its liberator, while the wolf denounces him as the destroyer of liberty. The sheep and its wolves are not agreed upon a definition of the word liberty, and precisely the same difference prevails today among us human creatures, all professing to love liberty. Hence we behold the process by which thousands are passing from under the yoke of bondage hailed by some as the advancing of liberty, and bewailed by others as the destruction of all liberty. Recently the people have been doing something to define liberty, and thanks to them the wolf's dictionary has been repudiated."

	That was Lincoln.

	We can now take bread for granted, bread eaten by free men in freedom. We have gone far toward removing one fear that long made men sick with worry, the fear of being out of work. A man who wants to work but cannot find work with which to support himself and his family, regards himself as a failure, and how many there are among us who today are comfortable, who still bear spiritual scars of wants, frustration and futility.

	Once, let us recall this with shame, when a man had spent his best years at work, when his work was done, his strength gone, he was done, cast out like an old newspaper.

	Today, the man or the woman who must retire from workaday tasks may look forward to a life of dignity and security. Federal and private pension funds, funds to which the worker contributes, shelter him against the cold rains of circumstances, the bleak halls of charity, the help of perhaps reluctant children.

	I do not feel that we Democrats deserve any special credit for what has been done in your name, for your sake; nor could it have been done at all without your constant support in the healthy democratic manner of political discussion and controversy, out of which emerges, in the long run, the people's decision.

	We merely have done what should have been done long ago. We acted only in the name of justice and right and mercy. Surely, no one deserves credit for living by the standards of religious ethics, and seeking to realize our noblest American traditions.

	We have come far in the twenty years past, and we shall go farther. He who doubts it is a stranger to the American people. He is alien to their spirit, ignorant of their history.

	Yet, ever since the founding of the republic, some newspapers and some men have been saying that the country is going to the dogs. They said it in Washington's time, and in Jackson's and in Franklin Roosevelt's. Mostly they shout this way when they are out of office and want in.

	And the more they want in the louder they shout, which accounts, perhaps for a good deal of the current clamor. These doubters must be descended from the federal commissioner of patents who held office over a century ago. He recommended that the patent office be closed on the grounds that there was nothing left to invent.

	My friends, when you hear such voices, do not reply to them. Just remember who you are. You are Americans. Your forebears found a wilderness and they began to convert it into a fair land with only three weapons--with the Bible, the ax, and the plow.

	Nothing stayed them; neither the perils of death, nor wounds, nor savage mountains, nor wide rivers, nor the unknown into which they plunged. They were of every racial stock and every religious faith, and each brought something of the old country to the new country. And different though they were, they became one.

	This is our heritage, and this is our true glory. We are a people, I tell you, that is just beginning its high adventure on this continent. This is an adventure which, though young as we are, we have done this: Our people have had more happiness and prosperity over a wider area for a longer time than men have ever had since they began to live in ordered societies 4,000 years ago.

	But this great accomplishment has not been stainless by any means. There have been many injustices and inequalities. For some, because of race, religion or color, a special and unfortunate fate has been decreed. But happily, we are now rapidly removing even those stubborn old stains from the fabric of our national life.

	The great presidents who led the way out and I am obliged to suggest that they were mostly Democrats--had one thing above all in common. They wanted a strong, prosperous people in strong, secure country. But they asked themselves: "How could this best be done within our traditions?" They found this answer in sound American common sense.

	The best way, they concluded, was to release the shackled energies of the American people. Let the rivers be harnessed, the flood waters impounded behind dams, and the soil saved and roads constructed, that man partake fully of the fruits of their own toil. Let them be well-sheltered, well-clothed, their hopes sing where fear once croaked. So it came about, much of it in the past two decades, that man rightfully felt that he was captain of his soul and master of his destiny.

	Then each man was free to seek his happiness in his own way. And as he did so he came the nearer to realizing our great aspiration for life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

	Don't misunderstand me. As I have said, the Democratic party did not do all this. All that a political instrument or a party can do is to set the course. It enabled you to do it for yourselves by setting this country upon a constructive course, by giving it purpose, a direction, by helping those who wanted to help themselves.

	Since we have come so far, who shall be rash enough to set limits on our future progress? Who shall say that since we have gone so far we can go no further? Who shall say that the American dream is ended? For myself, I believe that all we have done upon this continent is but a prelude to a future in which we shall become not only a bigger people, but also a wiser people, a better people, an even greater people.

	I believe that we shall achieve not only a higher standard of living, but also a higher standard of life. Never forget this: There is little we Americans cannot do if only we can imagine ourselves wanting to do it. Power alone is not enough, nor is faith alone equal to the task.

	The Republican Old Guard was the power for decades but either it did not want to do the job, or it had no faith in the American future.

	We Democrats always had the faith, but it was only these last years that we had the power. We joined faith with power, and then all the people came in to their rightful inheritance that had long been denied them.

	All this is part of the belief of my party, that almost anything can be done if there is a will to do it.

	We do not believe that we must have depressions any more than we must have smallpox. We prevent smallpox, and we can prevent the economic miseries that are even more destructive.

	We are not puppets of faith. We do not have to sit and take it. We can will to do the thing, to use our great bounty for our benefit, and without sacrificing our form of government, and we can do them. We propose to continue upon our course. The future is to those who take it. We can strike off the shackles that still bind the United States. It is the duty of leaders to lead; of the creative to create; of the daring to do. The free world expects leadership of us. It is faith and our faith depends upon our leadership. The life or death issue of war or peace hangs upon it. We are 155 million strong. We are industrious, inventive, restless with the fires that burn within us. We are free-striding people with a confident, free-swinging stride that marks the American wherever he goes upon this earth. We are conquerors of time and of distance. We have explored the awful jungles of matter, and have emerged with the powers of the exploding sun. Our cause is just. Our heart is high.

	Let us then, I say, press forward toward the new world that we can create in the name of America and of suffering humanity still in chains.

	Now you say, "Words beautiful words, but how? How do we do all of this with the staggering budget, heavy taxes, surrounded by the Communist menace, an enfeebled Europe, Asian infirmity, our boys in training or in war?" And I say, "Nothing is easy, and the best things are the hardest."

	But consider what was done at Valley Forge, what was done in the dark days of dissension and disaster in the Civil War, in the two world wars when the survival of the Western civilization trembled, and in the depression.

	There is nothing new, only different. And all our troubles, all our immense difficulties, now and in the future can, I say, be solved if we have the will, the courage, the boldness to face them, face them squarely.

	To use Seneca's phrase, "Man is more than a rational animal." And invoking the guidance of Providence, rational men animated by the destiny of greatness can think and can act, and can do, greatly.

	Thank you.
COMMUNISMFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSPOVERTYSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)UNITED NATIONS     3M ÿL ùL õL íL
 àL ÛL ÓL ÌL ÄL ÂL ªL  L	   	 — 	  	 R 	 0 	 ) 	  e: