Ads\1952\Dem\a52d000g.011.txtAD1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)GENERALAir raid debate1,992 WORDS


ANNOUNCER: Frightening, isn't it? When that bell rings a whole city stops. Sometimes you think your heart no longer beats. The planes can come from any direction, swiftly, in a matter of hours, and there's really no safety. But everything stops.

HICKS: Hey, the elevator stopped between floors. I guess all the power's off. Are you all right up there?

JOHNSON: Yes. I think so. Oh, I'm Johnson.

HICKS: I'm Hicks.

WILLIAMSON: I'm Williamson and I'm sure glad this is only a practice air raid.

HICKS: We're lucky.

JOHNSON: Yeah, but how long is our luck going to hold out?

HICKS: Well, I guess it depends on how long we keep showing the Russians we mean business.

WILLIAMSON: Do you think it's going to last long?

JOHNSON: It depends on our foreign policy.

WILLIAMSON: Who's thinking about foreigners. I'm supposed to get off now. I've got a date.

JOHNSON: Your boyfriend can't go anywhere, either, Miss Williamson.

WILLIAMSON: Some comfort.

HICKS: Cigarette?

JOHNSON: Thanks.

HICKS: Oh, would you like one?

WILLIAMSON: Oh, no thanks. I'm on duty.

HICKS: Say, Johnson, what's this you've got in your lapel?

JOHNSON: Stevenson.

HICKS: Eisenhower.

WILLIAMSON: I feel positively naked. (Sounds of walking). Hey, hey, what are you doing? Now, cut it out. Huh? Uh-oh. Gee. Thanks. (Sound of plane going overhead). Well, I suppose we might as well sit down and be comf-- . Say, this is a practice air raid, isn't it?

MAN: Why, sure it is. Don't worry.

MAN: We haven't had a real one yet and if we elect the right man president maybe we never will.

JOHNSON: Mr. Hicks, why are you voting for Eisenhower?

HICKS: Well, I'm an Independent from way back.

JOHNSON: So am I.

HICKS: But this time I'm voting Republican.

JOHNSON: Uh-huh.

HICKS: For a number of reasons. But above all, Korea. I've got a kid brother over there.

JOHNSON: You think we shouldn't have gone into Korea, huh?

HICKS: No, I string along with the General. He agrees that once it started we had to go in. But why didn't we send them enough help and money before it started? Then maybe there wouldn't have been a war at all.

JOHNSON: I'll bite. Why didn't we?

HICKS: The Democrats have to take the blame for that. That's what the General says and he's right. No foresight. Why didn't they send help, real help, to solve Korea while there was still time?

WILLIAMSON: Yeah, why didn't they?

JOHNSON: They tried to. Beginning in 1949, long before the Reds attacked, the Democratic administration introduced three separate bills in order to give adequate military support to South Korea--money, tanks, planes, technical help.

HICKS: Is that on the level?

JOHNSON: Yeah.

WILLIAMSON: What happened?

JOHNSON: The first bill came up for a vote in the House of Representatives early in 1950. It was defeated by one vote. Get that! One vote. The Congressional Record, January 19, 1950. "Aid to Korea was defeated by one vote." You know whose vote tipped the scales against it?

HICKS: Oh, one of those isolationists. But they're taking a back seat these days.

JOHNSON: Uh-huh. This fella's right up front in the Republican Party. Richard Nixon, Eisenhower's running mate, voted no, voted to throw South Korea to the wolves, and 86% of his Republican colleagues voted no along with him. Mr. Nixon, no.

HICKS: Hum. I didn't know that.

JOHNSON: Well, not everyone has time to read through the Congressional Record. But the Democrats kept trying. A little later they introduced another bill. This time Nixon switched. He voted with them. But it was too late, then.

WILLIAMSON: Well, for goodness' sakes. Well, I heard Nixon himself attacked the Democrats for not being prepared in Korea? He didn't even remember his own boss? Huh?

JOHNSON: Sometimes a show of memory is a great convenience.

WILLIAMSON: Yeah.

JOHNSON: Especially during an election year.

WILLIAMSON: I'll say.

HICKS: Okay. So Nixon's not so hot. As a matter of fact I didn't much like it when they nominated him. I'd have preferred a liberal Republican. But I still like Ike.

JOHNSON: Well, you've got to remember that politics is a game. The General's like a, like a pretty good left-handed pitcher. He keeps throwin' 'em in, but nobody's catchin' 'em. Look what he's  . . .

HICKS: What do you mean?

JOHNSON: It wasn't only in Korea that his pals let him down. When he was still in the Army he and his boss, General Marshall, wanted adequate military aid for Europe, the first line of defense against the Reds. Our friends over there needed help and plenty of it.

HICKS: I agree.

WILLIAMSON: Yeah.

JOHNSON: Well, President Truman pleaded for it and so did farsighted Republicans like Senator Vandenberg. They all told Congress to throw a fifteen-foot rope to a man drowning thirty feet away. And what was Mr. Nixon's answer to that appeal for help? Mr. Nixon--on August 18, 1949, Nixon and 95 percent of his Republican colleagues voted to cut military aid in half. They voted for that fifteen foot rope. But in spite of this the Democrats sent adequate military aid to Europe in time.

WILLIAMSON: Good.

JOHNSON: Maybe that's why this is only a practice air raid.

HICKS: But it isn't the Republicans' fault that it's not the real thing.

WILLIAMSON: You know, if we hadn't built up Europe then there might have been a war right here.

JOHNSON: Exactly. Why, our foreign policies made the free world strong.

HICKS: Yeah, but I don't see that you can --

JOHNSON: . . . The Truman Doctrine--guaranteeing the independence of Greece and Turkey. The Marshall Plan--the greatest act of statesmanship of this century. The North Atlantic Treaty. Why, we've stopped the Russians cold. That's the big historical achievement of a bipartisan foreign policy. 

HICKS: Bipartisan--now you're talking. The General supports that policy. And if he's elected it won't change.

WILLIAMSON: That's right. Say, I wonder when they're going to blow the all clear. I've got the get my hair done.

JOHNSON: Would you mind repeating what you just said?

WILLIAMSON: I said, I've got to get my hair done.

JOHNSON: Oh, I meant Mr. Hicks.

WILLIAMSON: Oh.

HICKS: I said our foreign policy won't change if Eisenhower's elected. He'd be the president of the president who runs the country.

JOHNSON: Does he write the laws? Appropriate the money?

HICKS: No, I suppose Congress does that.

JOHNSON: Right. It's a team game. And if the Republicans win in November, what men would run the Congress?

HICKS: Well, I guess I hadn't thought about that, now. Now, let's see.

JOHNSON: Well, here they are. Let's take a good look at the General's ball club. Richard Nixon would preside over the Senate as vice president. That's a mighty important job. Joseph Martin would be Speaker of the House, one of the most powerful men in the government. His record on foreign policy is far worse than Nixon's. Senator Taft would be Republican boss in the Senate, as he has been in the past. And if you have any doubts that he'd boss Eisenhower, too, just read the statement he put out after he had received the General's unconditional surrender at their meeting in New York on September 12th. And working with him would be his pals, Senator Jenner of Indiana, the man who called General George Marshall a willing front man for traitors and a living lie. And, recognize this one?  Joe McCarthy. He'd be Chairman of the Committee on Government Expenditures. Well, that rounds out the infield.

HICKS: Well, wait a minute. Eisenhower's against Senator McCarthy. General Marshall's his friend. You can't put them on his team.

JOHNSON: I didn't put them there. The General himself did it. I had hoped, along with millions of other decent Americans, Democrats and republicans, too, that the General would repudiate them in this election, but he didn't. He endorsed them.

HICKS: Go on.

JOHNSON: Well, we need three more for an outfield. How about Senator Kem of Missouri? Senator Bricker of Ohio? Senator Cain of Washington or Malone of Nevada, Ecton of Montana, Watkins of Utah, Dirksen of Illinois. Take your choice. There's Eisenhower's team. The bosses of the Republican party. These are the men who'd run the country. Gentlemen, what did you do to help win the long, hard fight for freedom? What was your contribution to the defense of our country? How did you vote on the great issues of our time? Look at the Record. They don't put campaign promises in this book. They put the actual votes in Congress--on the Marshall Plan, on the North Atlantic pact, on mutual security, on Point Four, on aid to our friends in Europe and Asia. In Korea. How are you recorded on the key votes, the money votes which would make these great ideas really work? Senator Taft?

HICKS: No.

JOHNSON: Senator Jenner?

HICKS: No.

JOHNSON: Senator Bricker?

HICKS: No.

JOHNSON: Senator Kem?

HICKS: No.

JOHNSON: Senator Cain?

HICKS: No.

JOHNSON: Senator McCarthy?

August 22nd, 1952, Eisenhower told the American people, "I will say to you that I will support him as a member of the Republican organization." There they are. Eisenhower's team. The men who voted to take the guts out of our fight against communism. Sure there's a mess in Washington, and this is a picture of it.

WILLIAMSON: The all clear. It's over.

JOHNSON: No. No, it's still going on. But there's something we can do about it, we independent voters. We can support the men who voted yes.

WILLIAMSON: You know, what gets me is, this Eisenhower. Doesn't he know how those men voted? Doesn't he?

JOHNSON: I suppose he must know.

WILLIAMSON: Then can he ask us to support them? And that, that Jenner, that McCarthy. Did they really say that about General Marshall?

JOHNSON: It's in the Record. They said it.

WILLIAMSON: And Eisenhower is asking us to support them? Some nerve. Why, that's worse than just cheap politics. It's horrible. It's um--it's, it's immoral. Here. You can take this back. See, I'd like to keep this one, if you don't mind. I've got a use for it.

JOHNSON: For your boyfriend?

WOMAN: Yeah. He's gonna do some listenin' tonight.

Sam: Hey! You can come down now.

WILLIAMSON: Oh. All right, Sam.

JOHNSON: How about it, Mr. Hicks. As one independent voter to another?

HICKS: Well, I can see how we've got to get rid of these fellows, but what has your man got to offer? I don't want to be just against something. I'd like to be for something. Now how does Adlai Stevenson stand on these issues?

JOHNSON: Listen.

STEVENSON: We have done what daughters of democracy thought a democracy could not do. We have yielded neither to the hotheads who wanted to extend the war, nor to the weak-kneed who wanted to quit when the going was tough. The Republican leaders, impatient and torn by conflicting counsels, have wavered between recklessness and weakness. And may I point out that the victory over timidity on the one hand, and recklessness, on the other, has won for us the respect and the support of the entire free world. The people know what has been done and now they want to know what will be done. The great unfinished business of our generation is peace in the world. Let no one tell you that there are any cheap and easy solutions to this problem. There is no substitute for the long, the complex, patient process of building strength and unity in the free world--political strength, economic strength, moral strength--and may I add the strength of a common faith that nations can be free and men can stand erect and unafraid.

[Music in background]

ALLIES/ALLIANCESBIPARTISANSHIPCONGRESSFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALISOLATIONISMKOREAN WARMILITARY AID--EUROPEMILITARY AID--SOUTH KOREASOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     Œ- õ- ô- ï- ç- Ä- y- j- _-	 ú 	 å 	 ~ 	 v 	 ^ 	 R 	 H 	 4 	  e: