Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1014.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/14STUMPHOUSTONTEXASTX1504 WORDS

	I am deeply moved and downright proud of the generosity of Price Daniel's introduction.  He makes me feel at home in the state where I was born.  I respect and admire him for the fight he has made to protect the rights of his state.

	Texans have never been afraid to fight for what they believed in.  I learned that as a soldier.

	That fighting spirit has been shown at its best in Price Daniel's valiant defense of the rights of your state in its own tidelands.

	He thinks the Texas tidelands ought to belong to Texas.  So do I.

	As I said last night in New Orleans, this has been my position since I first looked into this matter in 1948, long before anybody persuaded me to go into politics.  I have always felt that the titles to these submerged lands should be recognized in the states out to their historic boundaries.

	Not just Texas--all the states.  Not just tidelands--all submerged lands within such historic boundaries.

	The Supreme Court has said that Congress has authority to confirm title to these properties in the states.  Congress has twice tried to do so.  The President has twice vetoed that effort.

	My opponent says he agrees with those vetoes.

	I do not.

	My opponent says he is uncertain where I stand on the tidelands issue.  I hope I have relieved him of any uncertainty.  Nobody who is interested in my views has any reason to doubt my position.

	For political advantage, the opposition has been trying to muddy the water.

	Now my opponent says he wants to be fair about this thing.  Let's see what he calls fair!  He wants to take over the tidelands and dole out to the states whatever Washington decides you ought to have.

	That isn't what I call a "fair shake."  I call it a "shake down."

	I have looked forward to this change to come again to Texas, where I have many friends--and where, as you may have suspected, I hope to make some new ones.

	It is wonderful to visit Houston and see on every hand the signs of your vigorous expansion.  You have fulfilled the vision of those hardy pioneers who set up the early capital of the Texas republic down at the corner of Main Street and Texas Avenue.  You have vindicated their resolute belief in the unlimited future of this region.  Your growth has been phenomenal--the vast industrial development ringing the city; your beautiful churches; your Rice Institute; your University of Houston; your wonderful medical center; and your other institutions of culture and learning.

	I salute your determination to make Houston a ranking city of the world.

	The people of the great state of Texas in their rapid development of its vast resources offer striking evidence that even wise men can make mistakes.  Just a hundred and seven years ago, the United States Senate decided that the public lands of Texas were not worth ten million dollars.

	That was the public debt of the Republic of Texas, when Texas was annexed to the Union.  So the United States said to Texas:  "Keep your debts--and keep your lands.  We don't want either."

	And so the state of Texas paid off the ten-million-dollar debt of the republic.  It kept its two hundred million acres of lands--including the submerged area extending three marine leagues seaward into the Gulf of Mexico.

	Now the administration has decided it wants to get hold of some of these lands--since they have become valuable.

	The question is:  Are they going to get away with it?

	America was built by a robust and vigorous people.  They operated first through the original states and then through a balance of state and federal powers.  That balance was designed to keep as much of the government as close to the people as possible.  No nation of free men was ever built from the top down.

	That system of government has served us well for over a hundred and sixty years.  That system is one in which the states have had a vital part.  The preservation of local order, elbow room to produce and build, protection of our titles to land, the sacredness of our homes from intrusion, our right to get the best schooling for our children--we are secured these basic freedoms in the first instance by our state, our country and our own home town.

	These are primarily affairs for local administration.  We must keep them so.  Otherwise, an all-powerful Washington bureaucracy will robust one by one of the whole bundle of our liberties.  We must preserve and protect this matchless system of states united.

	The visit to Texas today is a kind of fulfillment for me.  When I first considered entering this political race, some of those experienced in politics spoke to me about the South.

	I was not a politician then--am not a politician now.  So to help in my education, this is what they said.

	They said Texans had to be counted out--as well as the rest of the South.

	When I asked why, they replied, "The administration has those states in the bag."

	I said, "What do you mean, in the bag; they are free people, aren't they?"

	"The states of the solid South," they answered, "no matter how much they are kicked around by the administration, they are used to it--they are in the bag."

	Well, I didn't believe it then, and I don't believe it now.

	What is this bag they think they've got you in?  You people don't belong in the same bag with the Pendergast machine of Kansas City.  You don't belong in the same bag with the Arvey machine in Chicago, or with Tammany Hall in New York.

	It didn't sound to me as if Texans were in any bag at all when your governor urged the delegates at the state convention, "Now is the time for every Texan to caucus with his conscience."

	No, my friends, Texans are not in anybody's bag.

	No one can deliver a Texan's vote but that Texan himself.

	I believe the time has come to put country above party labels.  By your free vote, you will decide.  For you, the people--not some overgrown, grasping political machine in Washington--are the real guardians of the liberty for which Texans fought at San Jacinto.

	Joined in the common bond of freedom, we will face, without fear, the forces that aim to weaken our system of government.  By our strength and dedication, we will defeat those forces.  That is the crusade which I call on you to join.

	The task will not be easy--but it can be done.

	We have had disloyalty and subversion in high places.

	Why have we had these things?  Because we have had leadership that was weak-kneed and soft-headed.

	We have had grafters and corruption in high places--until almost every day's news increased the same and weakened the faith of Americans in their government.

	Why have we had these things?  Because we have had leadership which took its political morale from machine-bosses whose only ideal of public service is self-service.

	We have had a prolonged era of waste of the people's money--of more spending and higher taxes; of higher prices; of year after year of unbalanced budgets; of an enormous and mounting national debt which lays an enormous and mounting mortgage on every American's future. 

	Why have we had these things?  Because we have had an administration in Washington which knew little about administering--except for votes--and public management which knew little about how to manage--except at election time.

	We have had a peace which is not a peace; a war which is not a war; and armistice which is not an armistice.

	Why have we had these things?  Because we have had an administration in Washington which--in its foreign policy--has breathed first hot, then cold, then hot again.

	In Korea we face a Godless enemy.  We are at war with the forces of Communism.  I call it war, because when fifty-thousand American youth shed their blood in one year, that is war!

	The first job of the new administration will be to deal with this tragic conflict which reaches into every American home and threatens us with World War III.  We cannot expect the same reckless drivers who ignored the danger signs and ran us into the ditch to get us out!  We must get back on the road to a lasting peace behind a government of men equal to this mighty task.

	I pledge you my unceasing efforts to find the men and the means to build for peace.  With an abiding faith in Almighty God and with the strength that will come to us in that faith, we will work with people of good will everywhere for peace that will be just and lasting.

	There can be no greater cause.  To its service, I now invite you.
COAST/WETLANDSGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALKOREAN WARNATURAL RESOURCES--FEDERAL VS. STATE OWNERSHIPPARTY AFFILIATIONTEXAS     Ì! π! ≥! Ø! •!
 ó! í! ç! Ü! Å! ! ! u!	 w 	 i 	 N 	 D 	  	  e: