Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1017.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/17STUMPNEWARKNEW JERSEYNJ2902 WORDS                

	I want to talk with you tonight about a matter which involves both the heart and the mind of our people.  Where a people's feelings and wisdom come together, that is the place where its spirit dwells.  Out of that spirit comes our conception of right.

	I want to talk with you about human rights in this land which God has given into our keeping.

	This issue sorely needs straight thinking and straight talking.  The last few decades have seen the matter of human rights enveloped in murk and confusion.  In that murk, signposts erected by heroic struggle have been obscured and truths have been transformed into falsehoods.

	This nation of ours was established by men who would not submit to tyranny; men who carried into the wilderness of the new continent a vision of those great truths brought to the world by the Sermon on the Mount.  They founded a government on these principles.

	Here has been evolved a nation which has no longing for the secret police, the star chamber, state torture, thought control or special privilege.  Here, men are to be free--free to worship as their conscience orders, free to express themselves, free to subscribe to any belief or join any sect, free to sleep soundly in their bed at night and feel secure in their homes.  Here all men are to be ensured equal opportunity, equal justice, equal rights.  No one has need for a title, a patron, or a party card.  The truth to which this nation is dedicated is that all men--all men--are created free and equal, endowed with inalienable rights which come from God and cannot be taken away from them by other men.

	Around that truth, we raised a new society.  Far beyond our power to spread it, that truth became one of the great moral forces of the world.  Over large areas of the earth where that truth has no official recognition, its magnetic power has required slave governments to expand their secret police, devise new tortures, and make thought-control more rigid.  The dictators have been able to armor themselves against that truth only by using the weapons of fear and terror in ever-increasing measure.  By compounding inhumanity, they have been able to deny for a while the truth that would make men free and bring slave governments crashing down.

	Thus, our American ideals are not only the wellsprings of our own spiritual and moral strength.  They are a weapon more powerful against the enslavement of the world than bombs and battalions.  All the more reason they must be kept bright and vibrantly alive. 

	Of all the charges that may be brought against the national administration, the gravest of all may be that it has not guarded the nobility of our ideals against the shoddy stuff of cheap politics.  The gap between promise and performance of the administration party is widest in the area of human rights.  The systematic political exploitation of minority groups in America, which have just grievances, is an unconscionable thing.

	How has this been done?  By leaving social injustices uncorrected in order that votes could be gained in election after election.

	Look behind the talk to the deeds of these men to appraise their performance.

	The poll tax as a condition of federal voting is a blemish upon our American ideal of political equality.  The last time it was before the United States Senate for a clear vote was in 1942.  Among the members of the Senate, as junior senator from Missouri, was the man who is now the head of the administration party.  Here was his opportunity to act in behalf of a basic principle of human rights.

	What did he do--this man who is now the head of the party in power?  He voted against lifting the poll tax restriction even for members of the armed services then fighting for his country in the war.  He had not voted against drafting those whom the poll tax robbed of their citizenship.  No, he thought they were good enough to be heroes far from home and get their names on a casualty list.  But they weren't good enough for the head of the administration party to vote to get their names on a federal list of eligible voters in a poll tax state in the United States of America.

	This is the same man who, having risen to the presidency, claims to be the only true friend our Negro citizens have.

	Would a true friend advocate, on an all-or-nothing basis, measures to improve race relations that were so extreme as to be certain of uncompromising opposition?

	A true friend would give leadership for real progress in civil rights and fair employment through the methods that can achieve and have achieved results.

	There are many ways to advance toward our goal of equal opportunity for all Americans.  One way has been pioneered in eleven states.   They have legislated in the field of job opportunity.  New Jersey is one of them.  Eight of those states had Republican governors when these laws were passed.  State by state, without the impossible handicap of federal compulsion, we can and must provide job opportunities for our citizens regardless of their color, their creed, or their national origin.

	Here is one sound approach:  If I am elected to the office for which I am now a candidate, I will confer with the governors of the forty-eight states.  I will urge them to take the leadership in their states in guaranteeing the economic rights of all of our citizens.  I will put at their disposal the information, all of the resources and all of the know-how, which a new administration can provide.  I will, myself, be at their disposal, if they desire, to support the acceptance in the various states of a program which will enlist cooperation--not invite resistance.

	That is the surest way fair employment practices will finally get that measure of acceptance required to be real, meaningful and effective.

	In this matter of equal opportunity to make a living, I do not believe that any state, regardless of the past, will refuse in this modern age to outlaw discrimination in this specific field of men and women seeking jobs.  Certainly, the president of the United States can help create the determination to accomplish this goal if he sets about it in the spirit of good will.  That will be my aim.

	In the District of Columbia, the federal government has a special responsibility for two reasons.  It makes the laws and conducts the local administration.  Visitors of all races from the entire world come to our nation's capital.  Among these visitors are representatives of nations whose good will we need to win.  Racial discrimination against one of them is a humiliation to his nation.  This is the kind of loss we can least afford in today's world.  Our nation's capital is the most damaging place to let racism flourish.  Instead of being the show place to the world of how we Americans live by our great ideals, the nation's capital is an unfortunate demonstration of how this administration after twenty years of talk about moving mountains, has not yet brought forth a mouse.

	Let me read to you the conclusion of a study by the National Committee on Segregation in the Nation's Capital, published under the title, "Segregation in Washington."  Members of the National Committee were a group of public-spirited citizens from every political party and section of the nation.  They concluded:  "In spite of all its principles and all its professions, its executive orders and directives, the United States government is systematically denying the colored citizens of the capital equal opportunities in employment, and is setting an example of racial discrimination to the city and the nation."

	To pinpoint the responsibility for this situation, the committee quotes an authoritative spokesman on the problem, as follows:  "If you fight this thing by starting at the bottom, break down one barrier at a time, and gradually give Negroes a chance at better jobs, you don't get far--only the president can do this job."

	What is sorely needed to deal with the problem of race relations, to provide equal opportunities, and to end racism is leadership.  That we have not had such leadership under the present administration must be evident to everyone who has not been deceived and misled by the demagogic speechmaking which has been the stock in trade of the present administration.

	In any consideration of man's humanity to man, thoughtful and effective provision must be included for the economic security of the aged, the unemployed, the handicapped, and the widows and dependent children.

	My stand for a liberal social security program has been made clear many times.  We are committed to the extension of social security--for more adequate coverage--and equally important, we are determined to halt the inflationary spiral of climbing prices which now wipes out more and more of the real value of existing benefits.

	There is a cruel duplicity involved on the part of an administration which has pledged social security for some, and then through waste and careless financial policies, has caused an inflationary insecurity for all.

	And now we come to another glaring example of our national leadership's failure to live up to high ideals.  I refer to the McCarran Immigration Law, which was passed over the president's veto at the last session of Congress.  A new immigration law was certainly needed.  But with leadership, rather than vetoes, we should have had, and we must get, a better law than this McCarran Act.

	For better or for worse, whether we are pleased or unhappy about it, it is nevertheless a fact that a contest for world leadership--in fact, for survival--exists between the Communist ideals and the American ideal.  That contest is being waged in the minds and hearts of human beings and not in the sterile vacuum of diplomatic talk or the dry rustling of state papers.

	We say--and we sincerely believe--that we are on the side of freedom; that we are on the side of humanity.  We say--and we know--that the Communists are on the side of slavery, the side of inhumanity.

	Every broadcast of the Voice of America is actually painting a rainbow in the sky to be a bridge for those who dare to cross the iron or the bamboo curtain.  Furthermore, even in countries on our side of these curtains, there are those to whom America is still the land of freedom and opportunity.  This is one of the compelling reasons why they are on our side.

	The whole world knows that to these shores came oppressed peoples from every land under the sun, that here they found homes, jobs and a stake in a bright, unlimited future.  Here, uniquely, every man's children had one priceless bequest:  the birthright of freedom.  In every town and village in Europe, from the Ural Mountains to the Channel ports, that truth is known because some friend or kinsman came here to America and lived that truth, and the countryside from whence he came marveled at his experience.

	Yet to the Czech, the Pole, the Hungarian who takes his life in his hands and crosses the frontier tonight--or to the Italian who goes to some American consulate--this ideal that beckoned him can be a mirage because of the McCarran Act.

	Obviously, there must be limits to the number of immigrants this country can or should absorb.  We must establish fair limits--fair to ourselves and fair to others.  We must develop a system of limitation in line with our concept of America as the great melting pot of free spirits, drawn here from all the nations of the earth.

	Let me give you an illustration of the working of the McCarran Law.  The quotas proclaimed by the president under the McCarran Law provide for the entry of over sixty-five thousand immigrants per year from the United Kingdom, but only 5,645 from Italy and 308 from Greece.  The United Kingdom does not use anywhere near the full immigration quota which it has, but countries like Italy, Greece, the Baltic States and the nations of Eastern Europe use their tiny quotas to the full.  They have a pathetic backlog of applications which by law cannot be applied against the unused United Kingdom quota.

	Our laws, and many of our customs, stem from an Anglo-Saxon tradition.  But that must not be allowed to overshadow great contributions that have been made by other nations and other races in the development of this country.

	There are many ways to illustrate this contribution, but I hope you will permit me tonight the illustration of a soldier, which perhaps has been overlooked by Senator McCarran.  I am going to read you now the names of sixteen men who were awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor in Korea.

	Major/Sergeant Stanley T. Adam; First Lieutenant Lloyd L. Burke; Private Stanley R. Christianson; First Lieutenant Samuel S. Coursen; Captain Reginald P. Desiderio; Pfc. Jack G. Hanson; Paratroop Corporal Rodolfo P. Hernandez; Sergeant Loren R. Kaufman; Captain C. Krzyowski; Lieutenant Baldomero Lopez; Pfc. Walter C. Monegan Jr.; Private Eugene A. Obregon; Private Joseph R. Quellette; Major Carl L. Sitter; Corporal Joseph Vittori and Private Bryant H. Womack.

	The McCarran Immigration Law must be rewritten.

	A better law must be written that will strike an intelligent, unbigoted balance between the immigration welfare of America and the prayerful hopes of the unhappy and oppressed.

	To advance the cause of human rights, we must use the techniques of education, of leadership, and of politics.  A week ago, I was in the largest state on the Pacific Cost, where my host was Governor Earl Warren.  Tonight in New Jersey, your Governor Driscoll is extending his warm hospitality.  These two Republican governors on opposite seacoasts typify the forward-looking leadership of twenty-five Republican state administrations across the land.  They have made mighty contributions to the material welfare of their states.  But even more important, they represent humanitarian government in action.

	During my coast-to-coast trip, I met Republicans, Democrats and Independents.  I saw the faces of tens of thousands of eager, earnest friendly Americans.  The thought kept recurring, as it does tonight:  What tremendous deeds can be done for America through the unity, through the united world, of all these people.

	So I repeat to you my conviction and my determination to have a united Republican Party and a united America.  I welcome into that diverse unity all those men and women of good will who are eager to get on with the job of America.

	During the course of this campaign I have received support and advice and counsel from many sources.  I have listened to the suggestions made to me by Republicans from all parts of our country.  I have also thoughtfully considered the recommendations offered by many Democrats and persons who are independent of party allegiance.  All of these varying points of view have been informative and helpful to me.  It has always been my practice to listen to the advice of others, to seek it out.  I want to be thoroughly informed on every matter demanding my decision.

	But let me be quite clear as to my personal responsibility for my ultimate decisions.  Those decisions have been and will be mine alone.  This crusade which I have taken to the American people represents what, I, myself, believe.  I have acted and I have spoken from my own deep inner convictions of what is best and right for America.  I have been steadfast in my support of these convictions.

	 have not departed from my deep conviction formed during a lifetime of experience in war and in peace, that we in America must win and work with friends in many nations as our allies for peace and for progress.

	I have given no encouragement to the false notion that an isolated or isolationist America can continue to live either in peace or in security.

	I have abandoned no part of my belief in any of the men whom I consider great American patriots.  In this group stands General George C. Marshall.

	I have never been trapped by the illusion that there were valuable political deals to be made at the sacrifice of the interests of the people.

	At the very beginning of this campaign, I asserted that I was a "no-deal" man, that I would make no arrangement or agreement of any kind that could be interpreted as even an implied promise of future political or other favor or benefit.  I have made none.  I am still a "no-deal" man.

	I entered this campaign with a deep faith in America.  I know I will emerge from it with that faith unshaken.

	I believe deeply that a victory in this election will bring changes for the good of America.  It will bring the priceless opportunity for honesty, integrity and vision in high places.  This will be realized only by a united party together with those who share these convictions and purposes.  Thus, we will be better able to work for the peace of the world and to carry mankind toward its ultimate goal.

	I invite you to enlist in this high cause.  And we will, under Divine Providence, unite America as it has not been united for many years.

COMMUNISMDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALEMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYRACE RELATIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIAVOTING RIGHTSAFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL RIGHTSIMMIGRATIONRACE RELATIONS     žC jC dC `C VC
 HC CC >C 8C .C ,C ,C "C	 · 	 ® 	 ‘ 	 x 	 g 	 C  6  %     e: