Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1018.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/18STUMPBRIDGEPORTCONNECTICUTCTAVCO PLANT2,407 WORDS

	Thank you, thank you very much.  Thank you very much, Governor Dempsey.  Thank you, Mayor Curran.  And Richard Lee.  Congressman Don Irwin, Congressman Bob Giaimo, Congressman John Monagan, who is not here with us, I believe, but has constituents here.  And my good friend, the distinguished senator from the state of Connecticut, Abe Ribicoff, Senator Ribicoff. 

	Abe, I want to tell you, when I hear a sound like that, I am always reminded of what a Sioux Indian once told me.  I heard somebody say when they said boo in Sioux, that means three cheers for Ribicoff.  And when they say it about Humphrey, it means four cheers for Humphrey. 

	You have honored us today by your presence here, this wonderful crowd.  And I intend to have a few moments with you, to talk about your country this election, the candidates and the parties in this election.

	First of all, but it won't be saved out there.  First of all, I come to Connecticut to talk to a group of people in a state that has made remarkable progress, industrially, politically, economically, and socially.

	I came here to talk to you about your country, about this election, and about the candidates.  And I am going to get right down to business.

	In this campaign, there are three candidates.  They--each stands for a particular set of principles.  I have sought during this campaign to be able to get the candidates of the three parties, the Independent party, the Republican party, and the Democratic party, to stand on the same platform.  I have thought that it would be a good idea for you, the American people, who ultimately have to make the decision, you, the jury of the American people, to hear the candidates speak, and to hear them speak at the same place, at the same time, under the same circumstances, before the same audience.

	I have challenged my opposition.  But the Republican candidate feels so comfortable in his quiet little hacienda down at Key Biscayne, he feels so confident of the results of this election, that he feels that he can take you for granted, that he doesn't have to worry about the outcome of this election, nor does he have to speak up on the issues.

	But I happen to believe that the American people should not be taken for granted.  I think you are entitled to know where we stand.  I think you are entitled to know how we think.  I think you are entitled to hear us speak on the issues.  And I ask the Republican candidate, just as I asked the third party candidate, to come forth and to join us in nationwide debate, so that the American people can hear us talk. 

	The question--the question comes--the question comes, what are they afraid of?  That is the question.  The question comes, why is it that the Republican nominee is unwilling to debate.  And I think I can tell you.  And I think that people in this audience, that want to think through their problems, will understand why.

	Every person in this audience is interested in his economic well-being.  Every person in this audience can remember days when it wasn't quite like it is now.  Every person in Connecticut can remember Republican days when there was unemployment, and when there were all kinds of difficulties.  And may I say that those days did not help the state of Connecticut, nor did they help the United States of America, nor did they help the people that are the breadwinners of their families.

	Mr. Nixon doesn't want me to ask him why he thinks a higher rate of unemployment would be helpful in this country.  Now, I want to ask Mr. Nixon a question.

	His economic adviser--his economic adviser said that he thought that it might be all right if there was a little higher unemployment in this country, in order to have what he called price stability.

	I wonder whose job he was talking about.  I wonder if he was talking about your job.  Do you want some more unemployment under Mr. Nixon?  

	VOICES: No.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I didn't think so.

	And I must say to this audience--I must say to this audience that if you want a longer vacation, unpaid, if you want less overtime, if you want fewer jobs, all you need to do is to follow the old-fashioned economics, and you will get it.  That is what we are talking about.  We are talking about the education of your family, too.  We are talking about schools.  And we are talking about cities.  And we are talking about law and order.  And we are talking about health.  We are talking about our families.  And every one of these matters is at stake in this election.

	Now, let me just say one other thing.  There is another candidate in this election.  I see somebody out here carrying a sign for him.  Well, may I say that I think that is just fine.  And I want to talk a little bit about that other candidate, because if there ever was--if there ever was a counterfeit candidate in terms of program and policy, it is that man. 

	Now, let us get down to brass tacks--let us get down to talk about some sense.

	Here is the candidate of the third party that has the unmitigated gall to come before an audience and say that he is for law and order--for law and order. 

	Let us see what kind of law and order he has got.  He was governor of his state, with supreme power for law and order.  And what did he end up with?  The highest murder rate of any state in the union.  What else die he end up with?  The second highest aggravated assault rate of any state in the union.  Is that the kind of law and order that you want for America?  

	VOICES:  No

	And what did he do for the police?  I see my friends out there in these blue uniforms.  He was asked the other day, "What will you do, Mr. Wallace,--what will you do for the police?"  And he said, "I will give them moral support."  Well, let me tell you, he is a little short of that, too.  It takes more than moral support.  If you want better police, if you want better protection, if you want safer streets, if you want a safer neighborhood, you are going to have to pay your police, just like you have to pay for any other excellent service that you want. 

	And now, let us talk about other things.  Let us talk about--"Give 'em hell, Hubert."    

	Now, let us talk about jobs.  Let us talk about economics.

	Here is Mr. Wallace--just a minute--here is Mr. Wallace, the man that says he is the workers' friend.  There won't be--let me tell you my friends--the workers' friend for Connecticut--a man that comes up here and tries to take your factories, a man that is a union buster, a man, if you please, that has the lowest, second lowest wages in any state in the union.  Is that the friend of the workingman?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  A man, if you please, whose state has the lowest workmen's compensation of any state in the union.  Is that a friend of the workingman?  

	VOICES: No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  A man, if you please, who has a 6 percent sales tax on everything.  Is that a friend of the worker?  

	VOICES: No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Ladies and gentlemen, let's face it, it is as phony as a three-dollar Confederate bill, and you know it.  And what is it all about?

	It is a candidacy that is based upon prejudice, upon fear, upon suspicion, and doubt.  It is a candidacy, my friends, that you could not tolerate in this factory.  This factory depends upon workers trusting each other.  This factory depends upon people being able to work together.  And may I say that Mr. Wallace spreads fear and doubt and suspicion.  This country of ours--this country of ours cannot survive--cannot survive in racial bigotry, cannot survive, if you please, in division.  This country cannot survive divided.  This country can survive united.    

	May I say to the young man that I saw up there--you better be careful, young man, because I want to tell you that if this country becomes divided on racial lines, it will be a country that is sad and sick and in tears.  This country must be united.  The only thing that can hold this country together is the pride in our American citizenship, regardless of race, color or creed.    

	And let me say to that angry young man that I saw out there with his white face.  It isn't a black man that is going to take your job.  It is a Republican administration that will take your job.    

	And let me say to each group in this audience that if this country ever gets to a point where we cannot live together as an American family, where we cannot live together as friends and neighbors, then there is no hope in this world.  This election is going to decide something.  We are going to decide whether we can move ahead together, or whether we are going to move back torn apart.  We are going to decide in this election whether we can build a better America for our kids, whether we can build better cities for our people, we are going to decide whether or not we can have one nation, one nation--not two--one nation, under God--not under a demagogue-- one nation indivisible, not divided--one nation with liberty and justice for all.  That is what we are going to decide.    

	My friends, I ask your help.  I ask your help.  I come to you today--I come to you today asking for you to help me in this fight.  Not for myself, but for this country.  Let me say to those voices that would tear us apart--you do not harm just yourself--you harm this last best hope of earth.  You do not just speak only to yourself.  You speak the words of poison to others.  This nation needs each other as it never needed anybody before.  Every time a poor man gets a job, the rich man is the better.  Every time an unemployed worker is trained and given a job, the man on the job is that much safer.

	Every time that we help each other, we help everybody.  And I come to you to tell you that we can do things.  We can rebuild our cities, we can--we can improve our schools, we can help our elderly, we can heal the wounds in this country.  And I ask you, dear friends, to listen not to these voices that would tear you apart and divide you--the conscience of America.  And that conscience is right. 

	So, my friends, I ask you this question:  Do you think that this country would be better off with Wallace LeMay?  

	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Do you think this country would be better off with Nixon and Agnew? 
	
	VOICES:  No!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Do you think this country would be better off with Humphrey and Muskie? 

	VOICES: Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: I only hope on election day you feel the same way.

	Now, my friends, I want you to go from this place today, carry this message.  I want you to go out and work.  I want you to work for the team of Humphrey and Muskie.  And I want you to compare that team--and I want those of you that are for us to be as loud in your enthusiasm as the handful that are against us.  Now, let's hear ya. 

	Let's make up our mind that a noisy few in this country are not going to run this country.  Let's make up our minds that the great majority of the Americans that believe in fair play, that believe in a fair chance, that believe in the promise of America, are going to run this country.  I ask for your help on November 5th.  Thank you.    

	I want you to meet somebody else.  I want you to meet--listen, fellows.  You'll even like this one.  I want you to meet a very lovely lady.  I want you to hear her.  She is a lady of the screen, and of the stage, a very talented and wonderful woman, Inger Stevens.  Inger, come up here. 

	MISS STEVENS:  I am very proud as a woman to be here in support of Vice President Hubert Humphrey for president of the United States.  And I hope all of you fellows--just a minute, a woman has a right to have her say--now, I understand that some of you disagree with the Vice President, but I hope when you go home tonight in the quiet of your homes, without this sort of emotionalism, you will think back on what he said to you, and you discuss it with your wives, because if he is not elected president--oh, yes--you had better, because they have a little something to say--and if he is not elected our president, we are in for a lot of trouble, and it is going to be our own fault.  Thank you.    

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY	:  Now, I want also to introduce a great star, a great champion, a man that you will be very proud to meet.  I want you to meet Rafer Johnson, Olympic star.    

	MR. JOHNSON:  It is a pleasure for me to be here today, and be with Vice President Humphrey.  It is becoming clearer with each stop that there are three men in this race.  It is also becoming clear with each stop that the way to strike a real blow for freedom will be a blow for Hubert H. Humphrey.  And I urge you to do that in November.  Thank you very much.    

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, folks, let's go home and get the job done.  Listen, we can win this election.  In fact, we are going to win this election.  And I want you to redouble your efforts now.  Go home and win it.  

	Thank you very, very much.  
CRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALRACE RELATIONSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     ·3 ƒ3 }3 y3 q3
 e3 `3 [3 Q3 F3 D3 :3 /3	 i 	 [ 	 F 	 8 	 # e: