Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1015.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/15STUMPWELDON SPRINGMISSOURIMOFRANCIS HOWELL HIGH SCHOOL2,283 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Tom, for that very kind introduction.  Tom Eagleton and I have been in public life together now for over two decades.  I don't have a better friend in the country.  No state in the union has a better senator than Tom Eagleton.  He's as good as they come.

	With my good friend, Bob Young, the congressman from the adjoining district; Ken Rothman, the next governor of the state of Missouri; and to friends.

	The way I look at it, anybody who wants to be president of the United States should come to Francis Howell High School and talk to the people of this community, and that's what I'm doing.

	I must say, you know how to make me feel at home.  I'm Norwegian.  I believe in Vikings, because Vikings always win.

	Did you see the debate last Sunday night?  That was the beginning of the victory march for the Mondale-Ferraro campaign.  This race is now red-hot.  The crowds are getting bigger.  The Republicans are getting more nervous.

	Next Sunday night in Kansas City, we're going to have another debate. My advice to my opponent is the same as Satchel Paige once gave: "Don't look back.  Somebody's gaining on you."  And we are.

	From now on, this race is wide open because the American people now know what's at stake in this election, and what's at stake is our future.

	In 1960, when John Kennedy was running for president, he said this; "America is great, but it can be greater."  That strikes right here in Missouri.  This is a magnificent state, but today, manufacturing jobs are disappearing; your farmers in rural Missouri are having the worst year ever; and the middle class is shrinking.

	That is why it is not just enough to congratulate ourselves.  We must also challenge ourselves to do better.  We can't pretend that problems do not exist.  We need to see them and solve them.

	In short, we don't need a cheerleader.  We need a quarterback to get on with the work of our nation's business.

	Now, in these closing days, you have to watch these Republicans very closely.  They're trying to steal our heroes.  They now quote Roosevelt.  They held a luncheon honoring Eleanor.  They praised Kennedy.  They even tried to praise my old friend Hubert Humphrey.

	Now, what's happening is called political grave robbing.  The people of Missouri know what I'm talking about.  Last week, they tried to steal Harry Truman from us.  They got Harry Truman's old railroad car from Florida, and they went on a whistle-stop through Ohio.

	Well, he was on the right train, but he's on the wrong track, and we all know the difference.

	They should spend less time impersonating Truman and more time listening to what he said.  One of the things he said was this: "The Republicans have the propaganda and the money, but we have the people and the people have the votes and that's why we're going to win."  That's the same reason we'll win in 1984.

	A president must lead.  He must be in touch and in charge.  We don't have that today.  In my debate with the president, I quoted what Will Rogers said of Hoover: "It isn't what he doesn't know that bothers me.  It's what he knows for sure that just ain't so."

	Mr. Reagan may know for sure that you can recall nuclear missiles after they've been launched, but it just ain't so.

	He may think that this massive national debt has nothing to do with interest rates, but it just ain't so.

	He may think he didn't slash Social Security and Medicare, but it just ain't so.

	AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He paid 30 percent in state taxes.

	MONDALE:  What did he do?

	AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He paid 30 percent in state income taxes and 4 percent in federal income tax.

	MONDALE:  All right, now.  Let me ask you, how many of you people are paying 12 percent in federal income tax?

	If I were you, sir, I'd go on to another subject as fast as I could, because when it comes to fair taxes for average Americans, that's where Walter Mondale is.  That's where Walter Mondale is.

	We have just over three weeks to go, and I'm here in Missouri to ask for your help.  The stakes have never been higher.

	The Republicans are trying to trivialize this election, but this election is not about whistle-stops.  It's about old folks who can't pay for Medicare.

	This election is not about makeup.  It's about students who need help to go to college and educating our children for the future.

	This election is not about amber waves of grain.  It's about farmers having their worst year ever.

	This election is not about who is proud of our Olympic athletes.  We all are.  It's about the civil rights laws against discrimination that permitted all of those young Americans to participate and win those gold medals for us.

	This election is not about sending a teacher into space.  It's about educating our children right here on earth so they have a chance for the fullness of life.

	This election is not about putting Republican commercials on television.  It's about Jerry Falwell putting justices on the Supreme Court.

	This election is not about arm wrestling.  It's about arms control and the need to get a president to keep those god-awful weapons under control before they destroy us all.

	This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals.  It's about toxic dumps that are giving cancer to our children.  This is where leadership comes in.

	Today in our audience we have people that I've asked to be with us to show that this is not just a problem in your community but a problem throughout this country that has not been dealt with.

	That's why I've asked Noreen Danley of Lowell, Massachusetts, to be with us.  Would you please stand up?  Noreen lived three-hundred feet from a toxic dump and now has PCBs in her blood.

	We have Penny Newman from Glenhaven, California.  I think you have just spoken.  Her two ailing sons grew up near a toxic waste dump.

	We have Bonnie Exner of Denver.  Her family lived near a toxic waste dump, and she now has respiratory problems.  All over this country we see these problems, and they have not been dealt with at all.

	This morning, I visited Weldon Spring's toxic dump a half a mile from this school.  As you know, toxic chemicals, radioactive wastes are seeping into your ground water and threatening your community.  Tom Eagleton, Congressman Volkmer, and others have begged the federal government to clean up this mess.

	But for four years, they wouldn't listen at all.  Not long ago, I announced that I would visit this site, and--just by magic--three days before I arrived, they announced they were going to do something.

	I went to a toxic dump in Los Angeles a few months ago.  Three days before I arrived, the bulldozers arrived.  It looked beautiful when I got there.

	If I only had 761 days to go in this campaign, I'd go to a dump every day and clean them all up.

	So you have a choice.  You can either trust them to keep their election eve promises, or you can elect Walter Mondale, who promises to start cleaning these dumps on the first day he's in office, not the first day that he seeks reelection.  There's a big difference.

	The Post-Dispatch called this last-minute action a "hastily devised political tactic," and it was right.  For four years, on the issue of the environment, this president sounded like Ronald Reagan.  In the last three weeks, he's trying to sound like Walter Mondale.

	The new Reagan announces the cleanup of Weldon Spring.  The old Reagan cleaned up only six dumps in four years.

	The new Reagan admires Teddy Roosevelt and Ansel Adams.  The old Reagan turned the Superfund into a superfraud.

	The new Reagan poses for pictures on Chesapeake Bay.  The old Reagan appointed James Watt, Ann Gorsuch, and Rita Lavelle.  We know the difference.

	This presidential sea change raises a serious question: which Reagan would be president if he's re-elected?

	I challenge Mr. Reagan to come with me and see what his policies have done to this country in terms of the environment.  Go with me to Woburn and stand on a corner, as I did with a priest, who pointed out homes within our sight where children had died of leukemia, a cancer rate fifteen times the average.

	Go with me to that famous dump that we're talking about in California, which is now seeping into the water system.  It is just a few feet away from an aquifer, a water supply, on which half a million people depend.  They didn't clean up this toxic waste dump.  They covered it up.

	Now the law says--if you take an oath to enforce the law--that these dumps are supposed to be cleaned up.  There's a Superfund law that was passed when we were in office that makes those things illegal, that provides money to clean it up.  They've looked the other way.  They've tried to duck responsibility.

	When you needed them to protect your health, they weren't around.  But when they were worried about their political health, they showed up in time.  There's a big difference.

	Elect somebody committed to enforce the laws of this land and who understands that it is our job in our generation to protect the air, the water, the land and the public health of our people.

	It's time to declare war on toxic waste.  We've lost four precious years, and we must get on with our work.  That's why today is National Toxic Waste Dump Day in our campaign.  All over this country, some fifty separate events are being held to dramatize the importance of this issue.

	Geraldine Ferraro, Gary Hart, John Anderson and other leaders are visiting toxic waste dumps to dramatize this crisis.  Today I am unveiling a tough four-point plan for my first term to meet this crisis with action.

	First, as president, I will clean up abandoned toxic waste dumps.  I'll make sure that every single one of them is inspected.

	I will expand the priority cleanup list.

	I will strengthen the Superfund to clean up these toxic sites before any more of our children are poisoned.

	In this recently adjourned Congress, Tom Eagleton, Bob Young, and the Democrats were fighting for a tougher Superfund to permit us to really deal with this problem successfully.  They passed it in the House overwhelmingly.  It was something that was needed desperately to deal with this problem, but the Reagan administration and the Republicans killed that bill in the United States Senate, thus delaying progress needed in this field.

	Second, I'll get tough on dumps that are still in operation.  Ninety-six percent of the operating toxic waste dumps have yet to be inspected by this administration, and that, of course, is total negligence.

	Under my administration, this will change.  They will either operate under strict permits or they'll be closed down.

	Third, I'll protect our drinking water.  I'll push for tough laws to protect drinking water, the ones that Mr. Reagan also blocked.

	Finally, I'll make sure that the EPA has the resources it needs to clean its toxic wastes and enforce our laws, and I'll put people in charge of those laws who believe them.

	This crowd would rather take a polluter to lunch than to court.  I'd rather take them to court than to lunch.  Let's get this thing cleaned up.

	This election is about America's future.  To have a future, we have to have a president committed to controlling these nuclear arms before they destroy us all.  We've now had four long years, and he's the first president since the bomb went off to make no progress in arms control at all.

	We need to remain strong, but we need a president who understands to have a future, those weapons must be controlled by agreements between the Soviet Union and ourselves.

	Secondly, to have a future with jobs, with prosperity for America, this national debt must come down.  The economy is slowing down.  If you read the papers today, many economists are now predicting a recession or very slow growth.

	It's the worst trade year in American history.  America is being swamped by foreign goods.  Some 3 million of our best jobs are gone.  The reason the farmers in rural America are having the worst year ever is the effect of this debt.  It is destroying American farm exports.

	We all know how to count.  Two-hundred-billion-dollar deficits defy long-term economic health.  The reason I've talked frankly about this is that we're not going to have the economic future and the jobs here for our children unless we do the job that's needed on that debt.

	Finally, if we're going to have the kind of future that we need, we need a president committed to justice, to protect Social Security and Medicare, to make certain that our young people get an education, that these young Americans could go on to college and vocational school, to make certain that people are not discriminated against, and to make certain that our air and our water and our land are protected.

	In every one of those issues, I'm talking about the future.  I'm providing leadership.  In every one of those great areas of concern, this president has turned his back on the American future.

	You know the difference.  I know the difference.  The American people know the difference.  Let's get on with the blessed work of our nation's future.

TOXIC WASTE     ß3 «3 ¥3 ¡3 ™3
 Ž3 ‰3 „3 w3 o3 m3 S3 H3  e: