Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0905.002SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/05STUMPAMERICAN LEGION2,843 WORDS

	[missing text]. . . to address this American Legion during this critical election year.  From Utah Beach, you've risked your lives and lost your friends in battle in order to defend our freedom.  You know what it means to sacrifice for the good of our country.

	You and I are no strangers.  I've been a member of my legion post in my hometown for many, many years--I stopped counting.  As you may want to know, there was some question, Mr. Commander, about whether I was going to be here--but it was settled when my old friend, Dan Foley, called and said, "You will come."  Dan Foley is very, very good at making offers that you can't refuse. And here I am, and I'm glad to be here with all my many friends from Minnesota--where is that Minnesota delegation? 

	We come from all walks of life.  We may not agree on all issues, but we share basic American values.  Among them, we believe that America must always be strong.  We believe that we must use that strength to make this a safer world.  And we believe that our nation's highest obligation is to protect the security of our nation.

	One thing is certain.  Those are values that all Americans share.  We veterans do not claim them as our exclusive property.  Nor, may I add, can any political party.  There is not one party that believes in family life and one that does not.  There is not one party that believes in America's greatness and one that does not.  There is not one party that is patriotic and one that is not.  And there is not one party that believes in God and one that does not.  And let's stop this nonsense that there's a party of weakness and a party of strength. To assert that America is divided on the need for a strong defense is insulting to our people and encouraging to our enemies. When it comes to our nation's security, there are no Democrats or Republicans or Independents--only Americans. 

	This week, as we enter the final stretch in this election, I want to lay out exactly what I think this race is about.  It is much more than a contest between two candidates.  It is fundamentally a decision about what kind of a people we are, and what kind of future we will have.

	This year, the choices could not be clearer and the stakes could not be higher.  Our next president's decisions will shape everything that's important to our future--our jobs, our economic growth, our children's education, our system of justice, our society's sense of fairness.  And above all, in a world of fifty-thousand nuclear weapons, our next president's leadership may determine whether we even have a future at all.

	We all want a strong defense, but the choice is over what kind of defense will make us secure and how to use that strength to build a safer world.  For this century, one nation has led all others in seeking human rights, political stability, and an end to the nuclear nightmare--and that's the United States of America.

	Today, that leadership is more important than ever, and it must start, as you know, with the commander in chief.  As president, I will build a strong defense aimed at deterring aggression and reducing the risk of nuclear war.  This requires steady, sustainable growth in our military power to make it equal to the challenges of a dangerous world and a heavily armed adversary.  [Scattered applause].  By the way, any time you want to just interrupt with applause, let it rip and I'll wait for you.  And it requires strong conventional forces to ensure that we'll never have to resort to nuclear weapons.

	But today, our conventional forces are not what they must be.  A trillion dollars spent on defense has not given us a trillion dollars of military preparedness.  The Reagan administration's increased defense spending has been strongly tilted toward nuclear weapons and away from conventional preparedness.  Procurement of strategic nuclear forces has grown three times faster than conventional arms.  This administration has refused to make the choices between costly weapons systems.  Their defense program is designed by people whose performance is measured by how much we can buy, not how well we can fight. Their unbalanced procurement has increased spending for new weapons three times faster than for the operations and maintenance we need to prepare them to use them.  Their blank check spending has allowed contractors to charge $768 for a $5 wrench.  And they have allowed our alliances to go flabby.  Our allies haven't even come close to increasing their defense effort 3 percent annually in real terms as they promised six years ago.

	The result is that we are dangerously dependent on nuclear weapons.  According to our NATO supreme commander, we could not meet a major challenge in Europe without having to face the probability of resorting to nuclear weapons in days, not weeks or months--to use his words.

	We must change direction.  And as president, I will take four steps to strengthen our conventional forces and reduce reliance on nuclear arms.

	One, and first, I will press our allies in Europe and in the Pacific to pay their fair share for our collective, conventional defenses.  To keep our alliances strong, we must keep them mutual.  They are as wealthy as we are, and they have as much at stake in that defense as we do.

	One example--Americans have spent some $50 billion for twenty tactical air wings, the most advanced on earth and piloted by the best pilots to be found anywhere.  The Europeans have promised to spend $1 billion for protective revetments for those planes. They haven't done it.  So if we were required to send our aircraft over there, they would be totally unprotected when they arrived.  An alliance means we work together.  And it's time for our friends --and they are our friends--to do their part in strengthening the NATO alliance and our responsibilities around the world. 

	Secondly, I will make the tough choices that a strong defense requires.  I will make a fundamental shift of resources toward readiness and sustainability of our conventional forces.  We all know the importance of having the best weapons that money can buy.  But we also know that we must have enough ammunition, spare parts, and practice to use our weapons well.  I will emphasize survival of strategic forces, the Trident II missile, the Minuteman ICBM and the stealth bomber.  But we don't also need the MX and the B-1 when they would be about as vulnerable as the weapons that they replace.  The question is not whether we invest more in defense--that's clear.  It's whether we will have a better defense, and I say we must.

	Third, I will reform the Joint Chiefs of Staff system.  I will streamline its operation with a stronger chairman and clear lines of command authority to ensure better management of our defense buildup, a better match between strategy and resources, and better-prepared fighting forces.  I want the commanders who will actually face the fight in Europe and in Asia and elsewhere to have a bigger say in our defense policies.  And I want the chairman of the Joint Chiefs to sit as an equal partner on the National Security Council.

	Fourth, I will make sure that the arms we buy cost no more than they should and work for our troops when they must. I see no justification at all for the fact that, today, over 80 percent of the procurement for our nation's defense is sole-source.  In other words, the person who sells to the Defense Department charges what they would like to have.  And that's why you have $900 for a 4-cent electric tube, or $1,100 for a 3-cent plastic cap that goes under the bottom of your chair.  If you put it out on bids, if everyone could compete for that business, we would get a dollar's worth of strength for a dollar's worth of expenditures, and the American people and the armed forces are entitled to that change in the procurement policies of our country.  I will demand independent testing for weapons to require that weapons contractors stand behind their products with appropriate warranties.  It's time to bring sound management to the Pentagon, and I will.

	In short, my pledge to you as president is that I will make our nuclear forces more survivable and our conventional forces better equipped, better supplied, and better trained.  This will reduce the risk of nuclear war; this will require leadership; and that's what I will provide as president of the United States.

	But today, as we well know, strength is no longer enough.  For the first time in history, we possess the weapons that could end all human history.  One false move in a world with over fifty thousand nuclear warheads, and all civilization is over.  The atomic bomb has changed all the rules.  World War III will be nothing like World War II.  There will be no winners.  We will all lose.  There may well be no free world--only a poisoned, lifeless world.  And to the veterans of World War II, of Korea and Vietnam, I say this:  There will be no veterans of World War III.

	And that is why the second crucial step we must take toward peace is arms control.  As president, I will move from a solid foundation of strength toward a mutual and verifiable end to the arms race.  We are realists.  We know that the Soviet leaders are cynical, ruthless, and dangerous.  They repress their citizens; they maintain their pacts by force.  In Poland they destroy Solidarity; in Afghanistan they murder; in the Middle East they sabotage peace.  From Asia to Africa to Latin America, they suppress human rights and export instability.  We know that we must never negotiate with them on the basis of trust.  We must insist that every agreement be specific, be mutual, and be verifiable--that is the basis of arms control agreements.

	But sensible arms control is not weakness.  Let me be specific about this because it's crucial.  Effective arms control benefits us in national security terms in many ways.  First, it can limit the size of Soviet forces we have to contend with.  Without the SALT agreement, we would have had to plan on coping with thousands of more warheads than are permitted by these agreements.  Second, arms control agreements can strengthen our intelligence capability to monitor our adversaries.  Again, without the SALT agreements, the Soviets could hide everything they do.  Third, arms control can prevent new and dangerous areas of competition and reduce instability in times of crisis.  Without the ABM treaty, we could face the chance that Soviet strategic defenses would make them feel they could attack us with impunity.  Fourth, strategic arms control enables us to plan a more effective defense.  With it, we can devote our precious resources to stronger conventional forces instead of spending more on an unlimited strategic arms race.

	For all of these reasons, every president from Eisenhower to Carter, regardless of political party, has negotiated arms control agreements with the Soviets.  They didn't do it in order to make us weaker.  They did it to make us stronger.  The Joint Chiefs of Staff haven't consistently supported arms control in order to weaken our security.  They did it in order to protect our security.  They have all understood that mutual and effective, verifiable arms control can reduce the risk of conflict and strengthen our defenses.

	But unfortunately, Mr. Reagan appears not to share this understanding of arms control.  He has failed this crucial test of leadership.  Yesterday, Mr. Reagan appeared before you and spoke of his desire to see a world without war.  I do not challenge the sincerity of that desire.  But that's not the issue.  The issue is whether he has set us on a course toward peace and a safer world, and in my judgment, he has not.  

	Mr. Reagan is the first president of the United States since Herbert Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart.  He is the first president of either party since the bomb went off never to have negotiated an arms control agreement.  He opposed every effort of every president--Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford, and Carter--that was reached with the Soviet Union.  He has conducted an arms race on earth, and now wants to extend it into the heavens, and even makes jokes about nuclear war.  It's not funny.

	History speaks to us on the peace-building power of presidential leadership.  My generation remembers that a generation ago, relations with the Soviet Union could not have been worse.  They had threatened us with nuclear war by deploying missiles in Cuba.  But only a few months later, President Kennedy broke a deadlock by declaring a temporary halt to our atmospheric tests and challenging the Soviets to respond in kind.  They did, as you recall, and within two months, we had signed a treaty banning all open-air testing.  Today, because of that leadership, our children's milk is safe, we're not getting cancer from strontium 90 anymore; and we live in a safer world.

	I will follow President Kennedy's example.  I will declare a temporary moratorium and challenge the Soviets to join us.  I will call on the leaders in Moscow to accept mutual and verifiable restraints--among them, a pause in the testing of all nuclear weapons and in the testing and deployment of all space weapons.  I will use this temporary, mutual pause to challenge the Soviets to return to the bargaining table and to negotiate a lasting, effective, formal agreement to put a mutual and verifiable freeze on the nuclear arms race and to reduce the arsenal of nuclear war.  And I will insist that any agreements are verifiable, with strong sanctions if violations are found.  Compliance with existing agreements will be at the top of my agenda with the Soviet Union.  We are determined enough never to lose an arms race, but we're also smart enough to know that in the nuclear world, no one can win an arms race.

	The acid tests of leadership are honesty and action.  A president must tell the truth about the future.  Here's the truth about the arms race:  Every day that we let the arms race continue, more nuclear warheads are aimed at our people and our allies.  Every day we fail to open negotiations with the Soviets is another day that we slip toward Armageddon.  Here's the action:  Every year I hold office, in good times and in bad, I plan to push toward the goals in face-to-face meetings with the Soviet leaders.  And as a first step, I am announcing now that, on my very first day as president, I will call upon the Soviet leadership to meet with me within six months in Geneva for fully prepared, substantive negotiations to freeze the arms race and to begin cutting back the stockpiles of nuclear weapons. 

	President Kennedy said it best, and his words speak to us today:  He said we must never negotiate out of fear, but we must never fear to negotiate. 

	On the night before I was sworn in as vice president, I had what's known as "the briefing."  You get in a room with just a few of our top military commanders, and they tell you some things that--at least told me some things--that will stay with me the rest of my life.  Much of it is classified, but it went something like this:  "You are now a part of the chain of command.  It may be your duty at any moment to decide whether to use those weapons or not.  We may wake you up in the middle of the night, and tell you that Soviet missiles are heading toward Washington.  You may have ten minutes to decide--maybe less--'Will you fire or won't you?'"  All during my four years as vice president, there was always a military aide within minutes of me, ready to help if that crucial decision were imposed upon me.

	If that were to occur, no human being in the history of civilization could confront a decision with more awesome consequences.  I want to be president for many reasons, but the most important is this:  I want to do everything within my power to make sure that no president is ever faced with that hopeless, dreadful choice.  I have come here today to launch this debate about the nature and purpose of American strength.  You more than most know the sacrifices that have been made to defend our right to have this debate.  It is a precious right made sound by the blood of those of you who protected it.  In this campaign, I plan to earn your trust, so that I can protect these rights for us and for all who come after.  Thank you, and God bless America.

MILITARY PREPAREDNESSNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGSOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)MILITARY--CONVENTIONAL FORCESNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)     Ê@ ≤@ ¨@ ®@ †@
 ï@ ê@ ã@ ã@ ã@ ã@ |@ q@	 ö 	 Ö 	 q  Q  4 e: