Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1024.004SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/24STUMPCOMPTONCALIFORNIACAROBERT F. KENNEDY SCHOOL2,333 WORDS

	Thank you very much, my very good and dear friend, Mr. Kenneth
O'Donnell.

	I think that you good people know that I have been just blessed
with a wonderful introduction by a very dear and close friend.

	Mr. Wilson; members of the Compton City Board of Education; Mr.
Ericson, the Superintendent of Schools; Mr. Gibbons, principal of
the Robert F. Kennedy School; and others who have gathered here--
Assemblyman Porter, my friend Doris Davis--I trust she is here--
and Senator Dynally, who joined me as we came here tonight--ladies
and gentlemen.

	I am so happy that it was possible in a schedule that has been a
busy one to come here on this occasion.

	I know that Mrs. Robert Kennedy had been invited to come here. 
Mrs. Humphrey and I have visited with Mrs. Kennedy in the last week
or so, and as you know, she is indisposed and unable to be with
you.

	Senator Edward Kennedy--Ted Kennedy, as we call him affectionately,
Likewise, has many responsibilities, and he could not be here.

	So you have no idea the special joy that is mine tonight to be able
to be a substitute and to be able to fit into this program--and to
speak some words of praise for a great family, and some words of
commendation to this city, to this community and this school board
for this magnificent elementary school.  The architecture is something to behold.

	I read about this school, and I must say that every person in this
community must feel a sense of great pride in what you have created
here.  And I cannot help but feel a little sense of pride in the
fact that the government of the United States, your government, has
also shared in the meaning of this school.

	I have been informed that this school has received some $637,000
under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act.  And
in understandable tangible terms, this has meant a new library,
which has meant many good books, it has meant two resource
teachers, a new librarian, a nurse's aide.

	In addition, it has received assistance under the Unruh-Miller Act,
a state program which has provided special reading teachers.
Senator Dynally was telling me the wonderful things that are going
on herein what we can call compensatory education.  And I know the
work of the state senator and others to make this educational
program a reality.

	What greater honor is there that you can pay to anyone--what
greater memorial than to erect a school in his honor, to erect a
great institution of learning, and to name it after one whose life
was dedicated to the process of learning.

	One warm day last May, when Robert F. Kennedy was campaigning herein
California, he stopped at a school along the way and, as you know,
the children swarmed around him.  they were reaching up, screaming
and trying to touch him.  And after he calmed them down for a
moment, he made a very brief speech.  And in it he said, in his way
of light humor, and yet of love and affection--"I'm in favor of
lowering the voting age to eight."

	Well, he was, indeed, much loved, and is much loved by young people. 
And Robert Kennedy would not want this dedication tonight to be a
solemn occasion.  He would be the last person that would want us to
sit here, stand here, with tears in our eyes, or with any false,
pompous note.

	He was a man of action, and he was a man of great strength.  
And he would have wanted us to act tonight as if he were here with us 
In body, as well as in spirit.

	Now, I know the despair that you felt last June when he died.  
Many of us felt that same despair.  He himself felt that same pain and
that same despair before, just as many of us had felt it, when the
late, beloved President John Kennedy was taken from us.

	I was with Kenny O'Donnell on that day as the President's body was
returned to Washington.  And I think I shall never forget the
anguish, the pain, that all of us shared.

	But all of this pain and all of this despair was a large part of
the meaning of his life, that he overcame despair.  He knew how to
take trouble in stride.

	And we should remember here tonight Robert Kennedy loved children--
and by the way, he loved dogs, too--and he had more of both than
anybody that I hardly ever had a chance to know.

	Let me say a word about children.

	One night in 1964, when I was campaigning with him in New York,
when he was running for the Senate, we went to Harlem.  And the
young people again surrounded his car, as they always did, and once
again he asked them to be quiet, and he made them a serious speech. 
And here is what he said to those young people.  He said, "Please,
please, I plead with you, please don't drop out of school.  You are
going to need your education and America is going to need you."

	There is a great message.  And I look up here and see these wonderful young people.  And I know the message of Robert Kennedy tonight fits them.

	Please don't drop out of school.  You are going to need your
education.  And America is going to need you.

	If there ever was a time that we should learn the lesson of needing
each other, it is now.  If there ever was a time that we should
rebuke those who preach doctrines of despair and hatred, it is now.

	You see, Robert Kennedy sensed that the revolution of today is a
revolution of the young.  He knew that the restlessness that we
sense today is the restlessness of youth.  He knew that the great
thing about young people is that they speak out, and that the
demand of us, their elders--in fact they demand of us an answer--
what kind of a world is this that you have made for us?  And then
he would answer them.  And he would say these words--and I heard
them many times--"Not good enough."  

	And I ask your help in making it better.

	You see, he was willing to acknowledge that we had difficulties 
that seemed almost beyond us.  And yet he knew that we could make it
better.  And I think that is the story of America.  People who
understand that there are many difficulties, but people who have
great faith in that we can make it better.  And the people here
trusted him to do it, as millions did across this land.

	Let me make another observation about Senator Robert Kennedy. 
You should remember him as a man who cared, and cared in the depths of
his being about the poor and the needy, about the black in Watts,
or anyplace else, and the whites in Appalachia, or anyplace else. 
And he cared about the Mexican-American farm worker.

	Some of us feel that we should pick up that torch, and with the
same sincerity, care, care about everyone.  But particularly to
care and to have compassion for those who want a chance, who are in
need.

	But we should remember him, too, as a fighter.  I can tell you that
I remember him as a fighter.  He was President Kennedy's campaign
manager in West Virginia in 1960 when I was a competitor to John
Kennedy in that Democratic primary.  And by the way, Kenny
O'Donnell was around, too.  We remember.  But we also remember that
after that struggle, we worked together to get this country moving. 
We worked together to build this country.

	And we should remember Robert Kennedy's great sense of loyalty, 
His loyalty to his country, which was first; his loyalty to his family,
and his personal loyalties.  And I can tell you about that, too.

	I know, as of course others know, that he worked very closely with
his distinguished brother, the President, and he worked to get such
great achievements as the nuclear test ban treaty, in which I had
a short--a hand myself.  And that treaty was one of the proudest
accomplishments of the Kennedy administration.

	And he worked for federal aid to education.  He worked for
children.

	We should remember him as being not only a fighter, but being
brave.  He knew the hazards of last spring.  He knew the poison
that was in the air.  He knew the dangers that were in America.

	He had seen five years ago what hate could do when his brother was
slain.  He knew that hate was abroad again in our land.  And yet he
dared to defy it.  He was unafraid.  He went to the people.  And he
paid the ultimate cost.  And we learned, at least I hope--I hope
we have learned that hate is a killer, and that hate can only
poison our society and degrade our people.

	This is why we must rebuke those voices of hate.  This is why we
must turn away from those who preach fear and despair and doubt and
suspicion.  This is why those of us who are privileged to be
spokesmen must talk constantly of building this one America that we
pledged ourselves to tonight in that pledge of allegiance.  And I
hope all we adults here heard how clearly and beautifully the
children spoke it.  And I hope that if there is anyone here that
has any doubt that this ought to be one America, "one nation under
God and indivisible, with liberty and justice for all", that that
person has--well, has repented for whatever evil thought he might
have had.

	Robert Kennedy knew that this had to be one nation.  For all the
pain and for all the hurt that we have all had, we must take heart. 
And there has been plenty of pain, plenty of hurt that has made
this political year a very difficult one.  But we must go on.  We
cannot stop.  We cannot turn back.

	Robert Kennedy spoke not only for the young, he spoke for the
disadvantaged, and he spoke for mankind.  And that is why it is
right to dedicate a school in his honor.

	Sometime last spring he closed his speeches by quoting George
Bernard Shaw, who wrote these words--and you have heard him, you
heard Mr. Kennedy say them so often.  "Some people see things as they 
are and ask why.  I dream things that never were and ask why not."  
Isn't that a beautiful thought?  It should inspire us as to what
can be.  To dream things that never were and ask why not.

	Because the truth is that in this country of ours, we can realize
any dream that we have.  America is a land of the dream yet
unfulfilled.  America is the land of unfinished business.  And each
of us, in our own way, in our own generation, must dream our
dreams, try to make them come true, and must build our part of
America, to carry on with that work.

	So it is so fitting that we dedicate to his memory tonight this
school.

	And I can tell you it is the finest honor that I have had here in
California--just at the last minute, so to speak, to share in this
dedication.  To dedicate a school, to dedicate something to
education, to remember what Thomas Jefferson said--we cannot be
both free and ignorant--we must be people of learning, to learn
and to earn, to be free.  And here we are changing protest into
progress.  Here we are learning and earning.  And here we are
building an American community.

	So in the name of this man for whom you dedicate this school I ask
you, particularly as students, and as parents and teachers, honor
this school.  Never let its name be smirched.  Attend this school. 
Learn, train yourself.  Learn everything you can.  Make the most of
your life.  And help your country live up to Robert Kennedy's name.

	This would be the message, I am sure, that Robert Kennedy would
have brought to you, but not in his name, but in his spirit.  We
want to lift our heads a little higher, stand with a little more
pride, do a little more for ourselves and thereby do more for
our country.  It is in this way that we realize our potentiality.

	And I want to thank the little ones that are here tonight.  How
wonderful it is to see them.

	Politics is hard business.  And once in a while we get a great deal
of lift and inspiration from just looking on the faces of little
children--because there is something about them that makes you
have a great faith in the future.

	It was said once that God's testimonial to his faith in the future
is the birth of a child.  And if that is the case, then let's make
sure that these children that are here tonight shall live in a
better America, an America of neighbors, an America of friends--
not an America of enemies and of strangers--but in an America that
we can love and of which we can be proud.

	Thank you very much.  May I just for a moment have your attention.

	I have here a eulogy in memory of the late Senator Robert Francis
Kennedy that was delivered by his brother, Senator Edward, Mr.
Kennedy, at Saint Patrick's Cathedral in New York, Saturday, June
8, 1968.  And this eulogy has been framed and it is well protected. 
And I want to present it to Mr. Wilson, to the chairman of the
Board, and ask that it be conspicuously displayed, may I say, so
that all can see the wonderful words and remember this great
occasion.

	And I present it to you, sir.

AWARDS AND COMMEMORATIONSCHILDRENEDUCATION--FACILITIESEDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION, PRIMARYEDUCATION, SECONDARY--DROPOUTSSTATESPERSONS--NEW YORKYOUTH     C2 2 	2 2 ý1
 ñ1 ì1 ç1 à1 Ö1 Ô1 ¼1 ±1	 ” 	 { 	 s 	 ^ 	 L 	 : 	  	  e: