Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0923.002SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/23STUMPJAMAICA BAY PARKNEW YORKNYBILL RYAN MEMORIAL-CATAWAN NATIONAL PARK1582 WORDS
	
	Thank you very much my good friend, Meade Esposito, President Sam Leone, Congressman Addabo, Congressman Braskel, Congressman Koch, members of Bill Ryan's family--Mrs. Ryan and the children of that family--a man of matchless courage and of remarkable compassion and vision--a man whose heart beats for all of the constituents in this district and for people all across this country and his passing is a deep personal loss to each one of us and I join with all New Yorkers and all others who knew him and who shared his cause in expressing our sorrow and our personal regrets to Mrs. Ryan and their wonderful family who are with us here today.

	Now it means a great deal for me to be with you here at the Jamaica Bay environmental pageant this morning because I know that all of us in a sense are standing here in the shoes of Bill Ryan and that he would have been here in fact--and that he is here in spirit and in our hearts--to commemorate that for which he fought so long and that he fought for so effectively--the Gateway National Park. And this is what brings us here to this assembly this morning. Bill Ryan had a dream--a dream for the future of his beloved New York; he had a dream for a national recreation area that might really bring about a significant change in the quality of life for our children and for each one of us. He had a dream of thousands of acres of good clean wholesome beaches, of unpolluted waters and unlittered parks within the city itself that would offer attractive
alternatives to the vacant lot and the fire hydrant. He had a dream that was the Gateway National Park. 

	Bill Ryan's vision is one that I share. Coming from the open plains of the west of the country, I know what open spaces and clean water and fine recreational areas can do not only for the body of man but for our spirits and souls, and I know how precious and dear are our dwindling environmental resources--such as Jamaica Bay. And I know what it means to conserve and to love and nurture our countryside, to protect our wild animals, to raise our children and to provide space to ride, hike, and swim and to experience nature in its unspoiled way. And for you in New York, I understand how much more these things mean embodied in the Gateway Park, and what they will mean to your children and to their children who come after them. And after all we are nothing but the stewards, the trustees if you please, of these God-given resources that are entrusted to us for our enjoyment but with some responsibility to see that they are cared for and passed on to those who will come after.

	As a member of the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs I participated in the deliberations over the bill to establish the Gateway National Recreation Area, and I joined with my colleagues in the Senate on more than one occasion to beat back selfish special interests and speculators who sought to emasculate this gateway area for their own personal purposes. We prevailed, and on August 6, 1971, more than a year ago, the Senate passed by a unanimous vote--not a single dissenting vote--Senate Bill 1852 to establish and preserve the Gateway National Park for the benefit not of special interests but for the benefit of the people of this area.

	Now that measure included the beaches of Staten Island and the wilds of Breezy Point and also more than a thousand acres of undeveloped land at Floyd Bennett Field to be used for recreational purposes. And that historic landmark bill has now worked its way through the House of Representatives to be voted on by that body within the very near future. Its progress to date is a remarkable tribute to the leadership of Bill Ryan but also to the tireless efforts of Congressman Frank Brasko, Joe Addabo, and the efforts of other supporting Congressmen--Ed Koch and Congressman Lester Wolff, and to many other members of the New York Delegation who put the interests of the people ahead of any other consideration when it comes to the recreational needs of the people of this area.

	Now most regrettably one last obstacle stands in the way of the Gateway Park and of Bill Ryan's efforts to remove it, but his vision and his courage and the vision of these Congressmen from New York who stand here on the stage with me today will not be denied. Just within the past several weeks President Nixon's administration, working in concert I regret to say with Governor Rockefeller has sought to carve out a piece of the Gateway Park with no consultation at all with the Brooklyn community, no consultation. The Nixon-Rockefeller forces have moved quietly behind the scenes in the Congress to exempt 350 acres from the Floyd Bennett Field portion of the park for a housing development purpose. Now the Nixon's administration's acquiescence in this quiet maneuver is irrefutable. Two weeks before the House of Representatives entered into the final deliberations on the Gateway Bill, Congressman Ryan's office was informed by the Department of the Interior that no more than ninety acres could be used for other than recreational purposes. Governor Rockefeller's lobbyists then went to work, and one week later Congressman Ryan's office was advised by the Secretary of the Interior that 350 acres would be carved out of this supposed recreation area, and one day before the House Interior Committee met in full session to vote out a bill to preserve the entire park an amendment was offered by the Republicans to carve out 350 acres, and it passed with the overwhelming support of the Nixon administration. 

	Now in going along with this action--and we ought to understand this very clearly because it affects the well-being of everybody in this audience and many who are not here--in going along with this action, did the Nixon administration seek out the views of the Brooklyn and Queens communities, their leaders, or their people in the vicinity of the Floyd Bennett Field, or ask whether their representatives had participated in planning this proposed housing project? They did not. There was no consultation at all. Did the Nixon administration bother even to listen to the views of Congressman Ryan and Congressman Brasko and Congressman Addabo and Congressman Koch and other public officials of the New York area? There was no consultation at all with those leaders from the Brooklyn area. Did the Nixon administration consider the suitability of the project under its [missing text]--did they consider what it would do to their own environmental guidelines? None of these things were considered in this proposal by the Nixon-Rockefeller forces. Did they inquire about the availability of transportation of health and of school facilities for 50,000 additional people at the proposed site? Did they consider the cost to the taxpayer of providing these essential services? None of those things were considered. Did they advise the Brooklyn community about the state's suggestion that transportation to the proposed project might be provided by the construction of a Brooklyn Expressway?

	They did not. Did they ask how many of the affected 17,000 housing units costing over $100 per room would be available for the low and moderate income families of Brooklyn who so desperately need decent housing at rents they can afford. They considered none of those things. Now as a candidate for the presidency of the United States I ordinarily avoid embroilment in matters of local concern, but this is not such a case. On August 6, 1971, I voted to preserve all of the Gateway National Park for the people of this area. I did not vote to carve out a major part of that project for a housing project, although I am determined that in other areas we are going to do everything we can to provide more decent and available housing for the people of the New York area. But both as a candidate for the presidency and as a responsible public servant I have an obligation to speak out when I detect chicanery or trickery at the highest levels of government and that is what we have moving at the present time. And that, in fact, is what my candidacy is all about. I want to eliminate secret plans and secret deals from government, whether it has to do with Vietnam or Brooklyn. And I want very much for the families of Brooklyn and Queens and everywhere else to have a voice in this great nation's future and in the faith of their own neighborhoods and their own communities. I want very much for Bedford Stuyvesant and Brownsville and Bay Bridge, and Bushwick and Sunset Park and South Brooklyn and all New Yorkers and all Americans to regain confidence that their government is working for them and not for selfish special interests.

So in conclusion I ask the President of the United States, what are you doing to the Gateway National Park passed unanimously by the United States Senate? Bill Ryan would have wanted to know the answer to that question and so do the people of New York and they have a right to know.

Thank you very much and God bless you all.
URBAN AFFAIRS/AIDHOUSING AND REAL ESTATENATIONAL PARKSNEW YORK     $ Ý# ×# Ó# Ë#
 ¿# º# µ# ¥# # ›# s# i#	 >  -     e: