Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0909.003SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/09STUMPDES MOINESIAIOWADES MOINES AIRPORT SPEECH2196 WORDS

	Thank you very much State Chairman Cliff Larson and my Iowa friends. Let me say first of all what a privilege it is to be on this platform not only with your State Chairman, Cliff Larson, and some of the other party officers, but also to be here with a man with whom I served in the House of Representatives some years ago, and whose career I have watched with glowing admiration in all of the years since--I am talking about Congressman Neal Smith, and I wish we had a whole House of Representatives full of congressmen who stood for the things that Neal Smith has stood for--the farmers of this state, the workers, the small businessmen, the students all would be better off with that kind of representation in the Congress. What I say about Neal, I want to say about these other men who are running for Congress, and who showed enough interest in you and in this state to come here today, and I want you to do all in your power to elect these men, because it doesn't do much good to elect a Democratic president with a progressive program of peace and justice for the people of this country unless we have a Congress that is going to back him up in those programs.

	And so I know you are going to reelect Neal Smith, but I also want to see you reelect Lyle Taylor, and Tom Harkin, Mercury Bedell who are here on this platform today. And then don't leave any stone unturned in electing this very fine state ticket that is here today headed by Paul Franzenburg, your candidate for governor here in Iowa. I am fortunate to have a lot of relatives here in Iowa, some of whom you have met. I want you to know that if we get all of the McGovern relatives in Iowa lined up on election day we have a great block in that section of the state alone--some of them are registered Republicans--but we are going to use them to offset any of those Connolly Democrats that may be out here. But I don't think there are very many Connolly Democrats. Unless you happen to be an oil billionaire or something of that kind you have no business following John Connolly or Richard Nixon.

	The President told us the other day that 1972 is going to offer the American people the choice of the century. I agree with that and I think basically the choice we are being asked to make is a choice that will determine the kind of a country the United States is going to be in the 1970s and beyond and I want us to think seriously in these days between now and November 8th about what kind of people, what kind of a nation, it is that we want America to be, and I think when we ask ourselves that question we can certainly agree in view of all of the tragedy of these recent years, that first and foremost we want the next president of the United States to be a president that without any further delay, will end the killing and destruction and violence that is now going on in Southeast Asia.

	And secondly we want a president who won't tell us one thing in public before the election and then conspire an entirely different course in secret after the election. I have no secret plan to put an end to the war in Vietnam--I have a public plan--and I want to repeat it here today. I want to pledge--and this is done without any reservation at all--that if I become the president of the United States that conflict is going to end, and every American soldier and every American prisoner will be returned to their homes within ninety days of the Inauguration.

	I know that there are those who would have you believe that we are staying in Vietnam because of the prisoners of war. That is a falsehood. There is only one way that we are going to secure the release of our prisoners, and that is the way we have always followed throughout history in securing the release of prisoners of war, and that is to end the war that put them in prison in the first place.

	There is another fundamental consideration that I think the American people want written into the very fabric of the next administration of this country, and that is to put an end to big business, special interest favoritism and to establish once again in Washington a government that not only listens to the people of this country, that not only hears the needs and the aspirations of the ordinary people of this country, but that will dedicate the power and the influence and the voice of this government to the people of America once again.

	I come here to Iowa on the heels of the desert, to the Duluth-Superior area where we visited one of the great grain shipping terminals of this country where much of the grain that we have sold to the Soviet Union this summer will be shipped--and I am for the sale of American grain to other countries, even to those countries where they have an ideology that we don't necessarily approve. But what I object to is the manner in which this multi-million dollar grain transaction was handled--not so much for the benefit of the grain farmers who produced that grain, not so much to benefit the taxpayers of the country, but the cynical, secret way in which that deal was manipulated to enrich the great grain speculators of this country.

	And I would like very much for every person here--every young person, every farmer, every businessman, every taxpayer who is interested in what goes on in the councils of government under this administration, to learn the facts on the Russian grain transaction because the facts are that hundreds of millions of bushels of grain were purchased before the farmers of the country knew that the deal was in the offing, what the size of it would be. The profits of that deal went not into the pockets of the farmers of the grain-producing sections of this country, but the gravy was skimmed off by the speculators and the great corporations who profited from inside information that could only come to them from the kind of cozy relationship that exists between the highest officials of this administration and the big business leaders of this country, and such an arrangement will have to be ended.

	You will also find on examination that 47-cents-a-bushel subsidy was paid not to the farmers who sold that grain, but to a handful of grain exporters long after the price of the grain had moved to the point where that kind of a subsidy was not justified to those grain shippers, and it came right out of the pockets of the taxpayers of this country--$128 million that I say represents special interest arrangements that are not in the best interest of the ordinary people of this country.

	I am grateful, as I say, to my friend Congressman Neal Smith and the Committee chaired by Congressman Graham Purcell of Texas--one of the great experts on agriculture--is looking into this problem, looking into what I believe is another scandal associated with the Nixon Administration and I hope that this Committee will continue their investigation until the American people know all of the facts. But what is developing is a situation in which time after time, when the question is between the public interest and special interests, it is resolved on the side of the special interests rather than the people. As a matter of fact the ITT case shows it all.

	Here is a case where a great conglomerate which is already far too powerful, which has already gobbled up too many independent enterprises, that has already swallowed too many moderate size corporations, was faced with an antitrust action recommended by the antitrust division of the Department of Justice, and then that corporation, that conglomerate, offered a contribution estimated to be upward of $400 thousand to the Republican National Convention. And just coincidentally the antitrust action was dropped. I can't believe that it was a coincidence. It was too much of a pattern in these cozy arrangements between big business and this administration for it to be a coincidence. And I think the time has come, as I said, to restore the government of this country to a leadership whose heart and mind centers on the people of this country rather than on ITT.

	We are meeting today in a great city--in the city of Des Moines--but we are meeting in a state which is known all over this country as one of the great food-producing [missing text] that exists anywhere in the world. When one thinks of food production, when one thinks of the abundance of the land, Iowa is the first state that comes to mind. And no matter how the numbers of farmers are shrinking in this and other parts of the country, the fact remains that neither Iowa nor any other state in the Midwest is going to really prosper unless the farm producers in this state and elsewhere in the Midwest prosper. And it literally breaks my heart when I go to a great farm, like I did a couple of hours ago here in Iowa, and listen to the problems that these farm families face. When I hear how hard they work, the amount of risk they take, the investment they make, and then see how little they receive on their returns in that investment.

	So I want to make some pledges here today to the farm people of this state which I feel are in the interest of all of us. Whether we live on the farm, whether we work in a factory, a shop, or a beauty parlor, whatever the case might be, I am going to pledge without reservation that if I become the president of the United States I am going to use the administrative authority that we already have in the executive branch of the government and in legislation to raise the parity income level of farmers to not less than 90 percent of parity. And I don't mean the new sliding scale parity formula that was invented here by this administration to fool the people of this country; I am talking about parity based on the old historic scale of 1910-1914.

	One other point I want to make here today and then I am through. One of the issues that is emerging in sharp focus in this campaign is the issue of taxation. It touches the pocketbook of everyone here. This country after all was born in a revolution under the rallying cry "No taxation without representation." And we ought to paraphrase that today "No taxation without justice." And that means that the time has come for fundamental reform in the tax structure of this country. It means that we have got to begin closing some of the tax loopholes at the top of the income scale that permits some of the very wealthiest corporations in this country and individuals in this country to avoid paying any taxes at all or at least to pay very little. 

There has got to be something fundamentally wrong with a tax structure that permits a corporate executive to deduct from his taxes his $20 martini luncheon and the working man can't even deduct the price of his baloney sandwich. And yet I don't find it hard to understand why Mr. Nixon's Secretary of the Treasury John Connolly is campaigning for Nixon. He thinks this tax arrangement is just fine. He thinks it is just fine that the great oil companies go through the loopholes and avoid paying their fair share of the taxes. But what I advocate is a tax reform that would recover some $22 billion now going through loopholes and shelters for the richest and most powerful people in this country--money that we desperately need to strengthen our schools, to reduce the property taxes in the states, to strengthen our health care, to deal with the problems of our older people to clean up our environment--those are the kinds of programs that I think ought to be moved to the top of the list.

So, when I call upon this country to come home--when I call upon America to come home--this is not a plea for isolationism. I know that America must be strong. I know that it will have to play an active role in the world community, but I am calling us back from a senseless war--a war that makes no sense to any citizen of this country. I am calling us back to the great principles with which this country began and it is on that basis that I ask for your help in this election. 

Thank you very much.

AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSBUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSTAX REFORMVIETNAM WAR     î/ º/ ´/ °/ ¨/
 œ/ —/ ’/ ˆ/ †/ ‚/ i/ _/	 ™ 	 o 	 J 	 - 	  	  e: