Speeches\1968\rep\S68r0924.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)09/24STUMPSEATTLEWASHINGTONWASEATTLE RALLY, VICTORY SQUARE, UNIVERSITY STREET3734 WORDS

	Governor Evans, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and this very great audience here in Victory Square. I want you to know first that there has been a request that you bring your signs down so people in the back can see a little better. Just the pro-Nixon signs. The antis can stay up. That's all right. We want equal time.

	And, my friends, I want to say that as we complete a day that has brought us all the way across the country. We started in Milwaukee this morning and we went from there on to South Dakota and then over to North Dakota and then we were over in Idaho and finally here at Victory Square. I can tell you that a great tide is sweeping across this country, and that tide spells what this square is, victory in November for our side.

	And I can assure you that as I stand before you and see these signs, that I think of the signs that I have seen across the country, the signs of the times and the signs of this election. Oh, there have been a lot of interesting ones. I remember going out through a suburb of Pennsylvania the other day, outside of Philadelphia, and one very old lady--I learned later she was eighty-five--was sitting on a wheelchair. And she was holding up a sign "Sock it to 'em, Dick." And another one said, "Trade Hubert For the Pueblo." I don't think North Korea would take him.

	And then when we were in Boise just a few moments ago it said, "Smile, you are on your way to the White House."

	My friends, certainly nothing could be more heartwarming than to come here to Seattle and to be introduced so eloquently and graciously by a man that I respect as not only one of the great governors of this state but one of the great new young leaders of our party and the nation, Dan Evans. Let's give him a hand. And I shall be proud to work with him in any capacity in the years ahead, you can be sure, because he has that ability and that--all of the effort and the youth, everything that we need in government today.

	And I am also delighted to be here on the platform with the others who are seeking the office for Congress of the United States. Let me say that when you elect a president, remember, give him the man in the Congress that can help him. Let's give those congressional candidates a hand, too. How about it.

	Now, my friends, let me give you a feeling of how this campaign is coming across the country. As you look at this great crowd, I understand the greatest crowd ever gathered in this square, you probably wondered if it's only happening here in Seattle. And I can tell you, you are part of a great army, an army which is being mobilized all over this nation.

	Let me tell you what I have seen in the last three weeks. I was in Chicago just three weeks ago, a week after the other fellow got out of town, and, my friends, when we were there--there were all sorts of suggestions as to what might happen. But, you know what happened? The biggest political crowd in Chicago in a quarter of a century was there. We are going to win Illinois, and that means victory in November. And so it went.

	The same story in San Francisco, 300,000 there. The same story in Philadelphia, 300,000 there. Westchester County, New York State. When Governor Rockefeller introduced me there a few days ago he said it was the biggest and most enthusiastic crowd he'd seen at a political meeting in the whole history of that county. We are going to carry New York state and that means victory in November too.

	And then across the country, whether it's in Des Moines or Indianapolis or Charlotte, North Carolina, whether it's in North Dakota, South Dakota, Idaho, Washington State, there is a great tide running. It isn't just the size of the crowds, and they are big, but it's the enthusiasm of the crowds, and it's something more. These are young crowds, young at heart, young in spirit, many young in age. And the reason they are out, I want to tell you why they are out.

	These are not the partisan crowds you usually see. These are not simply Republicans out to cheer a Republican candidate. But they are Independents and Democrats out by the thousands and by the millions are going to vote with us in November in order to get new leadership for this country. That's what's going to happen.

	You see what is happening is that people have taken to the streets that have been silent before. You have been the quiet Americans, most of you here. You have been the people that have been obeying the law, you have been the people who have been paying your taxes, who have been supporting your churches and your schools. You are good people. You care. You know that if this city and this state and this nation isn't a good place for all Americans it isn't a good place for any of us to live in. And you want that kind of government for Washington, and you are going to have it.

	And, my friends, I want you to know that as this great army of Americans who haven't been speaking out, who haven't been taking to the streets. As they rise up today, the forgotten Americans, their voices are raised, and I hear those voices and the American people are going to be heard in November. And I will tell you why. Because they look over these last four years and they see what's happened to America. And as they see what's happened, they don't like it. And they know what the choice is.

	And let me tell you what it is. The choice this year, 1968, is the clearest choice that Americans have had in a century. And the reason that it is the clearest choice is this: that on the one side one party has nominated a man who helped to make the policies of the last four years. He supported those policies in his speeches, he defends them now, and in effect he comes before the American people and you have heard him on television, and I respect him as a good hard-hitting opponent on the other side. And you have heard him say, "Let us continue." He means to continue for four more years the policy of the last four years.

And this is my answer, and this is the answer of millions of Americans across this nation. This is what they are saying. I say and you say that when the strongest nation in this world can be tied down in a war in Vietnam for four years with no end in sight; when the nation with the greatest tradition for respect for law is torn apart by unprecedented lawlessness; when the richest country in the world can't even manage its own economy; when a nation that has always been respected in the world; when respect for the United States of America falls so low that a power like North Korea dares to seize an American naval vessel on the high seas; and when the President of the United States of America for the first time in history cannot travel abroad or to any major city in this country without fear of a hostile demonstration; then it's time for new leadership for the American people, and that's what you are going to have.

	We cannot continue with the old leadership, we cannot continue with the old team. We cannot continue with the old policies, and I want to give you an idea as to what the new policies will be.

	We need a new foreign policy, a new foreign policy that will bring to an honorable end the war in which we are engaged. But, more than that, a new foreign policy that will see to it that many of these young people that I see here, and I see many of you in your teens, fourteen, fifteen, that you will not have imposed upon you the burden imposed on your older brothers and on your fathers in two and, yes, three wars in a generation.

	And let me put it quite bluntly. I came to the Congress twenty-one years ago, and as a freshman congressman, I supported then and when I was vice president programs to help our friends abroad who were unable to help themselves, because of what had happened in World War II. Now, look back over those twenty years. The United States has been generous. We poured out $150 billion in aid. And not only that, we furnished not only most of the money, we furnished most of the arms but we furnished most of the lives to help other nations defend their freedom in Korea and then in Vietnam.

	Now, look at America today and look at the world today. The world has changed. The nations we have helped are now rich and are able to take care of themselves. There are 200 million Americans, yes, but there are two billion people that live in the free world, and I think we need a foreign policy in which other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world. And that's the kind of a foreign policy we will have.

	My friends, I think, too, we need a policy that will restore the strength of the United States, and here in this great community you know what strength means. You know what Boeing has contributed. It has contributed, incidentally, my home away from home, and that's the 727 in which I fly. I spend more time in that than I do at home, and I expect, I hope, that Air Force One will be Boeing also when I get into that in January.

	But, my friends, we must restore the strength of the United States and we must restore it and have a strong foreign policy. Why? Not because we want war, but because that is the way to peace. And I want to tell you why. I speak with some experience.

	I know there are those who say that the difference between the two candidates is the charge made by my opponent. He is compassionate, he says, and I am not. But I tell you, you judge a man as to whether he is compassionate or whether he is for peace not by what he says but by what he does. And I want to point out what we did.

	I am proud to have been a part of an administration which ended one war and kept this nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's the kind of leadership we want today, and it's the kind that we can give.

	How did we do it? We did it by being strong, not belligerent, but strong, and with all our strength we were able to negotiate.

	And now we hear it said that we are not being compassionate and that we aren't for peace because we oppose, as I do oppose, the immediate action by the Senate to adopt and to approve a Non-Proliferation Treaty for nuclear weapons. And let me tell you why we should take that position. I favor that treaty. As president of the United States, I will implement that treaty. But I say to you, and I read the words of the former prime minister of England, a great proponent of peace, Anthony Eden, a week ago when he says, "The history of the thirties has taught us mercilessly that to attempt new agreements while ignoring flagrant breaches of the old earns contempt and not progress."

	And at a time when the Soviet Union has its troops in Czechoslovakia, at a time that it has crushed out the little flicker of freedoms there, I say the United States should not enter into a new agreement at this time with the Soviet Union and put the seal of approval on what they have done in Eastern Europe.

	This is the way to peace. It is not compassionate to say we should agree regardless of what they have done. It is true compassion to be realistic and pragmatic in our foreign policy dealings. And so with that kind of policy, we can have peace, strength, and negotiating from that strength we can have the peace that we all want.

	But if we are to have peace abroad, we first have to prove that we can establish peace at home. And does everybody in this audience realize that this is the first election campaign in history, in the whole history of this country, when a presidential candidate had to stand before an audience and say that both peace abroad and peace at home needed to be restored? It has never been true before. And so as we look at that problem, let us see who is the compassionate man, who is the man that will act and what is the record.

	And here is the difference that you have between the two candidates. The one defends the record of the last four years. He defends the Attorney General, who opposed the only significant law enforcement or crime bill that came before the Congress of the United States and was enacted by it. And when we look at that particular situation, what do we find? As we see what has happened and the defense of the policies of the last four years and the defense of that attorney general, this is my program and my attitude. I say that when crime has gone up nine times as fast as population over the last four years; I say to you that when we have had riots in 300 cities with 200 dead and 7,000 injured, and a quarter of a million dollars in property damage; I say to you that when the city of Washington, D.C. is now known as the crime capital of the world; then it is time for a housecleaning and a new attorney general and let's establish respect for law and order in the United States of America. Because, you see, my friends, when we speak about law and order, we do not speak simply of the law and the order that represses. We speak of the order that is essential if you are going to have progress. Without order you cannot have progress. Without order you cannot have peace; without order you cannot have decency, and that is why I stand for that, as every American should.

	But then there is the other side of the coin. What kind of programs should America have to restore the light of hope in millions of homes where it does not presently exist? What really does the compassionate man coming before the American people say today about what our policies should be? Should he say to you, "Spend billions more for programs for federal housing programs and for federal job programs and federal welfare programs that have failed over the last four years?"

	And my answer is, that is not the compassionate answer, because look what has happened to the average American family in the last four years. Twenty million Americans living on Social Security and on pensions have seen their prices go up 10 percent while their income has stayed the same. That's wrong. Other Americans who have seen their wages go up $27 a week, that's the average in Seattle, have not gotten ahead one bit in the last three years because their prices and taxes ate it up. That's wrong.

	I say that what we need is a government in Washington, D.C. that will reestablish the value of our dollar so that the money we earn today will buy a dollar's worth when we retire five, ten, fifteen years from now. That is what we want.

	And then, my friends, if I could turn to the other side of the coin, in this whole area of how we get progress in America. I think, it is most significant that many Americans--many that will not support me in this campaign, are concerned, as every American should be, about the plight of the unemployed, the plight of those who may not have the same color skin that we have, of not only black Americans but Indian Americans and Mexican Americans and others throughout this land. And so the question is, how do you help them, and there are two ways to go, and I want to tell you the two ways: the way we have been on and the new road we are going to take. And the road we have been on is wrong, because it says that the answer to the problem is always to, as I said a moment ago, to a federal government program.

	But I say, my friends, that today, rather than more millions on welfare rolls let's get more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. That is the answer.

	I say to you today that is why we need new programs. Programs that we will put into effect--to use the tax and the credit facilities of this government to have private enterprise train the unemployed and train the employed for better positions. To build the housing--housing that people can own, and thereby get the dignity of home ownership, and to move up, to have that piece of the action in private enterprise.

	And also here in this very city and in this state, I know that your own governor and your own administration has moved forward in that exciting volunteer effort where they recognize that the way to real progress in America is not to wait for government to do something, but for people to do something. That is the answer and that is our answer to the problems of America.

	And if I could suggest one other thing, my friends, when we consider the plight of those who do not have that equal chance, when we consider the way up, let us remember how America got where she did. The war on poverty didn't begin five years ago. The war on poverty in this country began 190 years ago when this nation began. And when that war on poverty began, it has been the most successful war on poverty ever waged in the history of man.

	Why are we a great nation? Why is it that the traffic is all one way? Oh, you will hear everything wrong about the U.S., but anybody that has a choice, he is coming here, he is not going some place else to live, you can be sure of that. This is the place. This is where everybody wants to live, and you know that.

	My friends, never forget how we got that way. America is a great nation today, not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves over 190 years.

	Give people a chance. Give people a chance. And so I say to you, we stand for a new program, a new foreign policy that will bring peace and keep the peace. A new domestic policy that will restore peace and will have respect for law and laws that deserve respect. And a new program for progress that will move us forward, move us forward and upward by giving every American an opportunity to do the best that he can, to go as high as he can. That's what I want. That's what I believe in. That's what America has meant to me, and that's what I want it to mean to every child in this country.

	And that's the cause I ask you to enlist in today. And as I ask you to enlist in it, could I add a final word, particularly for those many, many people here who are so young, with all of their lives ahead.

	Sometimes when you hear a speech like this in a political campaign you probably think, "Oh, things are pretty bad in the world." And sometimes when I have spoken to college audiences they come up and they say, "Well, Mr. Nixon, we wonder, isn't this the poorest time to be alive, aren't we unfortunate to have been born at this time?"

	Let me give you my answer. My answer is a very different one. Sure, we've got problems in the world. We've got problems at home. But, my friends, as a student of history and one who has traveled more in the world perhaps than any living American, I can tell you that if I were to pick a time in which to live and a place in which to live, I would pick the United States of America, 1968. This is the time. This is the place. Because, you see, you see, my friends, it's an exciting time. We can do something about our problems. We have the wealth. We have the people. Now all we need is your help. I need your help. I need your help and your votes, but I need it not just for the election, but after this election. Because we need millions of Americans, united in the cause of restoring respect for America, respect for our tradition, respect for law and for that reconciliation of the races which is so essential.

	This must come from our hearts, and I say to you, you are in a great cause today. Step up to it. Oh, I know you will hear people say, "Politics, oh, that's an ugly thing, and you're going to have hecklers and this and that."

	Don't let it bother you. Listen, my friends. Remember, greatness comes from stepping up to big events, not sitting on the sidelines while history is made by others. We are making history in this year 1968. Let's make good history. Let's make great history. Let's get a new team in Washington and that new team will serve you and your interest in the future.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)POVERTYPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONAL     cN /N )N %N N
 N N N N ÷M õM ÅM »M	 • 	 ‡ 	 y 	 a 	 M 	  	  e: