Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1023.008SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/23STUMPBUFFALONEW YORKNY2508 WORDS

	You and I and millions of Americans are now engaged in a great crusade--a fighting crusade.  We are in that crusade to win--to win, not for ourselves, not for our party, but to win a resounding victory for America.  And we will win.

	But our victory on November 4 will not be the end of our crusade.  It will be the beginning.  It will be the beginning of a new era for Americans--for Americans who want again to hold their heads high--for Americans who want again to be proud of the men and women in their government, for Americans who want to see in their government a reflection of the best we are, for Americans who want once again to see their government respected abroad so it can lead the free world toward the goal of peace and prosperity.

	To the worn-out, bungling, corruption-riddled administration these millions of Americans are saying:  "Get out of the way.  Make way for the new America that is on the march.  Make way for our crusade!"

	As you know, this business of politics is a new business for me.  When I entered upon it last July, it was clear that I had certain handicaps.

	In the first place, I was not a politician in the usual sense of the term--and I am not one now.

	In the second place, the only way I know how to talk is to talk plain.  But I thought and I still think that the American people prefer honesty to distortion.  I thought and I still think that the American people prefer integrity to corruption.  I thought and I still think that the American people are honorable and decent in their dealings with each other and that they want honor and decency in their government.

	In the third place, I have a fondness for facts.  I would rather look at the record than to call names.  That may be poor politics.  By the standards of this administration, it certainly is poor politics.  But I believe, and I think you do too, that this respect for truth and facts is good Americanism and good for America.

	On November 4, you people speak.  My only aim is to get the facts and nothing but the facts to every voting American.  It is my firm belief that when the people speak, the facts and nothing but the facts will be decisive.

	When this campaign began we were promised that the party in power would wage it on a level to "educate and elevate" the American people.  That, to me, was heartening news.  Now we know that this early campaign promise was merely campaign oratory.

	What happened?

	This is what happened:  In desperation, the administration has resorted to an "education" program of hate, fear, and vilification--And under an expert teacher.  The candidate of the administration party has been taken over body, boots and britches by the administration.  And he now goes down the line for the administration record.  He stands revealed today as a captive candidate.  By edict, he is forced to accept that record.  And that he has done by personal choice from the outset.

	What the party in power offers the American people is not a change of heart, but only a change of face.  It is not a change of direction, but only a change of front.

	Since it is now clear that what the opposition offers us is nothing but four more years of the same, let us look at the record.

	The facts prove that this administration has dangerously weakened America by ignorance and disregard of the true sources of America's strength.

	What is the real source of our strength?  It is in our land, of course.  It is in our rich treasure of national resources, of course.  It is in the miraculous productivity of our industry, of the skill of our working men and women.  But all of these are only part of America's strength--the visible, the material part of it. The real source of our strength is something more than any of these.  It is something deeper and more basic.  The real source of our strength is moral and spiritual.

	As a nation, we are what we are because of what we believe.

	We believe in God and in the supremacy of moral law.  We believe that man is more than a machine:  We believe that he is made in the image of God.  We believe that governments are not instituted to be the masters of man's destiny.  We believe they should defend, encourage, and release man's God-given ability to be the master of his own destiny.

	Those beliefs were written into our founding documents.  They were proclaimed to the world and the world was ready for that emancipating message.  Men's hearts were warmed.  Their vision was strengthened.  They dreamed great dreams.

	What happened then was one of the most stirring, eventful human pilgrimages in all history.  Millions of men and women from many lands turned to America.  To them, America was a land of economic promise.  But it was more than that.  It was a land of spiritual promise.

	And what united America and made our country great was not only that we shared in an increasing abundance of the material good things in life.  Out of many races and many people--speaking many languages, from many backgrounds--we were knit together here into a single people.  The strength bred of this unity has been the wonder of the world.

	Today, we look on America and we can say that this miracle is not an Anglo-Saxon miracle.  It is not a North European or South European miracle.  It is not a Negro or a White miracle.  It is not a Jewish, Catholic or Protestant miracle.  This America of ours is a miracle of free men whose very differences have strengthened our unity and have enriched our nation's life.

	That is what I mean by the moral strength of America.

	But now, when America must be strong, this unity is being undermined by our national administration.  At a time when our unity should be fortified, it is being weakened.  It is being weakened by men who are more concerned with getting more power than for our nation's strength and unity.  Year after year, they have sought to make political profit by setting group against group, special interest against special interest--section against section.  Now the consequences of that evil practice are bearing bitter fruit.

	We hear shrill voices today creating distrust, disunity and bigotry by falsely accusing others--including myself--of these evil things.

	Thus, these bearers of false witness seek to be known as the protectors of those among whom they plant these fears.  They are the voices of the rabble rousers--the ignorant, the irresponsible, the power-made voices of the rabble-rousers.

	My friends, I have seen first-hand the devastating consequences of rabble-rousing.  Many of you have also seen those devastating consequences.  They have been visited on some of your friends and loved ones.  You know how prejudice, bigotry and ill-will have been used by unscrupulous men in other nations until those nations were torn apart and destroyed.

	In our beloved nation we have been spared such a frightful tragedy.  But we must ever be vigilant to detect the tiniest beginning of such a disaster.  Even in the heat of a political campaign we must be on guard, for we do not know where or how deeply a poisonous idea will take root.

	A few years ago, America was engaged in a different kind of crusade.  It was one of war.  It was my proud privilege to have a place in that crusade.  I met your sons whose sacrifice and courage brought that crusade to triumph.  I walked with them along the roads as they went into battle.  I saw them fighting against the evil of Hitlerism.  I visited the wounded in their hospitals.  These young Americans--these sons of yours were from many backgrounds.  They were of diverse faiths. But they were all Americans fighting and dying without distinction of race, color or creed.

	Almost a generation ago, in another presidential campaign, the issue of bigotry was raised.  The great American and Democrat candidate for the presidency in that year answered that vicious charge with this concluding sentence:  "In this spirit I join with fellow Americans of all creeds in a fervent prayer, that never again in this land will any public servant be challenged because of the faith in which he has tried to walk humbly with his God."  In that hope, I am proud to stand with Alfred Emmanuel Smith.

	But that is not the whole insidious story of how our discredited national leadership has been sapping the moral foundation of America. That is not all of the record we are asked to endorse in this election.

	That record shows that the bosses of the party too long in power have fastened on the government of the United States a system of entrenched incompetence and bossism.  I charge, and the facts prove, that to continue that party in power will be to entrench that system deeper.

	Will you people give that system a new lease of life?

	I don't think so.  I think you are going to write its political death warrant.

	Do I need to recite, case by case, the shabby history which has made this administration the scandal-a-day administration?

	That story is still unfolding.  The complete story will not be known until there is a change in Washington next January.  It will not be known until we get a new administration which dares to take off the lid, that dares to open up the last dark closet and expose the last skeleton--an administration that dares to keep the closet open at all times to the gaze of the people themselves.

	This charge I make against the party too long in power is not a partisan charge.  Here is the sober and solemn conclusion of a Democrat who knows the facts.  This man is United States Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee.  Week after week, month after month, Senator Kefauver dared defy the administration politicians and follow this trail of corruption from Washington back to its source.

	This is what he said:  "The big question--and I put it bluntly--is this:  Has criminal and political corruption in the United States reached the point where it may pull this country down entirely?  I say that we are dangerously close to that ruination point."  That is what Senator Kefauver said.

	Whom can we trust to get us off that road to ruin?  Can we trust that job to the same bosses who got us onto it in the first place?  You and I know better than that.  We have the facts to prove that we are right.

	For how has it come about that morality in our federal government has sunk to this all-time low?  The answer is found in the slime of machine politics and boss rule.  The men and the morals of boss politics have been allowed to move in on Washington.  They have entrenched themselves in the federal government and practiced their venalities on a national scale.

	Tom Pendergast is dead.  But his political influence, his political morals, his political offspring, they all go marching on.

	When courageous investigators undertook to lay bare the facts, what was the answer of the politicians of the party too long in power?  In Kansas City the answer was "No Comment."  In Brooklyn the answer was "Witch Hunt."  In Washington the answer was "Asinine."

	And where are these bosses now and what are they up to?  They are where they have always been and up to the same things they have always been up to.  They are in the administration party and they aim to continue to rule it.

	Every boss of the administration party will go all out and down the line to deliver on November 4.  They will deliver by fair means and by foul.  And they will deliver for one reason only.  They will deliver because they know that for them, this election is a life-and-death matter.  A new lease of life for their party means a new lease of life for their power.  A defeat for their party means the end of their rule.

	It is up to you, the voters of America, to see that their rule is broken.

	Like Belshazzar, they have had their feast.  And like Belshazzar, they have begun to see the handwriting on the wall.

	What I have been talking about tonight are the moral issues of this campaign.  They are this campaign's most important issues.  As a nation we lay careful plans against economic or military failure.  How much more serious is moral failure!  How much more disastrous would be the consequences?  We will not take that chance.  We will have a change.

	To bring that change to pass is the job of all of us.  Across this country--I have found that not only the men but especially the women of America are aroused to make sure that that job is done.

	Last May, the president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs declared:  "The women of America have their brooms in hand and they mean business."

	I can confirm that statement.  I have seen the women and I have seen their brooms.  And I know what can be done with a good broom in the hands of a morally indignant woman.

	For the women of America, in a special sense, are the keepers, the defenders of our moral values.  They know that bigotry and ill-will in high places means bigotry and ill-will in their home towns.  They know that dishonesty in government brings laxity in the communities where they live and have their homes and raise their children.

	They are outraged that their government does not reflect the standards they live by in their communities.

	They know the power of example.  That is why they want, in Washington, a government to which they can point with pride.  That is why they want a government that is respected at home and abroad where we must seek friends and allies in the cause of peace.  That is why they want brought to Washington the men and women from their communities whom they trust and respect.  That is why they are determined to get that kind of government.  That is why they know that a victory on November 4 is not an end, but only a new beginning of our crusade.

	America--this miracle of America--has been proof of the power of moral and spiritual forces to bind us together.  Faced with a moral and spiritual challenge, the people of America have never failed.  They will not fail today.  They will meet this challenge.  They will go forward under God--firm in their faith, confident of their future, united in their purpose.  An America, stronger in both spiritual and material resources, will be their reward.


CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)WORLD WAR IIGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     w8 C8 =8 98 /8
 !8 8 8 8 8 8 8 ü7	 µ 	 ” 	 z 	 d 	 G 	 )   e: