Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0921.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/21STUMPBOSTONMASSACHUSETTSMA1,432 WORDS

	In less than seven weeks, we face a choice between two very different visions of America's future.

	George Bush sees a complacent America; an America that wants to look backward even as a new century is about to dawn.

	I see an America whose best days are ahead of us, not behind us; an America with new horizons to reach and new frontiers to conquer.  I see an America that's ready to take charge of its future again.

	I want to be the president who fights for the average American  who makes a real difference for American families.

	Two weeks ago, I proposed a plan to open the door of college opportunity to every young man or woman in this country who is qualified to do college work.

	Last week, I offered an action plan for waging a real war  not a phony war  on drugs.

	Yesterday, I proposed that we make health security the birth right of every American  and not just the most privileged few.

	Today, I'm here to talk about the health of our children  about how we're going to make sure that every child in America has the chance for a healthy start in life, and a fair shot at the American dream.

	Our children are our pride, our joy, and our future.

	But, each year, more than 40,000 American babies do not survive to celebrate their first birthdays.  And, if this trend continues, over a half a million more infants will die during the next twelve years  more than the total number of battlefield deaths of American forces in World War I, World War II, Korea, and Vietnam combined.

	Today, an infant born in America has less chance of survival than those born in eighteen other countries, including Spain and Singapore.

	Today, more than 12 million children grow up in families without a dime's worth of health insurance.  Too many of these children don't get checkups.  They aren't treated when they are sick; and they've never seen a dentist.

	Over the past eight years, the number of children who've been immunized has dropped 20 percent.  And the incidence of diseases like mumps and measles has gone up.  For the first time in recent history, there has been an increase in the number of babies born with dangerously low birth weights  babies born too small, babies born malnourished, babies who are born forty times more likely to die during their first year of life than other babies.

	My dad was a doctor, and, when I was growing up, he talked about the principle that every doctor lives by:  "Above all, do no harm."  I wish someone had told that to George Bush.

	When children and their families have needed a helping hand, Mr. Bush's administration has given them a cold shoulder.  When our time came to stand up for our children's health care needs, George Bush was nowhere to be found.

	But, he was there when his Administration conducted an annual assault on immunization programs.  He was there when they cut the Women, Infants, and Children program that provides nutritional supplements for pregnant women and their babies.  And he was there when they cut off Medicaid for 700,000 children, most of them from working families  children who will have to wait for hours in hospital emergency rooms the next time they are sick or injured.

	George Bush claims he is "almost haunted" by the way some children live in America today, but he says that we can't solve their problems.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I think we can do plenty.  And we will, beginning on January 20, 1988.  And today, I want to share with you our plan to guarantee a healthy start to every American child.

	And, the guiding principle behind our Healthy Start program is that timeless piece of folk wisdom:  An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.

	The cost of prenatal care  care that can prevent an infant from being born with an abnormally low birth weight  can be as little as $400.  But the cost of caring for that person over a lifetime of illness  illness that could be prevented  can reach $400,000.

	The same principle holds true for immunization  we save $10 in treating preventable childhood illnesses for every $1 spent on immunization.

	And Healthy Start is based on real life experience  successful experience.

	Thanks to the vision of people here in Massachusetts like State Representative Richard Voke, and Deborah Prothrow Stith, and, thanks to the hard work of people like the doctors, nurses, and other members of the health care team here at Brigham and Women's Hospital  we know that we can give all of our children, especially those most at risk, a healthy start on life.

	In just twenty months, the Massachusetts Healthy Start program has already served more than 16,000 women and their children.  We've provided early and continuous prenatal care for pregnant women  care that helps keep mother and child well-nourished and healthy.  We've provided these services for women without health insurance  and soon we will see the day when no man, woman, or child in our state is without health insurance.

	This morning, I had the pleasure of meeting with some of the dedicated people who are providing these services  and with some of the women and children whose lives are healthier, happier, and more hopeful because of your efforts.  And we are making a difference  fewer low-birth weight infants; fewer premature births; and, best of all, a lower rate of infant mortality.

	What we have begun to accomplish here, we can  and must  do in all 50 states.

	We're going to reach out to every pregnant woman in the country to make sure they get early and adequate prenatal care.  If we find they're eligible for some form of coverage, we're going to make sure they're enrolled in an insurance plan.  And we're going to make sure that they get to doctors and clinics who are willing and able to provide the care they need.

	If we find they have no health insurance we're going to pay for her care and make sure that care is available.  We won't rest until every expecting mother and her baby can get the healthy start they need and deserve.  That means decent nutrition, prenatal care visits, laboratory and pharmacy services, home visits for high-risk pregnancies and care for mother after she gives birth.

	And, beginning on January 20, 1989, immunizing our children will become a top priority once again  not the first target for budget cuts.  We're going to provide a steady supply of vaccines for our children.  We're going to make sure there are trained personnel to get the job done.

	My friends, it's a time for wonderful new beginnings.

	On or about January 20, John and Lisa expect a new baby.

	And, on January 20, America will have a new Administration.

	I want our Administration to make sure that every baby born in America will have the healthy start in life that Kitty and I want for our first grandchild.

	And it will require the enthusiasm and dedication and work of all of us who care about our nation's future.  Because as president, I'm going to be setting goals for our country; not goals for government working alone; I mean goals for our people working together.

	I'm going to fight to make health insurance available for every working man and woman in our country, but I will also ask all Americans to keep themselves and their children physically fit and healthy.

	I'm going to fight to reassure our older citizens of quality long-term care, but I will also ask all Americans to show toward their aging parents and neighbors the kindness and attention for which no government program can be a substitute.  I'm going to work to expand the opportunity for volunteer services in this nation as well as abroad, but I will also ask young Americans to give something back to the country that has given so much to them, and to accept the obligation as well as the privileges that accompany citizenship in the greatest nation on earth.

	We need more doctors willing to care for those living in inner-city neighborhoods.  We need more citizens willing to work in a hundred different ways in a thousand different communities to enrich the nation, and not just themselves.

	My friends, it's time for us to take charge of our future.  Let's get on with it.

HEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHEALTH CARE--SENIOR CITIZENSHEALTH CARE--CHILDREN/YOUTHHEALTH CARE--PRENATAL/CHILDBIRTHIMMUNIZATIONS--CHILDRENINFANT MORTALITY     Õ  ô  ì  è  á 
 |  w  r  l  _  ]  ]  R 	 ô 	 ~  b  G  '   e: