Speeches\1968\rep\S68r1007.003SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/07STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCPUBLISHERS AND EDITORS OF UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL MEETING, STATLER HILTON HOTEL9246 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Noyes, thank you for your introduction. I look forward to the time when I will again be a regular reader and subscriber to The Washington Star, and the other papers in Washington too. It will be interesting to have that kind of competition. I haven't been used to it in New York for some time.

	But, nevertheless, I also appreciated your reference to my being an underdog. I noted the other day that Mr. Humphrey said that while he was an underdog, that he wasn't going to bite anybody, but that he might bark. I don't know whether I will either bite or bark. All that I can say is that I have been called much worse things than a dog, I can assure you, and so with that I would have no quarrel whatever.

	Now, with regard, however, to the--I noticed the reaction of the audience when the suggestion was made that I was an underdog at least in this campaign, I assume that some of you have been reading the polls and doing what I do not do, and that is believing them. I used to believe in them, but I got over that.

	I saw Mr. Gallup earlier, incidentally. That is no reflection on his honesty. It only has to do with the credibility of those who may be the candidates. But I have also noted some stories, oh, maybe wire service and special stories, to the effect that I might be ahead, Mr. Humphrey might be behind and that he was the underdog rather than I.

	And, of course, you get the crowdsmanship, and on that my press secretary, Mr. Humphrey's press secretary, of course, do their very best to sell to the wire services the best estimate of our crowds so that at least we can get the feeling of momentum that comes from a big crowd. I thought I was doing pretty well. Our crowds have been big. We think enthusiastic. Now and then we get somebody to print that.

	But, nevertheless, insofar as this underdog business, if crowds are any measure of it, I was brought up short yesterday because I saw Mr. Humphrey on television from Detroit. Anybody that can draw 53,000 in the rain is still in the race, you can be sure of that. And so consequently I think that the best procedure at this occasion, because I know you have already heard Mr. Wallace and you are going to hear the Vice President tomorrow, would be to go directly to your questions. Insofar as any news today is concerned, I will, right after this meeting, be seeing General Eisenhower for the first time since the Republican convention.

	I saw him immediately before the convention and, as you recall, that's when he had his very serious heart attack, so I am calling on him for the first time. In that respect, I think you will be interested to note that I have been to the hospital a couple of times and they would never let me in to see him. My daughter Julie, however, went to the hospital. They always let her in.

	And so I asked Mrs. Eisenhower why, and she said, "Well, if you went in to see him, Dick, he'd get all stirred up, he'd want to fight or do something," not fight with me, of course, but fight somebody else. So that does show you that the young and the young at heart, with all that they have to offer, can be a great inspiration to those who may be very seriously ill. And on that score, of course, we can all agree that we wish him the very best and we are glad to see that he has had this remarkable recovery.

	With that we will go directly to your questions and we will take them from the floor as they come along.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, this morning Merriman Smith said that you have not faced the issues and given any details as to what you would do. Is that a correct statement?

	NIXON: Could you repeat that again? I didn't quite get it.

	Q: He said in effect that you are not giving any detailed answers to the problems that await the next president of the country.

	NIXON: Well, why don't you try me. Which issue would you like to know about?

	Q: Do you have anything specific to recommend in South Vietnam?

	NIXON: I perhaps have been the most consistent critic of our policy in Vietnam, going back over a period of four years. I have criticized our military policy. I believe that we used our military power ineffectively by applying it gradually rather than effectively.

	I have criticized our diplomatic policy. I believe we have not adequately before and even now enlisted the Soviet Union in--on the side of the peace forces rather than on the side of those forces that keep the war going.

	I have been critical particularly of the failure of the administration to understand the true nature of this war, the fact that it is not a conventional military struggle but that it is one primarily for people rather than territory, and thereby not putting the emphasis that should have been put on pacification, on all of the areas of the non-military struggle that are economic and social and otherwise, and I have covered that in great detail in great numbers of speeches.

	I have also indicated criticism of the administration's policy insofar as its information is concerned in Vietnam. I believe that it has failed adequately to inform the American people, the world, as to what our policies are, why we are there, what our objectives are.

	I think all of these failures have contributed to delaying an end to the war, and I believe that had these criticisms been adhered to or at least paid attention to by the administration that the war would have been ended before now.

	Now, as far as any indication of what we should do now, I will reiterate what I have said over and over again in answer to that question. I could stand up here and say that I believe that our negotiators in Paris should agree to this or that or the other thing, and the moment I said that it would destroy their chance to negotiate any kind of settlement.

	I was briefed this morning for an hour by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State told me that there was no significant change insofar as the Paris negotiations were concerned. He indicated in addition to me, incidentally, that the dope stories that appeared in several papers that I will not name specifically, but that most of you have read, to the effect that Mr. Harriman and to the effect that Mr. Vance were pushing for an unconditional bombing halt, that those were completely inaccurate, that they were fabrications.

	He indicated that it was still, however, the hope of the Administration that they might be able to make some progress in the negotiations before the election. Now, with that kind of information presented to me by the Secretary of State and also by the President of the United States--and I think very candidly and very honestly, and on that point I will have to be the judge--I simply do not think it would be responsible for me as a potential president, just as Hubert Humphrey is a potential president, to say that I would do this or that in the event the negotiations fail.

	If they do fail, in the event that the war is still on in January, then I think you can gather from my criticisms of past policy what I would do, what I would not do. I would mobilize not simply one string in the bow, the military, with primary emphasis on that, I would put far greater emphasis on the non-military aspects which are so essential in settling a war of this kind.

	I would put far greater emphasis, as the present command in Vietnam is now beginning to do, on the training of the South Vietnamese to fight their own battles and on giving the South Vietnamese people other than the military something to fight for rather than something simply to be against.

	I would broaden the diplomatic table to include more in the negotiations than presently are negotiated. I would stand for, as I have indicated previously, for a peace that was generous. I would oppose the imposition by negotiation of a coalition government on South Vietnam. However, I would support the proposition that any individual in South Vietnam who gave up the use of force and who agreed to accept the democratic processes would be allowed both to vote and to participate in government.

	None of these are new positions. But since apparently UPI hadn't reported my earlier positions. I am glad to give them to you now.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, the candidates have been using the term "an honorable end to the war." Could you give a definition of what is meant by an honorable end of this war or any war?

	NIXON: The word "honor" to me, in the case of this war, means the kind of a settlement which will discourage this kind of war in the future and which will increase the possibilities of peace in Southeast Asia and in the Pacific for the foreseeable future, and we would hope for the balance of the century.

Now, by a dishonorable settlement, and perhaps I can get at it better that way, I would consider it to be a dishonorable settlement for the United States under any kind of a subterfuge, simply to pull out, and I think that kind of a settlement, while it would be accepted with great relief by millions of Americans who would see 500,000 boys coming home, that it would inevitably encourage not only the North Vietnamese but, more significant than that, the hard-liners, shall we call them the hawks, who presently seem to be rising to the ascendancy in Moscow, the hawks who are in command in Peking, to try this kind of aggression someplace else.

	I believe that if this war can be ended on the basis where South Vietnam can determine its own future, as I say, a generous peace, not the destruction of North Vietnam, not conquering North Vietnam, I would even agree--and I think any president should agree--if they would agree to take hands off of South Vietnam, to help them rebuild their shattered industries and their life.

	But, on the other hand, a settlement which respects the territorial and, more than that, the right--the territorial integrity but also the political integrity of South Vietnam to choose their own way, that would be an honorable settlement. And the honor that is involved, I again insist, is not simply the honor that the United States is in a fight and we can't lose a fight. That is something too, because, this would be the first war we would have lost and it would affect our credibility around the world. But the honor also that is involved is whether or not this war is going to be one that will discourage future wars in that area or which may increase the danger of such wars. That is the key point and that is the factor that I would have in mind in determining what kind of a settlement I would agree to.

	Within that framework, I would have very great running room.

	Q: I am wondering if you would address yourself to the question not of law and order which is much bandied about, but of justice and order.

	NIXON: Yes. First let me make one thing very clear. I don't go along at all with the fashionable opinion that law and order is a code word for racism. I stand very firmly for law and order. I believe that fear stalks the ghetto as well as it does the suburbs. I believe that black Americans as well as white Americans are vitally interested in seeing to it that the laws are enforced, that they are enforced in a way to protect them in their homes, in their shops, and in their lives as it is for white Americans.

	And I do not in one moment, in moving to justice and order, not for one moment do I go along with the line that we should not talk about law and order. That is an honorable line provided it is understood properly and is not understood simply in terms of saying law and order means law and order as it affects Negro crime.

	One other thing I should make on that point. When we talk about the crime wave in the United States, it is far bigger than the riots that have occurred in 300 cities, that have taken 200 lives and 7,000 injured. The crime wave in the United States primarily is the result of organized crime, and very few Negroes are involved in it. Most of them, actually, are those that suffer from organized crime.

	You look at the narcotics and the numbers and the rest, it's the poor and particularly the urban poor and the Negro poor who have suffered the most.

	Pardon me for the long digression, but now to justice and order. I have said over and over again in my acceptance speech and in virtually every speech that I have made in the North and the South, that if laws are to be respected, they must deserve respect. And that means that the men who enforce them must enforce them fairly, the laws must be laws that fall equitably on all people within the population, and I, of course, use the term justice in a broader sense.

	When we talk about those great masses of Americans who have no hope, who live not only in the cities but many of them live in rural America, the rate of unemployment, for example, and the rate of poverty in rural America, as we know, is higher than that in urban America. But when we look at those great numbers of people, unless they have justice in the broadest sense, and that means hope, a chance to break out, break out and up, you are not going to be able to simply repress their frustrations and the rest, no matter how many police you have, no matter how many laws you have, no matter how much force you apply.

	And so that is why, while we on the one hand should have order, because without order we cannot have progress and we cannot have justice, we on the other hand must have progress and justice because in the long run without progress and justice you cannot have order. That's my definition.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, I want to get back to the matter of Vietnam, not to switch things around, but that was my question.

	NIXON: That's all right, sure.

	Q: You used the terms "gradually" and "effectively," indicating that we are somehow not fighting effectively over there and perhaps are utilizing our forces too gradually. Do you mean that the forces there are not being used effectively enough, or do you mean that perhaps we need an escalation of forces?

	NIXON: What I was referring to was what we were doing in the past. And as you may have noted, those who have been covering me, the terms that I have made, the recommendations that I have made with regard to military force, were made in 1965 and 1966, at a time that the decision before the United States was whether to bomb at all, and, second, how to apply it.

	In my view it was a grave mistake to apply--to use this awesome power, the power of our air power, to use it on a gradual basis, because as you increase the level of pain on a gradual basis, the level of tolerance increase to the same extent. And, as a matter of fact, I would not have dropped any bombs, I would have used no air power at all, before using it effectively diplomatically. And by that I mean many times in international affairs you will find that the existence of power, the possibility of using power, is far more effective in bringing a conflict to a negotiated settlement than using it.

	At the present time, just so that we can outline it, I have always opposed the use of nuclear power. I have always opposed what I would call area bombing in North Vietnam. I believe that any air power should be, and I have always said, used against only military targets. That has been my view.

	At the present time, as you know, 90 percent of the bombing has been discontinued. The 10 percent that is now being continued is for tactical military purposes to protect the forces in the DMZ zone. I would not raise that level of bombing.

	I believe that that is, however, the trump card in the negotiations, and I would not give up that trump card unless we were to in return get from the North Vietnamese some kind of evidence, some move on their part, that they would de-escalate their assaults on American men. When we talk, for example, about bombing, sometimes we say--you get the argument, stop the bombing. Our interest is in stopping the war. And if by stopping the bombing it contributes to stopping the war, that is one thing. If by stopping the bombing it simply raises the number of Americans who will be killed, that is something else again.

	My view is we should stop the bombing when whoever is president is convinced it will result in less American lives lost rather than more American lives lost. That's the key point.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, you spoke about crime as being broader than the protest and the riots and violence, the demonstrations that we have had. I presume you are referring to murder and rape and armed robbery and those things which are presently only violations of state laws.

	Are you saying that the states have failed to enforce these laws and would you propose then that we have national legislation making these things against the law so that the national government could move in?

	NIXON: I would not propose national laws, except where, under the constitution, you could, of course, put the crime in the category of a national crime, one that involved the national or federal interest. And you are absolutely right, basically when we talk about robbery and rape and the other crimes that have been escalating in such enormous degrees, these are primarily under the jurisdictions of the states and of the counties and of local government.

	But the federal government has a very major role. The federal government has the role of leadership, and that is why I have recommended the setting up of a National Council on Law Enforcement, and that would be the cabinet officers, including the attorney general of course, including other cabinet officers that might have an interest, a National Council on Law Enforcement, which would develop the leadership and the example for the local governments that is needed.

	That is why I have recommended in addition to that a national clearing house for the assimilation of data from all over the country, because in many local communities they have made real progress in this area, it simply isn't known.

	That's why I have also recommended as have many others block grants to the states so that more money could be used to raise the pay of those involved in law enforcement, developing, in addition to the new procedures that are necessary if we are going to deal adequately with it.

	In addition to that I believe the federal government can set an example particularly with regard to prison reform. When we look at lawbreaking, 60 percent of all of those who leave prison commit a crime again within two years. And in terms of prison reform, most of the United States is still in the dark ages.

	In this case the federal government, through the federal prison system, I think could set a remarkably good example, and I believe should. And then I should go further. I believe too that in terms of organized crime, organized crime which cuts across state lines, that here the federal government has a primary interest. It has a primary interest, for example, in organized crime as it deals with the problem of narcotics, covering the borders. That's why I would of course step up what we do there.

	The federal government, in the case of organized crime, one of the reasons I would support the use of electronic devices or, putting it quite bluntly, of wire-tapping, a use which the Attorney General, which he opposed and which he still declines to use, I would use it, much as I dislike moving into this area, but because when you are dealing with organized crime, you at least have got to see that the law--that the peace officials are as well equipped with electronic tools as are the criminal forces.

	What I am simply saying in answer to the question is this: I am keenly aware of the fact that this is primarily a local and state responsibility, but I believe that at the federal level that more effective leadership on organized crime, more effective leadership with regard to prison reform, more effective leadership with regard to the development of new procedures to deal with law and order across the country could change the situation considerably.

	Now, I haven't mentioned my attitude toward some very controversial court cases. Let me make one thing very clear. I noticed that--I know that many, perhaps, of the ladies and gentlemen in this room share the views of some critics to the effect that no one should raise a question about a decision of the court, the Supreme Court or any other court.

	I couldn't disagree more. I am a lawyer. I have argued cases before the Supreme Court on two occasions. And I respect that Court and I respect the members of the Court. But I think the minority of the Court in a case like Miranda is right and I think the majority was wrong, and it is my view that the Courts in some of their decisions have weakened the peace forces as against the criminal forces. I believe that that balance must be rectified. These are some of the moves I think should be made.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, there was considerable space and conjecture in the financial section of the New York Times yesterday concerning your letter involving the Securities and Exchange Commission. May I ask, did you personally author that letter?

	NIXON: The letter referred to was one that was prepared by what is called my Key Issues Committee, a very broadly based committee, incidentally. The Governor of Pennsylvania was on Governor Shafer. I don't know whether he was present at the time that this particular item was developed.

	The Key Issues Committee takes into consideration scores of issues--not only gives me recommendations on these, what we call the big problems, Vietnam and crime, law and order and all that kind of thing, but also takes into account the many scores of requests that a candidate gets to comment on specific issues. This was one of them.

	And as far as this particular letter was concerned, it represents my general philosophy. I take a dim view of too much federal intervention in the free market, whether it's in the market in Wall Street or in the market in other areas. Where there are abuses I will see that the law is effectively enforced.

	I recognize this is controversial even in the Wall Street area.

	One thing I should make clear is this. I noted with interest that the letter was supposed to have been secret. Now, if I--I may be a little bit dumb, but if it is secret, I wouldn't have sent it to 3,000 people. And, as a matter of fact, my instructions to my staff for twenty years have been [missing text] assume that any letter could be made public.

	As far as I am concerned, I imagine that scores of letters have gone out on many issues, and any reporter that is interested in finding out what they are can. I should also point out this, that on this particular issue I have had half a dozen press conferences in the last five weeks, and I have--apparently the public interest in the item was not too great because nobody asked me about it. But I assume they will now.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, some of us during the current debate on non-proliferation are reminded of President Eisenhower's warning at the time of his departure from office of the growth of the military-industrial complex dedicated to producing tools of war, and this morning again we heard something from UPI people about what this might mean in terms of escalation.

	I'd be interested in your comments on your own position on non-proliferation, and how we are to avoid this projection into the next stage of escalation if we don't go into a Non-proliferation Treaty.

	NIXON: I favor the Non-Proliferation Treaty. As President of the United States, assuming the treaty will not have been approved by the Senate before that time and provided a certain condition is met which I will describe in a moment, I would urge the ratification of the treaty and I would implement it.

	I do not believe the treaty should be ratified now by the Senate, and the reason I do not believe so was stated very well by Anthony Eden in a recent statement when he said we learned in the thirties the tragic consequences of making new agreements at a time that old ones have been badly abrogated, that this brings only contempt and not progress in the search for peace.

	In my view at a time that the Soviet Union had in effect violated a treaty and the spirit of this treaty by its action in Czechoslovakia, for the United States to move right then to approve a new treaty with the Soviet Union would have been misunderstood by them; it certainly would have been misunderstood in all of Western Europe and I think would have been unwise.

	At a later point when the situation may be more normalized, then I think we should move forward on this and on discussions with the Soviet Union and eventually with other nuclear powers in terms of how we can reduce our military commitments, or, shall we say, our military programs on an inspected basis.

	Now, one other point I should make, however, is this, that at this time I do not believe that the United States can afford to accept the concept of parity with the Soviet Union. I believe that we face a very--a potentially dangerous situation insofar as the next President of the United States is concerned. If he goes into conferences, as he must and should, conferences to negotiate a de-escalation of trouble points around the world, whether in the Mid-East or Vietnam or Western Europe or what have you. If the next President of the United States goes into those conferences with the possibility that the Soviet Union rather than the United States is in a stronger power position, I think that we would not be able to effectively reach the goals that we want to reach.

	I do not mean by that that the United States maintain superiority for the purpose of threatening anybody or waging war. I do mean by that that as you look at today's world, the Soviet Union's goal in the world is somewhat different than ours, strikingly different. They are still in an expansionist stage. Our goal in the world is defensive, to keep the peace.

	And at any kind of negotiation when one side wants to expand and the other thing--side wants to defend, make sure that the side on that negotiation, that negotiation which is in the defensive position, has more strength than the other side. That's why I would restore the strength of the United States, keep it at a proper level at this point, so that we would not be afraid to negotiate.

	I think President Kennedy put it very well in his first Inaugural, better than anybody else has put it, when he said we should never fear to negotiate and never negotiate from fear. And at this time the United States is reaching a position where we might negotiate from fear.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, when Governor Wallace started out, he said there was only about a dime's worth of difference between the two major candidates--Joe Nixon from Wabash, Indiana--he said there wasn't a dime's worth of difference--

	NIXON: Find them anywhere.

	Q: Right. Even in Indiana. Mr. Humphrey was asked this question and he took up the issue of Social Security and he made it very clear of the differences between you and him on this issue. What is the difference between what you are saying and what Mr. Humphrey is saying on a resolution of the situation in Vietnam?

	NIXON: Well, the difference is that over these past four years when I have criticized the military conduct of the war, when I have criticized the pacification effort, when I have criticized the failure to involve the Soviet Union in a diplomatic effort, Vice President Humphrey has consistently defended everything the administration has done. He has never criticized anything in the past, he does not criticize anything now, and so the point is you have one man who helped to make the policy, who has defended it every bit of the way, who is tied into it and who basically will be tied to that policy, will have it like an albatross around his neck, if, in my view, if he has to negotiate in the future.

	On the other hand, you have a man who has criticized the policy in all the areas that I have indicated, who will not be tied to the mistakes of the past, who will have more running room, more freedom of action, and can bring in a new team and a fresh approach. That's the basic difference.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, there has been much criticism over the year about the Selective Service System and its inequalities, if they exist. Would you please go into what your views are upon the Selective Service System, its structure, the personnel in it and what changes you would make if you are elected president?

	NIXON: Well, very briefly, I have spoken in the last year on twenty-two college and university campuses. I have often had this question, and generally from graduate students who are affected, and I understand how they feel, by the fact that the Selective Service System happens to hit them at a time that is very difficult in their lives. And I would have to admit that the Selective Service System, the draft, is unfair. It was unfair in World War II, it was unfair in Korea, and so is life. Life is unfair. And I only wish that I had a very easy answer to it where I could say that, well, we will change all that, but if you move the draft away in one area, then you make it unfair for somebody else.

	My own view with regard to the Selective Service System, provided the war in Vietnam is still going on, that it is better to--in filling your draft quotas to move to those at the younger ages rather than those in the older ages. In other words, right after high school and before college, rather than to hit the fellow or the girl who has finished college and is in graduate school because the longer they go on, they become married or they get other obligations, the more difficult the burden is for them.

	Looking to the future, beyond Vietnam, I have advocated as most of you are probably aware, a move from the draft in terms of any future obligations the United States must have, to a volunteer service. Now, I am keenly aware of the fact that this is going to involve money, perhaps an increase of $3 billion in order to raise the amounts paid to those who may be--who you are trying to attract into the services.

	I am also aware of the fact that some military men believe that it would not bring enough men to fill our needs. But I would point this out. As I look at the last third of this century and the military needs of the United States and the kind of war we are going to be in, I think that the situation has changed considerably from what it was twenty years ago and certainly from what it was before World War II when the draft system was set up.

	If war comes, and we all of course are going to do everything we can to avoid it in the last third of the century, it will either be nuclear, which will not require vast numbers of men, or it will be guerrilla, and the conventional type of citizen army out of a draft is not the right kind to have for a guerrilla war, what you need in Vietnam.

	This is one of the areas that I would look at very carefully, what we need in Vietnam or in any future guerrilla war, if we ever become involved in one, is a highly trained permanent professional military who can handle the military side of it, and a highly trained volunteer nation-building corps on the other side.

	Take the 500,000 men that are in Vietnam. About a third of them are involved in nation-building activities. Now, they do very well, considering their backgrounds. But they aren't adequately trained for that. So that's why I say that we should move, as one of the peace dividends after Vietnam, toward a volunteer service, a volunteer professional service, plus a volunteer nation-building service to--which would be more relevant to the needs of the United States in the years ahead.

	And naturally you would have to have, of course, the standby of a draft in the event that that was not adequate in the event of a crisis.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, first of all, let me say The Nashville Banner publisher, James V. Starr, editorially endorsed you today on the front page.

	NIXON: Well that balances the New York Times.

	Q: My question, do you feel that stricter regulations are needed governing the use of passports whether it be a protester, a militant, what have you, sir?

	NIXON: In terms of the right to travel abroad, it seems to me that where the individual involved has definitely set himself against the United States, he has in effect opted to be for an enemy or potential enemy of the United States, that the United States is under no obligation to provide the means for him to travel abroad and to work against the interest of the United States.

	I would strictly enforce that kind of a proposition. Generally speaking, I am--I would be quite liberal with regard to the issuance of passports. If somebody is a, shall we say, a Socialist or a Marxist or a Communist and wants to go abroad to make speeches, that is one thing. But if they are going abroad for the purpose of advocating policies that are directly against that of the United States, particularly when we are involved in a war, that is something else again.

	Q: And bring about the lifting of the passports, should it happen, once they were abroad, right, sir?

	NIXON: Yes.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, I was interested, if you care to comment from your position of advantage on the present electoral system that we have and the present convention system. A great many of our young people find themselves in a state of frustration, properly or not, over the convention system on the one hand and the electoral vote system on the other. Would you specifically favor a popular primary for the nomination of the president and would you favor a change perhaps to the percentage basis on the electoral votes?

	NIXON: Referring to the latter part of our question first, for many years I have favored--and, incidentally, your former senator from Massachusetts was the man who convinced me this was right, Senator Lodge--when Cabot was in the Senate, he developed along with a member of the House, George Smathers, a scheme--I say a scheme, it was a proposition--whereby the electoral vote in each state would be proportioned, divided proportionately, according to the popular vote.

	To use an example, in 1960 in the state of Illinois, instead of Kennedy getting all of the electoral votes of Illinois, he would have gotten one more than Nixon. And then the other way around, in California in 1960, Nixon, instead of getting all the electoral votes of California as he did in the Electoral College, he would have gotten only one more than Kennedy. I favor that proposition. I think that the Electoral College is really obsolete. The Electoral College was set up at a time when the thirteen states had various other interests, you read the Federalist Papers, and go into all the background.

	We don't need to do it now, but I think you could make--it's very hard to wrench the Constitution and change it too dramatically. I think you could certainly make this step whereby the Electoral College would represent a proportionate breakdown and that would mean that everybody's vote then thereby counted. He wouldn't feel in a state, if he came very close, that he wasn't going to count or in a state where it was overwhelmingly one party or the other, that he didn't need to bother to go. It would help the two-party system all over the country in my opinion, if this were done.

	Now, with regard to the nominating process, well, right now I don't want to knock it, as far as I am concerned. I would put it this way. I think that anybody who enters the primaries, who submits his case to the people, ought to be nominated, and somebody who doesn't enter the primaries ought to be defeated. That's the way I put it.

	Q: The question was raised a minute ago about answering in generalities, and you asked for a specific question. I thought that your answer to the young gentleman on the abolishment of the draft or the changes in draft was pretty general. You suggested that it should be considered changing to drafting men in the younger years rather than at graduate student level? As president would you direct that the draft change its process in this way?

	NIXON: As president, I would first consult with the military as to what our needs were. I would also see whether those needs could be filled by following that proposition, and if they could, I would so direct.

	But I am not going to stand here and say that as president in order to satisfy this young man who may be a graduate student, that I am going to direct it right now.

	As president of the United States has the responsibility not to just make policy off the cuff before either UPI or AP. He has the responsibility, as all of you ladies and gentlemen know, they look into all the facts, see what the interests of the United States require, and then to make a decision.

	But if I found, if I found that this objective that I have, this general objective, could be achieved through a change in the draft in that way, I would so move. If it could not be achieved, I would not so move. The first consideration has got to be to maintain our draft--our armed forces at an adequate amount until we can bring the war in Vietnam to a conclusion.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, one more from Pennsylvania. You mentioned the necessity of negotiating from a position of strength and maintaining our military superiority which is the same position by the way that Governor Wallace took this morning. Does this simply mean, if you accept the premise as valid, that the Soviet Union will also want to negotiate from a position of strength. Does this just simply mean a mutual escalation of terror deterrence?

	NIXON: The Soviet Union already has moved in this direction, as you, of course, are aware. The advantage that we had in missiles of approximately nine to one at the time of the Cuban missile crisis has now evaporated, in terms of ground-based missiles the Soviet Union will catch us next year and will pass us unless there is some shift in our policy.

	In terms of the antiballistic missile system they are far ahead of us, and in terms of fighter planes, as you noted in your UPI dispatches on Sunday in terms of fighter planes, the Soviet Union has eight new models, we have one. So in all of these areas that's the answer to your question. Yes, the Soviet Union as a great power believes that its interests will be served by coming to the conference table in a stronger position than we are.

	What I am suggesting is this, that first the United States and the Soviet Union and the leaders of these two countries must sit down and negotiate. I have proposed, as you probably are aware, that we should have a series of summit meetings after we have, we hope, put together as best we can our NATO alliance again on some new basis. We should have a series of summit meetings with the Soviet Union.

	Now, if the United States goes into those meetings in a position that appears to the Soviet that we have accepted an inferior position, then I would say we would not be in a position to negotiate effectively in achieving the reduction of tension around the world that we want achieved.

	I think that the United States must maintain at this time, and until we get some understandings with the Soviet, we must maintain our military strength at a level so that we can talk equally with them; and I would hope from a superior standpoint. They will be trying to do exactly the same thing, but if you are going to have talks, be sure that the President of the United States does not have somebody who is on the offensive looking down his throat. That's what I want to see.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, you have indicated by your comments, specifically on the draft and Vietnam today, that any candidates for president must reserve options in case he is elected. If this is true, and all the candidates do this, on what grounds do the voters make their decisions before the election?

	NIXON: The voters make their decision as they did in 1952 on the basis of the judgment of the man. General Eisenhower didn't indicate in 1952 how he would end the war in Korea. He did indicate that he thought that the conduct of the war had been less than perhaps what he would have recommended. He did indicate disagreement in other areas.

	I think that while the American people had great respect for Mr. Stevenson in many areas, they eventually reached the conclusion on that critical issue that if General Eisenhower were president, with his background not only in the military, and I add this, but particularly as a great diplomat in putting together the NATO alliance or at least working with the NATO alliance, that he might better be able to bring the war to a conclusion. And I think as far as the American people are concerned, they are going to judge the candidates on the basis of their experience, on their background and on the basis of their candor in talking to the--in talking to these issues.

	I do not believe that the American people--let's suppose that Mr. Nixon and Mr. Humphrey and Mr. Wallace each were to come up with what we would settle for in Vietnam. I would seriously doubt that the American people could make the judgment as to what really ought to be done. I think that has to be done at that time, having in mind the situation then, by whoever is president.

	And I should also point out one other thing, that it isn't simply a case of a presidential candidate not doing anything that would destroy the current negotiations, but when you look to January--this is September--and the situation then, our military situation may have improved--I think it will have improved. The situation with regard to South Vietnam may have improved.

	The government of South Vietnam may be stronger then. They may be able to undertake a greater part of their own defense then. We might be able to agree to much more then than we would now. And I do not believe a presidential candidate now should say, "This is what I will do in January."

	I believe that if we really want peace, that what we have to make clear is, as I have, I have outlined the areas of running room that we have, things I would not do or do, but then you have to respect the man, look at him, look at his judgment and his background, and base your decision on which man you would rather have sitting at that conference table directing those negotiations and which one you think can best bring the war to a successful conclusion.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, this morning, to change the subject--this morning Governor Wallace practically accused you of saying one thing in the North and a different thing in the South, particularly on school busing. Would you care to comment on that?

	NIXON: I said exactly the same thing in both North and South, and I campaigned in 1960 in the North and South, in fact, in all fifty states, and I have this time. In every state that I have campaigned in in the South, and this is true of North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida--those are the southern states that I have been in to date--and every one--I have talked about law and order as raised a little earlier here, and I have always said that it is necessary to have justice and this opportunity for people, black and white, to move up. Every speech is there, and the record will so show it.

	With regard to the school situation, what I said in North Carolina and what I have said in Detroit when I was on a television program is the same.

	Basically, it is this: I believe that the Brown versus the Board of Education was a sound position. I believe that where any school plan, call it "freedom of choice" or anything else, is found to be a subterfuge for segregation, that federal funds cannot be provided for that plan. I have said that and I said it in North Carolina.

	But the other side of the coin is that I also believe that the--I disagree with Commissioner Howe of the Office of Education with the statement he made in 1966, and I quote him, where he said that the primary purpose of building schools is social and economic integration. I disagree with that completely. The primary purpose of building schools is education. And if he looked at the law, as I have, quite carefully, Title IV of the law provides that while funds should be denied in the event--while funds should be granted without regard to race, creed or color, in other words, no segregation it goes on to say that there shall be no requirement of racial balance, of overcoming racial balance. In other words, compulsory integration.

	And, being quite candid, I oppose busing, I oppose it not because I do not--not because I favor segregation, but because I am against it, but because I am for primarily education. And I believe that when you pick up children who are two or three years behind children in another area and cart them across town into a different neighborhood, you don't help their education, you hurt it.

	These are the views that I have and these are the views that I will implement with the Office of Education or any other agency that I have. In other words, putting it quite directly, and the South doesn't like this either, this will probably not satisfy the extremes on either side, federal funds should be withdrawn to any school plan which is found to be for the purpose of segregation.

	On the other hand, I do not believe that federal funds should be withheld on the basis of some person in Washington who is trying to act as a member of a local school board as to what the proper balance should be in a school district.

	I think we've got to leave that to local school boards and that--unless we find that they are deliberately perpetuating and following a segregationist line, that the funds should be allowed.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, it is alleged that Mr. Agnew has put his foot in his mouth once or twice during the campaign. Are you satisfied that he is systematically advancing the Republican campaign?

	NIXON: Well, of course, as you are aware, I selected Mr. Agnew. I think that first in terms of his background that he is one who, because of his ten years of experience in county government, because of his experience as a governor of a state, because of his background in the law, that he has the judgment, the character, the guts, to be an effective vice president, and if it should happen, an effective president of the United States. I stand by him. I think that as time goes on and as the press gives him a very honest look, as I am sure of course the press will, I am sure that what will happen is that Governor Agnew will wear very well. And I would urge all of you in your local areas, go to his press conferences, listen to him on television. I think you will find that here is a man who has the quality, the qualities that I saw in him.

	If, on the other hand, you simply read him through the minds of others, that would be something else again. I had great confidence in him when I selected him. That confidence has not been shaken. He is going to play a major role in the administration, particularly in this field of the cities where his views are very progressive, very progressive in terms of building peripheral cities, the city of Columbia in Maryland, for example, and very progressive in terms of welfare. He believes that we should have a national welfare standard so that we can take the pressure off of people in states where welfare payments are less, flooding into the cities. I think that in all of these areas he is going to add a great deal to the administration.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, there has been a great deal of speculation about commitments you supposedly have made of prospective cabinet members. Do these speculators know something that the rest of us don't?

	NIXON: I haven't even promised ambassador to Chad, believe me. This is one of those rather--I say--I don't say this as any self-serving statement because sometimes men in order to get nominations have to make certain promises. I understand that. But I was very fortunate in getting this nomination because I did enter the primaries and because my--I came out of Oregon with a pretty big lift. From the time of the Oregon primary I was certain that I was going to be nominated, and consequently I have made no commitments whatever, and I can go further. I haven't even discussed being in a Cabinet with anybody who has been suggested in the Cabinet. I have been very complimented by some of the names that have been suggested.

	I will tell you the kind of people I will expect to have. It will be a "Big League Cabinet." I would hope that in the Cabinet would be some of the top political figures, governors, for example, that I have met. I would hope that in the Cabinet would be some of the top educational figures that I have had the opportunity to meet. Business, from the field of business. I think, too, I would like to have a Cabinet which would represent both parties. I think the Republicans ought to have a little edge, but we will have bipartisan representation in the cabinet, because I think we need to pull the country together and to unite it.

	I have some ideas as to some I would like to talk to after November 5th if we win the election, but it would be very presumptuous to try it now.

	Another thing, too, I am very interested in winning the election, and I remember what happened in 1948 when there was talk about--by--apparently by some of Governor Dewey's staff that he had selected his cabinet. And that was bad luck. And right now, I am not taking any chances.

	MR. NOYES: Mr. Nixon, if you will pardon this ghostly voice from the rear, if we are not to upset your schedule for the rest of the day, I should point out there is time for just one more question.

	Q: Mr. Nixon, why do you say, sir, back with regard to Vietnam, why do you say that you believe our military position there will have improved by January?

	NIXON: Because I think it's improving now. I base this on the briefings that I have had. And I believe that General Abrams and the leadership in Vietnam--and again I haven't been there myself, as you know, within the last year, but from the reports I have received, General Abrams and the military believe that their position has substantially improved over the past few months vis-a-vis the enemy. If that is the case, I see no reason why that edge shouldn't continue to move up. And if it does move up that, of course, will strengthen the bargaining position of whoever happens to be president of the United States the next time around.
BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONCABINET APPOINTMENTSCRIME--GENERALEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSELECTORAL COLLEGEGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALMILITARY RECRUITMENT--COMPULSORYMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)ORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSRACE RELATIONSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)SUPREME COURTVIETNAM WAR          
    } i g   U	 	 	 	 	 }	 Y	 H	 -	 	  	  	  	  	 _ 	 Q 	 3 	  	  e: