Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1023.006SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/23STUMPERIEPENNSYLVANIAPA1,401 WORDS

	Mr. Kinder, Mayor Flatelli and my friends of Erie: I have been told many times during this campaign that I was talking over the heads of the people, but this is the first time I have been sure of it.

	I am glad to be in Pennsylvania at last. It seems to me that just a few minutes ago I was speaking in New York at Dunkirk, and in a few minutes from now I am going to be speaking in Ohio. I must say I am getting a little dizzy. But perhaps that isn't a very discreet thing for a candidate for president to say. I will just say I am slightly geographically confused at the moment.

	We are in the last lap, as you all well know, of the 1952 presidential campaign. It is only twelve days now until we, who are the people of the United States, must make a fateful choice--a choice between retreating into isolation and reaction, or going forward under the banner of social progress that the Democratic party has flown since the days of Franklin Roosevelt.

	This has been a long campaign. Perhaps the issues have sometimes seemed to you not too clear. But the facts of the matter are clear and they are very simple. Two, I suppose, are basic to all of us--your prosperity and the world's peace. They can't be separated; either we have both, or we have neither.

	Since both parties say that they stand for peace and prosperity, it seems to me important to look at the record at what the two parties have really done. The modern Democratic record begins twenty years ago. Twenty years ago we were a nation in darkness. As a result of the Great Depression, many factories were empty and many fields were fallow. This was a tragedy that confronted the Democratic party when it came to office in 1933. It began a barrage of actions designed to release and to restore the energies and the individual capabilities of all Americans. 

	We established the right of collective bargaining to give labor an equal chance. We instituted great programs, like rural electrification, so that millions of families could have the labor-saving boons of electricity; and so, incidentally, that the great electrical products turned out in Erie, for example, among other cities, would have wider and wider acceptance and markets. We set under way programs like the TVA whereby whole great regions would benefit by cheaper power, cheaper transportation costs, and the control of floods. We brought programs of soil conservation and irrigation to whole parched areas of the United States so that more food could be raised and more acres put into production. We set in motion the great idea of reciprocal trade to start up again international trade which had been smothered by the Republican Smoot-Hawley Tariff. We undertook a series of actions for the support of farm prices to bring into better relation what the farmer has to pay for what he buys, and what he gets for his production. We set up programs to broaden and to widen home ownership, to create more and better housing in America, broader and more active systems to protect the people's health and to make more hospital beds available to those who needed them. A program of social security for the benefit of the nation's senior citizens so that they could look forward to retirement in dignity and without want.

	And this is only a part of this record. It is written in full in our lives.

	Against this, my friends, is the Republican record--almost without exception--of unremitting to all of these things. One by one, they call them all, regimentation, enslavement, creeping socialism. Against constructive deeds they offered us only empty words; against a full program, they offered us empty gestures. And what about peace? The record here is quite clear. The men who are in control of the Republican party today--the men of the Old Guard who have captured the Republican candidate, if I may put it that way--have learned little in these intervening decades. They are, apparently, willing, even today to let Europe collapse. But something more than blustering words is necessary to block the Kremlin plan for world dominion. Their leader and spokesman, Senator Taft, said in 1939, "I do not claim that a world dominated by Hitler and Stalin would be a pleasant world to live in but I do not see why they should threaten the safety of the United States." The senator and those who follow him still, I am afraid, do not see. They still refuse to recognize that if we are to win our battle against world Communism, we must have good friends and strong allies abroad. We are not self-sufficient; we cannot go it alone and we should not, even if we could.

	Many of the people of this city--this city of Erie--have come to our shores from Europe during the last quarter century. To all of such men and women--as to all thinking men and women everywhere--this attitude of isolation, this treatment of Europe as if it were just a poor relation of the United States is not only an insult but it is a deadly danger to our country.

	Now, the Democratic leaders who fashioned our foreign policy know that a Europe overrun by Communism is not just a tragedy for Europe but a tragedy in Pennsylvania, in Ohio, a blow that would stagger the whole of free America.

	Now, I have sketched, my friends, these records on these momentous issues of prosperity and peace quickly and over simply. I appreciate that. I can only say, in view of the limited time at my command, that your votes will be of vital importance to America and to the world on November 4th. And it is with all of the earnestness that I can command that I hope and pray that you will vote, and if you vote for us and if I should be entrusted with this appalling responsibility of leadership of our country in these perilous times, I am bold enough to ask of you your sympathetic understanding, your forbearance, and, most of all, your prayers.

	And I am bold enough, if I may, to ask one further thing, and that is that you send to the Congress of the United States the Democratic candidate from this district, Clinton Bell, and that you send to the Senate of the United States, which also will be charged with some of the most monstrous responsibilities in our entire history, Judge Guy Barr to take the place of Senator Martin.

	I am deeply grateful to every one of you who have paid us the courtesy, done us the honor of coming out here to listen to us this morning. This is a long and a weary and a very gratifying experience that has fallen to my lots. I wish we could stay longer; I wish I could discuss with greater deliberation some of the problems that confront you, but unhappily, we are already behind our schedule today.

	I can think of--speaking of "behind our schedule"--a story that happened to me during the war when I was assistant to the Secretary of the Navy in Washington, and a Russian officer, in the early days, representing the Russian Lend-Lease Mission, came in to complain that we were behind in the schedule of the delivery of certain essential munitions to the Arctic Russian Port of Murmansk--some of you may have traveled that ghastly Arctic convoy to the North Russian ports in those early days of the war when we were losing ships so rapidly, when the life of an American sailor in those frigid waters was about six or seven minutes. Well, as he complained about our delays, I asked the officer what the circumstances were, and he explained that the Russians had been several months behind schedule in delivering us the shipping instructions. And I said that to him, and whereupon the Russian officer got red in the face, apoplectic, and struck the desk with his fist, and said, "But Mr. Stevenson, I came here to complain not about my behind but about your behind."

	So lest they complain about our schedule, I must bid you farewell with my profound and heartfelt thanks for coming here.



COMMUNISMELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESISOLATIONISM     m 9 3 / '
       þ þ ó	 b 	 Y 	 5 	  e: