Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0913.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/13STUMPPITTSBURGHPENNSYLVANIAPAWILLIAM PENN HOTEL1,888 WORDS

	Thank you very much, the soon to be elected U.S. senator from Pennsylvania--Joe Clark.

	Mr. Mayor and my good friend, Mr. Stacy, and all those that are here with me tonight, and my fellow citizens, may I just tell you that the mayor and myself and the senator were detained coming to you because I had a very pleasant meeting via telephone with a wonderful man, a gentleman that just came back from Washington after having been out on the campaign route for this past week.  Every night this gentleman and myself spend a few minutes on the telephone but because he had to leave very, very early in the morning, I decided I had better get back to him early tonight.  He has just come back from a good long trip in the Midwest starting out at San Antonio, Texas, first, and moving up through the central state, Midwestern states, and he was giving me a first-hand account, and he is doing a wonderful job, and I want to tell you, good friends, that I promised you if I were selected as the nominee of the Democratic party that I would give you the finest man that I could find as the vice president nominee and I did in Ed Muskie.

	I am going to take just a moment or two to say a word about him because he is going to be very helpful to us here in Pennsylvania, and he is going to be very helpful as he has been for many years to this country.

	Senator Muskie is, as you know, the former governor of the state of Maine twice, two times Democratic elected governor of the state of Maine, and that is no small task.  That makes you almost a miracle man in the beginning.  He broke through.

	They used to say as Maine goes, so goes the nation, and I agree that as Muskie goes, so goes the nation.

	He is a man that has had experience in local government and state government, two terms in the United States Senate.  He is the floor manager and sponsor of the Model Cities legislation, Mr. Mayor, that applies to all of our great cities.  He is the national expert on problems of water pollution and air pollution.  He is the author of the Intergovernmental Relations Act that ties together all of these great governmental structures of ours into a working partnership.  But more importantly, he is a fine, intelligent, able and experienced man, and I consider it a rare privilege to be his partner.

	We are friends.  He wasn't selected because he came from a state that had a lot of electoral votes.  I think you know that.  He wasn't selected because somebody said in order for you, Mr. Humphrey, to get the nomination, you had better select Ed Muskie.  We didn't have any middle man or any Mr. Fix-it.  There were no Strom Thurmonds in my arrangements.

	He was selected for one reason.  He is able.  He is competent.  He is a man of integrity and a man of great intellectual attainment.  And I venture to say that whatever difficulties Joe Clark and I have--and we are both rather rambunctious fellows on occasion--that both of us would stand here and agree day in and day out, twenty-four hours a day, that whatever mistakes Hubert Humphrey made, that I may have made, that I surely didn't make one when I suggested to the Democratic Convention that Edmund Muskie would strengthen this ticket and Edmund Muskie would make a great vice president and if need be Edmund Muskie would make a great president for this country.

	He has a pretty wife, too.  So do I.

	I regret that Muriel isn't with me tonight.  She loves to come to Pittsburgh but one of our friends, one of our reporter-friends, was asking me a moment ago where is she and I said, "Well Mrs. Humphrey frankly has a cold," and really, she has laryngitis.  You would think I would be the guy coming down with that as much as I like to talk, but maybe it is better that I be here, and she asks to be forgiven this time for not coming here but she is out on the road next week and I think that she is going to be of great help to me and of great help to our party.

	Now, I want to visit with you just a little bit now about our party, about this election, and then I want to touch, just touch on a few of the key issues.

	My fellow Democrats and those of you that may not be pledged Democrats, let me say to you--I said that I entered this contest first as a contestant for the nomination and now as your nominee in the hopes that I could help bring this party together, this great instrument of social progress called the Democratic party.  And I said that I wanted to do that so that we could help unite our country.

	Now, I do not lay down rules of conduct in allegiance that deny you the chance to be yourself.  Walt Whitman, a great poet, once said "Let each man march to his own music," and I add on to that, "But let's march to a common goal."

	One of the reasons that we are Democrats is because we are really independent people.  We don't lay down the dogma.  There isn't any fixed doctrine.  You don't have to memorize something and say it.  You are in a Democratic party because you feel that in that party there is room for intellectual ferment, for creative ideas, for differences and diversity, and hopefully out of those differences and diversity and ferments that we come up with a better idea.  And that is the way I have always thought and always felt.

	I have been a Democrat all of my adult life and I think there has been no one that has exemplified more in his public life the willingness to take different point of view if I wanted to and if I felt it strongly than myself, and I respect the right of another person to do that.

	Now, we have had some arguments in this party, and boy, they have been pretty hot, and we have had a difficult and a hard-fought convention.  But, my fellow Americans and my fellow Democrats, I would rather have gone through the difficulties of our convention where we argue it out, where we struggled before the credentials committee and the platform committee and the rules committee, where we did it in public, where we showed the convictions that were ours and displayed our sense of purpose and our sense of commitment.  With all of the fanfare and all of the troubles that that seems to cause, I would rather have all of that than to go through the organized boredom and mediocrity which the Republican convention displayed.

	Now, we come to the time where we have to make some choices.  You never have had in your private life or your public life perfect choices.  Every one of us knows that.  I am sure there is many a woman that said why did I ever marry that fellow, and I am sure there has been many a father that said, "How come that one is my son and my daughter, and the daughters and sons have said, "my goodness, why doesn't dad seem to understand me."

	There are all kinds of little differences.  This is as natural as life itself.

	So, we're making choices not out of the infallibility but out of fallibility.  We are making choices out of men and out of political instruments designed by men.

	The work of a political party is not the work of a saint and it never is the work of men of perfection.  Candidates aren't either, even though when you hear us sometimes you maybe think that we are trying to parade ourselves as perfect people.  Well, I am not and I frankly--well, I am not, and I frankly must confess it.  But, I am going to take from this audience tonight of concerned people, not just concerned Democrats, but of concerned people, some questions.

	I am going to ask you, first of all, whether you want this country and the election of this country to be decided on the basis of competition between three candidates where the decisive factor might be a candidate that bases his campaign at least in part upon separatism and segregation.  I don't think you do.  I don't think that the third-party candidate is the candidate that you feel that you want.

	Then, I must ask you do you want to have the national referendum known as an election on the basis of having elected a man who is not a racist but who has seen fit to associate himself politically with the most conservative and the most backward-looking representation of the Republican party on matters of human dignity and human relations and racial relations, and you know of what I speak.

	Do you want to have as president of the United States someone that says hold on, let's not move?  Do you want as president of the United States someone that says, well, I am for it, but?  I am for the treaty, but?  I am for the justice, but...?  I am for this program on housing, but...?

	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that is what you want.  A man that seeks the highest office of this land should at least tell you what he is for, without any ifs, ands, buts or ors.  He should lay it on the line.

	There is a central issue in this campaign, a central issue.  Are we going to have an America that is a divided society, separate and unequal?

	Are we going to have an America that is divided between rich and poor, black and white, urban and rural, northern and southern?

	Are we going to decide this election upon passions and fears and suspicion?  Or, are you going to decide this election on what you believe will unite this country for its highest purposes of producing a fellowship, a community in America, a community of individuals that have learned how to live together as self-respecting and respectful citizens?

	I can't put it any better than it has been placed in words, words that every child knows, and I hope every adult.  We are going to decide whether or not we are going to continue the process of building one nation, under God, indivisible, and with liberty and justice for all.  We are going to decide that.  We are in the process of deciding it now.

	Now, we can halt that process.  We can mark time.  We have done it before.  Or we can say we are ready, we are ready to march ahead.  We are ready to make the great strides forward.  We are ready to heal the wounds of this country.  We are ready to reconcile our differences.  We are ready to open up the gates of our political processes to more participation.  We are ready to call upon every American, and not only call upon them, but to help them help ourselves.

PARTY UNITY/LOYALTYRACE RELATIONSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     ƒ( O( I( E( =(
 1( ,( '( ( ( ( ý' ò'	 ? 	 , 	  e: