Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1007.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/07STUMPYPSILANTIMICHIGANMIMICHIGAN STATE NORMAL UNIVERSITY CAMPUS2,400 WORDS

	Mr. Dawson was good enough to say that I have attempted to talk sense during the campaign. I have, and I attempted to just a little while ago over in Saginaw, but in the hall there were some very young people who shouted, "I like Ike," every few minutes while I was attempting to speak. It reminded me of that wonderful remark of Bernard Shaw--some of you will recall it--that youth is such a wonderful state, it is a pity it has to be wasted on young people. 

	But the fact of the matter is that I like this business of kids wearing Ike buttons who wave at me as I go through the streets or shout at me. After all, I think many of us here--the older ones at least--will recall that their first political consciousness came from national campaigns of this kind. This is, after all, perhaps the last country in the world--or pray God it isn't the last--just one of the last countries in the world where we can enjoy healthy differences of opinion at all ages. 

	Do you remember the remark of that wonderful old Quaker--his name was Rufus Jones--who was addressing a school graduation class one time, and he looked at them and he said, "Seeing all of you happy boys and girls here this morning reminds me of the time when I too was a happy boy and girl." I feel a little that way myself. 

	However, I am now a candidate for the most austere office in the land, and I needn't tell you how proud I am that I head a ticket which includes men like Senator Moody, like Governor Williams, and like your candidate for Congress, John Dawson. 

	After all, you don't need to clap when I say things like that, Governor Williams! 

	Each of these people in his own way, I think, illustrates the fact that the Democratic party constantly changes itself. It always draws into its ranks men of new vitality, of new courage, and men of new vision--all of them dedicated, however, to the same old end of making democracy work. 

	I believe democracy has been the main work of Ypsilanti for a hundred years. For it was exactly--I am told--a hundred years ago this year that this University, Michigan State Normal, was established as the first teachers' college west of the Allegheny Mountains. That interests me a great deal for very personal reasons. It was my own great-grandfather who founded Illinois State Normal University, the first teachers' training college in the state of Illinois. 

	I suppose she is going to tell you that she is an alumna of its first class. But that, my friends--and particularly my feminine friends--was in 1856, just four years after this university was founded. Since then, thousands of men and women who lived here have gone out to prepare the minds of the young everywhere for the rights and the duties of citizenship in a democracy. A democracy, by the way, as many of you know and are learning here in this university, is not only the best but the most difficult form of government that the mind of man has ever contrived; difficult because you have to think for yourself and no one is going to do it for you, unless, of course, you listen to some politicians who have an approach that does not always bear a relationship to what we call "sense." 

	It is unfortunately the case, however, that our teachers and our school system generally throughout our country have suffered from public indifference, I think. The other night in Columbus, Ohio, I said that we pursue the folly of paying the lowest wages, the lowest salaries in many communities of our country--if not all--to those who handle not our goods, not indeed our garbage, but to those who handle our children's education. I could say something very similar about the ministry in this country and the salaries we pay to the people who look after our souls. We have also been inclined to indifference about the quality of our common-school teaching and about the sort of buildings in which our children are taught. 

	I faced this kind of a situation in my own state of Illinois when I succeeded a Republican administration. Illinois, one of the richest states in the union, had one of the lowest ratings for state aid to common-school education in the whole United States. The revival, the strengthening and the doubling in four years of the state's contribution to our common-school distributive fund was one of the most satisfying experiences I have had in my regime as governor of the state of Illinois. We set up a permanent commission to study the needs of our schools, to take school affairs out of the area of lobbying and logrolling. Teachers' salaries were raised, and our common-school system is now stronger than it has ever been, and we did this, my friends, without raising general-purpose taxes in the state of Illinois. 

	Thank you. I thought for a moment that there must be an Illinois taxpayer in the group. 

	The nation, as a whole, has by no means found the final answer yet to the countrywide school problem, but the progress is impressive. Nationally we Democrats have shown our will to find a solution. Non-school attendance by children of school age has been reduced from nine out of every one hundred to two out of every one hundred, while college attendance, as you know, has doubled. 

	Republican pilot, no doubt! 

	But we know that our education problems are going to become more acute and not easier. Within the last twelve years, there has been a tremendous shift in population due, among other things, to the building of new industries for national defense. You here in Ypsilanti know how this taxed your own resources when the vitally important Willow Run plant was built nearby during the war years. We must expect these population movements to continue, with all of their strains on our local communities' facilities. In addition, by 1960 we will have an increase of some 50 percent in the number of youngsters of school age. 

	Our party looks ahead to this as it does in all other fields. We have spelled out in our platform a program of action to meet our present and our future educational needs, but it can only be done consistent with our national solvency and with a sound national fiscal policy, and we explicitly declare that the federal government should not dictate or control educational policy. And we mean that. The Republican platform is entirely negative; it offers no program at all for better education. And the Republicans mean that too. 

	Now, it seems to me--if I can be faintly partisan for a moment--that there are two basic things on people's minds as this election approaches. One is peace and the other is prosperity. 

	And it is clear, too, that the position of the two parties on these issues is exactly the same as it has been for the last twenty years. The Republicans say that they are for peace and prosperity--but they don't want to do anything about it. The Democrats are for peace and prosperity too, and we have been doing something about it and we are going to go on doing something about it. 

	Hurriedly, let me only say of the foreign policy issues in this campaign that they boil down to this difference: the Republicans say--and their record confirms it--that the threat to this country is internal, not external; the first job is to cut taxes rather than to increase defenses. But that policy, my friends, leads to weakness and weakness leads to war. The Democratic position is that we and our friends and our allies must be strong, still stronger than we are today, for in our strength is our one guarantee that the warlords of Russia will not plunge this nation and this world into war again. 

	Whenever I hear one of these Old Guard leaders on the other side talking about cutting taxes, when he knows it means weakening the nation, I always think of that story about the tired old capitalist who was driving alone in his car one day, and finally, he said, "James, drive over the bluff; I want to commit suicide." 

	I think you know what the Democratic party stands for on the domestic issues. Our convictions are written into the statute books of the nation. They are written into our lives. They are written into your jobs, into your system of social security, into your housing, into your education, into the abundance of opportunity that confronts you. 

	And you know too what the Republican party has stood for historically. It stands for a bitter and unrelenting opposition to every important measure of social change during these past twenty years. It stands for a hands-off attitude toward the economic engine. It stands for letting the economy boom and bust at its own wild speed, first into inflation and then into depression. 

	Twenty years ago, after eight years of Republican do-nothing and care-nothing policy, this nation was flat on its back. The system was running down; it was running down like a broken clock or a broken body. The Republican administration was dispirited and battered. 

	Then a great Democrat became president, and this nation will never forget what it owes to that peerless leader, Franklin Roosevelt. The American people began their long, hard climb out of the pit of despondency. Government at long last was warm and vigorous and decisive. Government at long last cared about the people of the country. And, because it cared about the people, it released the people's energy. 

	In twenty years the people have built a new America--a strong and friendly America--big enough to take care of its own, productive enough to assure steadily rising living standards, and fair enough to fight for equality of opportunity for all. 

	Some people think that now that we have these things it doesn't much matter which political party holds the country's reins. That kind of attitude reminds me of the old boss of a wrecking crew in Chicago. He said, "I can easily wreck in a day what it takes a year to build." 

	I think it is now abundantly clear to any objective witness that my distinguished opponent, the General of the Army, has accepted the principles of the Old Guard of the Republican party lock, stock and barrel. And that is certainly the most distinguished wrecking crew in American political history. Even in the past five years they have voted almost a straight ticket in Congress against the people. They have voted against farm-parity price supports which mean security for the farmer. They have voted against a fair collective-bargaining law which means security changes which would mean fuller security for more of our older people. They have voted against inflation controls which mean security for all of us against inflation--an enemy as inscrutable and as sinister as Stalin himself. They are always against everything and for nothing. It is the same old do-nothing, hear-nothing policy. 

	And their candidate? Well, he has given the Old Guard a first, a second and a third mortgage on every principle he once had. 

	You might think I was against Republicans the way I talk. The fact of the matter is I am really not. Some of my best friends are Republicans. And I would trust them with anything I've got--I would trust some of my Republican friends with anything, except public office. You know, the unhappy fact of the matter is that I'm a half-breed myself. My father was from an old, staunch Democratic family, and he was a Presbyterian. My mother was from an equally old and staunch Republican family and she was a Unitarian. And somehow, when I became conscious, I found that I was a member of her church and his political party. I guess I was just a compromise to begin with. 

	Our Democratic program for America isn't complicated. We stand for the people. Our programs grow from what we think are people's needs--and I don't mean just a few people--I mean all of the people. And that means equality of opportunity for all, regardless of race and color or creed. Most of all today we stand for peace--not for another war to end all wars, but for peace without war. We are not making the promises that the Republicans are, and we don't play politics with promises we know we cannot keep. We are trying to talk straight to the American people. We are recognizing that the course ahead of us is a stern course; that there are no easy, cheap solutions for Communism, for want, for hunger, for all of the miseries that torment our world. But we believe with all of our hearts that if we make this nation strong we can keep good times at home and avoid that war that would destroy the world. 

	It is toward this purpose that we direct our best energies and our efforts--and, my friends, it is just possible that we might need your help on November 4th! 

	CHAIRMAN. I am very happy to present to this group Mrs. Olendorff, who has a little gift which she wishes to present to Governor Stevenson. Mrs. Olendorff had seven sons in the Second World War and still has two sons serving now. Mrs. Olendorff.

	OLENDORFF. The Democratic women of Washtenaw County would like to present you with this token. This is from your personal friends.

	STEVENSON. Well, thank you very much, Mrs. Olendorff. I might say that what I perceive here is a necktie adorned with six baby donkeys. That is an abnormally large litter, by the way, and I think this obviously is a significant political omen! 

	May I thank you from the bottom of my heart and express to you what I know is the heartfelt gratitude of everyone here for your infinite contribution to the welfare of our country through your sons and also through your own splendid citizenship.
EDUCATION--GENERALMILITARY PREPAREDNESSTAXATION--GENERAL     p5 <5 65 25 *5
 5 5 5 
5 5  5 Ù4 Î4	 8 	 & 	  e: