Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1023.003SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/23STUMPSAN ANTONIOTEXASTXALAMO1,439 WORDS

	I want you to know that Mrs. Humphrey and I were deeply saddened by the death last week of your former great congressman and Judge of the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, Paul Kilday.  He was a dear friend of mine.  We shall miss him.  Our heartfelt sympathies are with his family, whose sense of loss we share.

	Paul Kilday possessed in great measure the fighting spirit of Texas--the spirit grandly symbolized by this hallowed ground where we stand today.  Right here Texans took it on the chin, and came back to win a great victory for liberty.

	I asked Ed Muskie to come down here just after the convention to be sure he got that message.  And I am here today to tell you that we Democrats are coming back to win a great victory in Texas and all across the country on November 5th.

	There are two weeks left in this campaign.  It's time we focused on the central issue:  Whom can the American people trust to lead this country for the next four years?  Can we trust each other as people?

	My Republican opponent has made two decisions in this campaign which speak directly to this crucial issue of trust.  First, he decided who should be his vice presidential running mate--the man who would be a heartbeat from the presidency itself in this nuclear age.

	And Mr. Nixon chose Spiro T. Agnew--a so-called "Urban Expert," who says, "When you've seen one slum you've seen them all", who says, "You can't learn about poverty from poor people", a man who says he can't wait to try out his "new-found expertise" in foreign policy.  

	Mr. Nixon then made a second decision.  He decided to say nothing else for the rest of the campaign.  He's been on vacation--and I say the White House is no place for a vacationer.  What'll he do?--turn off the hot line two days a week while he rests up?

	He has refused to speak out on any vital issues.  He has refused to debate--even though I bought the time on national television.  He has stayed in the shadows--stayed off the issues--and relied instead on a massive advertising campaign, staged TV shows, balloons and confetti.

	I say this is no way to run for president.  The people, to trust you, have to know where you stand.  I know why Mr. Nixon won't debate.  He's afraid that the people will remember his record.  

	Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon, on Medicare?  You used to call it a socialist scheme. 

	What about aid to education?  You broke a tie vote in the Senate against federal aid to education in 1960.

	What about Head Start and the Bilingual Education Act?

	What about the Job Corps?

	What about that treaty against nuclear testing we now have in the books?  Is it still the "cruel hoax" you used to think it was?

	Why are you for delaying the treaty to keep nuclear weapons out of the hands of the Nassers and the Castros of the world?  Do you think that's a "cruel hoax," too?  

	Where do you stand on Vietnam, Mr. Nixon?  When are you going to reveal your secret plan for peace?  Or is Mr. Agnew right--was the whole thing a "ploy?"

	Why, Mr. Nixon, do you talk a good game of civil rights up North and then whistle Dixie in duet with J. Strom Thurmond as you compete for votes with Mr. Wallace in the South?

	There is another fellow in this race besides Richard the Silent--George the Loud.  George Wallace dishes out some mighty tough talk about law and order... and then he claims to be the friend of the workingman.  If it weren't so serious, it would be ridiculous.  

	Law and Order.  George Wallace couldn't provide it in Alabama.  He had the highest murder rate in the country.  His program for law and order in the country is to run over people he doesn't like with his car.  

	And as for the working people in George Wallace's Alabama, they make the third lowest wages in the country.  He was a union-busting governor, and you know it.

	And mothers, Alabama doesn't send that record-high six percent sales tax on education, it has the second lowest per pupil expenditures for education, black and white, of any state in the country.

	Mr. Wallace says he wants to be our president.  But he says nothing about his economic policy.  He does not tell us how he would work with the Congress.  And his approach to foreign policy is best summed up in his selection of the bomber general, Curtis LeMay, as his running mate.

	America doesn't need your brand of medicine, either, Mr. Wallace.  Now let's put things out in the open.  I know what the opposition is saying behind the scenes.

	They say: "law and order" but they really mean to feed fear of one American for another.

	They say:  Humphrey wants to give a black man a job and a home.  He wants to give a Spanish-surnamed American a job and a home.  And it will be your job and a home.

	Humphrey wants to go too fast.  Let me tell you something:  Yes, I want to help people get jobs and decent housing.  I want everybody in this country to have a job, and a good home, and education, and first-rate health care.  And I want it first.

	Let's not fool ourselves:  When someone gets a job who didn't have one before, when somebody gets education or training who didn't have it before--all of us benefit.  We lift the country.

	We create new taxpaying citizens.  Then, we get real order and justice.  And what's more, we do what is right.  Yes, I want to change things.  I want to change them for the better and I want to do it now.

	I challenge Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace to come out in the open on this issue, to stop talking vaguely about "law and order", as they have been.

	I challenge them to offer specific programs--not slogans--to create civil peace.  I have done that.   And I challenge them to offer specific programs, too, for justice in America--justice in every aspect of our national life--for every member of the American family, no matter what his color, his religion, or his last name.

	Let me say a word about the special problems faced by Mexican-Americans.  The importance of preserving a peoples' cultural tradition was recognized with passage of the Bilingual Education Act--the first federal recognition of the special importance of the ability to speak two languages.

	Now we must launch a major program of bilingual education, including teacher training, scholarships, textbooks, curriculum reform, and research.

	We must end--now--discriminatory practices in employment--we must adequately fund the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

	If I am president, I pledge that the federal government will be the model employer of Mexican-Americans--that means from the White House on down.

	This includes more responsibility for the Inter-Agency Committee on Mexican-American affairs--a specific agenda of priority items--and a Secretariat to help the committee accomplish its objectives on schedule.

	It includes giving the poor a great voice in the planning and implementation of local community programs, such as Head Start and expanding the migrant and legal aid program.

	It includes giving able-bodied men the chance to support their families with dignity and pride.  As Cesar Chavez told me last summer in Los Angeles:  "We want no special favors--merely the chance to build a union so the members can help themselves."  

	I say this country does not have to be torn and divided.  We can build a country of trust--trust beyond race, or religion, or region, trust of free people for one another as human beings.
We don't have to hate each other.

	We can build this country together--just as we built the railroads, just as we built our highways just as we built the building of mortar and steel in our great cities.  

	And if you will trust Senator Muskie and myself, we will do it.  There are only a few days left now.  I do not have a massive advertising budget.  I do not have a multi-million dollar TV blitz.  I only have you--millions of people against millions of dollars.

	Let's break through Mr. Nixon's smoke screen.  Let's break through Mr. Wallace's campaign of fear and hate.  And let's break through to a New Day for the American people--a new day of hope and faith and trust.  

	I ask your help.  
ALABAMACRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALEDUCATION, BILINGUALEMPLOYMENT--AFRICAN AMERICANSEMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATIONHISPANIC AMERICANSHOUSING AND REAL ESTATE     º  †  €  |  t 
 h  c  ^  S  N  L  G  < 	  	 – 	 ˆ 	 s 	 _ 	 B 	 ) 	  e: