Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0901.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/01STUMPDETROITMICHIGANMILABOR DAY RALLY AT CADILLAC SQUARE2,610 WORDS

	Let me say at the outset that I am very much flattered, indeed, by the presence here of His Honor, the Mayor of Detroit. I am conscious of your recent serious illness, Mr. Cobo, and I trust that your participation in this tremendous holiday festivity and your association with so many Democrats won't cause any relapse. 

	I stand before you today as a fugitive from a sweatshop down in Springfield, Illinois. Down there the speed-up is in full force, but we aren't complaining a bit. In fact, we like it because we believe in our job and our job is to win in November. 

	This, my friends, is Labor Day of an election year, and I think candidates ought to get a day off too. But if they got off they might not get in. So I've welcomed the invitation to come to Detroit to talk to you about the relationship between the Democratic party, which I represent, and the working people, which you represent. 

	Contrary to the impressions fostered by some of the press, you are not my captives, and I am not your captive. On the contrary, I might as well make it clear right now that I intend to do exactly what I think right and best for all of us--business, labor, agriculture--alike. And I have no doubt that you will do exactly what you think right and best at the election. 

	You are freeborn American--a proud and honorable station, carrying with it the right and the responsibility to make up your own minds--and so am I. So if either of us thinks in terms of captivity, let's agree right here and now on a mutual pact of liberation. 

	The interest and the obligation of the president must be the common interest. His concern for labor, as for industry, is only as a part of the common interest. I would intend to honor that office by complete freedom to serve not one man or a few, but the whole nation. And I think that is precisely what you would want me to do. 

	The relationship between the Democratic party and the working people of America is a very simple one. We both believe in equal rights for all and in special privileges for none. We both believe that the objective of our country and of its government is to achieve human decency, to meet human needs, and to fulfill human hopes. 

	We take honest open pride in what the tremendous progress of the last twenty years has meant, not for the Democratic party, but for the whole nation. We pulled ourselves, as you know, out of the quicksand of depression. In fighting an awful war we did our part and we did it gloriously. 

	We have made America the best place to live and work the world has ever known--a land where men are assured a decent wage and security when their work is done; a land where the mother can know that her children's opportunities are bright and limitless. 

	But these things, my friends, are not permanent. They have to be fought for, fought for by each succeeding generation. So it's my obligation, I think, to give you my ideas of our common interests, my thoughts about our common future. 

	I see three sets of common interests in the labor field. These are positive interests, constructive interests. We have talked, it seems to me, too much in terms of labor wars, too little in terms of labor peace, too much in terms of stopping things by law, too little in terms of establishing industrial democracy. 

	There is our first common interest in securing to all who work the minimums of human decency. This means, among other things, that the men and women in our working force, some 62,000,000 of us shall receive a decent living wage, insurance against the risks of disability and unemployment, and the assurance of solid, not token, security when life's work is done. 

	It means, too, that we must struggle tirelessly to add to these assurances equality of work opportunity for every one of us--regardless of race, of color or of creed. Human decency is the theme of our history and the spirit of our religion. We must never cease trying to write its guarantees not just into our laws, but into the hearts and the minds of men. 

	A second key to our common interest is that the men and women in our working force are consumers as well as producers. 

	Our welfare is not measured by what we get from the payroll clerk, but by what we get at the store and the school and the hospital, and by what we have left to put in the bank. Meeting such problems as inflation, as housing and the high cost of living is not part of a labor policy, it's part of a national policy. It's not just part of a labor program because it's part of a national problem. 

	The working man cannot and must not think of his welfare as something separate and apart from the common good. The interests of the factory worker, the white-collar worker, the employer, the farmer, are all rooted in the soil of national well-being. If your employer's business fails, for example, you are out of a job. We are utterly dependent on one another, and what is best for the nation is best for all of us and is best for each of us. 

	Our third common interest is in the process of collective bargaining--the keystone of industrial democracy, of free enterprise. 

	Democracy is working when free men solve their own problems in their own way and in their own political and industrial communities. The 80,000 private collective bargaining agreements today in effect are alternatives to laws--and better than laws. 

	They are voluntary private solutions which make unnecessary involuntary government decisions. They prove that the most useful thing the government can do is to assure a fair bargaining balance by guaranteeing to employees the right to act together. 

	The only legitimate purpose of a federal labor relations law is to make private bargaining work better. And that purpose has not, in my judgment, been served by the Taft-Hartley Act. 

	Now, in 1947, we needed some revisions of the old Wagner Act. We needed some new rules for labor peace. Well, we got a new law all right--a tangled snarl of legal barbed wire, filled with ugly sneers at labor unions and built around the discredited labor injunction. 

	I don't say that everything in the Taft-Hartley Act is wrong. It isn't, and I don't think it's a salve labor law, either. But I do say that it was biased and politically inspired and has not improved labor relations in a single plant. 

	We must have a new law and my conclusion is that we can best remedy the defects in the old law by scrapping it and starting over again. What should be retained from the old law can best be written into the new law after the political symbolism of the Taft-Hartley Act is behind us. 

	Now, if I may, I--and I hope I don't impose upon you--I should like to suggest five general principles as the basis for a new labor relations law. I believe they represent the public interest in a fair, solid, durable pattern of free collective bargaining. And I think labor and management can agree on them too, if they'll only throw their guns on the table. 

	Point number one is that the law must accept labor unions, like employer corporations, as the responsible representatives of their members' interests. 

	The Taft-Hartley Act assumed that the unions could not be trusted to determine whether their members wanted a union shop. After the expenditure of millions of dollars to hold thousands of government-conducted elections, in 95 percent of which the employees voted for the union shop, the Congress last year finally repealed this gratuitous insult to the labor unions. 

	But the act still prohibits other forms of union security arrangements developed over many years by labor and management together in such cases as the maritime industry, the building trades and the printing trades. 

	The Congress arbitrarily said, "We know better than unions what is good for employees." The result could have been predicted. Today several thousand employers and several million employees are operating under bootleg agreements in flagrant violation of the statute. 

	Point number two is the other side of point number one. If labor unions are to be accepted as the full representatives and guardians of employee interests in the collective-bargaining process, then labor unions must conform to standards of fair conduct and equal protection in the exercise of their stewardship. 

	A few unions, my friends, made by law the exclusive representatives of certain groups of employees, abuse that trust by excluding from membership some who want to work, denying them a vote, denying their seniority rights because of the color of their skin or because of restrictive notions about employment security. That's not right. 

	And, my friends, that's not democracy. Unions which are given powers by government should be open to all on equal terms. I know it's the view and the practice of the vast majority of American unions and union members to reject any idea of second-class citizenship based on race or monopoly. 

	And speaking of industrial democracy, let me say that you too, have a responsibility to participate in the affairs of your unions. The union exists for your benefit. If there is anything wrong with it, if you don't approve of the officers, if you don't like the union's policies, if there are racketeers or communists, then it's up to you and your fellow members to do something about it. You have your own democratic cleansing process. 

	But you can't do it by sitting at home and complaining, any more than you can get better men in government by staying away from the polls. Those who really work at self-government, moreover, will find deep satisfaction, and so will you. 

	Now number three of my suggestions is that a new federal labor law must outlaw unfair bargaining practices by companies or unions. 

	The Taft-Hartley Act, like the Wagner Act, prohibits certain types of unfair labor practices by employers, such as discriminating against union members or forming company unions. The Taft-Hartley Act added a list of union unfair practices. The unions have protested vigorously against this addition. 

	Yet I think it is only common sense to acknowledge that we must forbid such practices as jurisdictional strikes, and strikes or boycotts attempting to force an employer to deal with one union when another has been certified as the representative of his employees. 

	It is equally clear, however, that the prohibitions in the Taft-Hartley Act are so broad and so jumbled as to outlaw proper, along with improper, conduct--even, on occasion, to require union members to act as strikebreakers. 

	These provisions must be completely rewritten, with the intention not of stripping unions of as much bargaining power as possible, but only to prohibit resort to those extremes which fermented judgment identifies as unreasonable. 

	Point number four is rejection of the labor injunction. We agreed to this once. In 1932, Congress overwhelmingly passed the Norris-LaGuardia Act to prohibit the labor injunction. The vote was 326 to 14 in the House and 75 to 5 in the Senate. 

	Then, fifteen years later, in the Taft-Hartley Act, the labor injunction--the process of haphazard prejudgment--was disinterred. No showing of need was made for it, and that tyrannical power to have men and women ordered back to work in smothered silence has no place in today's labor law. 

	My fifth, and the last point that I presume to make to you, is that new methods must be found for settling rational emergency disputes. 

	We are willing, as a nation, to put up with serious inconveniences when bargaining stalemates result in shutting down production. Collective bargaining is a form of free competition. And, in Justice Holmes' phrase, "free competition is worth more to society than it costs." 

	We cannot, however, tolerate shutdowns which threaten our national safety, even that of the whole free world. The right to bargain collectively does not include a right to stop the national economy. 

	The Taft-Hartley answer for this problem was the injunction. All that law boils down to is that in national emergency disputes employees shall be ordered to work for another eighty days on the employers' terms. 

	This remedy has been administered now nine times. Fair-minded critics have concluded that in only two of these cases did it do the slightest good. In the others it either had no effect at all or actually delayed private settlement. 

	I have no miracle-drug solution for this problem. I am clear, though, that where the government must intervene in these private disputes, its purpose must be not just to stop the strike, but to see that the dispute gets settled. 

	I am clear, too, that the new law must recognize that these emergency cases are always different. It's a proven mistake for Congress to prescribe in advance the same old patent medicine for all of them. 

	What we need is a completely new law--one that will provide for investigation and reporting to the public on the issues involved, one that will provide for more effective mediation between the parties. Its purpose should be to keep these cases out of the White House, not to put them in. 

	But the Congress should give the president a choice of procedures, not present him with no alternative when voluntary agreement proves impossible: seizure provisions geared to the circumstances; or arbitration; or a detailed hearing and recommendation of settlement terms; or a return of the dispute to the parties. 

	Such a law would leave the obligation to settle these disputes where it belongs--and that's with the parties. But it would not straitjacket this settlement process. 

	It would express the firm voice of a nation which demands a fair and a quick settlement, and offers constructive help toward a solution. Now these, my friends, are the outlines of a law consistent, it seems to me, with our democratic practices. They outline a minimum law, and a minimum law is what we need. And, I would hope, indeed, I expect that in the larger area of common agreement that exists today the representatives of labor and of management, meeting in a spirit of give and take and of sincere search for industrial peace in the national interest, could agree on such a law. 

	Finally, let none of us forget that labor problems are human problems. The ultimate answers do not lie in the legislator's inkpot or in the lawyer's brief. 

	The common denominator of all I have said today is confidence--confidence not in law or government, but in one another, in free men and free women; confidence in the private organizations they have set up, the private processes they have worked out to meet their common problems. For, if I can leave anything of certainty with you, it is that the greatest hope for industrial peace is not in laws, but in private agreements. 

	It's hard to remember that here in Detroit fifteen years ago a mighty industry was paralyzed, and fighting in the streets between bitter men was an imminent possibility. Today the automobile companies and the workers have a five-year contract, giving the nation an assurance of labor peace infinitely firmer than any Congress could ever supply. 

	My friends, when we have come so far we know we can go farther. 
WORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITSORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     C< < 	< < ý;
 ð; ë; æ; ß; ×; Õ; ³; ¨;	 T  1   e: