Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1002.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/02STUMPToledoOHIOOH3404 WORDS

	Thank you. Thank you.

	Is this working? Can you hear me? I'm the guy who came to Toledo! Well, the train didn't stop here, and the buck doesn't stop there, but you can stop George Bush on November 3rd.

	I want to tell you how glad I am to be here and how honored I am to be introduced by your distinguished congresswoman, Marcy Kaptur. She has fought for you and fought for America and she does you proud.

	I want to thank all the others here who have supported me from the beginning. You know, when I won the primary in Ohio, it put me over the top. And when the Democratic Convention met in New York, the votes of the delegation from Ohio officially made me the nominee of the Democratic party. And I know this state normally votes Republican, but I'd certainly like to see Ohio go three for three in the Clinton campaign on November the 3rd!

	Today we got the final report card before the election on the Bush administration's economic policies. We learned that unemployment remains high with no end in sight. Trickle-down economics has brought a tidal wave of unemployment and declining incomes, and every month it lays waste to the dreams of more Americans. This recession has now lasted twenty-six months--one year longer than any since the Depression. Last month, nearly 170,000 men and women working in the private sector lost their jobs. Today we learned another 57,000 lost theirs this month.

	The final accounting of the Bush presidency before the election is in. It says that in the last four years--listen to this--as a nation we have lost 35,000 jobs in the private sector. All the income--job growth in America since George Bush has been president has come in the government jobs he loves to attack. We've lost 1.3 million manufacturing jobs with no recovery in sight. If we keep following the path that got us here-

	You know what Mr. Bush said this morning? He said the unemployment rate had gone down a tenth of a percent and we're moving in the right direction. Well, in a way we are. We're going to move him out of the White House!

	I don't have time and I don't want to embarrass them, but I want--you see these six people back here, they're people from your community, from all walks of life. People who lost their jobs or lost their incomes or lost their health care; people who met with me in that restaurant today, that hallmark of your community, and shared with me their dreams for their children and their worries about the present. These are the folks that I'm going to wake up worrying about every day in the White House--every day.

	You know, in other recessions, half the people who lost their jobs could be expected to be called back to work fairly soon. But now we know under this administration almost everybody who lost their job last month lost it permanently. All across America families are being forced to dip into their savings or borrow from their relatives or file for unemployment or apply for food stamps and hope they last till the end of the month and they don't have to go on welfare or they don't lose their homes. More women, who are likely to work part time and not be eligible for unemployment, are being forced into welfare. The welfare rolls have grown by five times as fast under this administration as under the last two presidents. We've lost so many jobs, and we've lost so much income.

	That's another thing, folks. The census proves that two-thirds of the American people are working longer work weeks today for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. Sixteen hundred dollars is the average decline in family income in the last two years in this whole country. There have been more than two bankruptcies in America for every new job created, including the government jobs. Now we learned in the last few days that this president has actually been using your tax dollars to finance shutting plants down here and moving them overseas.

	The Agency for International Development is a public agency. It has actually used your tax dollars to give low-interest loans to companies to shut down here and move overseas. But they can't get those low-interest loans to buy new equipment here to stay in business here. They have actually used your tax dollars to run ads in Central America inviting people to come down there to get 57-cents-an-hour labor. I don't know how you feel, but I think that is an immoral use of your tax dollars. And it's not--

	You know, there's a little town in Tennessee, in Decaturville, that was featured on a television program recently where the government actually financed a plant shutting down there, throwing 300 men and women out of work and opening up overseas. Your government financed it. Now that's their idea of a jobs program. He promised us 15 million jobs, he just didn't tell us where they That's their idea of family values. Make the family close together because nobody can leave the house to go to work in the morning.

	Here's a guy who supports a tax code that will give you more incentives to shut a plant down here and move it overseas than to modernize plant and equipment here, and who vetoed a bill this year that would have given an investment tax credit for new plant and equipment to put the American people back to work in the private sector. That is the policy of this administration.

	Well, when I am president--I will say--when I am president, I will say, if companies want to invest their money overseas that's their business. And we want foreign companies to invest in our country and put our people to work. But we are tried of having a government that subsidizes the loss of American jobs. We want a tax system and we want to spend our tax money in ways that build jobs in America, not that move them overseas.

	You heard Congresswoman Kaptur mention it, but I want to say it again. This administration goes to Japan and gets embarrassed, has the Japanese Prime Minister saying he feels sympathy for the United States. We've got clear evidence that this administration has compiled that if their markets were as open as ours, we'd do $10 billion worth of business in Japan and put 300,000 Americans to work.

	Now, what did they do in the face of that? Well, he comes home and the Commerce Department says that multipurpose vehicles should be treated like trucks and should have a tariff on them. And George Bush's Treasury Department overruled his own government finding to take the tariff off to put Americans out of work in the face of unfair competition from abroad.

	Now, I am an expanded trade fellow. I believe in more trade. But I believe in more trade on fair terms. I'm tired of seeing our country being played for a patsy by other wealthy countries. And let me tell you folks, our biggest problem is still the challenge of creating a high-wage economy, and our biggest trade deficit is still with a high-wage country, Japan. And many of our biggest trade barriers are with other high wage countries in Europe. We have got to have a program that calls for expanded trade, but fair trade. It's got to be a two-way street. We've got to create jobs for us as well as for them. That is the only way this deal is ever going to work. And this president does not understand that American power should be used to promote the interests of the American people over the long run. Look at the facts, look at the evidence. How much evidence do we need? Personal income, leading indicators, housing starts, retail sales, industrial production--all down. He says we're in a recovery.

	Tuesday, the Consumer Confidence Report came out. Consumer confidence takes another big dive. How can consumers be confident when they don't have any money to pay for consumption? Yesterday's filings for unemployment increased again. And yesterday, the Purchasing Managers' Index showed that the manufacturing sector is in the worst shape since winter.

	We need a change. This president was in office 1,327 days before he came up with an economic program. And when he did, it was just the same old thing. He called it An Agenda for American Renewal. That's what we need renewing from--his agenda.

	More than a decade ago, when the national recession hit me in my state, and the national government deserted us, even though we were a relatively poor state we knew that our people were hard-working people who valued their families and were willing to do what it took to try to turn our situation around. And without any real help, we tried to develop the kind of state economic strategy that we need for the nation: keep our manufacturing base, help our family farmers, support production, educate people, and work in partnership--business, labor, education and government.

	Well, according to the national government, for the last year and some-odd months, we have led the nation in my state in the growth of private-sector jobs. We've improved our public schools and our education and job-training program. We've increased by more than four times the number of adults in adult education and training programs. And we are doing what we can at home to move forward. And contrary to Mr. Bush's false ad that he's running on television, we have the second lowest tax burden in the country. We've done it because we've worked together.

	And what I ask you to do today is to give me a chance to bring that philosophy to the national government. It is not trickle-down, it is not tax-and-spend. It says: Ask the wealthy to pay their fair share. Use the money to give a little break to the working people, especially those with children. But use the money--to be fair, use the money to give them some incentives. Instead of these across-the-board tax breaks which make no distinction between a wealthy person buying a Maserati and putting you back to work, let's raise the tax rates a little bit and then say, if you want to get out of paying those taxes, invest in new plants, new equipment, new businesses; put the American people back to work, create jobs the old-fashioned way.

	These countries that are eating us alive in income growth, in job growth, invest more. I don't mind people making money. I hope the Clinton/Gore administration produces more millionaires than the Bush administration. I just have this crazy idea I want people to make money the old-fashioned way by putting the American people to work and giving us a chance to live our lives!

	I believe--I believe there are three things we can and must do in order to turn this economy around. And then there is one thing you can and must do if you want to take advantage of it.

	The three things we have to do are: One, we need a national economic strategy that says we're going to invest more money in American jobs, in the factory, and in small businesses and in agriculture. We're going to invest. We are going to take every dollar by which we reduce defense and instead of squandering it on the S&L boondoggle or on higher health care costs for no good benefit, we're going to reinvest that money in an American economy for the twenty-first century in transportation, communications, and environmental expenditures like waste recycling to create hundreds of thousands of jobs for American people in construction here at home!

	The second thing we've got to do is to make sure that we have a world-class system for education and training, not just for our children but for adults for a lifetime.

	You know that our major high-wage competitor in Europe, Germany, spends five times as much as we do reeducating their workers in the workplace. When they change production, they've retrained workers to do something new instead of throwing them on the unemployment line, let them wander around for a year and then take a job making half what they used to make. They understand that people are the most important resource in any economy. And if you'll give me a chance, I'll give you a system of lifetime education second to none.

	What does that mean? Give every American of working age the chance to get a high school diploma in the next five years. Give every American who doesn't go to college the chance to get a two-year apprenticeship. Open the doors of college education to every American, every American without regard to income. Under our plan, any American could borrow the money to go to college and then pay it back in one of two ways; either as a small percentage of their income after they go to work, or even better, by giving two years of their life to work here at home, to solving the people problems of America. Consider this: every one of you for your families, you could do it before or after you go to college, but what if every young person from Ohio worked for two years before or after college, depending on what they did, as a teacher, a police officer, working to help people with disabilities be more independent, working with the elderly to help them stay in their homes, working with children to help them stay out of trouble and out of gangs, working in housing programs to help to rebuild this country. We could solve a massive number of our problems not with a government bureaucracy but with people power from the grassroots up, and educate a whole new generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	Let me say that the third thing we have to do is to finally become the last advanced nation in the world to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans.

	My opponent wants to put $100 billion into the same old broken system. I want to reform the system. We spend more money on administration, on paperwork, on bureaucracy, on regulation, than any other health care system in the world. If we were just as efficient in financing health care as the European systems are, that alone would free up $60 billion a year which could be put in to providing health insurance for the people who don't have any. I tell you, we can do better than that. They will tell you we can't do it. We can keep what is best about our system, the right to choose your doctor, your hospital, your provider. We can keep the whole thing private, including insurance, and control costs and open the opportunity to Americans to have basic human security. There are millions of you today in this country who can't even change jobs because you've had somebody in your family who has been sick, and if you change, you'll lose your health insurance. There are people who are terrified that when they're unemployed their going to lose their health insurance. Under our system, nobody will be left behind and we will save billions and billions and billions of dollars to be freed up for investment in new jobs and opportunities. But you won't get a new health insurance system until you get a new president. I need your help to do that.

	Finally, this is what I have to say to you. I have offered a new partnership with our cities and states, massive new investments. I have offered to cut government spending in inessential ways that doesn't affect your life so we can free up some money to put you back to work, to educate you, to deal with the health care crisis. I will do my best. But no president can promise you to make Toledo the way it once was. No one can promise to roll back the clock. We live in a world in which the average eighteen-year-old will change work eight times in a lifetime. The pain of that is that we have not made the adjustments in America to make change our friend, so it has become our enemy. But if it is our friend, think of it, think what an exciting world it would be if every time you changed work you saw it as an opportunity, not a source of terror; if you could look forward to the opportunity to change what you do without losing your income, your home, your health insurance, the ability to educate your children; if people said, "We are going to give dignity to your life in this time of change, and make your life more interesting and more exciting than any generation of Americans before." But to do that, I need your help because Toledo will have to fashion its future, Toledo will have to be full of people who have the courage to change, Toledo will have to have people who say, "I will do whatever it takes to make myself productive in the world we're living in."

	That's what these people said to me today when we were talking in that restaurant. I was overwhelmed by their courage, their openness, and their understanding. You have been punished long enough, it is time to make change our friend--not our enemy.

	And now let me say this. This will not be easy, it will not happen quick, and I cannot promise you miracles, but I can say this. This country has been around for more than 200 years because at every critical time in our history, we have not listened to the people who--like George Bush in this election--try to sow doubt and fear and uncertainty. This is a "we can" country. We have been told we can't for long enough--we can't create jobs, we can't increase income, we can't provide educational opportunities for everybody, we can't control health care costs, we can't cover everybody--we can't, we can't, we can't. And all the bellyaching is stopped. It's time to stop that, it's time to say when Bush puts an ad on television today accusing me of wanting to raise your taxes, that is blatantly false. What the Washington Post said was misleading today--that you say, "Mr. Bush, you sucker punched us once, and we are not falling for it again. Go away! Go away! We are not falling for it this time!" It is time to say that we want America to be a "we can" country again, a country for all people without regard to race, or income, or region. We are going up or down together. We need everybody. Everybody is going to get on this train, and we're going to make America the country it was meant to be.

	Thank you and God bless you all!
BUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESECONOMY, RECESSIONARYEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINCOME TAXINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMANUFACTURING--PLANT CLOSINGSMANUFACTURING--PLANT MODERNIZATIONSOCIAL/ECONOMIC CLASSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     cG /G )G %G G
 G G G G þF üF òF	 =	 !	 	 ì 	 ¿ 	 ¤ 	 š 	 € 	 i 	 L 	 * 	  e: