Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1021.006SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/21STUMPMANCHESTERNEW HAMPSHIRENH1559 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen:  It is first my most pleasant duty to thank each of you for coming out this morning to allow me to bring you a word of friendly greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts that I have on my mind as we go through this political campaign.  Someone has told me that New Hampshire has a new title, "The Most Stolen State"--that Vermont has stolen your scents of apple blossoms; that in Michigan, your birches; in New York, your covered bridges.  Then you can't blame me for stealing your governor.

	Of course, not having lived in New Hampshire, I don't know what kind of a governor he was.  But I can tell you this.  He is the best salesman that New Hampshire ever sent outside its borders.  I know by this time that every citizen of New Hampshire is a paragon of virtue; they practically grow wings.  They are all prosperous; they are all hard workers; they are all very intelligent.

	And the state, by far, leads the union in every single constructive thing in which it is possible to lead.  He did all right in a few weeks.  If he stays with me a little longer, I will come back and give you a better bill of goods than that one.

	In the great body of settlers that followed into New Hampshire as the very early pioneers to come in here, there was among them a group that I want to make special mention of for personal reasons.  I refer to the French.  They came in to help settle this country.  The incidents of my life have brought me three terms of service in France, which is why I have come to know something of their industry, their work, their devotion, particularly their patriotism, their imagination, and their love of art and the beautiful things of life.  But I think, above all things, I was impressed by their gallantry, often under adverse conditions.  So I think it is not unusual that in one of the Surabachi heroes, we should find a French citizen, and it happens from this state, Rene Gagnon.  I am quite certain that what they have added to the civilization and the development of New Hampshire is equal to what they have done in their own great country across the Atlantic.

	Another thing that has impressed me about the New Hampshire development has been the imagination you people have used in adapting yourselves to the developments of the industrial revolution.  If big business, for one reason or another, did not seem to be adapted to your county, you instantly went into small business and through diversification, secured even greater security than you had before.  I have recently had conferences with representatives of the Small Business Association of the United States.  I want to say to you people here that they have presented to me facts that lead me to give to the development of small business in this country far more than lip service.  I believe in it implicitly, and you in this region may be certain that whatever I can do to help further the cause of small business providing a diversified industry in each of your localities, that I shall do.

	Lately, there has been spread through our country a campaign of fear.  It has been spread by the political opponents of the crusade I have the honor to lead.  They pretend to fear many things, and among them is this, that this crusade wants to lead the United States into a new depression.

	They give no reason why we should want to--why the Republicans with their associates, the Independents, and the enlightened Democrats, would want to take this country back into a state where we have unemployment.  I do not know the reason.  But the fact is, dedicated as we are to the cause of peace and knowing the relationship between peace and a strong America, we are dedicated to the proposition that all Americans must be employed and employed at high wages so there is a prosperity on which we can depend and which will keep us economically and materially strong, so that we can actually lead the free world toward a secure peace.

	If we are going to do this, it means there must be ample, expanded, and improved social security measures.  There must be better unemployment insurance.  There must be strong unions, and we must have a constantly expanding economy.  So the pledge that this crusade makes to all the people of America is this: That they will be ever watchful for the first signs of so-called recession, deflation, or economic collapse of any kind.  At the first signs of any such approach, they will mobilize the entire forces of private industry, of local government, of state government and of national government to make certain that no such disaster again overtakes the United States.  On the contrary, they are committed and dedicated to a proposition that every American workman and working woman will have a profitable, decent job.

	Along with this, they are dedicated to frugality, efficiency, and honesty in government, so that the taxes you have to pay out of your earnings will be minimized and you will not have to help line the pockets of some crooked tax collector.  This campaign of fear, campaign of abuse, that has spread about the crusade and its leaders goes to fantastic lengths.  Only recently, it has gone to such lengths that my good friends Cardinal Spellman, Rabbi Silver and Bernie Baruch all found it necessary or desirable to jump into the fray and express their indignation at the kind of attack made upon me personally; and I am proud to have friends like that who are ready to jump in when they see that unfair tactics are being used.

	My friends, when I went into this campaign long before the nomination in July, I realized that I had what, under certain circumstances, would be considered a great handicap.  I was not, in the popularly accepted meaning of the word, a politician.  I was no politician then; I am not now; and I doubt that I ever shall be.  Moreover, once the nomination was tendered me, I made a certain pledge to all those who would join this crusade, from all parties or from no party or from those who were voting for the first time.  I said I was strictly a "No-Deal" man; that I would make no promise, implied or otherwise, that could by any stretch of the imagination be interpreted as a promise of future political favor--no matter what duty or what chore a man might offer in return to do now.

	I have kept that pledge. I intend to keep that pledge.  I am strictly a "No-Deal" man, and I shall remain so.

	So my friends, when we in this crusade talk about a clean sweep of the administration--that from too long in power has grown arrogant, complacent, and away from the people, we mean exactly what we say--a clean sweep from top to bottom.  We are not talking about a face-lifting job, a re-paint job or a repair job of any kind to this old and worn-out administration.

	Now I have noticed that some of their leaders say all that is needed is a little refreshening.  Now, if any of you have ever succeeded in refreshening a bad egg, I would like to know how you did it.  We have that kind of mess in Washington, self-admitted by some of their leaders, that needs cleaning out from top to bottom. 

	With the people who are associated with us banded together in this great crusade--Congressman Merrow, Senator Bridges, Governor Adams and the rest of us--all pledged to give you honest government, thrifty government and efficient government, all dedicated to the cause of peace so that we may lift from our backs this dark fear of war, the fear that our boys may have to put on a uniform and go back across the seas--all of those fears come about from the fact that the world is in turmoil.

	In this day and time we cannot, ladies and gentlemen--and let us not delude ourselves--get that perfect peace for which we long so long as the Russian menace exists with its headquarters in Moscow and is ready to use aggressive force--we cannot have that kind of peace that can come about with complete disarmament and peaceful living as we live among ourselves.  But we can have that security among the free nations of the world that will bring this burden down where we do not have to fear war itself, where the opposition will not dare attack; and that is our first step.  It is expensive enough, goodness knows.  Therefore, frugality, thrift, efficiency and dedication, again I repeat, are the formula we must seek.

	So this morning, I make you no specific promises.  I did not come here to compete with the opposition.  They have worn out all the political promises in the last twenty years anyway.  But those things that dedicated men and women brought to Washington can do for you will be done.  That is our pledge:  honest government, efficient government, seeking peace.  Thank you again for coming out.
BUSINESS, SMALLECONOMY--DEPRESSIONELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     Ë" ¥" Æ" ™" †"
 í" ç" à" ~" q" o" o" e"	 ] 	 N 	 ; 	  e: