Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0927.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/27STUMPST. LOUISMISSOURIMO2565 WORDS
	I've made so many speeches in the last few days that I marvel that I have anything more to say. But I have. And the text of my lecture tonight is "bread and circuses." You remember how the Roman emperors in their declining years tried to keep the uneasy populace satisfied and their minds off their troubles with food and games, gladiatorial combats and spectacles.

	Well, I thought of that not long ago when I read about the great Republican bandwagons that were going out all over the country, complete with movies, jeeps, girls and gadgets of all kinds--to sell Eisenhower and Nixon again to a docile, complacent, carefree people all happily chanting--"peace, prosperity, and progress--ain't it wonderful."

	The whole aim of all this ballyhoo and thirty-foot balloons, those streamers and bands, is not to excite thought or provoke discussion. It is, in the finest advertising tradition, to get at our electoral subconscious and condition us into voting, blissfully if dazedly, for things as they are.

	"Politics," as the organizer of the Republican convention put it, "is moving closer to show business." It certainly is, as they present it--balloons, not arguments, the chorus line, not the political issue. Don't think, just feel--feel it's all fine and the product is splendid. Pour out the money. Forget that mushroom cloud. Don't mention Suez. The world stops at the waterfront. And whatever the gales of change and upheaval and revolution roaring around the world, take it from us that this is no time for a change. Vote Republican and keep things as they are.

	How remote this all seems from the classic symbol of American political maturity--the Lincoln-Douglas debates, where before rapt crowds, the two men hammered out, with all the rational convention and controversial skill they possessed, the real issues facing a nation in crisis. Well, "bread and circuses" didn't save Rome, and it won't save the Republicans either.

	With each passing day it is more apparent that people understand what's going on better and better, and banners can't obscure realities much longer, nor slogans hide the truth. And that's why we will win in November.

	Yet of course, all this is in the Republican tradition. In the long decades of Republican dominance before the First World War, social problems at home and international issues abroad grew steadily more dire while the Republican party careened along on slogans of "peace and prosperity" and "the American way of life."

	The charge of being "the party of the future" was thrown out with Teddy Roosevelt. It was the Democrats--Woodrow Wilson with the policies of the New Freedom--who began to bring America up to date and get the arthritis out of its political joints. But Republican arthritis is not cured so easily. The twenties saw another decade of "peace and prosperity" and "you never had it so good," and once again it was the Democratic party under Franklin Roosevelt, who had to bring the nation back into the broad currents of human progress after its twelve years of boom and bust.

	Today, in spite of the President's attempt to paint the Republicans as a young party, bursting out all over with new ideas, the pattern is not much different.

	Where are the fresh, new ideas and new policies? The achievements to which President Eisenhower points with such pride in the past and such hope for the future consists mostly of repealing what the Democrats have done. The innovations were Democratic ideas, molded by a Democratic Congress and involving federal action which, on other occasions, the Republicans denounced as big government, creeping socialism, and bureaucracy.

	As for the specifically Republican ideas--tax reductions which favor the well-to-do, the "partnership" approach to power projects in which the private partner gets the profits and the public foots the bill, collapsible price supports, hacking away at conservation, REA and TVA--these are hardly new ideas. They are as old as the Republican party and represent its lasting principle--to help those who can also help themselves.

	Yet there never was a time when new ideas were more needed. In the past, the outside world was remote, safely removed from us across the oceans. Our own society was more loosely knit, and change in one part did not affect all other sections with the same speed.

	The periods during which the Republicans sat still on top and everything stirred underneath could last perhaps rather longer and with less devastating effect. But the great cauldron of the world is now seething to the boil, while our Republican friends say all is well and don't bother to even look at the stove. I say we must look at the facts--they've got to be faced. We must not let them become stale even before they have become real.

	We know that the deadly fallout can kill over an area from Chicago to New York--and we are still in the infancy of hydrogen explosives. Scientists tell us that the entire human species can survive only just so much atomic conflict--and not much, at that. But hasn't this catastrophic possibility, too, become almost a cliché? How can its import be felt in heart and imagination if, all the time, the skies are filled with Republican lullabies?

	The competition the Soviets offer is not simply for today and tomorrow. We must reckon on it for decades.

	Today, with only one-fifth of the Communist bloc's population, the American economy is producing almost twice as much in such key products as steel, petroleum, and electricity.

	But we have to look ahead. The Soviet planners intend to pull level with America by 1965 and ahead by 1970, and the figures show that these plans are today on schedule. During that period, China is to build up a steel industry comparable to that of Western Europe and probably five times greater than that of its chief Asian rival, India.

	We must face squarely and responsibly the prospect that twenty years from now, if present rates of development continue, the basic balance of productive power in the world may well have swung away from the side of freedom.

	The Communists reckon this growth in their resources will have all the more effect on the uncommitted peoples in Asia, the Middle East, in Africa and even Latin America. There are people who detest the memory of European colonial control. They sense a rising nationalist fervor and ambition. They have envious eyes for Western wealth. With these powerful emotional forces working on their side, the Communists reckon that their resources in capital and arms can be far more effectively deployed than those of the West.

	Now none of these risks will appear in Republican electoral speeches. Or if they do, they will be dismissed as defeatism, as lack of faith in America, its way of life, but there are solid reasons for looking our dangers straight in the face, clear of cant and slogans and streamers and balloons and ballyhoo.

	Complacency is not only dangerous, it is worse. It is unworthy of a great people, above all of a people as committed as we are to the pioneering of new opportunities and the dreaming of new dreams.

	The breathtaking fact about America today is that, for the first time in history, we have the material instruments for accomplishing virtually any goal we set ourselves. Raw materials, managerial genius, skilled labor--all these means are lavishly at America's disposal. We have begun to master the techniques of keeping our great economic machine in high gear. We are learning to even out its earlier tendency to swing from bust to boom and back. Here in this gloriously endowed republic, the only limitations are those we impose upon ourselves by lack of thought or lack of generosity or lack of vision.

	In the last four years, a number of essential needs, particularly in defense, have been cut back on the grounds that there were more than the country could afford. Budget cutting took priority over security. Foreign aid was cut again for budgetary considerations.

	The question that has not been asked is whether the economy is expanding speedily enough to meet essential demands. We need to know whether the projected capital expansion in the basic industries is great enough to take care not of the program we can "afford" but of the program we actually need. Of this kind of forethought we have seen no trace these last few years [missing text].

	But failures of compassion and generosity are much graver than failures in forethought, for here we reach the soul and spirit of our community, the emotions that can save us from brash materialism, the feelings that redeem wealth and power by getting them to serve the humblest human needs. It could be tragic if the prosperity of some were to close their hearts to the needs of others who, even today, do not share in the general growth of wealth.

	And in spite of all the Republican "pointing with pride," the sloganizing and the smug self-satisfaction, there are millions of Americans who live in privation, on budgets that barely feed them, in houses that are dirty and dangerous, in congested slums that cut out the living daylight, in debt for furniture, in debt for the doctor, in debt for any emergency that may strike. We cannot say today that their poverty is inevitable and unavoidable. To leave people in misery in America today is a matter of policy, not of destiny.

	Above all, Republican complacency blinds America to its historic vision of the broader, better life for all that our new instruments of wealth make possible. Once the mass of mankind has bread, we can really begin to learn that man does not live by bread alone. We in America are that first human community to reach this new threshold. Now that physical security has been so very largely achieved, we are reaching out now for more spiritual values, for better quality in our living, for a higher purpose and a richer life. We meet new needs as soon as we seek to open this door.

	There is the need for a greatly expended program of education--to train mind and spirit for its wider environment and for the longer leisure which technological advance brings with it.

	There is the need for better environment--homes where children can grow up in health and happiness, gardens and parks where they can play away from gang warfare in the streets, towns rebuilt and decentralized to spare the daily endurance test of commuting and to reduce the rush of traffic in which so many are killed.

	When new Democratic plans for better education, for improving the urban environment, for helping the millions of substandard families are advocated, the Republicans seek to set up a double roadblock; they protest that this means increased taxation and increased government intervention.

	This is only the obstruction of narrow vision. The way to meet new needs is to expand the economy fast enough to meet them. We've got to do this anyway, to have jobs available for the two million new members each year of our labor force; if we can secure a steady increase in our national product, there will be funds available from this increased revenue to build the schools we need and to meet these other needs.

	And the Republicans aren't really opposed to intervention by government, but only to intervention by government in the support of the general welfare.

	Mr. Hoover may get up at the Republican convention and talk of saving the country from the Democratic policy of "legalized socialism, twin sister of Communism." Yet there is no single greater prop to American industry than the government-imposed tariff system. And no Republican calls that "legalized socialism."

	The magazines and newspapers, which denounce government intervention most lustily, are all subsidized by the U.S. Post Office--but that is not, it seems, "legalized" or even "creeping socialism."

	Nor do airlines, for example, complain of the assistance they get as mail carrier. The private power companies--surely among the most active critics of governmental activity--have no objection to the billions of dollars worth of government financed and directed research, experiment, and pioneer construction which is being made available free to the private builders of atomic power plants. Nor has any private company blushingly returned its tax write-offs for accelerated plant construction on the grounds that it is robbing the citizens of their tax money.

	Governmental intervention is not government intervention so far as the Republicans are concerned when it is in aid of industry, particularly large-scale industry. In short, "giveaway programs" are sound government assuming the right people are the beneficiaries.

	The Republicans' real distaste in the past has been reserved for "giveaway" programs directed to those who really need them--Social Security, federal assistance for health and education, a fair share of the national income for farmers, minimum wage legislation--this is all part of the "legalized socialism" which for twenty years the Republicans denounced as a threat to the American way of life. These are the measures they will attack again when Democrats propose new advances in education, medical and housing standards, and new horizons for the life of the nation as a whole.

	To make an ogre of government, to denounce its faithful officials as half-wits to traitors, to keep up traditional Republican tirade against a mythical evil known as Democratic socialism weakens our whole American system and undermines the essential instrument of our federal government in the partnership of all our people for wealth and growth and progress.

	By our long history as a party, we Democrats have shown that ideals and vision and the forward march are the center of our inspiration. We have not, before the work starts, stultified and undermined the essential federal instrument we need for some forms of further progress.

	I believe with all my heart that, under democracy, this country is going forward to an uplifting of all its citizens, not just in terms of new goods and gadgets, but even more in terms of a broadening and deepening of the mind and heart of the nation.

	This uplifting will not come if we wait for the good things of life to trickle down to the people from the top of the financial pyramid. It will come only as we work to assure a fair distribution, not only of the nation's wealth and production but of the nation's opportunities.

	It will come as we start measuring property, not just in terms of cars and television sets, but even more in terms of the greater goods of education, health, security, and peace of mind.

	When we talk about ending poverty, when we undertake to extend the education, improve the environment, and raise the dignity of all American citizens, we are promising to finish business we have ourselves begun.

	And when we say that we will apply forethought, compassion, and vision to foreign policy, we are only promising to recapture the leadership and imagination to the world which is America's historic tradition.

	When, in short, we claim to be the party of tomorrow, we are only claiming to be what we have always been--pioneers of America's forward march, architects who build the future from the blueprint of America's hopes and her ideals.
COMMUNISMECONOMY--SOVIET UNIONGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESPRODUCTIVITYSOCIALISMWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     }< I< C< ?< 7<
 *< %<  < < < < < <	 q 	 h 	 S 	 > 	 ( 	  	  e: