Speeches\1968\rep\S68r0912.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)09/12STUMPINDIANAPOLISINDIANAINSOLDIERS AND SAILORS WAR MEMORIAL MONUMENT AT THE CIRCLE3433 WORDS

	Mr. Mayor--and I agree with the evaluation that has been given of you in the introduction, one of the great mayors of America today, I wish we had more like you; the next governor of this state, Ed Whitcomb; and the man that I look forward to working with as he comes to the Senate of the United States as I go to Washington to the White House, Bill Ruckelshaus.

	This is a great day for me, a great day because some of you who are a little older here will remember that I have always begun my campaigns in the Midwest in the state of Indiana, and here at Monument Circle. So it is this time. This is my first major appearance in the Midwest, and it comes here at Monument Circle. This is the biggest crowd of all, and I thank you for coming out.

	I am delighted to see so many new faces, so many young faces. I was just thinking: I go back almost twenty-five years in visiting Indiana. How many in this crowd are younger than twenty-five years old? Hold up your hand. There they are. A whole new generation of young Americans. I want you to know, I believe in you and we are going to give you a better America in the years ahead.

	I like all of your wonderful signs. Some of them are quite original. "Dump the Hump." Here is one over here that says, "Trade Hubert for the Pueblo." I don't think North Korea would take him. I am sure the American people won't take him, with your help.

	My friends from DePauw over here; Indiana University; Purdue--Hi! Butler!

	My friends, may I come directly to the point with regard to this great crowd and what it means to me. Naturally I mentioned the sign that is the biggest of all standing over there, "Jennings County." My home county, my mother's home county. All the years that I was growing up until the day she died a year ago when she was eighty-three years of age she always referred to this state as "back home in Indiana." I am glad to be back home in Indiana.

	I want you to know that as I stand before this great audience I realize that this state has been very good to me. My mother came from here. This state has been very good to me. We carried it in 1952, we carried it in 1956, we carried it in 1960, and believe me, we are going to go all the way in 1968.

	I want to tell you why I am so confident about going all the way, not just Indiana, but all the way across this country. I have been across the country in the past week. I started my campaign swing in Chicago just a week ago. I got into town just when he got out of town. My friends, it was the biggest crowd-- 600,000--in Chicago's political history in the last thirty years. Then, the next day there were 300,000 in San Francisco; and that night 32,000 in Santa Clara; and the following night 45,000 at a night meeting in Houston; and the following day a great crowd in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and two days ago in New York City, just on the outskirts, in Westchester County, as Governor Rockefeller introduced me in Westchester County, he said it was the biggest and most enthusiastic rally ever held in Westchester County.

	We are going to carry New York in this year 1968. Last night we were in Charlotte, North Carolina. Another great crowd. And this morning the American Legion down in Louisiana. But you have to come to Indiana for the real feel of a political meeting. You have got it in your blood.

	I want to tell you why. Look at this great crowd standing here jammed in. Sure, it is a beautiful day. It is a beautiful day, but it is hard to stand here, hardly able to move, having to walk for blocks. Why? Why do so many come out? Why did they come out in Chicago and in San Francisco and in Houston and in Charlotte and in New York State and now here in Indiana in such great numbers? Why are they shouting as you shout?

	I will tell you why. There is a new voice that is going across this land today. It is a voice that has been silent. It is a voice that hasn't been heard. Out here in this great audience and across this nation as I have spoken to these crowds, my friends, are the people that I call the forgotten Americans. They have been the quiet Americans. They haven't been out demonstrating and they haven't been out violating the law. They haven't been breaking the law, they haven't been engaging in violence. They are good people. They pay their taxes and they send their children to school and they support their churches. They are decent people.

	They know that this great country, if it is going to be a good country for any of us, it has to be a good country for all of us. These Americans, the forgotten Americans, recognize there is something wrong in this country. They are not haters, but if they are angry they are not angry at anybody else. They are angry about what has happened to America, and they are going to do something about it by their votes on Election Day. So they are coming out in great numbers. They want to say something. They want to say something by taking to the streets in the right way.

	What they want to say is this. We know the choice, the American people are saying, that we face in the year 1968. We know that it is the clearest choice that the American people have had in this century. We know that on the one side, we have a man who offers himself to the American people as one who has supported for the past four years the policies that we have. We know that on the one side we have a man, who, in addition to supporting those policies, has defended them, has indicated no difference with those policies and who in effect, therefore, tells the American people that if he is elected, he is going to continue for four more years the policies of the past four years.

	That is what he offers and I want to tell you my answer. I want to tell you the answer of thousands here and millions across this land in what will be a great tidal wave of voices on November 5th, and it is this. When they are asked the question as to whether we should have four more years of the past four years, they say that when the strongest nation in this world, the strongest nation, can be tied down in a war in Vietnam with no end in sight for four years; they say that when the richest nation that the world has ever known can't even manage its own economy; they say that when the nation for the greatest tradition of respect of law and rule of law is torn apart by unprecedented lawlessness; they say that when respect for the United States has fallen to an all-time low around the world and that when the time comes in America that the president of this country can't travel abroad or to any major city at home without fear of a hostile demonstration; then it is time for new leadership for America, and we are going to provide it.

	My friends, I accept the challenge to provide that leadership. I ask you to accept the challenge and the commitment with me, just as Bill Ruckelshaus accepts it, just as Ed Whitcomb does, just as your candidates for Congress do. America needs new leadership. We are going to have it. But we need you. We need your vote. We need your help now and after the election.

	I want to tell you what kind of American leadership we are going to have, and what it means abroad and at home. As we look to the problems abroad, we see that terribly difficult war in Vietnam. And as one who has criticized the conduct of the war in the past, and who will criticize it in the future, as far as its conduct is concerned, when I think it is appropriate to do so, I recognize as you do that at this particular time certain negotiations are going on, negotiations in Paris which we hope will succeed. As long as there is any chance that those negotiations could bring this war to an end, I say let no political candidate destroy that chance with a mouthful of words.

	As far as I am concerned, I say, however, that if when November 5th comes, if at that time this war is not ended--if on November 5th, after four years of all the power of the United States and the wealth of the United States and the support of the loyal opposition, they have not ended the war--then they have had their chance. Give us a chance and we will end the war on an honorable basis for the American people.

	As Ed Whitcomb, a great veteran of World War II, and Bill Ruckelshaus have already indicated, our objective will be to end the war in a way that it will promote real peace and not lead to another war. That is what we can do. That is the kind of policy that we want.

	But we must go further than that. My friends look around the world in which you live today. Not one area in the world can anybody in this great audience name to me where we are not worse off than when Dwight Eisenhower left office eight years ago. I simply want to say this. I realize that the problems of keeping the peace are even more difficult than those of waging a war. But I also know this: I had a pretty good teacher. And I am proud to have served in an administration whose president ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that is what we are going to provide to the American people in your administration. But if we are going to do that, we've got to put some first things first.

	One, we have to have a new diplomacy. Looking around the world today, for the past twenty years the United States has furnished billions of dollars, as a matter of fact, most of the money and most of the arms and most of the lives in both Korea and Vietnam to help other nations defend their freedom.

	My friends, we are a rich country, we are a strong country, and we have a lot of people--200 million strong; but there are two billion people that live in the free world today. And I say that it is time that we need a new diplomacy in which other people in the free world assume more of the share of the defense of freedom around the world. I pledge that kind of leadership.

	We need to restore the strength of the United States, restore it so that the next president of the United States when he negotiates, as he must, and as he will, with the Soviet Union or any others who might be potential enemies of the United States in any conflict, will always negotiate from strength and never from weakness.

I pledge that that strength will be restored, and, my friends, we need one other thing. We need to restore respect for this great country around the world.

	Look at the record. Look over the past eight years. Hardly a day can go by when you didn't pick up the paper and you read of some incident, a library being burned abroad, or an embassy being stoned. Just a couple of weeks ago one of our ambassadors was murdered. A couple of years ago one of our consuls was forced to eat the United States flag. Then the ultimate insult occurred.

	I say to you that when a fourth-rate military power like North Korea will have the daring to seize an American naval vessel on the high seas, then I say it is time for new leadership for the United States of America.

	In restoring our strength and in restoring our respect, there are several things that we must do. It does not mean a new belligerence. It means a new firmness. It means that we have not only the military strength which is credible, but it means that the United States does not act like the Soviet Union. We know that the road to respect is not lined by tanks and guns. But it does mean that if we have to have respect that we need a new diplomacy. It means new men around the world carrying out the policies of the United States. You know, negotiation is a matter of give and take. I say if you look at the record over the past few years, it has been too much of a case of our side doing the giving and the other side doing the taking. Let's change that and have a new diplomacy for the United States.

We need a new economic policy. We are a rich country. We do aid other countries when we think it is appropriate. It seems to me that as far as any programs are concerned, we should only aid our friends who are willing to help themselves, and we should not aid anybody who helps our enemies. That is what the United States of America should do. We shall see to it that this great flag of ours is again respected around the world. We shall see to it that this great flag of ours not only is respected but that nowhere in the world will it be insulted as has been the case in times past.

	My friends, I am not simply talking to you the language of patriotism. I am talking to you the language of peace, the language of strength that can bring peace when you are dealing with the kind of a world in which we live.

	That brings me to the basic point, a point that has already been touched upon by the previous speakers and by your mayor, and that is this: if the United States is to be respected in the world, if the American flag is not to be a doormat any place in the world, let me tell you that we have to restore respect for America right here at home. There is no ground more important than the ground we stand on. No ground more important. Never forget that.

	If a nation can't keep the peace at home, it isn't going to be trusted to keep the peace abroad. Let's restore freedom from fear in the United States of America.

	Here I outline for you the choice between your two candidates for the presidency of the United States, because we have a very great difference of opinion. On the one side he says that as far as crime and lawlessness is concerned, he says that he, in effect, has no criticism of the record of the past. He defends the attorney general and his record. He defends the policies.

	I want to tell you what my attitude is as I look at that record. I say that when we look at the past four, five years, and find that crime has gone up nine times as fast as population; I say that when we see over the past four years, that three hundred cities in this country have had violence and riots in massive proportions with 200 people killed and 7,000 wounded; I say that when the capital of the United States of America, which should be an example to the world, becomes known as the crime capital of the world; then it is time for a complete housecleaning.

	Let's get new men and new policies to restore respect, and I plan to do that. We can do it. We shall enforce the laws. We shall enforce them with justice.

	That brings me to the other side of the equation. If we are to have order in this great country, we must have hope, because people without hope don't care how many police there are, or how many laws there are. And that is why men like your great progressive mayor of this city, with their Uplift '68 programs, looking not just to government but to what people can do, they are the hope of the future. That is the way that we can give hope to America and hope to the others who have not had this chance.

	I want to say to this audience proudly today, that to come to my mother's home state of Indiana and to this capital city of this great state and to find here, that people have not just been waiting to see what government was going to do, but are trying to do something themselves to provide jobs for the unemployed and hope for those who do not have hope--this certainly is an inspiration to me--and it is one that I will carry with me through the years that I serve you, if you give me that opportunity.

	My friends, I want you to know today that as I look over this great crowd, I have confidence about the outcome of this election, but, more importantly, I have confidence about the future of America, confident because you are the people. Here is the heart of America in the heartland of America. You want a change in government, but you recognize that America has become great not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves, and we are going to give you a chance to participate in the action.

	So in every field we have that kind of a choice, one candidate saying, "Elect me and we will have billions more for federal jobs and federal housing and federal welfare." And I say, sure, the government will play a role in education, it will play a role in helping all those who are in need, and the aged.	 But I also say that as far as this government activity is concerned that rather than more millions on welfare rolls, we need more millions on payrolls in the United States. That is the way to get at this problem.

	On the one side we have a man who looking not just at urban America but at rural America defends the present secretary of agriculture and the policies there.

	My answer is this: when we see that agricultural income has gone down $2 billion, when we see hundreds of thousands of people leaving the farm, when we see the farmer getting the short end of the stick. It is time to have a new secretary of agriculture--who, instead of speaking for the White House to the farmer, speaks for the farmer to the White House. And that is the kind that I am going to give the people of this country.

	I could go on, but, my friends, the choice is clear, the clearest choice in a century. You have a record, four years of it, four years of failure is enough. Now let's get going on with the great task ahead. If you give us that chance, we will provide it. Finally, this word: when we speak of the state of Indiana, the political experts often say, "Well, that is Nixon country." Nixon country because I have always done rather well here, but I want you to know I never take this state for granted. This state has a special meaning to me. This is a state that we will be back to whenever we have the opportunity to come back, because we not only want your votes but we want the inspiration that an Indiana crowd always gives a candidate. You can't imagine how much it means to me to come to this state and to receive from you, and I can feel it here, the scent of victory in the air. We are going to win and we are going to win it big.

	Thank you.
CIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALDIPLOMACYFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALVIETNAM WAR     ˇF ÀF ≈F ¡F ∑F
 ÆF ©F §F òF ëF èF WF MF	 p 	 b 	 T 	 K 	 7 	 " 	  e: