Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1024.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/24STUMPBURLINGTONIOWAIAFAIRGROUNDS1,854 WORDS

	Thank you very much.  Let' hear it for Ruth Harkin and let's hear it for Tom Harkin, the next United States senator from the state of Iowa.

	To Ruth Harkin, to your state legislators, to your public officials here--what is it about Burlington?  Every time I come here, I feel great.  But I've never felt greater than I do today, because I smell victory in the air.

	Thousands of people are here today, and I think you're telling the Reagan administration they've listened to the debate, that they've thought it over, and you've made a decision and you're ready to vote.  And we're going to put the Mondale-Ferraro ticket into that White House to work for the people of this country.

	If you don't think I can do something, just look.  I've been here in Iowa less than four hours.  The skies have opened.  The sun is shining.  There's joy in the land.

	This morning, we began our campaign very early on a farm in Quincy, Illinois.  There we talked to farmers--good farmers--who, through no fault of their own, are close to losing their land and losing their hopes and losing their dreams.

	Then we went to Canton, Missouri, where we saw the same story.  We heard farmers talk to us about their young who wanted to farm and found it was no longer possible to carry on as the father had done from his father.

	Then we went to Keokuk, Iowa, where we talked about the values of America and the Midwest that we need in our country.

	Then we went to Fort Madison, where I talked to a lot of children about their future.

	But now, it's the icing on the cake.  We're in Burlington, Iowa, where it all happens.

	I want to talk to you about our future.  In twelve days, once again this nation belongs wholly to you.  In twelve days, you--the voters of Iowa--will make your decisions as to where you want this country to go.  On that day, even the most powerful wait for your decision.

	I come to you today as an old friend, as a fellow Midwesterner, as one who has visited this community many, many times over the years, and ask for your help.

	But not for myself but for us and our future.  You have a right to know where I want to take this country, to make a decision as to whether that's where you want it to go.

	I want an America where we have sound, healthy economic policies that restore health to rural America, to family farming, and produce the jobs here in the United States for Americans with an American standard of living.

	I've debated this president, and all over this country, I've called for an all-out effort to get these national debts down.  People say, "What are you saying, talking like a bookkeeper?"  That's not the issue.  The issue is the cost of that national debt to Burlington, to the people of this community, to the farmers of this state, and that awful debt that we're burdening this next generation with.  It's not bookkeeping--it's the American future that's at stake.

	In this city--and this is one example you could repeat a thousand times over this country--you were going to have a Caterpillar plant, good jobs, good pay, and now it's closed.

	You can go anywhere in this country and see that story repeated.  What's happening is, with the distorted dollar, our exports are lower than ever before.  This country is being swamped with imports.  Giants like Caterpillar that dominated the world four years ago are now slipping into secondary positions.  John Deere and the great manufacturing institutions, the steel industry, starting from the iron ore mines of Minnesota, going all through Iowa, Wisconsin, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana, into New York--it is a rust bowl.

	And with it went our good jobs and the future of our country.  More and more, even the most sophisticated companies in the United States are taking what would have been American jobs and taking the best overseas, because that's where you make the money to produce it there and sell it to the United States.

	A few years ago, the American farmers dominated the world because they're the best.  When they did, that produced prosperity in Iowa.  Your farm equipment workers were fully employed.  Everybody was at work because the prosperity and the American standard of living was here.

	With these massive national debts now, the farm exports are growing from Canada, from Argentina, Brazil, from Australia, from Western Europe; and they're replacing the export markets which were once ours.  With it went the standard of living that American farmers had and rural Americans have.

	In short, it's not a national debt issue, but those national debts are undermining America's future, taking our best jobs, assaulting rural America, and shrinking the future of our children.

	I won't stand for it.  I will lead this country to restore the health to our nation and the future to our people in this nation.

	I want a nation that looks ahead.  I want a nation that understands that our biggest asset is our human beings and, above all, our children.  We must invest again in the human mind.  We must make certain that this next generation is the best educated in the history of our country.  A mind is a terrible thing to waste, and we can't afford to waste a single one.

	In this nation, we must give our kids a chance.  Today is the twentieth anniversary of Head Start.  I'm proud to have been an original sponsor of that program, because we gave our kids a chance.

	I want every young American to be able to go on to college and vocational school regardless of the income of their parents, just as I had my chance in my time as a result of the GI Bill.

	I want to see our great centers of research and excellence, like the University of Iowa and the State University of Iowa and the University of Minnesota.  Let's invest again in research.  Let's invest in science.  Let's get out front and be number one in the world again.

	I want this nation to honor its air and its water and its land and the public health of the people again.  I was taught not far north of here that Americans are trustees of the land.  It is not ours to chew up and spit out.  It's not for our generation to poison and pollute and destroy this beautiful America.

	It is our task to trust, to preserve, to protect the air and the water and the land and the beauty of this country and hand it on to our children in the same beautiful shape that our parents gave it to us.

	As far as I'm concerned, I never want to see another James Watt, another Rita Lavelle, another polluter in Washington as long as I live.

	I believe in justice in America.  I don't think any person should be denied because of race or color or religion or sex, and I don't think this president will ever understand what I'm talking about.  They think civil rights is something that we do for them.  When we're for justice, this is something that we do for all of us.

	When the president rejoiced at the Olympics, where Americans won all the gold--what wonderful youngsters--did he stop to think how that was possible?  Didn't he see that it was white athletes, black athletes, Asian athletes, Hispanic athletes--women and men together--that won that?

	Doesn't he understand that that victory was also a victory for civil rights and justice in America, because when we're just, America is stronger?  That's why we need a nation of justice.

	Finally, there are things that the generations owe to one another.  Just as my parents helped raise me and educate me and give me a chance and those of my generation, that generation has now retired.  There are certain things that they need.  They need Social Security, adjusted for inflation, and they need a president who will leave that program alone and let our seniors have a secure and unanxious life.

	They need the coverage of Medicare because, as I've learned in my own family, a decent mother can spend a lifetime being careful of her income; save every dime that they've ever had and it's not much; and lose it all in one week in a major illness and lose the dignity and independence that they're entitled to.

	Medicare protects senior citizens from the disastrous costs of major illness.  My generation, I believe, owes a duty to our seniors to see that that protection is always there.

	I want a nation that considers itself not some kind of jungle but a family where we care for one another.  And I want to be the president who leads us in that direction again.

	Finally, and above all, I want a nation of strength that can stand up to our adversaries, that can keep the peace but uses that strength to control those god-awful weapons before they destroy us all.

	To lead this nation, you need a president who knows what he's doing.  The White House, my dear friends, is not Hollywood.  It's real.  When you have a president, when four times in a row our embassies and then our barracks in Lebanon are destroyed, and in a national debate said, "It's not my fault.  Some local commander did it."

	Then in Central America, with the dirty and illegal war in Nicaragua, he said, "I don't know who printed that manual.  I don't know."  That's not good enough.

	You didn't elect the barracks commander.  You didn't elect the author of that manual.  You elected the president of the United States, and it is his responsibility to be the commander in chief and take responsibility for his government.

	I want us to be strong.  When they want to launch a $1 trillion space weapons [system] into the heavens, I say it's time for the United States and the Soviet Union to agree to stop that, to save that money, prevent that arms escalation, and keep a safer world.

	There's a great future for this country, but on November 6, it's more than your future you're deciding.  America is the most powerful nation on earth.  We are, when we decide to be, the most powerful symbol of a moral authority in human rights on earth.

	On November 6, when you make your decision, you will not just be deciding where our nation will go.  You'll be deciding where the world will go.  When America leads, we can get it done.  If America does not lead, it won't be done at all.

	We've had times in our history when America has led this world to a higher plateau of justice and peace and stability.  It is time for America to find new leadership.  It's time for America to move on.  Give me your help.

	Thank you very much.

AGRICULTURE--GENERALCIVIL RIGHTSDEBT, NATIONALEDUCATION--GENERALENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALMEDICARESOCIAL SECURITY     á) S) M) I) A)
 6) 1) ,) ") ) ) ) )	 ù 	 â 	 } 	 o 	 ] 	 E 	 - 	  	  e: