Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0903.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/03STUMPLITTLE ROCKALASKAAKFOREIGN GOVERNMENTS2593 WORDS

	Mr. Speck, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, and my very good friends:  In various parts of the world covering a period extending over the last ten years I have been honored by the awards that have been given to me by foreign governments for alleged services, all of them earned by the men under my command but there is no honor that can come to any American that is equal to that which I enjoy today--a vast assemblage of citizens come together to greet one of their own kind, another plain American citizen, and say in effect to him, "I am here Ike, just to say I am glad you are here."  I thank you with all my heart.

	I wish--and I express the wish with regret that it could not be so--that Mrs. Eisenhower could have been with me today.  Actually, the trip was a little on the rugged side for her, but she wanted to come.

	There is a special significance for me in meeting with you here in a part named after an officer for whom I served many years in an intimate capacity--an officer who with his father have made the name of MacArthur famous, not only in military annals but in the halls of the statesmen in our country.

	This visit of mine to the South has been called by many a revolutionary thing merely because it is unique.  In the first place, there were many doubters that the South would be interested in hearing anything about the problems confronting us or what a presidential nominee might have to say about those problems.

	Perhaps the South had gotten used to being taken for granted.  When I didn't take them for granted they said, "Well, you are a little crazy.  You won't have a corporal's guard anywhere."  Maybe not, but if not corporals have a higher rank than they had when I left the Army a few weeks ago.  In any event, I have found this in two short days; you are just as interested as I am in seeing that the United States government is one in which you can take pride.

	There is a mounting mass of evidence to show that you are in no one's column, that you are not a captive precinct and you are going to express your judgments and your decisions as you see fit.  Ladies and gentlemen, if that is true there is no one in the United States who has a right to quarrel with the decision you render.  The decision of the mass vote freely expressed in the United States, is the law of the land.  And, moreover, it is binding upon every one of us as citizens.  I for one will accept your decision with the greatest happiness, no matter what it is.

	I tell you frankly, it is not so important what happens to me but it is most important that each of us does his duty in this country, that we do the individual duties that are equal to their individual rights and privileges that we enjoy under this greatest of all countries.

	I am going to tell you a few of my beliefs about this country.  I believe, first, that this country and its system rest primarily upon a foundation of spiritual values.  There is really no sense, as I see it, to free government unless we acknowledge the existence of a power that is mightier than man.

	I will present as my evidence on this point merely a statement of our founding fathers.  When they found it necessary to explain to the world and to public opinion what they were doing in setting up this new form of government, they said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator" with certain rights.  They didn't say you have these rights because you were born in Arkansas or Kansas or New York state.  You are endowed by your Creator.  In other words, to explain the government that they were about to set up, they had to acknowledge the existence of God.  Free government is the attempt to translate into the political world a deeply felt religious faith, whatever it may be, because its basic concept is the equality of man, and there is nothing said about the nationality of his birth, his origin, or the color of his skin.  This country, I believe, is going to remain great by acknowledging the brotherhood of man under the fatherhood of God.

	The next thing we must do is remember this:  There are many group tasks that must be done by us in our families, in our communities, in our states, and finally in the nation.  Lately it seems to be too much in the nation.  We do these things together because no one can do them for himself alone.  We must approach those group problems with a spirit of cooperation, a readiness to accept the responsibilities of each of us which are group in character.  If we do not do that then there comes that creeping tide of central law that finally results in the all-powerful state, and we do it because we are regimented.  Let us do our jobs at home, first in the family, then in the village, then in the state.  Let's not let the central government get any more of them than we have to.

	I believe most firmly that a people observing the spiritual standards on which our form of government is based and performing the duties of citizens--all of them, not just half of them while the other half stays at home--can lead the world to peace.  I believe it firmly, and with your indulgence a bit later I am going to return to that subject.

	I believe we can have prosperity without war.  I don't believe this great and productive country of ours has to depend upon the making of tanks and jet planes and the ammunition and ships in order that we may be prosperous.  That is silly.  Those things are sterile and negative.  They are merely to help us protect what we already have.

	Let us turn all those boundless energies into making productive things.  Let us seek wider markets abroad.  Let us trade with all people where trade is mutually profitable.  We will have a prosperity that will make anything we have experienced in the past seem puny by comparison.  We can have, I believe, a sound economy, an economy that does not have to cheapen our dollar day by day, month after month and year after year in order to keep the financial nose of our government above the debt level.

	With the production we can achieve at home, why do we have to have another deficit of ten, twelve, or fourteen billion dollars?  Because of duplication and waste; because of inefficiency; because a government too long in power is allowed to grow up with practices that simply rob the taxpayer of a true 100-cent value on his dollar.

	I believe that a true practice of the qualities I have mentioned already, if leadership in our country tries to show the value of cooperation and friendship rather than to try to seek votes out of class division, we can establish a climate of cooperation in which management and labor problems can be properly solved, in which we can support agriculture properly and without regimenting the farmer.  I believe we can do all these things if we will try to establish a feeling of "Good morning, neighbor" instead of "Well,
who are you?"

	Finally, we can have completely honest government, a government of integrity, efficiency, a government when notified that there was something wrong, that there possibly is subversion or corruption in any quarter, will never say, "red herring" but will go after it, a government that will report to the American people on every single item of responsibility concerning its stewardship.  Why haven't American people the right to know?  Is government their servant or is it trying to be their master?

	Only recently we had evidence of its trying to become master.  It tried to go into the steel business.  Thank goodness for the Supreme Court.

	I want to make clear that there are two points on which I emphatically agree with the opposition.  I note that the presidential nominee, my distinguished opponent, says that there is a mess in Washington.  I note also that the head of the administration says that it is absolutely essential, inescapable that that presidential nominee run for the presidency on the record of the Fair Deal.  I agree with both these points.

	And that record--what is that record?  Mounting costs of government, deficits, high prices and higher taxes.

	The other day an economist visited my office, and like most of you, I have a great respect for economists because I usually don't know what they are talking about, but he explained something very carefully to me.  He had some charts and on one of those charts was the picture of an egg.  He said "General, you are complaining about high prices.  I am going to show you where one of them comes from.  "On this egg," showing me this picture, he said, "here is exemplified all of the taxes the people pay and don't think they 
pay.  There are 100 concealed taxes on that egg."  Now, I am not trying to spoil your appetite for eggs, but there are 100 concealed taxes on eggs--they go all the way through.

	The president of the Retailers' Group came in to see me not long ago, and he said, "You know, my group is the group that collects taxes.  We are the tax collector for Uncle Sam for all of those taxes people don't think they are paying."  They have nothing to do with high prices.  They, like the rest of us, are getting squeezed--so much so that the Department of Labor said in 1950, every single city family spent $400 more than the family earned in wages to live.  How long can we keep that up?  Now, $400 isn't much in
Washington, but for people like me I tell you it is still some bucks.

	Perhaps you don't think you are paying for these things.  You are paying for the waste, the inefficiency and the corruption because when your tax dollars start to Washington you're not even sure that all of them get there.  As a matter of fact, do you realize that only within the last some months three collectors of internal revenue in great districts, of men occupying positions of great trust in the United States have been dismissed or sent to the penitentiary for peculation in office.  These were the collector in Boston, the one in St. Louis, and the one in San Francisco, clear across the continent, and those three offices collect our tax money, yours and mine remember, 5-1/2 billion dollars a year.  They were first accused by Congressional committees, one of them at
least 3-1/2 years before the government took any action whatsoever.  During those 3-1/2 years wouldn't you like to know how much you paid for the bungling, the fumbling and the falling around?  Well, I would like to know what we paid.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I promise you one thing, I don't think it is too important what happens to me, but this is a promise wherever I am, private citizen or public official, I'm going to help you get out the answers to all those questions and I'll report to you.

	Now, some of these people will admit that there are great messes in the federal government all over the country.  They say, "But don't you worry about it, let's change a face or two and everything will be all right."  Now let me ask some of the store keepers here if you change the things in the showcase, does that make the goods back in the warehouse any better?  If we are going to clean this thing up, we've got to clean out and clean out right now.

	We have got to have a government that will tolerate no crooks, no subversive elements of any kind, and one which is ever responsive to the people's will.  I don't mean that just as a phrase.  I mean ready to report on their stewardship at the very first hint of any kind of the existence of wickedness in that government.  We need a government that doesn't need to excuse a red herring.

	Now with your indulgence, one more word, something that lies very close to my heart--leadership of America toward peace.  It is high time the world made a fresh start toward this goal.  Now, we now that peace is not produced solely by bullets and guns and ships and regiments and planes.  At the very best military force is merely a counter to some other military force that we fear.  Military force alone can never lift from our backs at one and the same time the fear of attack and the burdens of it, of the intolerable cost.  We know that threats themselves are not a way to peace.  We know that we can't charge up and down the international world, so to speak, and make threats against other people.  We must make certain that all the world, our friends--above all ourselves--and those who may be hostile to us understand the sincerity of our desire for peace, that we are basing our whole appeal on grounds of decency and justice for all, not just one, but for everyone.

	Because the world is divided up, the free world is divided up into a great number of free and sovereign states and any one of them standing alone against the powerful threat of propaganda, subversion, bribery, corruption, threats of force and force that the Communists use we must have strong allies, each of us, and one rule for those alliances is let's go form them, let's so conduct them that the enlightened self-interest of America is thereby served, and let us make certain that every other country can say the same thing.  Then we will hang together.  None of us will be warlike but all of us will become confident and we will take off of our hearts and minds this dreadful burden of the fear of war.

	But, with all that, and even with a keen knowledge of what Communism is, it is still not enough.  People must have a moral base.  People must be lead by the heart of man.

	Now, I want to say one particular word today to the young.  People my age might think, "Well, with a little luck I won't have to go through a World War III in my time."  And people of my age who have been through two of them also know this, the only way America or any other nation can win World War III is to prevent it.

	I believe that if we owe one single thing to the youth of America it is to give to them whatever experience we have, whatever wisdom we may have gleaned out of the experiences through which we have passed.  Give it to them and try to inspire them never to stop in this search for peace on the highest possible plane of decency and justice to go right ahead so that America in a peaceful world can attain that great place to which nature and nature's God intended her.  Thank you very much my friends.
COST OF LIVINGECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESTAXATION--GENERALTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     ’8 ^8 X8 T8 J8
 <8 78 28 '8 !8 8 8 8	 ¯ 	 ¡ 	 „ 	 g 	 W 	 A 	 0 e: