Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0917.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/17STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCFOREIGN POLICY2,530 WORDS

	Thank you for coming here today from all over this nation.  You are leaders in your own right who represent, in this room, hundreds of thousands of Americans that are concerned about our future, about our values, and about the quality--and the lack--of leadership.  I am proud and grateful that you meet me here today.  We've worked together over the years.  We're working together now.  We'll win this election together, and then we'll govern together.

	You came here having read the polls.  You know that I'm the underdog, but you are here. You're not here just out of loyalty.  You're here because you know that the stakes are high in this campaign.  You are here not just because you believe in me; you are here because we believe in something bigger than all of us, and that's what this election is all about.

	We believe in an America free of racism, of anti-Semitism, and of moral McCarthyism.  All bigotry is obscene, whether it comes from the extremist preachers who captured the Republican Convention, from Rabbi Kahane, or from the pulpit of Louis Farrakhan.

	We believe in social justice.  Mr. Reagan may try to steal the mantle of Hubert Humphrey.  But everyone in this room remembers and knew him, and that mantle will not fit the man who savaged Social Security and Medicare, savaged education, turned his back on the mentally ill and handicapped all over this country, denied the existence of hunger, and declared ketchup a vegetable.

	The test of social decency is not our genius for devising new tax shelters but our compassion for those with no shelter at all.

	There's a new pattern developing for those being honored after death.  When you're a Democrat and when you're alive, the Republicans attack you.  Then after you die, they honor you.  Now they are honoring Hubert Humphrey and Scoop Jackson.  I don't recall that going on in the past.  I know who Scoop and Hubert would be for today:  not Ronald Reagan, but Walter Mondale.

	We believe in an America that solves problems.  We believe in leadership, not salesmanship.  We now have a campaign that is almost a first in American history.  Here we are, fifty days before the election, and we have a president who's told us not one single thing about what he proposes to do with our future if he's re-elected.

	We want specifics, not slogans.  We want more jobs, not more jingles.  We want the deficit confronted honestly and fairly--now, and not after the election.  We do not want policy by evasion, economics by rabbit's foot, government by smile button, and leadership by isolation from the lives of working Americans.  We want a president who will look us in the eye, tell us the truth, tell us where he intends to take this country now, so the American people can decide where they want this nation to go.

	We believe in an America that invests in our future.  Mr. Reagan wants to send a teacher into space.  I'd rather educate our children and invest in science and prepare this next generation for our future right here on earth.

	Above all, we believe in an America that defends freedom, wages peace, fights for human rights, strengthens our friends and allies, and leads the people of this earth toward a safer world.

	Today, I'm putting Mr. Reagan on notice.  I will make the question of war and peace a major issue in this campaign.  The fact of it is that four years of Ronald Reagan has made this world more dangerous.  Four more will take us closer to the brink.

	No wonder the globe has the jitters.  U.S.-Soviet relations have not been this tense since the Cuban Missile Crisis.  Of course the Soviets bear responsibility, but so does Mr. Reagan.

	I want his meeting with Mr. Gromyko to be successful, and that's what I will tell the Soviet foreign minister when I meet him.  I agreed to meet with Mr. Gromyko to make clear that our elections must provide no reasons for the Soviets to delay progress on arms control.  I want him to hear from me, personally, that America has only one president at a time and, in his meeting with Mr. Gromyko, he speaks for all of us.

	But I cannot help thinking of needless baggage that Mr. Reagan will bring to that meeting:  A history that runs from self-defeating name-calling to hair-raising joke telling.  I do not know what Mr. Reagan says behind the closed door of the situation room, but we all know his public record.

	Mr. Reagan has opposed every effort of every president of both political parties to control nuclear armaments.  He's the first president since Truman to fail to negotiate an arms control agreement.

	Mr. Reagan is the first president since Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart.  In his meeting with Mr. Gromyko, I hope Mr. Reagan will exert finally the leadership required for a victory.  But think of the consequences if he does not.  And ask yourself what a second term under Mr. Reagan will bring.

	Think of ending this decade with a full-scale arms race in the heavens.  We're at a fateful moment on this issue now.  As every one of the members of Congress knows, we have more at stake in our satellites in space than they do.

	I feel more threatened by a runaway arms race in space than by almost anything else the Soviets can do.  The history of arms control has been to stop something before it starts.  With the ABM treaty, it worked.  We are now within a year or two of the window within which we can stop this trillion-dollar madness before it impoverishes us, destabilizes the world, and moves us closer toward the final disaster.  I am opposed to it.  I want to stop it.  I want to reach an agreement that prevents this escalation, and Mr. Reagan obviously is hell-bent to get started with it.

	Think of the ABM treaty--torn up.  Think of thousands of new weapons deployed and think of nuclear weapons falling into the hands of the fanatics on this earth.  How would you like to live in a world in which Qaddafi had his own bomb?  How would you like it if Khomeini showed up with such weapons, or Idi Amin had it?  This administration has rapidly departed from the traditional efforts to control proliferation of nuclear weapons.  They have issued over a hundred licenses, high-technology licenses, nuclear fuel, to countries that we know cannot be depended upon to control either the technology or the fuel.  That is the record of this current administration.

	Now, these days you do not hear Mr. Reagan talk of nuclear warning shots--instead the talk is peace.  The change of rhetoric is his September Song, and it is a lullaby to distract us from his December surprises.

	Perhaps it will come in Central America.  Mr. Reagan's policies are transforming a complex regional tragedy into a pointless American tragedy.  From his military buildup in Honduras, to his illegal war in Nicaragua, to his disregard for negotiation and reconciliation--all the warning signs are flashing.  If Mr. Reagan is re-elected, the logical outcome of his policies is American troops at war in Central America.

	Think of the hopes for progress on human rights in a second Reagan term.  What hope do Soviet Jews have from a president who passively watches emigration grind to a halt?  What hope do South African blacks have from a president who cozies up to apartheid under the sickly euphemism of constructive engagement?  What hope do the people of the Philippines have from a president who sends his vice president to tell Mr. Marcos that we rejoice in his land of democracy?  What hope do Latin Americans have from a president whose deficit is ravaging their economy and igniting the fuse of revolution?

	Think of the prospects for peace in the Middle East under a second Reagan term.  Today is the sixth anniversary of the Camp David Accords.  None of us will forget that day.  It was a day when two nations that had been at war four times in thirty years forgot their differences and sat down together with the president of the United States and signed a treaty for peace.  The leaders of two ancient enemies stood in the East Room of the White House and pledged themselves, in Mr. Begin's words, to "no more war.  Peace.  Shalom, Shalom."  That was a day when we proved what leadership could do if it tapped the largeness of the human spirit.

	Compare that with today in the Middle East.  Compare current leadership and what it has done there with that day six years ago.  This administration took over when there was hope.  I remember giving a speech at Hebrew University in Jerusalem in early '81, in which I pleaded with this administration to do certain things that had to be done if we were going to carry forth and move forward the momentum of that day.  Instead, they pursued a policy of illusion.  The illusion was that they could enter into a strategic cooperation with Arab countries to fight the Soviet Union.  That was an illusion.  There are those who thought that if they were just tough enough on Israel, somehow Hussein and the other Arab leaders would sit down and talk.  The illusion was that if they were tougher on Israel, Syria would behave as a responsible nation in international society.  Anyone who had dealings with the Middle East knew that that was not the case.

	Today, Mr. Reagan treats the Camp David Accords--the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaties--as dead letters.  Progress toward peace has not just stopped; it's in reverse.  There is no Egyptian ambassador in Israel, no significant trade or human contact at all.  There is deep concern over the size of Egyptian fortifications in the Sinai, and anti-Semitic propaganda is on the rise.

	Mr. Reagan has squandered the promise of Camp David.  We have entered into a cold peace with negotiations in cold storage.

	In his acceptance speech, Mr. Reagan invited us to stroll down memory lane with him, but when it came to the Middle East, he had a serious case of selective political amnesia.

	He forgot to recall his strategic consensus with the Arabs, whose only apparent result was increasing weapons sales to Arab nations still at war with Israel.

	He forgot about selling AWACs, F-15 enhancements, and Stingers to Saudi Arabia and trying to sell F-16s and Hawk missiles to Jordan.

	He forgot about the four hundred hours of so-called unofficial talks between this administration, Yasser Arafat, and the PLO.  That went against Camp David.  It didn't work.  The Arabs pocketed the concessions but refused to talk.

	And Mr. Reagan forgot about Lebanon.  He pressured Israel to withdraw from Lebanon, promising that Syria would follow.  He treated Israel like an adversary.  He embargoed F-16s she needed for her defense.  He declared Lebanon a vital American interest but did nothing to protect our marines.  And in that swamp of policy confusion, we lost nearly three hundred brave Americans who were placed in a vulnerable position over the objections of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  Mr. Reagan blamed the Syrians for the attacks on our marines; he promised retribution, but nothing happened.  And just recently, a top Reagan official praised the Syrians for their helpful contributions in Lebanon.  So much for standing tall.

	When Mr. Reagan finally withdrew from Lebanon, American credibility in the Middle East sank to an all-time low.  And so we see Egypt welcome back the Soviet ambassador.  We see Kuwait accepting Soviet arms.  We see Morocco, America's oldest Arab ally, uniting with one of our deepest enemies, Col. Qaddafi.

	If President Reagan is re-elected, what December surprises are in store for Israel?  Will we sell two-thousand more Sidewinder missiles, sixty more F-15s and our latest M-1 tank to Saudi Arabia?  And F-16s to Jordan?

	Mr. Reagan's national security adviser says that the Reagan plan will be "actively" pursued in the second term.  What kind of pressure will he put on Israel again to force her to accept that plan?  Will he resume secret talks with the PLO?  Mr. Reagan wouldn't answer any of these questions before the election, and the reason is, if he told you the truth, you wouldn't vote for him.

	I want to change directions in the Middle East.  I will put the prestige of the presidency on the line for peace.  And I will do so backed up with twenty-five years of knowledge, experience, background, and commitment.  In a word, I know what I'm doing.

	I will once again make America's relationship with Israel the cornerstone of Middle East policy.  We will stand strongly and firmly with Israel.  We are not embarrassed by our support for Israel.  We proclaim it.  We're proud of it.  And Israel is here to stay.

	I will lead the search for peace personally, using the weight and the influence of the presidency.  That's another thing that we've learned about the Middle East.  Only the president, leading our government, can make the difference.  Who do you think will apply himself personally, with stamina, with background, with experience, and with the confidence of the leaders of Israel, most effectively in that Middle East?

	One of the problems of the Reagan administration is that on the issue of the Middle East, Mr. Reagan has been essentially absent, and others take over when that happens.  You have a lot of volunteers in the State Department that are willing to impose their point of view.  You've got a secretary of defense, Mr. Weinberger, that's more than happy to apply himself in that area.  Let's clean that out, get a president, and put him personally in charge.

	I will make it clear that the path to peace starts with direct negotiations with Israel.  I won't impose solutions on our friends.  I will support and defend Camp David and make it clear that peace cannot come without full recognition of Israel's right to exist.  I will scrap the failed Reagan plan and give the new Israeli government time to develop its own policies toward the Arabs.  I will strengthen strategic cooperation with Israel.  I will end the fiction that Jerusalem is not the capital of that good country.  I have supported moving our embassy there and, as president, I will do it.  I will provide that government with the support it needs to get Israel's economy back on its feet.

	Ever since Israel was founded, America has had a special relationship with that embattled democracy.  All of my life, I am proud to say that I've been a part of that battle.

	I am for Israel because I believe in democracy and social justice.  I'm for Israel because she serves our American security interests.  All my life, I have fought for Israel and against anti-Semitism.  All my life, we have worked together.  I rejoice in that relationship.

	I value and love your friendship.  I would rather lose with your help than win without it.  But fortunately, I will win with your help.

CAMP DAVID ACCORDSCENTRAL AMERICAHUMAN RIGHTSISRAELNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)SOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)WEAPONS SALES--ARAB NATIONSMIDDLE EAST     ¬: x: r: n: f:
 [: V: Q: G: 3: 1: #: :	 ­ 	 › 	 Œ 	 € 	 z 	 F 	 &   e: