Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0909.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/09STUMPPALISADES PARKNEW JERSEYNJAT THE PALISADES PARK RALLY1902 WORDS
	It is good to be back with you here in New Jersey--the state where politics has become a Meyner miracle.

	After listening to your great governor, I guess I've started to make his kind of jokes.

	Bob Meyner is typical of the new leadership in the Democratic party; young, liberal, creative. It's that kind of leadership that is going to carry the Democratic party to victory in November.

	There was a lot of talk in San Francisco last month about a "New Republicanism." One orator after another said that the Grand Old Party had become the Grand Young Party--it's no longer the GOP but the GYP, and you know what that spells.

	Every four years the Republican vocabulary blossoms out with words like "forward" and "progress" and "future." But they use these words so often you begin to wonder what is on their conscience and where the body is buried.

	Well, the American people won't be fooled. What matters is not what it says on the label, but what is inside the package. And inside the Republican package is the same old stuff, the same Old Guard, the same old promises they make every four years. They still shine--but then, why shouldn't they? They've never been used.

	But I will grant that the Republican salesmen at San Francisco were right about one thing: the American people do want a party that has vision and youth, a party that can match the swift-changing course of history with the swiftly adapting intelligence if its own leadership. And, my friends, they have that party: the Democratic party.

	Look at what has happened just in the past four years.

	Here in New Jersey, you have elected the new Democratic leadership of Bob Meyner.

	Your neighbors in Pennsylvania elected another progressive young governor, George Leader.

	Across the Hudson, there is a new vision of responsibility of state government and the world statesmanship of Governor Averell Harriman.

	Your next-door neighbors in Connecticut chose still another Democrat--the forthright and farsighted Abe Ribicoff.

	Every one of these new leaders, my friends, replaced a Republican and every one of them was elected since the great crusade bogged down in the Potomac Bottoms.

	That's the story across the country: twenty-seven states have Democratic governors and half or more of them are under fifty. Ours is a party of youth, a party of the future. And what is going on at that level has been going on elsewhere too. It is not just that Eisenhower is the first first-term President to lose the Congress in this century--the changes that have taken place go to the grassroots of politics. Yesterday I spoke to the Democratic State Convention in Ohio and there they told me that in 1952 there were some thirty-odd Democratic mayors in Ohio. Now there are over 200. (And they are going to elect Frank Laushe to the United States Senate, and Mike DiSalle as governor over there too.)
	
	As you saw the striking contrast in the two parties, when they nominated their candidates for vice president. The Republicans had only one choice--and they weren't very happy about it.

	But the Democratic party has a great field to chose from. There was my distinguished running mate, Estes Kefauver, a man who has already shown that he has the ability and character to fill the highest office in the land. And, in addition, there was Jack Kennedy, the splendid, independent young Senator from Massachusetts. There was Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota, a Senator true to the great progressive grassroots traditions of the Midwest. There was that hard-working and high-minded Senator from Tennessee, Albert Gore. And there was the next United States Senator from New York, who has served New York City with such distinction, Bob Wagner.

	And there are many more. This is a roster that the Republicans can't match. This is a Party of Youth with a capital "Y."

	There is a reason for this great vitality in the Democratic party. Our party has always been a party of new ideas and new ideas are frequently young ideas. No matter how good things are, we have always thought they could be improved, and so we have attracted young people, people who want to get things done and believe that things can be done. And the standpatters--who think that no matter how things are, they could be worse--just naturally drift into the other party.

	I have been criticized because I pointed out that there were troublesome problems in our society--that prosperity is spotty, that the farmer is in trouble, that the Republicans are not telling us the truth about a lot of things, including the decline of American power and prestige in the world.

	Apparently the Republicans think we are not playing the game unless we echo their famous complacency. Well, I intend to go right on acting like a Democrat and an American, calling for improvement where I think improvement is needed.

	A lot of improvements are needed, and we need young, vigorous, human Democratic leadership to get them done.

	There is too much poverty in our land. We have fourteen million people living in families with incomes under $1,000 a year. We Democrats mean to do something about that.

	The family farmer and the small businessman are being submerged in a sea of bigness--and we Democrats intend to take prompt, effective action to stop this before they go down for the third time.

	Our failures in education are shortchanging our children--and thus our future. Almost every educator in the country has testified to that, and it is long past time for the Democrats to do what the Republicans won't do about it.

	Prices are rising. It already costs more to feed, clothe and house a family than ever before in history. And in July prices rose 3/4 of 1 percent in a single month. If this keeps on, it will mean a 9 percent increase in the cost of living in a year. I seem to recall some assurances that they could manage the cost of living during the campaign of 1952.

	We have a long way to go--and Sunday is a good day to think about this--before we rid our country of distinctions based on race or color or creed. I would remind you that the progress we have already made is to be credited in large part to the leadership of such men and women as Franklin Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt in those great Democratic years that rescued this country from the rubble of Republican depression and gave our Negro fellow citizens equal recognition with the rest of us.

	All this is part of what I have called the New America--the land which lies within our grasp of abundance and freedom and justice.

	One other thing the New America means: It means honest government.

	I am particularly glad to make this point here at Palisades Park, for Bob Meyner in these last three years has made your state a model of administrative integrity. His ability and rectitude have restored honor to government in New Jersey.

	Bob Meyner's record stands in sharp contrast to the wrongdoing that went on under the Republicans before he came to office. You know better than I the sorry record that was climaxed by the revelations of the spectacular frauds committed by former Governor Hoffman.

	I have some understanding of the problems which Bob Meyner had to face. For just a few years back I, too, was a young Democratic governor having to clean up after a Republican administration in Illinois. I had thought, though, when I read the Hoffman story that our Illinois Republicans just weren't in the same class with yours here in New Jersey. But I confess I did not give their prowess full credit. But the late disclosures of Republican perfidy in Illinois have humiliated every Illinoisan--Democrats and Republicans alike.

	And now I understand that some Republicans across the river in Pennsylvania may have outdone us all. They are charged with looting the Turnpike Commission of over $9 million. And there, too, a young Democratic governor will clean up the mess he inherited from his Republican predecessors. And I predict that the people's demand for clean government and more effective representation will elect Joe Clark, the man who cleaned up Philadelphia, as the new Senator from Pennsylvania. I wish this contagion of Republican misconduct and corruption were confined to state government.

	It is not. It has marked the Eisenhower administration from start to finish. In 1952, when President Eisenhower talked so much about his great crusade, he was very firm and vigorous on the subject of misconduct in government. He said in 1952, "When it comes to casting out the crooks and their cronies, I can promise you that we won't wait for congressional prodding and investigation. The prodding this time will come from the top." That is what Mr. Eisenhower pledged in 1952. But how has his administration lived up to that pledge in the years since?

	Well, there was Mr. Eisenhower's Secretary of the Air Force. If it were not for congressional committees and for the American press, Mr. Talbott would still be Secretary of the Air Force today. And when he left--hurriedly--he was given a medal. Evidently this is what prodding from the top means.

	Of course, this gentleman is only one of the cases of official misconduct among the crusaders. And even more serious than the confusion of public office with private business, has been the effort to despoil our greatest natural resources for private profit.

	I haven't said much today about the greatest problem of all--the problem of maintaining peace in the world. We live today in the immense shadow of the smallest thing there is--the atom. Half the world is in revolutionary ferment. A fanatical faith seeks to organize mankind against us. The challenge of foreign policy in the hydrogen age requires all the intelligence, the resolution and the patient understanding of complex, sometime exasperating forces that we can muster.

	America had a chance for greatness in these past four years. Instead, it has been a time of wasted opportunities. Where the free peoples have sought wisdom and leadership, all we have offered is a contradictory clatter of boasts and threats. The first job of the now Democratic administration will be to restore coherence to American foreign policy, confidence to our friends and allies abroad, and vigor to our leadership in the world.

	You and you alone can build the New America. You and you alone can lay the basis for peace in the world. If you want to do yourselves a favor, register, get your friends to register, and get out the vote, come November 6th.

	A new era of abundance at home and of peace in the world--a New America--lies ahead and beckons to the young in heart.

	America is changing.

	We cannot stand still.

	We will move ahead or we will slide back.

	The choice is yours to make, and I am confident how you will make it.

	With the help of God, whose day this is, we will go forward, to build a better society true to the values of freedom and justice and brotherliness which we cherish and which live only in being honored by our deeds.
CIVIL RIGHTSCOST OF LIVINGGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTH     Ÿ+ •+ ü+ õ+ ì+
 Ü+ Å+ |+ n+ d+ b+ G+ =+	 U 	 I 	 ; 	  e: