Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0922.002SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/22STUMPDENVERCOLORADOCO2314 WORDS

	Four years ago, almost to the day, I came here to Denver to make a political speech. This was considered enemy territory, for General Eisenhower had been making Denver his headquarters. I spoke that night about the Republican slogan--a phrase you may remember: "It's Time for a Change."

	History repeats itself, they say--although I'm willing to accept this only within limits.

	Tonight, instead of having General Eisenhower here in Denver, I understand Mr. Nixon is camped nearby at Colorado Springs. He is resting up, I gather, from the unaccustomed strain of a week of travel along the higher road.

	And tonight I want to talk with you about the same thing I did four years ago--about change.

	For America voted in 1952--for change. And now it is time to see what changes there have been, what changes there have not been. And most of all, for change is part of the law of growth, it is time to see what changes need most to be made when--next January--the administration of this nation's affairs is returned to Democratic hands.

	Yes, America voted in 1952 for change. But America did not vote for shortchange--and that is what it got. They have shortchanged the farmer--by cutting farm income.

	They have shortchanged the small businessman--by tightening up his credit and his share of government contracts.

	They changed the tax laws--and shortchanged the less fortunate by giving 91 cents out of every dollar of tax cut to the corporations and higher-income taxpayers.

	They have shortchanged American labor by neglecting their promises to change the Taft-Hartley Act and by loading the National Labor Relations Board with management representatives.

	What we have had is a shortchange domestic policy and a quick-change foreign policy, and we have lost ground with both.

	Perhaps worst of all, they have tried to change the nature of the Presidency itself. Four years ago the President promised strong leadership as the champion of the interest of all the people against any special interest. Now he is almost a passive figure, while the very active gentlemen around him are almost all representatives of a single special interest. He seldom says a wrong thing; they seldom do a right one.

	The important point is not that the men to whom the powers of government have been delegated are almost all representatives of rich and powerful industry. It would be wrong if they were all representatives of farm interests or labor interests or any other single interests.

	The point is that the Presidency, which is the only office elected by all the people of the nation, is the one office in which the interests of every single American are supposed to be equally represented. That has not been true for the past four years. With your help we will make it true for the next four years.

	And, while the Republicans in Washington were altering policies and programs that should have been kept, there were many new problems on which they should have acted--and didn't. When the historians come to record what happened in the nation's capital from 1952 to 1956, I suspect they will cover it with a single phrase: Washington slept here.

	Let's look for a moment at the unfinished business of the Eisenhower Administration.

	There is today a desperate need for schoolteachers and buildings, with more American children going to school this fall than ever before in our history. But the Republicans in Congress defeated a bill for federal aid to education.

	There is a serious need for expanded research into the causes and cure of disease and for the encouragement of comprehensive private health insurance programs. But the Eisenhower-Nixon administration has shown little interest in an adequate national health program.

	Our population has shown an increasing number of older citizens, with special problems and needs, half of them trying to live on incomes which will barely buy even the minimum decencies of living. Yet the administration even opposed the reduction in the age at which women and those permanently and totally disabled were eligible for Social Security benefits.

	Joseph Stalin died, and from the ensuing turmoil has come new directions of movements in the Kremlin. While the Russians have begun to assail and penetrate the Free World by political and economic action, the administration has only coined new slogans, huffed and puffed, dismayed our allies, and given us false assurance that all is well in the world.

	Time has marched on, but the Republicans have stood still. Or rather they have drifted complacently downstream with the ever-moving current of history.

	Now, what of our plans--for change?

	We must have as we face the inevitability, the challenge, the responsibility of change, "the courage to change these things that ought to be changed, the restraint to leave those things that should stay as they are, and the wisdom to tell the one from the other."

	This is what we seek--the wisdom that knows what to change, and what to keep.

	I talked about what change means for our farm policy this afternoon at the plowing contest at Newton, Iowa. In agriculture, too, change is the law of life; and we must take full advantage of the new agricultural technology. But I said too that we must not let the Eisenhower-Benson administration drive the family farmer to the wall. We must not permit the American farming tradition to be sacrificed on the Republican altar of bigness.

	It is awfully important that we in the cities fully realize that the maintenance of a healthy agricultural economy, based on the family farm, is an essential foundation for a healthy America.

	We need wisdom, too, to see what to keep, and what to change, in the conservation and use of the great bounty that nature has bestowed upon this rich and blessed land--our soil and water, our forests and wildlife, our minerals and natural resources. I want to talk about this for a moment.

	In the end, what we are as a Nation is what we are as individuals and what we have in our natural resources. Our resources have been given by a gracious Providence, not to squander and destroy, but to use wisely, to develop, and to pass on to our children and the children of our children's children.

	To fulfill this trust we must have a sense of the changing world:

	By 1975, there will be 200 million Americans, crowding what is left of the store of resources we now have.

	By 1975, these Americans will be consuming 40 percent more food than we now consume.

	By 1975, these Americans will have more leisure than we do today. They will need more land and forest and streams on which to hunt and fish and live with nature's restful beauty. Men will still seek the wonders and the solitude of the mountains and the wilderness.

	By 1975, we shall have made further great drafts on our minerals.

	By 1975, the water requirements of the United States will be nearly double what they are today--and you here in Colorado know what a water shortage means, right now. You have felt nature's dry pinch, in the fierce dry wind on Dust Bowl farms.

	American's resources are the people's estate--and the people's heritage. These are something to be held in trust for all future generation. And, if we are to meet the needs of our fast-changing world, we must save and develop the public estate for all the people. We must place our public lands and forests and wildlife refuges beyond itching fingers. In plain language, we must stop the giveaways.

	Then we must reestablish and extend the policies of conservation, which were in effect for years before the Eisenhower-McKay administration began to hack away at them. We must restore and extend soil conservation under sound local control. We must protect our watersheds and our wildlife and our national forests, national parks, and public lands. We must revive the great and honorable bipartisan conservation traditions in which the names of Theodore Roosevelt and Franklin Roosevelt stood side by side.

	Then we must move beyond conservation in development. Our obligation to our children is to do more than protect our natural resources. It is to strengthen and improve them. This will be a basic purpose of the new Democratic administration.

	The Republicans have tried to make reclamation a bad word, as if it were synonymous with pork barrel or public theft. They have turned their backs on public power, as if rivers and waterfalls had been intended as instruments, not of the general good, but of private profit. While pretending a loyalty to the words and symbols of conservation, they have betrayed conservation.

	They have camouflaged the turnover of invaluable water resources to private interests by talking about it as a partnership. They remind me of the old story of the hen and the pig, walking down the street together and coming to a restaurant that had in the window a sign advertising Ham and Eggs. "See," the hen said, "we're partners." "Yes," the pig answered, "but what a partnership. For you it's just a day's work. But for me, it's a real sacrifice."

	Republicans in the Eighty-third Congress proposed the notorious "Stockman's Bill," that would have given a few large ranchers feudal rights to graze their stock on public lands.

	The Republican administration tried to make the man who wrote that bill Assistant Secretary of Interior--to administer the public lands he had tried to turn over to private interests.

	The administration said it would grant no more leases to oil and mining companies on our great national wildlife refuges. Then President Eisenhower's Secretary of the Interior granted almost as many such leases in the last three years as had been granted in the previous thirty-three. They gave away valuable timber in a national forest in Oregon on the pretext that the company was going to mine for gold and silver there. There seems to have been no silver. And all the gold came from selling the timber the Republicans gave them. These things did not happen when the Department of the Interior was administered by faithful servants of all the people--like your fellow citizen, my great good friend, Oscar Chapman.

	Then there is the matter of soil conservation. Under the Democrats, the soil conservation program was a going concern, a valuable part of our national life, helping solve in local districts across the country the problems of soil and water. Who would want to change that?

	Yet the Republicans appointed men who never really believed in soil conservation to preside over its dismantlement. They reduced the budget, liquidated grass and tree nurseries, broke up the regions and districts, split up teams of experts who had long been working together.

	We hear a good deal about "moral and spiritual values." We are rightly concerned about them. I say to you that the test of moral and spiritual devotion lies, not in what people say, not in pious words or attitudes, but in what people do--in what we used to call "works." We will not be impressed by those who talk of moral and spiritual values and then countenance raids on the public domain and our children's common heritage.

	The administration shows tender solicitude for the great private corporations, but thoughtless disregard for the public's property, our public forests, our public lands, our national parks, and our precious resources.

	The separate details of the Republican giveaway are bad enough in themselves. Together, they add up to the giveaway of the people's control of their own government.

	And it is time to change that.

	As Walter Lippmann, the wise observer of the American scene, said recently; "The Republican party is the party of the passing generation; the Democratic party is the party of the rising generation." And so it is.

	We have shown that we can match the swift changes of the world with the growth and the vigor of our leadership. We can do this because we meet the changing world as a national party, as a people's party. We grow and move and act out of the need and hope and wisdom of the common people, in every section, of every race and religion, of every walk of life. Our purpose as a party has always been to fulfill the needs of the present, and to anticipate the needs of the future.

	In the fifty-six years of this century, the nation has had twenty-eight years of Democratic government and twenty-eight years of Republican government.

	The twenty-eight years of Democratic government have inscribed an indelible record of leadership in the public welfare. Nearly every executive action, nearly every legislative enactment, which has improved life and opportunity for our people in the last half-century, has taken place during a Democratic administration.

	The twenty-six years of Republican government have produced a record largely of stagnation, of complacency, and of drift. The Republican leadership cannot hope to meet the challenge of the future--because it can hardly bear to live in the present.

	The pace of change is quickening every moment, with every new discovery in our laboratories, every new invention in our workshops, every new upsurge of human ambition and hope in the revolutionary turbulence of the world. To meet the challenge of the twentieth century we need every resource of imagination, of intelligence, of courage, and of faith.

	The demands of these changing times are great. But the strength of the whole people, acting boldly through the Democratic party, is greater. Armed with that strength, we can meet and master the changes of our time, and turn them to our purpose: the building of a New America.

	It is to do that that I say to you tonight, it is time for a change.

AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESRECLAMATION PROJECTSSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION--PUBLIC LANDSNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT     ™6 e6 _6 [6 S6
 F6 A6 <6 66 .6 ,6 ,6 "6	 È 	 ¯ 	 † 	 r  [  C   e: