Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1016.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/16STUMPST. LOUISMISSOURIMOGRANDEL SQUARE SHOPPING CENTER1,681 WORDS

	Thank you very, very much, Mr. Hurt.  Thank you, and I want you to know how very happy I am to be here, first of all, in the presence of these two lovely young ladies.  Most of you cannot see them.  But I will testify that they are mighty nice.

	And I also want you to know how much I appreciate this share of stock.  It says the Center City Foods, Incorporated, authorized capital stock, $200,000, and I got a ten-dollar share. 

	So you take good care of my business, will you? 

	Now, if I can give this to some trusted lieutenant and aide of mine, there is ten dollars, Davey, don't lose it.  And here is my hat.  Now, I am in the presence of--yes, sir, I am in the presence of Mr. Goldstein here who is the ward leader, 19th ward leader, and he not only says it is the 19th ward, he has told me six times it is the best ward.  That is what he said.  

	And I am in the presence, also, of a man that is bound to be absolutely unqualifiedly bound to be the next congressman here and that is Bill Clay, and what an asset he will be.

	When I drove in here this morning, I was very much impressed by the entire appearance of this area.  This is an urban renewal area.

	Now, what do we mean by that?  We don't mean just new buildings.  It is one thing to renew the structures but it is another thing to renew the spirit.  And what we are most interested in is not only to rebuild or to renew the buildings, the stores, the houses.  But we want to renew the spirit of the people who are going to live in these houses and make them homes.

	We are going to be in this area and make it a neighborhood.  We are going to live in this city and make it a community.  That is what we are most interested in.  That is the task of this country.

	I have been privileged to become a shareholder now in an enterprise and that enterprise is one that is the product of your investment.  But ladies and gentlemen, you are shareholders in an even greater enterprise.  You are shareholders and you have made an investment in the greatest--in the greatest institution, in the greatest structure, in the greatest business in the world, and that is the United States of America.  And as a citizen, you are a shareholder.

	Now, what some of you are asking is, when will I get my dividends?  Well, many of us have had our dividends.  Those of us that have been privileged to have a college education such as I have, I have gotten a rich dividend out of this country.  I have had the chance, a good chance, to make something out of my life.  That is a rich dividend in my investment and my shareholding in America.

	But there are thousands, regrettably, my friends, there are even millions of Americans that have never had a chance to reap a dividend at all from the business of America, the unfinished business of this country.  And I will tell you why I want to be president of this American company, this great company of the United States of America.  I want to be the president of this great America so that we can manage the affairs of our business in such a way that every shareholder--black or white, young or old, from city or rural--will have a chance to reap and to have dividends--dividends of an education, dividends of a decent place to live, dividends of a playground for the kids, dividends of health which is so vital, dividends of jobs and training for jobs, and dividends of investment such as here in this supermarket where we have what is called black capitalism, entrepreneurship, the dividends of owning some property and saying that it is mine, and being willing to stand up for it and protect it, the dividends of equal protection of the law, the dividends of justice under the law, the dividends of fair play and the dividends of being treated like a human being, like an American. 

	Now, my friends and neighbors, and my fellow Americans, and brothers and sisters, that is what we are.  We are in this American family together and we have built a great country together.  And let me say to my white brethren that this country wouldn't be what it is today.  The railroads would have never been built, the great buildings would have never been constructed, the canals would have never been made and created had it not been of the labor of many.

	I want every boy and girl in the schools of America to study the history of the American Negro, the American black man in this country.  I want him to know--I want everyone to know that he has helped fight our wars, that they have been heroes, they have been decorated for valor and courage in battle.

	There have been great doctors and scientists and artists and great entertainers and athletes, great ministers of the gospel, great people.  

	At long last--yes, my fellow Americans--at long last we are going to get an appreciation of what we are in this country.

	What a pity it is that we were never led to know that one of the patriots at Bunker Hill, one of those that fought in that battle and came away decorated with glory, was a black man--an American Negro.

	And what a pity it was that in the days when we were fighting for our independence, that one of the great leaders that stood by George Washington and helped him in the hours of crisis was a black man.

	And what a pity it is that so few have remembered Frederick Douglass, who was Lincoln's great personal friend, and understood so much the meaning of emancipation.

	Once we learn about each other, we are going to trust each other.  It is when we stand aside--it is when we stand aside and listen to the demagogues and the preachers of hate that we begin to have suspicion and doubt.  And let's face it, in America today there are blacks who are afraid of whites and there are whites who are afraid of blacks, and that is no way to build the American nation.

	That isn't what we mean by, "We the People".  The Constitution doesn't say we the black people, we the white people.  It says, "We the People of these United States". 

	When I am your president, you are going to be judged just one way, not how you look, what the color of your skin is, how you spell your last name, what church you go to, or where you live.  You are going to be judged on the basis of merit, whether you are a good man or a bad one, whether you are a productive citizen or not, whether you love your country or not.

	Who cares what your race is, what your background is or your ethnic origin?  What is important is what are you and what do you stand for? 

	So we say today, I am a man, not a black man or a white man.  I am a man.  I am a woman.  Not black or white but a woman.  I am a child.  I am one of God's children, not black or white but a child, and here are two little girls alongside of me and we are going to be tested in the years ahead not by what we adults do to each other, but by what we adults do for these young people to make their life better. 

	So, gee, it is good to be out here.  I tell you, this is a very happy moment for me because my whole life has been dedicated to the proposition that we can build an American family, an American community, in which we can live as neighbors and not enemies, in which we can trust one another.  

	You know, I said last night to a group that we read on our currency "In God We Trust".  Well, ladies and gentlemen, just remember that if it is in God you trust, then you had better put trust in God's greatest creation, his people.  That is what counts. 

	That is what counts.

	An old preacher friend of mine once said, and he taught me most of the religion that I have, he said, the way you treat people--and listen, you, the way you treat people is the way you treat your God.  And if you don't treat people like human beings with kindness and respect and with dignity, then you are a religious man and you are not any kind of a man.  You are not worthy of being called a man. 

	So, let's turn our--let's turn our backs on those that preach hate and division, and you know who they are.  Let's turn our backs on those that think we are going too fast when we have been so late, so slow in doing the things that we should have been doing a hundred years ago. 

	And let's have the people of America know that things can be better and that things are happening.

	I want the people of America to see what you are doing here.  I want them to know that we can work together and I want you to stand with me now in confidence that we can have an open America where people can live in the neighborhood of their choice, where they can have jobs without regard to race, color or creed, where they can go to the best school that we can provide, and where they can have their chance, because that is the promise of America.  

	Thank you very, very much.

	By the way, the election is November 5th.  Don't forget it.
HEROES/HEROISMHISTORY--UNITED STATES--AFRICAN AMERICANSRACE RELATIONSURBAN RENEWALAFRICAN AMERICANS     O# # # # 	#
 ý" ø" ó" ê" â" à" Â" ·"	 c 	 U 	 , 	    e: