Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0925.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/25STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCGEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY1,869 WORDS

	Yesterday in New York, Mr. Reagan addressed the United Nations General Assembly on the subject of foreign policy.

	We all welcome the soothing new tone.

	Gone is the talk of nuclear warning shots. Gone is winnable nuclear war. Gone is the evil empire. After four years of sounding like Ronald Reagan, six weeks before the election he's trying to sound like--Walter Mondale.

	The new Reagan supports economic aid to the developing world. The old Reagan slashed it.

	The new Reagan wants to help settle regional conflicts. The old Reagan ignored them or made them worse.

	The new Reagan praises international law. The old Reagan jumped bail from the World Court.

	The new Reagan criticizes South Africa. The old Reagan cozied up to apartheid.

	The new Reagan calls for peace in Central America. The old Reagan launched an illegal war in Nicaragua.

	The new Reagan talks about the Camp David process. The old Reagan torpedoed it with the Reagan Plan.

	The new Reagan worries about soaring arms sales. The old Reagan sold almost anything to nearly everyone.

	The new Reagan warns about nuclear proliferation. The old Reagan said it was none of our business and opened the sluice gates on materials to make the bomb.

	The new Reagan proposes regular consultation with Soviet experts. The old Reagan is the first American president since Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart.

	The new Reagan says we can remove the political suspicions that feed the arms race. The old Reagan told us the Soviet buildup stems from their inherent drive for world domination.

	The new Reagan says, "There is no sane alternative to negotiations on arms control." The old Reagan called for a margin of nuclear superiority and for prevailing in a nuclear war.

	This presidential sea change raises a crucial question: How can the American people tell which Reagan would be president if he's re-elected?

	To those who welcome the new Reagan, I say this: My dad was a Methodist minister, and he once told me, "Son, be skeptical of deathbed conversions." I asked why. And he said, "Because sometimes they get well."

	Nineteen months ago, I announced my candidacy for president. Six weeks from today, the voters will make their decision.

	It is no secret that I'm the underdog in this race. And when a candidate is behind, he gets a lot of advice. I have been told to attack Mr. Reagan personally. My answer is no. I did not enter this race to tear down a person. I entered it to fight for our future.

	I have been advised to ignore issues--to choose slogans over substance. My answer is no. There is a big distance between Pennsylvania Avenue and Madison Avenue. And there ought to be a big difference between a presidential election and a pep rally.

	I have been counseled to cut loose from my history--to desert the forgotten Americans I have always fought for. My answer is no. I would rather lose a race about decency than win one about self-interest. I would rather fight for the heart and soul of America than fight for the bonuses of the Fortune 500. 

	When the true story of this election is written, I suspect it will not be about me, or about Mr. Reagan--but about you. Your generation will decide this race. You will live with its consequences. And you will shape the American landscape for the rest of the century.

	You have probably heard the conventional wisdom about your generation. You are said to be self-content, materialistic, and devoid of social commitment. You are supposed to have no sense of history. You are accused of having an attention span no longer than a television commercial. That's quite an indictment. I don't believe it. But suppose some people did.

	Imagine a presidential campaign based on those assumptions about your generation. Believing you to be selfish, they would pander to your supposed greed. Their message would be: Be glad for what you have--and be blind to those who have little.

	Believing you to have no memory, they would exploit your alleged amnesia. Their message would be: History is bunk. Republicans are Democrats. And in 1984, the year of Orwell and doublespeak, the MX missile is renamed the "Peacekeeper."

	Believing you to be shallow, they would manipulate your rumored gullibility. Their message would be all sizzle and no substance, all happy talk and no straight talk, all blue skies and no blueprint, all television and no vision.

	I do not know which is worse--the emptiness of such a campaign or the cynicism about the American people that it implies.

	I do not know which is more damning--their contempt for the issues, or their condescension toward our people.

	They underestimate you. They're betting that Americans are not smart. That's a bad bet. Watch them maneuver.

	For four years, they failed to reach a single arms control agreement with the Soviets. They proposed to extend the arms race into the heavens. 

	But now, six weeks before the election, they talk of arms control, they dust the conference table--and they brag about blunting the issue.

	For four years, they failed to make the world safer. The Soviets have reached into Lebanon. Qaddafi has reached into Morocco. Human rights is losing in the Philippines. In Central America, our country is sliding toward war.

	But now, six weeks before the election, they talk of peace, they bow toward diplomacy--and they boast about changing an image.

	For four years, they racked up the biggest deficit in world history. They let us be routed in international trade. They watched basic industry decline. They put our farmers through the worst recession since the depression.

	But now, six weeks before the election, they reel out a few Band-Aids; they phony up their deficit numbers; they're silent on budget and tax plans; they gloat about this temporary recovery--and then crow about ducking an issue.

	For a generation, my opponent fought Democrats tooth and nail. He campaigned for Richard Nixon in 1960. He fought Kennedy on arms control. He fought Johnson on civil rights. He fought Humphrey on Medicare.

	But now, six weeks before the election, he lards his speeches with Roosevelt quotes. He gives a medal to Hubert Humphrey. He invokes Truman in Missouri. He invokes Kennedy in Connecticut. And he asks Democrats to become Republicans--as if it didn't matter.

	But it does. Take a second look at the Republican home you're being sold, and the platform it's built on.

	Do you really want to join a party that intends to put government between you and the most private choices of your life?

	Do you really want women to be paid less than men for the same work?

	Do you really want politicians to choose prayers for your children?

	Do you really want to get us deeper into war in Central America?

	Do you really believe there are winners in a nuclear war?

	Now, some people have declared this election over. They've announced a Republican landslide. In other words, they're telling you, your vote won't count. Your voice doesn't matter. This crowd doesn't want you to think about the stakes in this contest. They want to trivialize it.

	That is arrogance. We are in an American presidential election. This is a season for passion and principle.

	This election is not about jelly beans and pen pals. It is about toxic dumps that give cancer to our children.

	This election is not about country music and birthday cakes. It is about old people who can't pay for medicine.

	This election is not about the Olympic torch. It is about the civil rights laws that opened athletics to women and minorities who won those gold medals.

	This election is not about sending a teacher into space. It is about improving teaching and learning here on earth.

	This election is not about the size of my opponent's crowds. It is about the size of his deficits.

	This election is not about slogans, like "standing tall." It is about specifics, like the nuclear freeze--because if those weapons go off, no one will be left standing at all.

	This election is about our values.

	Today, millions of American children are born in poverty. Many go to school hungry. Many don't learn to read and don't learn to hope. And nearly everything we've done as a nation to help those children has been cut back by this administration.

	Today, there are Americans roaming the streets and sleeping on grates, bag women and broken men--and thousands of them plunged into that tragedy because this administration threw them off the disability rolls.

	Today, our country is peddling guns around the world. The African drought has brought massive starvation--but this administration is shipping them less food, and more weapons.

	The Republicans say they're for family values. But families don't disown their weaker children. What would we think of parents who taught their kids to think only of themselves and not to care for their brothers and sisters? What would we say about parents who lived in high style--and left their children in debt as a result?

	In this campaign, I will do everything I can to focus our nation on these questions--whatever the political consequences. It must never be said that, in 1984, we did not know what we were doing.

	I won't permit this crowd to steal the future from our children without a fight. I won't let them put ice in our soul without a struggle. They have a right to ask for your vote. But I'll be damned if I'll let them take away our conscience.

	The other week, Mr. Reagan and I both spoke at the Italian American Foundation dinner here in Washington.

	He told a moving story about an Italian immigrant who came to America with nothing. One of his children was a milkman. One of his children, in turn, became a surgeon. And one day, the surgeon saved the life of a president of the United States who had been shot.

	It was a fitting tribute to Dr. Joseph Giordano--head of the trauma team here at George Washington University Hospital. The other day, Dr. Giordano wrote an article you may have seen. In it, he said, "Mr. President, you only told us part of the story. Yes, my parents sacrificed for me. But I was also helped through college by low-interest federal student loans.

	"Yes, I saved your life, and I was proud to do it. But the medical technology I used wouldn't have existed without years of federally-funded research."

	"And yes, my parents worked hard all their lives. But now they rely on Social Security, and more than once my father has benefited from Medicare."

	Mr. President, there are millions of Americans making it on their own. But there are millions of others who need some help once in a while--just as you needed some help the day Dr. Giordano saved your life.

	That's the kind of people we are. That's the fight I'm waging. That's what's more important than the polls. That's what this election must be about. And that's why I ask for your help.
BUDGET DEFICITELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGENERATION GAPNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)POVERTYYOUTH     ‰+ U+ O+ K+ C+
 8+ 3+ .+ $+ + + ò* ç*	 z 	 l 	 N 	 @ 	  	  e: