Speeches\1980\rep\S80R0924.002SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)09/24STUMPTYLERTEXASTXExcerpt1387 WORDS
	Tyler is the home of Earl Campbell. So I know excellence is a Tyler tradition. And that tradition has been missing from the White House for three and a half years. We need a winning team in Washington, and with your help we are going to have one.

	Throughout the years, I have visited many cities and towns in the United States. But a visit I made to Tyler in 1976 stands out in my mind. Many of you remember it, too, I know.

	It was in April, and it was not very pleasant weather. And, as sometimes happens in campaigns, our schedule was a bit more optimistic than realistic. We were two hours late. But when we got here there was a warm and generous reception from many of Tyler's citizens who had waited two hours.

	That's the kind of thing you don't forget because it reminds you that with all of the sophisticated machinery and polling techniques and computer printouts that surround modern campaigns, in the end it all gets down to people, what's in their hearts. And I'll never forget that you showed me what was in your hearts, as you have shown again today.

	Some years before 1976, I had the honor of being a speaker at a luncheon during Tyler's annual Rose Festival.

	Let the record show that I will make only complimentary remarks about the White House Rose Garden while I am in Tyler.

	But I understand that all that time Mr. Carter has been spending in the Rose Garden has been useful. He's come up with a new variety of rose. It's called the Carter Inflation Rose. It's all thorns and no flowers.

	Usually it is the candidate who makes promises. But today I'm going to ask you to make a promise. Promise me that when we do get to the White House, we'll get some Tyler roses for the Rose Garden. A little bit of Texas never hurts.

	I know that the Carter inflation has hit Tyler and the families of Tyler know what that means. You see it every day in the prices you pay, in the dreams you have had to give up, in the future that looks less and less secure because inflation is eating away at income and savings--if anyone can find anything to save.

	But I also know that Tyler knows the Carter energy failures have hurt our nation.

	I want to talk to you about those failures today, because Mr. Carter doesn't seem to want to let his record of failures become a campaign issue.

	Two weeks ago in Cleveland, I spoke about Mr. Carter's energy policies, and described how his policies have consistently discouraged the discovery and production of energy in our country.

	Figures provided in the Department of Energy's August Monthly Energy Review demonstrate that:

	Oil production in the continental United States has declined every year Mr. Carter has been in office, and is now 11 percent lower than in 1976.

	Daily crude oil imports for the first half of this year were 6 percent greater than they were in 1976.

	And if it were not for the lucky bonanza of increased Alaskan oil production which Mr. Carter inherited--and which even he hasn't tried to claim credit for--we would have been importing 34 percent more oil this year than in 1976.

	These are startling figures, and they show how empty Mr. Carter's energy rhetoric has been. For our energy future is less secure now than it was four years ago.

	The figures must have startled the President, too, because he shot back that same day that I didn't have a single "shred of evidence" to support my contention that his policies had jeopardized our energy future.

	I had to remind him the next day that virtually all the information for my speech had come directly from reports prepared by the Congress and agencies of his own executive branch. As reported in the evening news, he responded the next day by saying that he didn't have time to answer all my questions.

	Apparently he did not have time to answer to the voters either last Sunday, because while John Anderson and I were debating national issues in Baltimore, he was somewhere else.

	But the meaning of Mr. Carter's silence to my challenge to him was clear: he knows his energy policies have discouraged the discovery and production of energy in this country, and that his misleading rhetoric and incomplete facts cannot stand up to the numbers presented in the government reports.

	You haven't forgotten Mr. Carter's campaign pledge to deregulate natural gas. He switched several times on that issue, and finally consented to what he called a natural gas decontrol bill.

	But you know what the Natural Gas Policy Act really did. Even Mr. Carter's Energy Department has admitted that label is pure fiction. Listen to their description of his so-called decontrol bill: it--quote--"brought almost all gas production, rather than only gas produced for the interstate market, under price controls."

	Mr. Carter's decontrol measure was actually a substantial increase in control. His windfall profits tax was actually, in the Department of Energy's words, "a severance tax on oil pumped out of the ground rather than a tax on profit."

	I described the harmful effects of these policies two weeks ago. But today, I want to let Mr. Carter's own administration--his Department of Energy--tell you what these energy policies hold for the future.

	Consider oil price controls. Mr. Carter decided to keep them in place until October 1981. Yet a Department of Energy report admits that oil price controls "encourage a higher rate of oil imports."

	The DOE says this about Mr. Carter's leasing policy: "Leasing restrictions, particularly in North Alaska, delay the production of oil and gas on these lands." And, it says, this helps to "significantly increase the forecast of oil imports."

	One more example--Mr. Carter's Power Plant and Industrial Fuel Use Act. The Department of Energy concedes that under its basic set of assumptions, this law "acts to increase U.S. oil imports," by as much as 566,000 barrels of oil per day, or enough oil to fuel more than one-quarter million cars.

	In fact, the report shows that compared to an energy policy of less intervention, similar to the policies for fossil fuels which I have advocated, the Carter policies would produce less oil, less natural gas, and less coal, and force us to import more oil in 1990.

	The report ends with these words: this finding "does raise a question about whether intervention in the energy markets is the most effective instrument for government to employ in pursuit of all of these (energy-related) objectives."

	These are not my conclusions. They are the conclusions of the Department of Energy--an agency committed to, indeed surviving on, increasing regulation and control of United States energy markets. The most ardent energy regulators in the nation say that we will have more energy, and we will import less oil, if we drastically reduce government restrictions on energy discovery and production.

	This is the kind of energy policy I support, and this is the kind of policy we will have in a Reagan administration. Our first goal will be to reverse the disincentives the Carter administration has placed on our energy discovery and production. We will increase our production of energy as rapidly as we can, consistent with protection of the environment.

	We will also encourage prudent conservation, which is an essential part of any energy policy. Finally, we will promote research and development on the fuels of the future, such as solar power and fusion, so we can bring them on line as soon as possible.

	For too long this administration has crippled our ability to free ourselves from OPEC, and has made our energy future less secure. By relying on competitive markets, free of production-inhibiting constraints, we can take the steps necessary to move toward greater energy self-sufficiency.

	The families of Tyler and Texas and America deserve a new beginning--not only in energy, but in every major area of national concern.

	I need your help. With your help, we can have that new beginning with a winning team.

	Let's get America working again. 
REGULATION/DEREGULATIONWAGE AND PRICE POLICYENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESNATURAL GAS INDUSTRY/RESOURCESOIL INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     .  ú ô ð æ
 Ü × Ò Í È Æ ¿ µ	 w 	 `  K  4   e: