Speeches\1956\dem\s56d1004.002SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/04STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYREMARKS2243 WORDS

	I am proud to come to Harlem tonight as candidate for president of the United States. I am proud because I come as the representative of the party which through history has been dedicated to the people of America--the Democratic party.

	From the beginning of this Republic, the Democratic party has worked, worked hard--yes, and worked successfully--to improve the condition, confirm the rights and enlarge the opportunities of the Joe Smiths of our land. 

	In the last generation, the Democratic party has achieved social and economic and spiritual gains which have transformed American society--and it has done so under the leadership of two great-hearted Americans, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman.

	Our party has fought valiantly for the plain people of America through its past--and I am here tonight to tell you that, so long as I am its spokesman and leader, it will fight as hard as ever for the people in the years ahead--and because the people know that, it will win the election in November 1. 

	But we have got to register, and we have got to vote.  I want to support with all my heart and the appeals of your other speakers tonight that you register yourself, register your family, register your block and produce the highest registration New York City has ever seen.

	You know what our party stands for when you look at the men and women who honor us by their presence here tonight.

	Let me first express by gratitude for his hospitality to a fine public servant, a man of responsibility, intelligence and courage, your Borough President Hulan Jack.

	And let me then express all our devotion and love to the great lady whose wisdom, grace of spirit and dedicated faith have illuminated our life for a generation, the conscience of our party and the conscience of America--Eleanor Roosevelt.

	We also have with us tonight the man who has battled for human rights on the floor of the Senate with serenity, fortitude and never-failing courage, who elevates us all by his own unwavering faith in the dignity of man--your great Senator, Herbert Lehman.

	We have the man who embodies the gallantry and compassion of the liberal spirit, who has been the stalwart champion of those in distress and privation--the poverty-stricken, the aging, the common man everywhere--your great Governor Averell Harriman.

	We have the man who is consecrated by family tradition as well as by liberal principle to the service of the people, your great mayor and your next senator, Robert F. Wagner.

	There are many reasons why Bob Wagner will be your next Senator--his courage, his quiet integrity, his demonstrated ability, and his earnest devotion to the rights of every American.

	We have come a long way in the battle for human dignity and opportunity in America.  But we still have far to go.  The Democratic party has head the fight against poverty and discrimination--and it is our purpose to carry on that fight as long as those ugly spectres still haunt American life.

	We are the richest nation in the world--the richest nation in history.  And it is an indictment of our intelligence ad humanity if we cannot provide every family in the country a decent opportunity to earn a living, a decent school for their children, a decent roof over their heads and a decent prospect of security in old age.

	We have had four years of Republican rule--four years of shuffling and postponement--four years of "time out" in the battle for expanding human dignity.

	The time has come to resume our onward march.

	There is still miles and miles of slums in America.  And every America family wants to escape from misery and squalor.  We need new houses--millions of them.  We need a sound and imaginative public housing program.  Every American who has taken the trouble to see how other people live in our country knows that these needs exist--and must be met.

	How have the Republicans met these needs?

	Well, the Republican leadership has fought and licked every good public housing bill proposed in these last four years--and the bills were always brought forward by Democratic.

	I doubt if there will ever be much hope for an adequate public housing program under an administration which takes its policy from the real estate lobby.

	But I say to you that under the Democrats we will have public housing and urban renewal programs which will help provide every American family with opportunity for a decent home in a decent neighborhood.

	You have already seen here in Harlem how public housing can begin to transform a community and make it a place where you can be proud to live--but then you have Democratic Mayors here in New York.

	The battle for housing is only one part of our Democratic battle for a New American but in every field Democratic proposals to help the people are met by Republican indifference, obstruction, and opposition.

	Take the minimum wage.  Over the strenuous objections of the Eisenhower administration, the Democrats in the last session of Congress raised the minimum wage to $1.  But this is not enough.  And it is the Democratic platform pledge to raise the minimum wage--if you will make sure that there are enough Democrats next year in Washington to help us do it.

	Over the strenuous objections of the Eisenhower administration, the Democrats in the last session of Congress lowered the age at which women and disabled persons became eligible for social security benefits.  But this is not enough; and it is the Democratic purpose further to broaden and strengthen the social security program--if you will make sure that there are enough Democrats in Washington next year to help us do it.

	In particular, it is our determination to carry out a program which will make the last years of life more serene and happy for our older citizens.  Two weeks ago, I issued a written statement in which I spelled out in detail what a Democratic administration would propose to do on behalf of our older citizens in the New America.  I want to take this occasion to pay tribute to your governor, whose concern for the aging in New York has so greatly influenced our nation's thinking on how we can meet our obligations to our parents and grandparents.

	But food and dress and shelter and not all that matter to a good life.  Man's highest fulfillment comes in the realm of the spirit--in the fulfillment of his inward sense of his dignity, his responsibility and his freedom.

	America has made progress toward that fulfillment too--and that progress has come in the main, I am proud to say, through the leadership of the Democratic party.

	Yes, we have seen nothing more brazen in the entire record of Republican misrepresentation in this campaign than the Republican effort to seize partisan credit for progress in civil rights.

	They have claimed credit for ending segregation in the armed forces.

	Well, you know, I happen to have been in on that story right from the start--and these Johnny-come-lately Republican claims make me pretty disgusted.

	In 1941 and 1942, I was assistant to the secretary of the navy.  And it was then that we took the first and the hard steps toward removing the racial barriers in the United States navy.  My part in that was small--and we only got the job started then--but we did get it started.

	Then, on July 26, 1948, President Truman issues his Executive Order No. 9981.  It was that order that sounded the death knell of segregation in the armed forces. 

	That order was issued despite the testimony of Chief of Staff Dwight D. Eisenhower before a Congressional Committee on April 2, 1948, that complete desegregation in the armed forces would, as he put it, get us "into trouble."

	But four years later, Candidate Eisenhower admitted, in a speech in Chicago on October 31, 1952 that--and these are his words--"Now, so far as I know, there is nothing in the way of segregation in the army, navy, air force, or marines left--at least as a matter of official record."

	Why then--why--did President Eisenhower tell the American people on Monday of this week, in listing the accomplishments of his administration, that one thing the Republicans have done since 1952 is to end segregation in the armed forces?

	I don't mind the President's trying to make off in broad daylight with the Democratic platform--he always returns it right after election day anyway--but he better stop trying to run on the Democratic record.

	The Republicans have claimed credit for stopping discrimination in employment by government contracts--though all they did was to continue the work begun by the Fair Employment Practices Commission under President Roosevelt and by the Committee on Government Contract Compliance under President Truman.  For that we are grateful.

	They have even claimed credit for ending segregation in the District of Columbia--though the case which meant the end of segregation in many public places in the District was initiated at the time President Truman was in office and while Mr. Eisenhower was still a private citizen.

	And finally, when the President was presented with an opportunity for great national leadership in this field, he was virtually silent.  I am referring to the Supreme Court decision on desegregation in public schools. 

	Surely the gravest problem we face here at home this year is the issue of civil rights.  We have faced it continuously for many years in varying forms and changing urgency.  I faced it when I was governor of Illinois.  During the interval, we desegregated the National Guard; we use the National Guard to protect the safety of citizens in the Cicero riots; and we came within an ace of passing a fair employment practices act--and were prevented from doing so only by a close vote in a Republican legislature.  We eliminated all racial designations in the employment service of Illinois and on drivers' licenses, and so on.

	Yet, despite the progress we have made, the achievement of equality of rights and opportunities for all American citizens is still the great unfinished business before the United States.  The Supreme Court decision on desegregation in the public schools was an expression of our steady movement toward genuine equality for all before the law: it expressed in a new field the old principle that the American heritage of the liberty and opportunity is not to be confined to men, women and children of a single race, a single religion, or a single color.

	I have spoken about the decision many times.  Last week I spoke about it in Arkansas, and I am glad to have the opportunity to say here what I said there: "The Supreme Court of the United States has declared unanimously that the constitution does not permit segregation in the schools.  As you know, for I have made my position clear on this from the start, I believe that decision to be right."

	"Some of you feel strongly to the contrary."

	"But what is more important is that we agree that once the Supreme Court has decided this constitutional question, we accept that decision as law-abiding citizens."

	And this statement, I am heartened to tell you tonight, brought applause from those who heard me in Arkansas:

	I continued: "Our common goal is the orderly accomplishment of the results decreed by the Court.  I said long ago, and I stand now squarely on the plain statement adopted in the Democratic platform, that we reject all proposals for the use of force to interfere with the orderly determination of these matters by the courts.  The Court's degree provides for the ways and means of putting into effect the principle it sets forth.  I am confident that this decision will be carried out in the manner prescribed by the courts.  I have repeatedly expressed the belief, however, that the office of the presidency should be used to bring together those of opposing views in this matter--to the end of creating a climate for peaceful acceptance of this decision."

	The President of the United States recently said of the Supreme Court decision "I think it makes no difference whether or not I endorse it."

	As for myself, I have said from the beginning--and say now--that I support this decision.

	We have a code in this country--a design by which Americans live with one another.  It is called the Bill of Rights.  It should not only be obeyed, it should be respected.  The Bill of Rights is the moral spine of our nation.

	I pray that all Americans, no matter what their feelings, will collaborate in working to sustain the Bill of Rights.  No other course is consistent with our constitutional equality as Americans or with our human brotherhood as children of God.

	The profound questions of our time remain questions of conscience and of will.  And the answers will come, at the last, "Not by might, nor by power but by this spirit."

	For ours is a time like that of which the prophet Amos wrote, "Let justice roll down as waters, and righteousness as might stream."
BILL OF RIGHTSBROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATIONEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONHOUSING, LOW-INCOMESUPREME COURTAFRICAN AMERICANSCIVIL RIGHTSMILITARY PERSONNEL--DISCRIMINATION     §3 s3 m3 i3 a3
 T3 O3 J3 B3 :3 83 13 '3	 ¡ 	 “ 	 x 	 _ 	 L  ?  .  " e: