Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1103.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)11/03STUMPLEVITTOWNNEW YORKNY1,346 WORDS

	It's great to be in Levittown.  I remember your community as the marvel of the post-World War II building boom.  Thousands of houses sprang up overnight--houses urgently needed by our returning veterans.  But there were those who refused to believe, who said that within twenty-five years Levittown would be falling apart--that it would be a run-down, second class neighborhood.  But they were wrong.

	You have worked for what we see here, today: better homes, better schools, shopping centers, consumer services.  You have had commitment, vision, and a willingness to make financial sacrifices.  You--and others like you--have carried a heavy burden in upgrading our whole society, and this burden has been getting heavier all the time.

	But I believe that no one in America should carry more than his fair share of the burden of making democracy work.  I have proposed a number of important and constructive steps to help preserve and improve the quality of your communities--without adding further to local property and other taxes.  The key is the unprecedented growth of our economy.  That growth means an increase of federal revenues of 12-15 billion dollars a year with no increase in taxes.  We can--and we will share these revenues with our states, we will share these revenues with our cities and towns, we will guarantee them their fair share of our nation's economic growth.  We will do this when I am president.

	You have urgent needs--education, health, housing--and the federal government can help you meet these needs.  We must begin by bringing safety back to our neighborhoods and to our families.  And we can do it.

	In this campaign we have heard a lot from the other candidates on crime, violence and law and order.  But I was the only candidate to speak to you, directly on television, to talk sense about this problem that troubles so many people and I am the only candidate to set forth a specific program of action--not talk, but action--to help your local police with better salaries, better training and better equipment.

	Campaign oratory never caught a criminal.  Bumper stickers won't help your local police.  But a president who understands the problem can act.  When I was mayor of Minneapolis, I broke up organized crime.  I know how to do it.  I've done it.  And I will take action when I am your president.  We can make our neighborhoods safe and keep order, with justice for every American--and I will do it.

	And there is much that we can do to improve the quality of life in America for ourselves and our families.  First, education, in the last eight years, we have done more to improve the quality of education in America than was done in the entire previous history of the Republic.  The Nixon-Republicans voted no on educating our children.  But we Democrats voted  yes.  And we will press forward.  We will have quality preschool education for all children, better training and pay for our teachers, vocational education for all students who want it, and equal educational opportunity for the poor of handicapped child.  We will assure access to higher education for every American child through public scholarships, long-term loans, and work-study programs for middle income, as well as low-income families.

	Ed Muskie and I see education as the best investment we can make in America's future, and in the future of your children.  And we will make that investment.

	And we have other work to do together.  We must give our parents a chance to live out their lives in dignity, and we will, even if the Republicans fight us as they fought Medicare.  And we will win.

	We must protect the American consumer from unsafe or fraudulent merchandise.  In the last eight years the Democrats stopped the sale of drugs that would produce deformities in unborn children, protected your child from dangerous toys, protected your family from fraud and hidden charges in installment-plan buying.

	But everything depends upon a groaning and prosperous economy.  We cannot take it for granted.  In the 1950s the Nixon-Republicans gave us three recessions in eight years--the lowest rate of economic growth in the industrialized world--and an unemployment rate that climbed almost to 7 percent.  But today, we have had ninety-two straight months of prosperity.  We have cut unemployment in half.

	Let me tell you something: there is no longer any question that, if the Republicans get in the White House, you will see increased unemployment.  They have said so.  They are committed, as a matter of policy, to deliberately throwing men out of work.  The only question now is how long the Republican recession would last and how deep it will cut.

	Jobs would go, profits would slide, economic growth would slow down, the nation's business would grow stagnant, and tax revenues to build a better America would disappear.

	That's what the Nixon Republicans offer you.  That's not what I want.  And I don't think it's what the American people want.

	So put us to work.  Let Ed Muskie and me get on with the job of keeping our economy strong, of providing an excellent education for all our children, of protecting you:  your safety, your job, the goods you buy.

	But beyond Levittown, beyond the cares and concerns of daily life, beyond the shores of America lie the great problems, and the great opportunities of the life of our nation in a nuclear age.  I want to end the cruel war in Vietnam.  Thursday night the President took a wise and courageous step toward peace, a step that all peace-loving Americans support.  I want to go on and build a stable structure for peace in Southeast Asia.  And I want to stop the suicidal nuclear armaments race.

	In this dangerous nuclear age, everything we have built here at home, all our hopes and dreams, all our lives, could be wiped out in a single blinding instant if your president who succeeded him made a single mistake.

	Mr. Nixon says he favors an ever-escalating nuclear weaponry and increasing the influence of the military over our foreign policy and national life.  He would add 50 billion more dollars to our staggering defense budget, for nuclear weapons we do not need, for nuclear weapons that would speed up the spiral of the armaments race.

	I disagree--and so do the American people.  Here the issue between us is clearly drawn.  I worked with President Kennedy to get the Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.  Mr. Nixon once called in "catastrophic nonsense."  But we got it--and the world is a safer place today.

	This very fall I urged the Senate to ratify immediately the treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons.  A single word from Mr. Nixon would have ratified that treaty.  But Mr. Nixon refused to do it.  And the treaty is dead for this session of Congress.

	When I am president, I will press for the ratification of that treaty.  I will continue to keep America the strongest nation on Earth--as it is today.  But--I will also explore every way to halt the suicidal nuclear armaments race before the nuclear arms race halts mankind.  And I'll start to work on it January 21, 1969, if you give me the chance.

	It is up to you to decide.  Today is Saturday.  On Tuesday you will vote your decision--the only public opinion poll that matters.  You will have to decide whether the last third of the 20th century will be one of progress of chaos, hope or despair, peace or increasing world tension.  You must decide whom you trust to make these decisions, not only for the next four years, but for the next generation.

	I firmly believe the world cries out for a generation of great men, a generation of great ideas, indeed, a generation of greatness.  I ask you to give your votes, your efforts, your hopes to the future of America.  Together we shall keep America great.  I ask you help in this election.
CONSUMER PROTECTIONECONOMY, RECESSIONARYEDUCATION--GENERALNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)     r > 8 4 ,
         ø	 i 	 V 	 A 	 / e: