Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1003.004SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/03TELEVISIONPITTSBURGHPENNSYLVANIAPATELEVISION SHOW OF ADLAI STEVENSON1685 WORDS
	On Monday of this week, the real issue in this 1956 election campaign was joined. I have made these arrangements tonight to get squarely before you the Democratic position on this issue.

	The Republican candidate for the presidency said on Monday that this election will hinge on the question, as he put it, of "which party, in these recent years, has done more to help all citizens meet the problems of their daily lives." This is a proper statement. Of course, what matters is which party will do more in the future to help people meet the always new problems of their daily lives. But I'm sure that is what the Republican candidate meant. And he is right that each party's past record offers the best test of its future performance.

	So, if the record is to be the test, let's get the record straight!

	I think it is too bad that the President indulged himself in such a gross misstatement of the record. I am sure he is an honorable man and could hardly have deliberately intended the misrepresentations which his speech included.

	Fortunately, the facts to set the record straight are at hand. Let's look at them.

	The President's speech referred to our Social Security program, and he claimed credit on behalf of the Republican party for its enlargement. The fact is that this program--which so vitally helps almost all our older citizens meet the problems of their daily lives--was developed by Democrats against bitter Republican opposition.

	The fact is that in this very year in Congress the Democrats proposed that Social benefits be paid to employees fifty years old or older who became permanently disabled, and to reduce the benefit eligibility age for women to sixty-two. The fact is that 85 percent of the Democratic Senators voted for the change on disability and 84 percent of the Republicans voted against it.

	The President reported in his listing of what he called Republican progress, that--and I quote him--"the minimum wage was increased." The fact is that he himself as well as his congressional leaders--ardently opposed the successful Democratic effort to raise the minimum wage to $1.

	The President even took credit in his speech for seeking a program to help distressed areas suffering from chronic local unemployment. The fact is that the only adequate bill to help those areas was introduced in Congress by Democrats, was passed by the Senate over strong Republican opposition, and was killed in the House by the President's own leaders.

	The President tried to claim that this Republican administration was the first to take up the cause of the needy farmer. The fact is that Democrats initiated the program of federal aid to the family farm with the Farm Security Administration nearly twenty years ago. President Eisenhower may have forgotten this--but the farmers who worked their way from tenancy to ownership through this and other Democratic programs have not forgotten. The President even listed farm prices in his summary of Republican progress. The fact is that farm income declined by one-quarter during his term of office.

	"The cost of living," the President went on to say, "has been reasonably stabilized." The fact is that, by the statistics of his own Department of Labor, the cost of living reached, this July, the highest point in history.

	The President gave the Republican party credit for helping small business. The fact is that last year the rate of small business failure was higher than any time since the Depression. The further fact is that the Eisenhower administration offered no program for the relief of small business until this year, on the eve of the election and, even then, after Congress adjourned.

	The President gave the Republican administration credit for progress in civil rights--and the areas of progress he enumerated were all Federal responsibility and the gains were all initiated by Democratic administrations. The fact is that the President has taken no clear position and exercised no leadership in connection with the pressing problem of school desegregation.

	The President gave the Republican administration credit for a $12 a week average increase in wages since August 1952. The fact is that a third of that increase took place in the first five months of this period--under the Truman Administration.

	The President implied that the Republican tax cut of 1954 benefited everybody. The fact is that 91 cents of every dollar of that tax cut went to corporations and families with incomes above $5,000 a year.

	The President even claimed that the Republican party had ended "special favoritism, cronyism, and laxity" in Washington--but the facts are written otherwise in the record of the Dixon-Yates contract, the natural resources giveaway, and the shotgun resignations of his Secretary of the Air Force and other top level officials of his administration. And I won't mention the numerous loopholes in the tax law sponsored by his administration. 

	The President said that he and the Republicans wanted federal aid to education--and that the Democrats defeated it. The facts are [missing text] and the President knows it. First, that the only bill that came up for passage and which would have provided $400 million a year for school construction was defeated by the Republicans in the House. Second, that during the first two years of his administration, when he had a Republican Congress, he proposed no legislation for federal aid for schools.

	These are the facts!

	I have no way of knowing whether the President knew them when he spoke, or whether he didn't. But someone did. Yes, and the American people know these facts--from their own lives.

	Are you a crippled miner, totally disabled, fifty years old, with children to feed and no way to do it--until the Democrats in Congress this year made you eligible for Social Security benefits? 

	Are you a working woman of sixty-two who can now retire because of the action of this Democratic Congress?

	Are you a man who almost lost his home in the Depression--until the Home Owners Loan Corporation saved it?

	Do you work in a steel mill here around Pittsburgh? Do you remember what the corporations did to your union--until the Democrats passed the Wage Labor Act?

	Are you a storekeeper, a businessman, who would have lost your business in the Depression if it hadn't been for Franklin Roosevelt and a Democratic policy?

	Are you an auto worker in Detroit who worried about temporary unemployment--until the Democrats established unemployment compensation?

	Did you almost lose your Iowa farm twenty years ago--and did the Democratic farm program help you to save it? This made a difference in you life--and so does this administration's attitude toward agriculture.

	When you were a child, did you work in a sweatshop in the New York garment district, or were you a breaker-boy in a Pennsylvania coal town? Well--Democrats ended child labor.

	Do you live in a part of the country where REA power lines, brought in during Democratic administrations and against Republican opposition, have transformed life's whole pattern?

	Or are you a veteran from Minneapolis raising a family in a house in the suburbs--because we Democrats made it possible for you to buy a home with a GI loan?

	I won't ask tonight if you are a mother with a five-year-old wondering what kind of school he'll go to next year or a housewife worrying about high prices.

	Run down the list of the measures, which "in these recent years" have strengthened the framework of economic security, social welfare, and personal freedom. Ask yourself which of these measures originated with the Republicans, which with the Democrats. And I haven't even mentioned TVA or the great industrial development in great river valleys.

	I rest my case confidently on your answer.

	I say in all soberness that nearly every governmental program in our time--in this generation--which has helped citizens meet the problems of their daily lives more effectively, which has enriched, enlarged and brightened their daily lives, has been a Democratic program.

`	And I further say that this is no accident. There is a deep and continuing difference between our parties--a difference in composition, in tradition and in ideals. This is as it should be; this is why we believe in the two party system. But let us not exaggerate those differences. Both parties share a profound belief in our nation, in our Constitution, in our legacy of political freedom and economic enterprise, in our commitment to the dignity of the individual, in our passion for peace, in our faith in divine Providence. Let us never forget, even the heat of a political campaign, that the things which unite us are still far more important than the things which divide us.

	Yet within the framework of agreement there exist notable differences--differences which have existed since the founding of the Republic. Thomas Jefferson defined the fundamental difference nearly a century and a half ago when he said that men are divided into two parties: "those who fear and distrust the people," and "those who identify themselves with the people." And Alexander Hamilton replied for the opposite tradition that the nation should be governed by the "rich and well-born."

	President Eisenhower's administration has reflected the philosophy of his party. But the Democratic party has had different values and a different tradition. Our faith has always been in the people--that their welfare is the paramount obligation.

	Our hope is to build a society--a New America--where the ideals we inherited from our forefathers will find a new fulfillment in a land of freedom and justice, where our abundance will serve, not just a few--not just what Hamilton called the "rich and well-born," but all of us.

	It is my profound conviction that loyalty to this tradition--the tradition of government for all--offers the greatest hope to all Americans, regardless of race or color or sex, or worldly condition or national origin, may at last share in the infinite promise and potentiality of American life. 
AGRICULTURE--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALSOCIAL SECURITYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     y( E( ?( ;( 3(
 &( !( ( ( ( ÿ' Ý' Ó'	 m 	 Y 	 G 	 8 	 # e: