Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1021.005SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/21STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYWALDORF-ASTORIA HOTEL1973 WORDS

	I well remember the morning, just a year ago, when I opened my copy of the European Edition of the "New York Herald Tribune" which carried the account of the closing session of the 1951 Forum.  There I read--with great surprise, considerable gratification, and some dismay--that this great paper had openly and unequivocally decided to back me as a candidate for the presidency of the United States.  There have been many political milestones in my life in the last twelve months, but none more clearly and cleanly carved than the "Herald Tribune" statement.

	Tonight, within the Tribune's Forum theme, "Building Leadership for Peace," I would like to draw my text from an event that has occurred within the past three weeks--an event that has tremendous relevance to peace.

	Two weeks ago, the 19th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party opened in Moscow, and by the time Josef Stalin had issued his twenty-five-thousand-word treatise, and Georgi Malenkov had run through his five and one-half hour oratorical endurance race, and Molotov and Beria had tossed their propaganda javelins, some of us recognized that the Cold War was assuming a new and even more sinister pattern.

	This 19th Communist Congress contained numerous warnings for the free world.  I discussed some of these last Thursday night at the Al Smith dinner.  This evening, I wish briefly to focus attention on the economic threat which was spelled out so laboriously, but so clearly, at the Communist Congress.

	In American single-talk, the threat amounts to this:

	First, the Russian Communist empire has recovered from the industrial and human destruction of the last war.

	Second, by skillful, aggressive, and ruthless prosecution of the Cold War, the Soviet Empire has added to its already great resources the important industrial complex of Central and Eastern Europe, and has added to its own large population six-hundred million human beings for use either as slave labor, or as expendable military masses.

	Third, the Communists, knowing that the unity of the free world requires an abundant, mutually-helpful world trade, have determined that the economics of freedom, seriously disrupted by the war, must be further disrupted by every means.  In time, the free world, driven by economic necessity, will, they calculate, start fighting within itself.  Then Communism can close in for the kill.

	Stalin himself made a shrewd observation when he said that the most important economic result of World War II was "the disintegration of a united, all-embracing world market."  He said that there are now two parallel world markets, his and ours.  And, according to Stalin, some of the nations on our side of the Iron Curtain, notably Japan and Western Germany, will be dragged by their own economic needs away from the free world market and toward the Soviet side of the curtain. 

	It is certainly true that before the war, a decisively important part of Germany's economic equilibrium depended upon trade with Eastern Europe.  Today these countries are part of the Soviet orbit.  Japan found her economic equilibrium through trade with Asia.  Today, the vast portion of Asia represented by China, is part of the Soviet orbit.

	Even the most starry-eyed economist can hardly contemplate that the United States is suddenly going to replace either the Asian market for Japan, or the Eastern European market for Germany.  Yet the realities of the Moscow Congress forbid us to contemplate keeping these countries on a permanent subsistence level through annual handouts which serve only to prolong the agony without curing the disease.  If we cannot display more international economic imagination and greater leadership, the inevitable result will be the gradual absorption of these key areas into the Soviet orbit.  There are other ominous weaknesses in the free world's economic structure--and these highly vulnerable situations will be corrected not merely by spending dollars, any more than will such expenditures bring about fundamental corrections in Japan and Germany.

	Since World War II, our foreign economic program, not including any military expenditures, has cost us thirty-three billion dollars.  This huge outlay has not succeeded in producing a minimum basis for the free-world nations to stand on their own feet without our continuing support.  In Europe, where the best record was made under the direction of Paul Hoffman, there have been reconstruction and encouraging recovery, but Europe has not achieved the ability to become independent of our purse-strings.

	If at the end of seven years and thirty-three million dollars, the central problem is as far from solution as it is today, and the international public relations of the United States are worse than they were in 1946, I think it is fair to say that something has been wrong with our thinking.  It is far too easy and deceptive to blame it all on Stalin.  He stood revealed as our enemy long before last week.

	I think that we should take a new look at this economic world of ours.  I think that, in concert with our closest allies, a long-term, consistent program should be produced, directing all of our economic power toward reviving free-world economics and trade as a whole, instead of restricting our concern to emergency relief and isolated, piecemeal actions.

	Let me merely list some of the economic problems which the free world is called upon to solve, not only for its economic betterment, but also as one of the indispensable requirements of peace.

	First, the problem of reestablishing the economies of Japan and West Germany must be recognized as a problem of the entire free world.

	Second, the free world must find a permanent solution to Europe's continuing inability to earn enough dollars--a problem that has been developing since 1878.  In the past forty-eight years, Europe has taken from us in goods and services about 120 billion dollars more than we have taken from her.  All but twenty-six billion dollars of that disparity represented gifts and loans in one form or another, and were financed by American taxpayers, investors, and business firms.  A solution to the problem is essential to the retention of the European private economy, to Europe's adherence to the free world's alliance against Communism, and to our own economic welfare.

	Third, a high percentage of the people of the free world are undernourished.  Hungry people do not think first of freedom and justice.  They think of the elemental business of getting food for themselves and their children.

	And fourth, there are innumerable economic tensions, such as in the Middle East, which must be relieved if economic difficulty is not to be transformed into political catastrophe.

	Now, the solution to the economic ills of the free world does not lie in one nation's making pensioners of other nations.  Economic aid has been essential, and is still needed, in the immediate post-war period.  But the time must quickly come when the free nations cooperate to their mutual advantage, with growing strength in all of them--including the United States.

	Nor is the solution to be found exclusively in economic measures.

	An effective program for peace is the sum of many parts.  Together the program is indivisible.  All cooperative action among free nations must be based upon genuine understanding.  The development of that understanding is the starting point of any program toward lasting peace.  On this firm foundation of understanding, the free nations must cooperate militarily for their common defense.  They must engage in far-sighted economic cooperation in order that peoples everywhere may, through their own efforts, improve their present desperately bad situations.  And they must cooperate politically and socially to settle those disputes and relieve those tensions which otherwise might break into overt hostilities or cause free nations to surrender to the insidious promises of Communism.

	The free nations of the world have the resources and the manpower essential to ultimate success.  Some nations lack skills and social organization.  Unfortunately, understanding and the will to cooperate are often lacking.

	What, then, must we do?

	First, we must carry forward vigorously a program for the development of understanding, including that which is essential to economic cooperation.  In the process, we must tell the American story.  We must show what spirit, incentive, and reward have accomplished here and what they can accomplish elsewhere.  This we can do, for example, by use of the two-way street that brings exchange students, businessmen and labor leaders from other countries here, and by being represented abroad by those who believe firmly in our system.
	
	Next, we must maintain a high level of economic activity in the United States free of the unstabilizing effect of inflation.  Without a stable, prosperous American economy, there is no hope for a healthy, expanding world trade.

	Then, we must get our own administrative house in order to handle better our part of the task of economic cooperation.  Today, the White House, the State Department, the International Trade Section of the Department of Commerce, the Treasury Department, the Mutual Security Administration, the Point IV planners, the Pentagon, and the international business enterprises go their several, uncoordinated, though well-meaning ways.  Without impinging upon the rights and responsibilities of private enterprise, including private investors, we must coordinate and mobilize mutually-beneficial economic cooperation, as effectively as we mobilize for military defense.

	We must call upon the best minds of our nations to sit down with political and economic leaders of other nations to find solutions to the crucial problems of international economic policy.  I believe that the wrecking of the London Economic Conference of 1933 was one of the great, though little understood, tragedies of our modern world.  We must make a fresh start.

	The United States should consider the feasibility of encouraging raw material development in many countries--raw materials needed for our own expanding economy--our dependence on other nations for raw materials, already very great, will increase rapidly as we accelerate the exhaustion of many of our own natural resources.

	We should intensify the extension of technical assistance to underdeveloped nations.  It is in our own enlightened self-interest to do so.

	While maintaining tariff policies that operate in the interest of our agriculture and industry, we should seek out opportunities to increase imports of commodities, goods, and services which will improve our own economy and help make our allies self-supporting.

	We should encourage other nations to create conditions that invite an invigorating flow abroad of American private capital investment, this effort being coordinated with the Point IV and other economic programs.

	Through these and other measures, we should seek to create conditions that would permit progress toward the goal of free convertibility of currencies.

	It is my firm conviction that we can develop with other nations a program of economic cooperation that will strengthen their economies, will hold or expand markets for American agricultural and industrial exports, and will make a mighty contribution to a total program for peace.

	Certainly I know that we must find a substitute for the purely temporary business of bolstering the free nations through annual handouts.  That gets neither permanent results nor real friends.

	To this task we must summon the best minds we have.  Their job must be to help build a new economic alliance of free nations, and thus confound the prediction of economic doom proclaimed by the Kremlin.

	I believe it can be done.

	In the Kremlin's plan for a new kind of Cold War, we should have all the advantages.  In the free world, we have already achieved everything the Kremlin hopes to accomplish in its own misty future in applied science, industry and scientific agriculture.  We have all the spiritual values on our side.

	Now we must add imagination, practical planning and the cultivation of international good will.  Then, with experienced and dedicated leadership, we shall meet this new challenge of Godless tyranny.  Then and then only can we look forward to an enduring peace and a greater destiny.


ALLIES/ALLIANCESCOMMUNISMFOREIGN TRADE--EUROPESOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)FOREIGN TRADE--GENERALFREE MARKET ECONOMIES     ç1 Y1 S1 O1 E1
 71 21 -1 %1 1 1 1 ¸0	 t 	 d 	 [ 	 F  +   e: