Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0915.004SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/15STUMPOTTAWAILLINOISIL1404 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen:  I realize that we have arrived here a considerable time after the appointed hour, and for that my party and I apologize.  Traffic on your roads was a little thicker than we had anticipated and all day long we have been dropping behind schedule.  So for your tolerance and your patience in waiting here to give me the opportunity to greet you even at this late hour and to bring to you a few of the thoughts that come to me as I complete this day in Indiana and Illinois, I am truly grateful to you.

	My impressions of the day are that the United States very much believes we should have a change in national administration.  I have tried to speak to my friends in these various cities across Indiana and Illinois about different subjects affecting our country today.  I have talked about peace, the prospects for getting peace under the present administration, the kind of error that led us into the Korean War, and the absence of plans for doing anything about it except to continue it; our relationships with the rest of the world, and by that I mean the loss of prestige in our own government and what that means in loss of leadership in the free world.  I have talked about our budget, the expenditure program of the United States that contemplates the staggering sum of 85 billion dollars.  I have talked about the fact we are living beyond our means, that 12 billion dollars of that money we are not even raising.  We are spending more than we take in and the only place we are getting the rest, as far as I can see, is out of the piggy banks of our children and our grandchildren.

	I have talked about prices and I have discussed with people what brought about these high prices.  How much will your dollar buy now as compared to what it would buy in 1940?  During the daylight hours I carried a couple of pieces of money, a dollar bill that was real in 1940 and another little piece about a quarter that size showing you in relative terms what it would buy now.

	I have talked about the influence of taxes on these prices.  For example, how many of you people know that every time you eat a boiled egg you are paying at that moment 100 concealed taxes on that egg?  I am not trying to spoil your appetite for eggs; I am just trying to show you that your grocer or the man who delivers the eggs is not the man who is responsible.  All along the line these taxes are piled onto everything you buy.  They are piled on to every process through which materials must go before they come to you; the feed, the work, the transportation, the retailing, the wholesaling, the jobbing, everything.  Everything is taxed.  And let us make no mistake about this one thing, my friends.  You and I are the ones who pay the taxes.  Let's not let anyone kid us.  when they are trying to collect 85 billion dollars from this country it is not merely the rich who are paying it.

	Someone told me that if every single salary about $10,000 in a year in this nation were sequestered, that is, if it were seized and taxed 100%, that entire amount of money would run this government for 21/2 months.  No, my friends, you and I are paying the taxes in increased costs on clothing, on transportation, on your cars, your motorcycles, anything you use or anything you do.

	As we went down the list of these things, we decided, my friends and I, that possibly there are a few for which you might build up a pretty good case and say they couldn't be helped.  "That is just the Communists doing that to us," or something else.  But you do arrive at this:  there is no excuse for dishonesty in government and yet we have specific, proven instances of dishonesty in high places in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, so that even the taxes we have been paying do not all reach Washington.  Some of them remain to line the pockets of dishonest tax collectors.

	The internal revenue collectors in the great places of Boston, St. Louis, San Francisco, all the way across the country, had to be relieved, tried, and at least two of them have already been sent to the penitentiary.  Another one, appearing before the Congressional Investigating Committee, headed by Senator John Williams, a Republican of Delaware, admitted that he had $40,000 in small bills but his memory was a complete blank as to where he ever got $40,000.  What a convenient memory!

	There is only one kind of government that is good enough for the American people:  a government that is devoted to their service, a government in which every man is first qualified for his own job, regards that job as a public trust, and then as a group they find their complete reward in saying, "We have advanced and are working for the advancement of the American people, their prosperity, their happiness, and above all their security and their protection in the liberties they have always enjoyed."

	Instead of undermining those liberties by centralizing more and more in Washington, America deserves a government that will work to keep power decentralized, to respect and retain the power of the states, of the communities, the families and the individuals.  Let us have no regimentation on the farm, in the things we learn or in where we go to school, in the kind of work we do, let us have the least possible regimentation in every bit of our economic life.

	Unless we return these economic responsibilities and activities to the people who have made our country, our citizens, we are going to become more and more dependent upon the will of a bureaucrat in Washington.  We will become more and more dependent upon the regulations they issue as to wages, place of work, the kind of crops that the farmer will plant, when he will plant them and how he will rotate them.  If I know anything about the farmers of the United States--and after all, I was one of them myself--it is that they prize above all else their independence of action.  There is nothing that they will submit to that is going to limit their right to run their business as they please.  To my mind all of us have got to conduct our lives in that same spirit.

	My day's experience, starting at eight o'clock this morning at Fort Wayne, Indiana, has convinced me that people believe and are convinced that our present government is not doing a good job in the directions I have just so sketchily outlined to you, and therefore we need a change.  They believe we can have a change that will  restore the pride of each of us in our government, that we can have the kind of government so characterized by honesty, uprightness, integrity and intelligence that we will attract to it the finest business and professional labor and brains, and agricultural brains, for the whole country so that we will have in Washington in the Executive Department a true cross section of the good sense of America; a process, my friends, which will insure that the kind of America we have known will continue to progress and that the America of the future will be one of which the spiritual strength, the intellectual strength, the cultural and the material strength will be far beyond anything of which you and I have ever dreamed.

	They can have it because within their grasp they have the greatest power that there is in a free nation.  They have the vote.  By your votes you determine what you want, decide what you want. 

	For myself and for all those whom I know are working in the Republican Party, we are trying to make one single pledge.  If you choose to place upon us the responsibility for legislative and executive duties in our government, the next four years of government will be characterized by this one thought and purpose:  to serve the best interests of 155 million Americans and each and every man, woman and child in it.  That is our single purpose.  
	
	Thank you.

BUSINESS--TAXATIONGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSREGULATION/DEREGULATIONTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     v B < 8 .
         ü	 v 	 d 	 G 	 0 e: