Speeches\1992\dem\S92D0929.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)09/29STUMPColumbusOHIOOHOhio State University2598 WORDS
	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for coming out. It's great to be at Ohio State.

	You know, Ohio gave me the votes in the primary to be the nominee of the Democratic party.

	Ohio cast the votes which put me over the top at the Democratic convention in New York.

	And with your help, on November 3rd we'll make it 3 and 0 for Ohio. I have been all across this state, to Utica and Wilmington, to Columbus and Cleveland and Cincinnati, on Friday to Dayton and Toledo. I want the support of the people of Ohio, starting with the students at Ohio State.

	You know, last week on this day I went to East Lansing, Michigan, to the site of the first presidential debate. Where was George? George was traveling around the country, around my state, criticizing Arkansas, but not where I could answer.

	And you know what happened then? Then George flew home to Washington and in the late of the night, when the newspapers had gone to bed and the television news was over, for the second time he vetoed the Family and Medical Leave Act.

	Now this was typical of the Bush administration. He said he'd give us family leave, and he vetoed it twice, and he did it late at night hoping it wouldn't be much news.

	And more important, he told us once again that we can't, we can't, we can't. Do you know how many nations have family and medical leave, my fellow Americans? Seventy-two. When I was your age I was raised to believe that America was the "we can" country, not the "we can't" country, and on November 3rd, we'll be the "we can" country again.

	You know, today we were supposed to debate in Louisville, so I went to Louisville. And where was George? He was in Tennessee. Where was George? I'll tell you where he was. He was in Tennessee. And guess what else is in Tennessee? There's a plant in Tennessee, in Decaturville, a little town, with 304 people who used to work there. And guess what we found out Sunday night? We discovered that the United States government under George Bush spent taxpayer money to subsidize the shutting down of that plant and the opening of a plant to replace it in Central America. He's spending their tax dollars to put their money in Central America.

	Just a few days ago Mr. Bush said that I was going to raise the taxes of middle-class people. He got that wrong. He raised the taxes of middle class people. I'm trying to give them a break.

	But guess what? It has now become clear that under the Bush administration the policy of this government is that foreign companies located in the United States should pay lower taxes than American companies located here with the same income. I want foreign investment in America, but I want people here to pay their fair taxes, no matter who they are, no matter where they're from. Everybody ought to be on the same playing field.

	You know, this president has resorted to name calling and yelling. See his demonstrators over there? They don't even want me to talk because they know the truth hurts. The truth hurts. The truth hurts.

	And I'll tell you something. In November, we're going to bring a lot of things back to this country including the freedom of speech, the freedom of choice and the freedom to work and get an education.

	You know my opponent sometimes says this election is about trust. Well, we've only made one decision in common. My decision was Al Gore. You tell me who you trust.

	But the truth is, this election is about you. To all of you who are students here today, I'll tell you that the world I faced when I was our age looked very different from the world you face. It is wrong. It is wrong that for twelve years most Americans have worked harder for lower pay. It is wrong that unemployment is at an eight-year high. It is wrong that we are being asked to give four more years to an administration that has given us the slowest economic growth in fifty years and that until a few weeks ago, denied that there was a recession in the United States.

	Their idea--their only idea--is to keep taxes low on the wealthy. Get out of the way and hope the benefits will trickle down. Well, the benefits have not trickled down. What has trickled down is higher unemployment, lower wages, a weaker economy. Why? Because we are the only advanced nation in the world without a national economic strategy to use the power of government in partnership with people in the private sector to invest in new jobs, educate our people, control health care costs, and face the problems of our generation in time.

	And so I ask you--do you want four more years of trickle-down economics?

	Do you want four more years of the politics of division and denial and neglect?

	Do you want four more years of name calling and blame?

	This crowd in Washington has run out of energy. It's run out of ideas. It's run out of time and we need to turn them out of office on November 3rd.

	But my fellow Americans, it is not enough that there are more of us than there are of them. We don't want to be just the "shout down" crowd either. We've got to have something to be for. And I have something to be for. I'm for your future. I'm for your opportunities. I'm for a better life for you.

	I believe that instead of giving across-the-board tax cuts that make no distinction between manufacturing and Maseratis we should instead say we want to create more millionaires but you've got to invest in American jobs and American factories, in creating an economy for the twenty-first century.

	I believe that instead of taking all the cuts in defense and throwing the defense workers into the street, and spending the money on the S&L boondoggle, and spiraling health care costs, we should spend every dollar of defense costs in building an economy for the twenty-first century here at home, in transportation, environmental cleanup, communications, and the high-wage jobs that will guarantee you a future.

	I believe that we must say clearly that we believe we can preserve the environment and create jobs doing it. It will be good for the economy, not bad for the economy.

	When this president went to the Earth Summit at Rio de Janeiro, claiming expertise in foreign affairs, America was humiliated because the other great nations of the world were signing off on the global warming treaty, signing off on the bio-diversity treaty, selling their technology around the world. We spent all of our time saying no, we can't, we can't, we can't. Germany and Japan said we can. Guess what? To the [missing text] we have two-thirds of environmental technology sold in America are manufactured in foreign countries. Vote for me and we'll take those jobs back here for our people here at home.

	I believe, I believe that we must, must, must finally become the last advanced nation in the world to control health care costs and provide affordable health care to all Americans.

	The other side says we can't, they want to pour $100 billion more of good money after bad. We are the only nation in the world that has no national system to bring health costs within line with inflation. So we spend more of our income, 30 percent more than any other nation, and yet we are less healthy than many other nations.

	If you will vote for us, we'll invest in primary and preventive health care, we'll take on the AIDS crisis and we'll talk about it and deal with it and face it and--and we will provide security to the working people of this country. I wish you could see the heartbreaking stories I've been told in every town in this country. All along our bus trips, people who don't care anything about political party or political rhetoric, they want their problem solved here. In Columbus, when we came here on our bus trip, I met a woman with seven children, a divorcee who had to leave a $50,000 job because she had a sick child, could get no health insurance, and the only way she could keep that kid alive was to go on welfare and get Medicaid. That's wrong; it wouldn't happen in any other country in the world. And we can stop it; we can do better than that.

	In New Hampshire this weekend, I was in conservative, independent Republican New Hampshire with a young couple who are friends of mine, who lost their health insurance because they had a child who had open heart surgery. The young man was working for a small business that failed and he couldn't get another job with health insurance for his family. It wouldn't happen in any other advanced country in the world. It's wrong, and we could do better; we could do better.

	One hundred thousand, 100,000 Americans a month have lost their health insurance since this administration has been in office, it is wrong and we can do better if you'll help us.

	I believe, and I believe you know, that no president can promise you any opportunity in a global economy that you are not prepared to work for yourselves. The average young person today will change work eight times in a lifetime. What you earn depends on what you can learn. What does that mean? It means we need a real education president, not one for photo ops.

	And what would a real education president do? Well, for one thing, a real education president would teach everybody with a job to read and give every worker a chance to get a high school diploma in the next five years.

	A real education president would say to young people who don't go to four-year colleges, we will guarantee you two years of apprenticeship training to get a good job, not a dead-end job, in a global economy.

	A real education president would open the doors of college education to all Americans.

	Under our proposal we will establish a national trust fund out of which any American can borrow the money to finance a college education, no questions asked about income or background, and then pay it back either as a small percentage of their income over time, after they go to work, or even better, by working for two years to rebuild America here at home.

	Think of this. Think of this. If thousands and thousands of young people from Ohio said I will finance my college education by working for my country here at home as teachers, as police officers, in rural health programs, in inner city programs with kids, helping the elderly, helping the people with disability, helping solve the homeless problem, from the grassroots up, without government bureaucracy, we could solve the problems of this nation and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	I believe these things. But you know what? It's not just me anymore. All across this country there are people who say we know we have to change. We want to assume new responsibilities. We want the excitement of a new and better world for all of us, and that is why this base is broadening.

	There's a sign over there that says Republicans for Clinton-Gore, and there are more of them every day.

	Just in the last couple of weeks, just in the last couple of weeks in Silicon Valley in northern California, twenty-one high-tech executives of companies that have created 45,000 jobs in the last four years, while the United States has lost almost 40,000 jobs in the private sector, endorsed Bill Clinton and Al Gore, and two-thirds of them were Republicans.

	In Chicago, 400 business executives, a third of them Republicans, endorsed Bill Clinton and Al Gore. All across the country people are saying party doesn't matter anymore, we want to break the gridlock in Washington, we want to break the hold of the special interests, we want to end trickle-down economics, we want to invest, and educate, and deal with our problems and move ahead.

	Last week, Admiral William Crowe, who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed Bill Clinton for commander-in-chief because he wanted the problems of our country faced.

	My fellow Americans, this is not an election about party, it never was and it cannot be. Our generation is being tested. The other side knows only blame and finger-pointing and name-calling. The other side spend the first two nights of the Republican convention running against my wife. By the way--that's an argument Bush will lose every time.

	We are called upon to decide whether in this generation we have the courage to say no to trickle-down economics, no to tax-and-spend economics, no to the special interest gridlock in Washington, to take a new path to invest, to educate, to cooperate, to compete, to lift this country up so that every man and woman can live up to the fullest of their God-given potential. That is the issue in this election.

	It is literally true that this president who promised us no new taxes and gave us the second biggest tax increase in history, who promised us 10 million new jobs, and now has a decline in private-sector jobs, has spent money to create more jobs in Central America in the private sector than have been created in the United States of America in the last four years.

	We can do better, and I have offered you a program to lift the sights and the vision of the people of this country. In 1960 John Kennedy said to my generation what I say to you: this is a great nation but we can be greater. We can do better. We must do better. We cannot allow you to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than your parents. It is not necessary. The end of the Cold War gives us the opportunity to open untold vistas of achievement of opportunity, a rich and diverse life, and a rich and diverse country that can be ours if we have the courage to change.

	But make no mistake about it: in the next thirty-five days this election will turn into a clear choice between hope and fear; between a proven path of failure and new ideas; between having the courage to change and having the fear to be stuck in the same old rut.

	My fellow Americans, we are around here after 200 years because about once in a generation, when our people had to make fundamental change, they did it. They always grasped for the future, they always kept America forever young. This election is your election. It's the election of the people at Ohio State or the University of New Mexico where I was, or Michigan State. Or for my daughter, who's twelve years old. It's the election looking toward the future. I want it to be ours. It can be the best future we ever had, but you must lead the drumbeat of change on November 3rd.

	Thank you and God bless you all. Thank you.
BUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESECONOMY, RECESSIONARYEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--PRIVATE ENTERPRISEENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEJOB GROWTH/CREATIONTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--FOREIGN COUNTRIES     ·9 ≠9 ß9 £9 õ9
 ê9 ã9 Ü9 ~9 z9 x9 c9 Y9	 Á 	 À 	 ∂ 	 ñ 	 v 	 ^ 	 C 	 0 e: