Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1024.014SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/24STUMPSYRACUSENEW YORKNY1734 WORDS

	Mr. Hogan, Mayor Corcoran, Senator Lehman and all of these distinguished guests and my friends of Syracuse: After hearing all of my virtues recited so generously by the gentlemen who were good enough to introduce me, I looked around for a moment, thinking that probably Benjamin Franklin was going to speak here today. I am glad to have this opportunity to stop here in Syracuse, and I only wish I could stop long enough to ride through the incredibly beautiful countryside that we passed through on the train this morning. I sometimes think that people don't realize how beautiful it is. I can only compare it to my own sense of bewilderment as to how people who profess allegiance to the Republican party must wonder about the beauties of the Democratic party. Well, if they'd come over, they would find out.

	You know, there were some ladies who were good enough to come on the train, who were active in the Volunteers For Stevenson here in Syracuse, Republican ladies, and I was reminded of that wonderful story long ago about the difference between a convert--and the definition of a convert--a little boy who asked his father, "What is a convert?" And his father said, "Well, if a Republican votes Democratic, he is a convert. But if a Democrat votes Republican, he is a traitor." And here in Syracuse--I know, because I have been here many times before--you make everything. You make everything, I believe, from china to electrical devices of all kinds. All the way across, this morning, this rich heartland of New York State the thing that has impressed me most is the remarkable diversification both of your industry and of your agriculture as well. All the way along I have seen dairy farms, truck farms, orchards--and this, by the way, is the season when one can say that he likes Northern Spies without having his reputation questioned by everyone. And if anyone happens to have a bushel of apples in his pocket and would like to give them to me, I could use them. Farmers here in New York used to say, I am told, that if milk would only get up to two dollars a hundredweight, that would be all right. That was years ago, of course. And I can remember, too, reading the stories of the milk strikes when angry and desperate farmers tried to take matters into their own hands. The milk strike, it always seemed to me, was a dreadful and terrible and brutal indictment of our society, when countless children in the cities were hungry. It just didn't make sense. To talk about these things now in 1952 is to realize how far we have come in this past twenty years. It is hard to believe now that these things ever happened. It all seems like sort of a bad dream--a dream we would like to forget.

	The farmers in this rich country about Syracuse produce the things that make what we call the balance in the balanced diet--the eggs, the milk, the cheese, fruit and vegetables that add so much to the variety and to the healthfulness of the American people. I don't think it is possible to produce too much of these things. 155 million people can eat a lot of eggs. But these farmers have no assurance, of course--and I speak about this with some sense of authority because I come from Illinois, which is one of the greatest farming states in our Union, as you know--they can have no assurance that bumper crops or economic conditions beyond their control will not send the prices of their products downward. In the case of great staple products like wheat and corn we have found that a floor under prices is one of the best ways of getting big agricultural production and of making agriculture a stabilizing influence in the whole economy. The Democratic party is pledged to search for practicable measures of supporting the prices of perishable products also. We know that practicable methods can be found--and I had in mind, for example, the Federal-State Accord on which your milk marketing agreements are based; an accord which was worked out, by the way, by two of the greatest Democrats this country has ever produced--Franklin Roosevelt and Herbert Lehman. What this proves merely is that we can find ways--practical ways--of serving the interests of all of us--of farmers, of workers, of businessmen, of professional people--if we really want to. And that is the way the Democratic party likes to look at any problem.

	All along the way here I have seen not only the striving farms, but thriving industries--big and little plants--that manufacture goods known the world around. This highly diversified agriculture and industry makes for a strong and a prosperous community--a strong and prosperous economy--but only if our whole national economy is also strong and prosperous. In one-industry towns of which we have some--and I have visited them recently myself--trouble can strike even when times are good elsewhere. But here in upper New York if technological changes or market changes hit one line of production, there are many other employment opportunities. But it is also true that your industry and your agriculture are very sensitive to changes in the rest of the economy. If business drops off in the country as a whole, you feel it here in Syracuse and you feel it right away.

	My point is simply this: Central New York has a real stake in the prosperity of our nation and the Democratic party conceives its task as the task of helping to build a better America. We don't believe that government should do things that free enterprise can do, but when there is a job that needs doing and that free enterprise is unable or unwilling to do, then we think that job ought to be done, and if it is necessary then, that government should do it as soon as we can afford it.

	I don't pretend that the Democratic party has all of the answers to all of our infinite problems at all. The point is that our party believes in action when trouble strikes us. And our opponents have shown time and again that they are the apostles of inaction.

	I think we ought to keep men who are such experts at opposing things right where they are--in the opposition. So, obviously, all you have to do to make everyone happy is to vote Democratic. Then we can go right ahead with our constructive programs for building America, building a better America, and they can go right ahead opposing us.

	I have enjoyed this visit here with you very much. There is no more rewarding experience than to have the privilege of engaging in a great campaign like this one. Few men have such an opportunity to travel across America as I have been doing and to talk to tens of thousands of Americans, talk to them face to face. It is not an easy job and there are probably better ways to see the country. But it is an inspiring experience--an experience that fills one with a great sense of confidence in the power and in the wisdom of this country of ours.

	And I have been particularly impressed, as I have gone about--as I am again today--with the great number of women who seem to be participating in these public meetings and in Democratic party affairs.

	Well, evidently they are thankful for even the smallest favors.

	You know, I always remember a story that happened down in Central Illinois where I come from. Years ago my father told me about the census taker who went out to a remote farm in McLean County and called on the woman of the house who was at home and asked how many children she had. She said, "nine," and he went and asked all the different questions, and finally he said, "And what party do you all belong to, Lady?" And she said, "Well, we are all good Republicans down here, all except Sadie." And he said, "Who is Sadie?" "Sadie's my little girl." 'Well, how do you account for Sadie?" "Well, sir, I don't rightly know, except that Sadie took up reading."

	Well, the fact of the matter is that a lot of people have taken up reading of late--that is why we are doing so well.

	I just want to say that there is nothing more gratifying than the activity of women; that has become so conspicuous. I have been told all sorts of alarming stories that women, perhaps are hostile to the Democratic party at this time because of the high cost of living, because of Korea and so forth, but I have the highest faith in their intelligence; I think they are more concerned--and intimately more concerned with government than the men who are busy with their day to day chores. It is the woman who carries the market basket who is so intimately concerned with the budget, who is so intimately concerned with the welfare and the future of their children. I think if they are reflecting, if they are contemplating about the difficulties that confront our world, they are also--and for that very same reason--the best possible Democrats.

	I have talked to people like you good people all across the land, and I know that together all of us have the courage and the will, the understanding and the patience to persevere in the heavy tasks that are laid at America's doorstep in this critical generation in which we are destined to live, because this is the richest, the strongest, the happiest land on earth, and, therefore, it befits us not only to protect ourselves but to ensure the survival of a civilization which has made all of this possible. It is a great responsibility, it is a great adventure, it is also a great opportunity. I hope that we can share it together, and I hope that you can see to it that we also have the advantage of the services of Arthur McGuire and of John Cashmore in the United States Senate in Washington where I expect to be living for some years to come.
AGRICULTURE--LIVESTOCK/PERISHABLESAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESMANUFACTURINGPARTY AFFILIATIONPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--WOMEN     s& ?& 9& 5& -&
  & & & & & & & ú%	 ~ 	 \ 	 < 	 / 	  e: