Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1019.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/19STUMPDEARBORNMICHIGANMIUNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN2679 WORDS

	My mission, the reason I'm seeking the presidency, is to build a better America. But building a better America goes beyond a discussion of issues and values here at home. It's also how we as a nation must strive abroad for a better world. Our objective is clear. We seek an America at peace, in a free world at peace.

	We did not seek this mission, yet it is uniquely ours to fulfill. As the world's most powerful democracy, we know that we play a crucial role. We know, though some would like to forget, that both peace and freedom depend on American strength and American wisdom. That's a fact of life.

	At the same time, we are linked by destiny and history to another fact. That a strong America, allied to other strong democracies, is the best insurance policy against war.

	Like many Americans, I learned that lesson the hard way, when America was forced to fight World War II because the democracies were weak in the face of aggression.

	Many share the vision of peace with freedom, but not all know how to achieve it. And that's the choice in this election. Who best understands our international mission? Who knows best how to lead the advance of peace and freedom?

	Since World War II, America has led an alliance of free peoples. We embarked on that mission when a remarkable generation of wise men, both Democrats and Republicans, saw the American engagement was crucial to peace and freedom. They took the hard lessons of experience and fashioned an American leadership, united in its mission, realistic about the threat and capable of using every American advantage--diplomatic, military, economic, intelligence--to succeed.

	The result was a dramatic change for the better. A Western Europe and Japan thriving and peaceful. A world economy recovering, growing, spreading benefits to the newly independent developing countries. More than 40 years--nearly half a century--of relative peace between rival great powers. A peace with prosperity and freedom for ourselves and for our allies.

	The lesson is clear. When we have kept to the principles of realism and strength, dialogue and engagement, we have succeeded in advancing both peace and freedom. But when we have departed from these principles, when we have neglected our strength, when we have faltered in our mission to lead--both peace and freedom have been put at risk.

	That's what we found in January 1981. We and the rest of the world faced an aggressive Soviet Union on the move. In Europe, the military balance was shifting against NATO and the U.S. Around the world democracy was in retreat. The false slogan of "America, come home" had encouraged Soviet ambitions and made the world safe for the Brezhnev Doctrine. That, too, was change but it was change for the worse.

	Now after eight years of rebuilding America's strength and purpose we've seen a change for the better once more. Soviet troops are leaving Afghanistan. Negotiations are underway to end the Cuban adventure in Africa and the Vietnamese aggression in Cambodia. There is cease-fire at last in the Persian Gulf. Qaddafi has been sobered. Above all, Soviet failure to intimidate NATO's deployment of intermediate range missiles, has led to the first treaty to eliminate an entire class of nuclear weapons.

	But that's not all. Back in August, even before accepting the nomination, I spoke about the revolutionary changes afoot in this world of ours--the spread of democracy, the attractiveness of free enterprise, the ferment in the Communist world, the global economy transcending geographic and political boundaries, the changing nature of military technology and power.

	I said then and I say now that the post-war era is over. We are at the beginning of a new era, a new time, when we can hope for more. We can achieve further improvements in superpower relations and further reductions in tensions in Europe. We can work for a renewed burst of peace and freedom that takes in more nations and more regions.

	All of that is possible. But it's not going to happen by itself. It is not going to happen unless America continues to lead. It's not going to happen unless we and our allies work together toward our common goals. And it's not going to happen unless we have an experienced, realistic and strong president.

	A great deal is at stake. The wrong American policy toward the Soviet Union could turn the most promising era in superpower relations into a replay of the Cold War. And wrong American policy toward NATO, one that failed to recognize the new challenges facing the Alliance, could undermine peace and freedom.

	Both of these relationships, so crucial to our future, deserve close attention.

	First, the Soviet Union. Soviet society today is clearly in the midst of dramatic change. There is a search for the truth about the Soviet past, a willingness to challenge old dogmas, a pressure for economic reform. Steps are being taken in domestic policy that would have been inconceivable only a few years ago.

	We've seen important international developments as well. The beginning of the Red Army withdrawal from Afghanistan; the INF treaty; a willingness to admit that Soviet policy has its defects, and that not everything in this world can be blamed on America or the West.

	I've had conversations with Soviet leader Gorbachev and met again recently with Foreign Minister Shevardnadze. I know some of the members of this new Soviet team. They are serious people. They know they must change. After seventy years of the Marxist-Leninist state, it's pretty hard to explain to the Soviet people why they don't have either bread or freedom; why the food situation is worse than it was a decade ago; or why life expectancy has dropped.

	Now some see these very real changes and say to America and NATO, relax. The Soviets are on the ropes. Moscow needs money, needs trade, needs what only we can give them.

	My opponent, for example, apparently believes that Soviet economic problems have left them too weak to make trouble. He seems to think that all we need to do is to offer Moscow economic inducements and a less aggressive, less threatening Soviet Union will be the result.

	Here is another area where my opponent and I sharply disagree. My view reflects the world and the Soviets as they are, not as we wish them to be. Yes, the Soviets are more flexible. Yes, the Soviets face real economic trouble. But economic weakness alone does not drive Soviet foreign policy. And economic rewards alone will not change that policy.

	Let's look at the facts. Mr. Gorbachev is clearly a different kind of Soviet leader than we have seen recently. He is prepared to take radical steps. He is able to reverse course when Soviet policies fail, when the costs become too high.

	Those costs become too high not only when there is a shortage of food in Moscow, but also when we resist aggression and intimidation. The costs become too high when the Mujahedeen, helped by the United States, fight for freedom in Afghanistan. The costs become too high when the United States and NATO deploy Pershing and cruise missiles in Europe despite Soviet threats.

	But where those costs have not been clear, the Soviets have not changed. In the Middle East, in the Persian Gulf and in Central America, we see traditional Soviet policies. The opportunity for narrow gains still attracts Moscow.

	I've been to those regions. I've spoken to the leaders there. And I can tell you this. They don't like those Soviet policies either.

	The lesson is clear. We must maintain the pressure on Moscow to change. Only such a policy will produce lasting improvements in U.S.-Soviet relations.

	The agenda ahead of us is just too important to risk. We are negotiating with Moscow on a START Treaty, to reduce strategic weapons between the superpowers. As president, I will also emphasize conventional arms control to reduce the massive disparities that favor Soviet conventional forces in Europe. At the same time, we want to follow up on signs of a more constructive Soviet behavior in regional conflicts--in Asia and Africa. We want to bring about more constructive Soviet behavior in Central America and the Middle East. And all of this must be accompanied by more concrete steps towards Soviet compliance with the Helsinki Accords on human rights.

	So this is no time to reduce our leverage. Instead, our course must be steady, consistent and realistic. Because if we change our policies now, if we retreat, we're going to lose the opportunity for enduring achievements in U.S. Soviet relations--and world peace.

	Let me be as clear as President Reagan and I have been with Mr. Gorbachev: Peace through strength works. It's the only policy that brings constructive, peaceful change. It's the only policy for sound, productive negotiations. And that's going to be my policy. It's going to be America's policy.

	The second crucial relationship concerns the future of the Atlantic Alliance.

	NATO, under U.S. leadership, has been the most successful alliance in history. Next year, in 1989, we'll celebrate 40 years of keeping the peace.

	And as we celebrate this happy anniversary and take stock of what we've accomplished, it is even more important to face up to our new challenges. We must assess our military posture in a post-INF environment, which is also marked by fiscal constraint. We've got to evaluate the consequences--as an alliance--of ferment in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Today Eastern Europe is shaken by economic failure. Political change is coming and its peoples are demanding democracy. They want more freedom.

	I went to Eastern Europe last year. I've seen the conditions in Warsaw and Gdansk and I've met with Lech Walesa. The affection for our great American experiment in democracy just has to be felt firsthand.

	I will state my convictions simply. The survival of both peace and freedom will continue to depend on the Atlantic Alliance for the foreseeable future. There can be no substitute for the greatest coalition of free nations in history. And within that coalition, America's leadership is essential to its success.

	That's why the United States and Western Europe must draw even closer together as we face the challenging times ahead. We stand today on the threshold of negotiations with the Soviet Union that could usher in a new era of European peace and harmony. Transatlantic unity is the key to opening the door. We can turn that key, open that door together if we strengthen our partnership.

	The United States can start by ruling out unilateral American troop withdrawals. Now, after the INF treaty, when conventional defense is receiving renewed attention, about the worst thing we could do would be to shake European confidence and to worsen the conventional imbalances through such a move.

	Just as it would be a strategic error to pursue START negotiations by eliminating American nuclear modernization, or SDI, so it would be an equally dangerous move to prepare for conventional force negotiations by removing U.S. troops. So today, I call upon my opponent to join me in a bipartisan reaffirmation that we are not going to reduce our troops in Europe unilaterally. There can be no wavering on this vital point.

	In the course of this campaign, I have declared that conventional military imbalances deserve equal attention with nuclear weapons in our policy. Prevention of war in Europe--any war, nuclear or conventional--remains at the heart of our strategy. What is required is both continuity--continued adherence to the proven doctrine of flexible response--and for fresh thinking on our part, including the "competitive strategies" concept I described in my defense speech earlier this week. But it also calls for something more.

	NATO is not just a military alliance and our policy must be more than defense initiatives, however well meant. We share a community of values, of freedom, of democracy. To lead this alliance of free nations calls for careful, experienced understanding of how to move free peoples and their governments. Before we challenge the Soviet Union to do anything, we've got to challenge ourselves to agree on what we want done. Before we try to move the world or the United Nations, we've got to move the democracies.

	I've addressed the NATO Council twice and in recent years I've come to know all the European leaders. Familiarity and consultation with those leaders, whether their countries be large or small, is crucial if we want to make progress together.

	That's why I will propose, as one of my first acts as president, to convene an early NATO summit with these objectives:

	First, the adoption of an agreed upon strategy for conventional arms control in Europe, reflecting both geographical and force asymmetries. We must not forget that American reinforcement of NATO comes from across the ocean while the Soviets are only a few hundred miles from the German border.

	Second, we must make sure that our forces and those of our allies are being procured efficiently and deployed effectively.

	Third, we need agreement on a common diplomacy toward Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union so that the Alliance works together in unity to make the best of the opportunities before us.

	Fourth, we should establish a new priority in our public diplomacy. We can't assume that new generations who have grown up in the shelter of the alliance, from Norway in the north to Turkey in the south, understand the need for it. We cannot permit our public opinion to become the playground for Soviet publicists trying to depict us as the obstacles to constructive change--when in fact, our unity and strength have brought that change about.

	It's time for every leader in the Alliance to take to the bully pulpit: to explain the Alliance and why we need it as we face the challenges of the future.

	Collective security is a tough, challenging, expensive proposition. To paraphrase Churchill, it's the worst security arrangement in the world--except for all the others. We've got to make sure our own people and the allies continue to understand it.

	From this special NATO summit must emerge a working plan that could be assessed at subsequent meetings of alliance heads of state. Toward this end, I would recommend that my 15 colleagues each designate a special representative who would work together in preparing a report on the state of the alliance and specific steps needed to be adopted as we prepare for a new decade and a new century.

	I cannot end without reminding you that we as a nation are engaged in a very important effort this year--the election of a president.

	Just as America must lead the nations toward a better world, so must the president lead America. It's a very special leadership, because it involves the national interest beyond our shores, an interest important to all Americans of whatever political persuasion. That's why I want to revive bipartisanship. I want to make it once more the vibrant heart of a foreign policy that is decided by a debate which ends at the water's edge.

	We can renew bipartisanship. We can do it if the president remembers that our policies must meet the test of the national interest. We can do it if the Congress remembers that the president bears the responsibility of initiative. And we can do it if we extend to each other the hand of partnership, not the finger of blame.

	As I mentioned earlier, a generation of wise men, bipartisan, of many different views, worked together forty years ago to lay the foundations of the post-war era. Now that we are facing a new world, a different era, it is time once more for Americans to come together. Because by working together, we can extend the horizons of a free and peaceful world.

	Thank you and God bless you.

DIPLOMACYEASTERN EUROPEEUROPEMILITARY--OVERSEAS TROOPS AND BASESMILITARY PREPAREDNESSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)NATO (NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION)SOVIET UNION (POST-COLD WAR ERA)     þ> Ê> Ä> À> ¶>
 ®> ©> ¤> œ> ”> ’> |> r>	 Ò 	 É 	 » 	 µ 	 ’ 	 }  I    e: