Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1017.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/17STUMPCAMDENNEW JERSEYNJ1477 WORDS

	Governor Driscoll, Senator Smith, Congressman Wolverton, and my friends:  I am deeply indebted to each of you who has taken an hour out of his busy day to allow me to greet you, to meet you as one American meeting another citizen, and to bring to you some of the thoughts that are on my mind and heart as we go through this political campaign.

	It is normally my custom--and I know you will indulge me--to first make my special salutations to my old comrades in arms.  There are among you thousands, of course, who have served in the armed services--the Navy, the Marines, the Air Force and the Army.  All of them I count my friends and many of them I have met intimately.  I feel that one of the things we are trying to do now in this crusade is to continue to further the causes that those men and I believed in World War II we were defending.  I know that on their part, they would not want me to come to Camden without paying a special tribute to the Merchant Marine, which served us so well in World War II.  Everything we had, everything we received from home--reinforcements and ammunition with which to fight the war-- were brought to us by the Merchant Marine.  Often some of those convoys to Murmansk and to the Far East up through submarine-infested Arctic waters, they suffered beyond description.

	In like fashion, I should like to pay my tribute to the shipbuilding industry, because our Merchant Marine is the fourth arm of our national defense.  As we go through this campaign, there are many problems that come before us.  Manifestly, in the brief moments we have this morning, I couldn't possibly enumerate, much less discuss, all of them.  With your permission I should like to read a letter on the subject of inflation that I should like to discuss briefly this morning.  This letter came to me from a school teacher, and I want to read just a short part of it:

	"Since 1940, my salary, including promotion, has gone up ninety percent.  In the same period my living costs, not including income taxes, have climbed one-hundred and twenty-five percent.  My federal income taxes have gone up roughly six-thousand percent.  My savings account has not grown much since 1940.  Its purchasing power has dropped by fifty percent.  I began a life insurance program in 1929.  For years I paid premiums in one-hundred-cent dollars.  The amounts on my policies are the same today as when I began, but if I were to die tomorrow, my family would collect about fifty percent of the purchasing power originally planned for.  I pay more and more for less and less.  I have never had it so good."

	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the items in my bill of particulars that appears in the indictment of this crusade against the current administration is that it has not intelligently fought and controlled inflation.  At the very time when we have had the highest earning power in history, measured in dollars, the highest taxes, we are failing, by twelve billion dollars, to meet our wild expenditure program.  But that twelve billion dollars means this:  increasing prices.  It means your money goes down, because that twelve billion dollars means more bonds--the banks must take them--and more money must be issued against them.  More money for the same amount of goods, and your dollars are not worth so much.

	We have been accused, in this crusade--the Republicans, with their associates, the Independents and enlightened Democrats--of wanting to pull the rug out from all of the older people and everyone who must depend upon some feature of our social security program.  Why would we want to do that?  These programs have been developing since the beginning of this century, with the support of both parties.  But let me point out a few little statistics that might be of interest to you:  Since 1900, both parties have been in power about the same amount of time, about twenty-five years each.  In that time we have had twenty-two balanced budgets.  Of those nineteen were balanced by the Republicans.  We have had fourteen tax reductions; twelve of these reductions were when Republicans were in power.

	Now, there doesn't seem to be any policy there of ruining your money, of leading you toward destruction or ripping out from under you the social security programs that encourage you to go ahead and develop your own initiative, your own earning power--to develop everything that is within you.  This crusade has one purpose:  to serve 155 million Americans.  There is no disposition on the part of this crusade to set one party or one group against another--try to get the votes of one section by promising that section it will be profited at the expense of all others.  Groups, classes, sections, each have their special problems; each must be dealt with sympathetically, intelligently, and on a friendly basis.  But the measure, the yardstick by which we reach all our acts, must be what is good for this United States of America.

	Reckless spending must be stopped.  We must not continue to buy two airfields for the price of five.  Indeed, we have gone so far in this expenditure program that we have gone beyond our power even to comprehend.  I am sure none of you understands what two-hundred-sixty billion dollars is, because I have asked every audience I met in this great land, and no one yet has given me any clear idea of that--any clearer idea of that amount of money than I have, and I have none at all.

	But I do know this; tonight as the sun goes down, there will be six-thousand more Americans alive than there were last evening when the sun went down.  Most of those will be our new-born generation.  Now, this is the first thing that we present to one of these babies when it is born:  We hand it a nice, fat, 1,750-dollar debt.  That is what it owes before it will get level with the world.  We are living, when we are piling up this debt, out of our children's piggy banks and our grandchildren's IOUs.  It used to be a practice to talk about the high cost of having babies.  Now, we have gotten to the point where we must talk about the high cost of being a baby.

	This reckless expenditure must come down.  We must eliminate that deficit that continues the pressure on your money and makes it cheaper and cheaper.  Then when we get these things done, we must begin to work on taxes.  There is going to be no tremendous tax cut until we have a situation in the world that is more promising for peace than this worn-out administration has been able to bring us.  But when we get our own affairs in order, when we have in Washington dedicated men and women in the Senate, in the House--like you have seen introduced here this morning and who are so badly needed there--when we have the executive departments throughout filled with the best men and women every district affords--men and women whose prestige guarantees to you that this government is honest, that it won't be stealing your tax money, that it will be frugal and thrifty and economical--then, my friends, we will begin to bring down taxes, really bring them down, and the long suffering, taxpaying public will get some relief.

	So, as you can see, I do not come before you on behalf of my associates and myself to undertake any competition in political promises.  Most of them have been pretty badly worn out over the past twenty years.  We come before you merely to pledge that if you want to charge us with the direction of our government during the next four years, we would like, then to come back before you four years from now and our ambition would be that you could look at each other there in that crowd and say, "Well, during those four years, those people were fair to all of us.  They were friendly.  They remembered we put them in Washington and they didn't try to come back here and lord it over us.  They came back here when they were called upon to help us.  In other words, to work with us and not just to work us."

	I submit, ladies and gentlemen, that no group of public servants can come back and ask for more, and I submit also that no group of honest public servants could stand here in front of you and pledge you more than that today.  That pledge we make. 

	Thank you very much for coming out.  It has been nice to see you.

BUDGET DEFICITSHIPPING/SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRYTAXATION--GENERALINFLATION     ! Õ  «  √  π 
 ´  ¶  °  õ  ë  è  è  Ö 	 F 	 8 	   	 e: