Speeches\1968\rep\S68r1008.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/08STUMPMINNEAPOLISMINNESOTAMNMUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM5376 WORDS

	Just think, Dick Nixon getting this kind of reception in what was supposed to be Humphrey's Minnesota. Thank you very much. Incidentally, they didn't need to escort the fellow out. In a Nixon crowd, as distinguished from a Humphrey crowd, our people outshout the hecklers.

	To this very great audience here in Minneapolis, I first want to express my appreciation to the governor of this state, not only for his introduction that he so generously gave to me, but particularly for the introduction that he gave to my wife. As he read that citation about her receiving an honorary degree this year, I want you to know that puts her one up on me. And I need some help. I want a degree from the Electoral College. With your help we will get it.

	And I am delighted to be here for a number of reasons. First, because it gives me an opportunity to pay my respects to Harold LeVander, who won a great victory in 1966 and who has provided that splendid leadership which we all know was expected of him. I look forward to working with Harold LeVander, when I have that opportunity, from the White House, with the State House here in the state of Minnesota.

	And also I appreciate the opportunity again to have heard from the wings my good friend Ancher Nelson. I say a good friend. I knew him when he served in the Eisenhower administration. I have known him as a congressman, I knew him during the pre-convention battling, and believe me, it's good to hear him say that he is for me, and I am for him, and for everyone running on that Republican ticket. And with your permission, I would like for Ancher to step up here and all of our congressional candidates to step up here for just one moment, so they could all see them.

	And I just did that, my friends, to show you something that I have been trying to demonstrate across this country. Of course in this election year when a president is being elected, that's the excitement, that's the big game, and it's very hard to get people interested in the other contests.

	But remember when you elect a president, you've got to give him a team, a team in the House and a team in the Senate, and I am proud of the great team we've got in this state, and I am proud to be running with these men on this team. And I only regret that my good friend Clark McGregor could not be here, Clark McGregor who has served so well in the House of Representatives, who has been particularly active in developing the major sections of the omnibus crime bill which is now being implemented in this state at the state level by your governor.

	I am glad to say that the reason that he isn't here is that he has a special matter in the House of Representatives which he is taking care of. Let's give Clark a hand, too.

	And now, my friends, I am sure that as we stand here in the middle of this election campaign, as we know the special geographical significance of this state, and you know what I mean--as we know, too, that this is the year when all the candidates are trying to concentrate on this state or that one where it counts the most, I suppose that you would be very interested in the question that I had been asked by many of the members of the national press corps, why come to Minnesota?

	There are several reasons. I have just seen one, the great reception you have give us here tonight. My friends, there is another reason. When I was in Wisconsin a couple of weeks ago, I found that many of my Wisconsin hosts were a little down because the Sunday before the Vikings had beaten the Packers. And then I was in Flint, Michigan today, and I found that many of my Michigan hosts were a little down because the Packers on Sunday had beaten the Lions.

	My friends, I want to win, and so I have come to a state where there is a winner. I have come to Minnesota where you have the Vikings. And I want to tell you that as I come here I bring you an exciting report from across this nation. You may wonder whether this is the situation just here, an overflow crowd on a rainy night in this great city. I can assure you that across America it's this way.

	I have been in all the big states and many of the smaller ones in the East and the West and the North and the South, in Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Houston, Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, New York. And I can say to you in Buffalo last night, as Governor Rockefeller introduced me in that huge indoor stadium they have there to 25,000 people, he said it was the biggest political crowd they have ever had in the history of that stadium. We are going to carry New York. That's what that means.

	But there is something else that is symbolized by the meeting last night and by Governor Romney's introduction of me today and by Harold LeVander's introduction tonight, and it's this. Across this nation the Republicans are united. We had our fight for the nomination, and once that fight was over we recognized that whatever differences that we had were small compared to the necessity to get new leadership by getting this administration out of Washington.

	And I am proud today that from all over the country, that we have those who are working hardest in our cause, and certainly none are working any harder than those who may have been on another side before that particular convention. And I can simply say this, this nation needs to be united now, and a party that can unite itself can unite America, and you give us that chance, and we will do it.

	There is something else that I have seen across the nation. It's the makeup of these crowds. They are big crowds. They are people made up of not just Republicans, they are Democrats and Independents, in greater numbers than I have seen in twenty-one years of campaigning across the nation. They are people that are not simply the older others that you usually see at rallies like this. I have never seen so many young people. They are out by the thousands. Right here, look at them.

	My friends, and I must say if I could give on this occasion a little bipartisan credit, because I started down this long trail in February along with another Minnesotan of the other party, certainly a lot of the credit for stimulating the interest of young people goes to Senator McCarthy of this state, and we pay him that tribute.

	And now I say at a time that they are rejected by the party, we welcome you in ours because we will give you a chance, and we will listen to you in the next administration. That's what we will do.

	Because, my friends, never has young America been better educated, never has young America had more to contribute, I can sure say that. I have been amazed. I spoke to a high school group down in St. Louis the other day, 3,500. The questions that they asked were even more precise than I sometimes get from the press. As a matter of fact--understand, I didn't say that. They wrote that. That's true. I would have to agree with Dean Hines of Northwestern when he said about the young generation if Booth Tarkington were writing "Seventeen" today, he would have to call it "Eleven."

	But certainly, as we look at the younger generation here it is, strong, motivated, interested, and it indicates to all of us the great challenge that we have, not simply to preserve what we have, but simply to think in terms of what the kind of nation, world we are going to build for the balance of this century, to bring peace now, but also the peace that will last, last through four years and eight years, and through the balance of the century.

	My friends, another thing that I have found about these crowds is that huge numbers of people are coming out who have never been out before. They are people that haven't attended political meetings, and I have been trying to think of what they are, and I will tell you what I think can best describe them.

	They are the forgotten Americans. And I mean by that in a very different sense than you usually hear of it. As a matter of fact, these are the people that haven't been breaking the laws, these are the people that haven't been engaging in violence, these are the people that have been paying their taxes, these are the people who were described almost 100 years ago in an essay, an essay that I would like to read just briefly to you. William Graham Sumner writing in 1883, listen to what he said. He said:

	"The Forgotten Man is delving away in patient industry, supporting his family, paying his taxes, casting his vote, supporting the church and the school, reading his newspaper, cheering for the politician of his admiration. But he is the only one for whom there is no provision in the great scramble and the big divide. Such is the Forgotten Man. He works, he votes, generally he prays. But he always pays. Yes, above all he always pays."

	My friends, that is why today so many Americans are coming out, because the great majority of Americans who have never been interested politically before know that this is the year of choice, the year of decision, such as they have never had in their lifetime. They know that this is the year they are going to determine what they are going to pay, not simply in money, but in terms of policies for the next four and eight years. And they know what the choice is. And they know that as they look at what happened in Chicago and what happened in Miami, that it is a clear choice, as I have indicated.

	And on that score, as we look at that choice, let me say something quite personal that has to do with them and against whom I am running in this campaign. I respect him. I served with him in the Senate. I served with him when I was Vice President and he was in the Senate. It happens that we disagree and disagree very, very vehemently on a number of things. And as I talk about him today, you will have noted that during this campaign it's never personally, but I do think it's my responsibility as it is his to lay out the differences in our philosophy. You are never going to hear me call him a name. I can assure you, my friends, whatever we can say at this particular point, as I look at America in this year 1968, as I look at what has happened to America over the past four years, as I see that this man not only helped to make the policies of the last four years, he has defended them, he has never disagreed with them, and he says that if he is elected he is going to continue them, I say to you that America can't afford four more years of what we've had. And we need new leadership.

	My friends, in the best of spirit I heard your governor, Harold LeVander, describe Hubert Humphrey as a man that he knew. I knew him, too. And very honestly, in looking over his record in the Senate, I found something quite interesting. In the twelve years that he served in that body he introduced bills which were not passed, which, if they had been passed, would have added $100 billion to the budget. He was the most expensive senator who ever came to Washington, and he would be the most expensive president we'd ever have, and we are not going to have him as president of the United States.

	My friends, just for openers, in this campaign he has already advocated programs that would add $50 billion more to the budget, and we are only halfway through the campaign. And so that's an indication of what could happen. And so the answer I suppose that you would want from me is, well, are you going to one-up him? Can't you raise him? If he says he will spend fifty, won't you spend a hundred, and why not? It's not my money, it's yours.

	And my answer is this, I say to you that when we look at America today, when we see for example that we have lost 40 percent of our gold over the last eight years, that the dollar had its greatest crisis since the depression, when we see that prices have gone up 10 percent over the last four years, when we have seen in the last three years that wage earners in America who are supposed to be most fortunate in that they have had an increase in wages of $14 a week, that they have been on a treadmill and have actually fallen behind because prices and taxes have reduced that $14 to the fact that they now have 67 cents less a week to spend than they had three years ago, when we look, for example, at another fact, that the twenty million people in America, and there are twenty million that we often forget, and believe me they are the forgotten people, too, twenty million people in America who are over sixty-five, trying to eke out a living on a little Social Security or on a pension or on life insurance, and what's happened to them, the prices of their grocery bills, the prices of everything that they buy go up, and so they are forced to the wall.

	And I say to you that at this particular time, rather than talking in terms of what we are going to do that is going to raise taxes and raise the cost of living, let's stop the rise in taxes and stop the rise in the cost of living and give people a chance to save their money and then retire at a reasonable time.

	You see, I recognize the role of government. As Arthur Flemming who served with me in that Cabinet will tell you, in the field of education, in so many other areas, there isn't any question but what that government has a role to play. But, my friends, let me say the first obligation of government is to see to it that the millions of Americans who save their money, when they retire are not going to have the government break faith with them. Let's see to it that when the wage earner gets an increase in wages, it's a real increase and not on paper. Let's see to it that we have that kind of sound government and then we will go forward into the future. But let us look, too, to other reasons why Americans are concerned about these next four years and why they realize that we cannot afford four more years of the policies that we have had. My friends, we need to look back over those four years and see what has happened. Listen. I see and I understand signs about peace. We haven't had a moment of peace at home in the last four years. And I say we need new leadership that not only will bring peace abroad but that will restore peace at home in the United States of America.

	My friends, as we look around the world, as we consider America's problems in the world, we sometimes have our vision obscured by the terribly difficult war in which we are engaged. Everybody wants to bring that war to an honorable conclusion, and we all hope that it will be brought to a conclusion by the present negotiations going on.

	But if it is not, then I say this will be the choice. If on November 5th, after four years of having at its disposal the greatest military might, the greatest economic might, the support of the loyal opposition, there is still no end in sight, then they have had their chance, and give us a chance and we will bring the war to an honorable conclusion with your assistance.

	My friends, foreign policy goes far beyond the war in Vietnam. I am thinking of some of you down in these rows who will be the ones next up four or five years from now. I am thinking of what could happen in Asia or the Mid-East or maybe even in Europe or in Latin America, and I say that we need somebody in that White House and in that secretary of state who will develop the new preventive diplomacy so that we will not have another Vietnam or another Korea in your time.

	That means a number of things. I would be the last to suggest that the road to peace is easy, because preserving the peace is more difficult than waging war. But I will suggest to you that as we look at that problem, that it requires several things.

	First, strength for the United States and its restoration, respect for the United States which is now at an all-time low around the world. We will restore that respect. The American flag isn't going to be a doormat for anybody when we get into the presidency. But once we do those things, once we have that strength, once we have that respect, then the president of this country must negotiate, and he will, negotiate with the leaders of the Soviet, negotiate with our allies and friends throughout this world, so that we can defuse the trouble spots, so that we can develop the new areas of agreement where it is possible and the new areas of preventive diplomacy where agreement is not possible.

	And on that score, let me make one point very clear. The United States over the past twenty years has played a great role in the world, and I helped those policies as did many of my colleagues from Minnesota in the Congress and in the Senate. But as we look over those twenty years we have poured out $150 billion in foreign aid. Not only did we do that, but we furnished most of the men in addition to help other countries, first Korea and then Vietnam, to defend themselves against aggression.

	And now the world has changed. Some of the nations that we have helped are now rich enough and strong enough to help themselves. And also as we look around the world I say look at America. We have got 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world, and I shall develop a policy in which other nations in the free world will bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world.

	And for those who ask for credentials, I noted the other day that Hubert Humphrey spoke in Toledo and he said the difference between Nixon's service as vice president and his was that he was proud of his four years and that Nixon could not be proud of his administration. Let me set the record straight. I am proud to have been a member of an administration in which we ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's the kind of leadership that we want.

	And so I say to you, for four years they have not brought peace. Give us that chance. We will be devoted to that cause. We will bring every experience to that cause, and I believe that we can.

	And then my friends, let us turn to the problems at home. A nation that cannot keep the peace at home is not going to be able to keep it abroad. And look at America. Here again we have a choice.

	On the one side a man who honestly believes that the policies of the Department of Justice, that the policies of the Attorney General, have been right. He defends them. He criticizes me when I attack those policies.

	Let me tell you why I do. I say to you when I look at the record of the last four years, and here are the facts. When I see crime has gone up nine times as fast as population, three times as fast as it did during the Eisenhower administration, when I see that over those four years we have had riots in 300 cities that have cost us 200 dead, 7,000 injured and a quarter of a billion dollars of property damage, and when I read the President's own commission making a poll, finding that 43 percent of all Americans today are afraid to walk on the streets of their cities at night, then I say it's time for a housecleaning in Washington, a new attorney general and new leadership up and down the line.

	My friends, we will provide that leadership. It will be leadership that will work with the governors of the states. It will be leadership that will work with local governments it will be leadership that will provide at the highest level a national council on law enforcement, a national academy for the training of law enforcement people.

	It's this kind of approach that we need, because, remember this, we must have respect for law. But if law is to be respected, we must remember that it must deserve respect.

	And this brings us to the other side of the coin. It is not enough simply to say that all we need to do is to have more police and more laws in order to assure safety for this country, because if people have no hope, if people have nothing to live for, then, of course, you have the potential dynamite that can blow up a society.

	And, therefore, I have pledged this party and I pledge our administration to dealing with these problems and dealing with them in an effective way. And here we give you another choice. Certainly the other side has seen the same concern. I don't question their sincerity. But look what they have done. Look how they have muffed it. For four years we have poured billions of dollars into federal programs, for federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare.

	What's happened? It's reaped an ugly harvest, a harvest of frustration and failure and violence and riot. And I say that when you are on a road that leads to a dead end, get off that road and take a new road, and we will take you on that new road.

	My friends, what is that road? That road recognizes, as I have indicated, it recognizes the primary responsibilities of the federal government in the field of education, in which there can be no shortchanging. It recognizes the role of the federal government in assuring for every American who is in need it recognizes the responsibility to provide for the aged.

	And in this field, for example, you will note in our platform not only do we support Social Security, but looking at those living on Social Security, we say that the time has come to have an automatic increase in Social Security if prices go up. Let's not break faith with the older people who are on Social Security.

	Beyond that, let our government be generous, generous to all those in need. I stopped today in Flint, Michigan at a school for those who were deaf. And as I talked to those deaf children, I realized the immense responsibility that any man, a governor, a senator, a congressman, a mayor, a president, has for those that are less fortunate.

	And where government is needed, government must move. But, my friends, where an individual is able to take care of himself, government does him no favor to take care of him. What we must recognize is this. Let me give you the figures. Ten years ago for every person in private enterprise, working in private enterprise, there was one on welfare. Do you know what the figure is today? For every employee in private enterprise today, every ten employees, there are three on welfare. And I say to you it's time for a change. And that's why my programs have this principle: rather than more millions on welfare rolls, let's get more millions on payrolls in the United States of America.

	This means support for the programs your Republican congressmen have supported in the Congress. A Human Investment Act that will train the unemployed and train them for jobs in private enterprise where the poverty program has failed. An act which will also provide tax credits for building housing that people can own and get the pride and the dignity of owning a house and then they will not be--certainly they will be far more interested in defending it. And then, beyond that, something else, what I have called Bridges to Human Dignity.

	Let us remember that where our black Americans are concerned or Mexican Americans or those white Americans in rural communities who haven't had a chance, rather than simply giving them something rather than simply taking care of them, what we have to do is to provide an opportunity for them just to be not more--to be something more than to be a worker, to be something more than simply to receive welfare. Let's give them a chance to be an owner, to be a manager, to have a piece of the action of private enterprise. That's the way we are going to have a future for America.

	My friends, this is a different road. It is a different road based on an old principle but a very sound principle, and it is this. The principle that, as we look at America, we recognize that this is a great country. With its faults, it is still the country. If any people have a choice, the traffic's all one way. They are coming this way. They are not going someplace else.

	But, my friends, as we look at America, let's never forget how we became the richest country, with our wealth more equally shared than in any country in the world. America is great and became great not because of what government did for people, but because of what people did for themselves. So we give people that opportunity.

	So that is why our programs start with the responsibility of government, which we proudly assume, responsibility to care for those in need, start with the responsibility of government which we proudly assume to provide the best education at every level that can be provided in the world and then beyond that give people a chance to move up and out and onward. This is the way to greatness for a great people, and this is the way that the American people are going to vote in this year 1968.

	As I see this immense throng, particularly as I see so many here from this younger generation, that I leave one thought with you that I have often touched upon in speeches to college audiences and that I think seems to be--needs to be more emphasized.

	In a political campaign you will find, and many of you are going to be in them, I can see some future opponents or perhaps successors to some of these congressmen right down around here through the audience, but let me tell you that in a political campaign it is necessary for the candidates to indicate what is wrong so that we can take new directions.

	But as you hear about that, as you hear about the trouble of America, about the decline of respect for America around the world, let me make one point very clear. After a recent speech a college student came up to me and said, "Mr. Nixon, wouldn't you have to agree after what you have said that this is probably a pretty bad time to have been selected to have to live in? Isn't it true that we inherited a world we didn't create?"

	Of course, I had to say yes, but everybody did.

	And then I went on to say this and I say it to you. As I look at the times in America today, never forget this. Look around the world, and I have traveled to most of the nations of the world. Look through the whole history of man, and I have studied it as you have and as I look through the whole history of man and all around the world if I were to pick at time in which to live and a place in which to live I'd pick the United States of America, right today, 1968.

	And I want to tell you why. Let's look at the exciting moment that we are in. Yes, we have the burden of world leadership. But there is also that challenge. Unless you were in America, what happened in your government would not make that much difference as to whether peace and freedom survived. For the first time in the history of this nation and in the history of all nations, whether peace or freedom survives depends on what happens in America. That wasn't true before World War I. It wasn't true before World War II. It is true today.

	And so the question is, can America live up to it? Are we going to be big enough to it? Are we going to have the idealism and the courage and the strength? I think so.

	And beyond that look at what we have. We have the wealth, we have got this great younger generation, more enterprising, I would say more motivated by a desire to serve even than a desire for success in a material way. And with all of these assets, I say that the United States is ready for this challenge, and that's what this election is all about.

	My friends, the United States at this moment in history, the kind of leadership we have in Washington will not only determine whether we end one war, it will determine whether America meets the challenge, the challenge that the whole world is looking for us to meet, to develop the new policies that will preserve the peace for the balance of this century. I believe we can do it. With your help I believe we can bring a big team to Washington that will help us do it.

	And that brings me to what you can do. I understand that in this great hall and in the overflow room we have approximately 8,000 people tonight. And when you look at 8,000 and figure that seventy million are going to vote, I suppose you say, "Well, what does it matter?"

	Let me tell you how much. I now how it feels to lose a close one. And, my friends, I can tell you that if the 8,000 people here, each one of you, make a personal commitment in your own mind tonight that between now and the election, just four weeks from today, you will talk to ten people that are on the fence, if you will do that, that will mean 80,000 votes, 80,000 would make the difference in Minnesota, and can I also say this.

	Minnesota is a swing state. Minnesota is a state generally that if you carry Minnesota these days you carry America. If we get 80,000 more in Minnesota, we are going to carry this state, we are going to carry America. Now let's go out and do it. How about it.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHOME OWNERSHIPJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSOCIAL SECURITYWELFAREYOUTH     Hq q q 
q  q
 ÷p òp íp âp Ùp ×p Ãp ¹p	   	 ’ 	 „ 	 l 	 W 	 I 	 2 	  	  	  e: