Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0909.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/09STUMPINDIANAPOLISINDIANAINSPEECH AT BUTLER UNIVERSITY, BROADCAST BY NBC AND ABC2505 WORDS

	About two years ago, I was here in Indianapolis to address the local Columbia University group.  Not even in my wildest flight of imagination could I then have foreseen the specific reason for this return to your city.

	In those days of later October, 1950, such terms as "whistle stops," "campaign trains," and "grass roots organization" were only words that I read in my daily newspapers.  Politics was something which I thought should never play an active part.

	But no American can stand to one side while his country becomes the prey of fear-mongers, quack doctors and bare-faced looters.  An American doesn't twiddle his thumbs while his garden is wrecked by a crowd of vandals and his house invaded by a gang of robbers.  He goes into action.

	When the same sort of thing happens to his country, an American goes into action by getting into politics--fast and hard.  I'm in politics just that way.  And I'll keep on bombarding the administration until you, the voters, lick them for good in November.

	I'm enlisted, with you, in a crusade to make the American government gain-worthy of its origins and its people.  Whatever happens to me, that crusade will be carried on by millions who are younger than I.

	I've seen them and talked to them in the past few months.  They are the kind that won't let up until the "American Dream" becomes truly the "American Fact."  They are America's guarantee that there won't be a repetition in their lifetime of the present administration's brand of errors.  Our young people are in politics for the balance of their lives.

	Politics is the life-long business of the citizen.  The practice of politics means an abiding concern about your community and state and federal government.  It means a sharp eye on the spending of your tax money.  It means vigilant concern for the trustworthiness and ability of the men who represent you, or who serve you in a variety of ways.  The practice of politics governs the amount of cash you have left over after you pay your tax bills.  It decides the measure of pride you can take in your community and in your country.

	When politics becomes the monopoly of the few and ceases to be the business of every citizen, the result is government by bureaucrats, by cronies and by machines.

	That's what we have too much of today.

	A friend recently said to me, "In Indiana, they take their basketball and their politics seriously.  Every Hoosier, from birth, eats, sleeps and talks basketball and politics."  He said, "They are team work conscious in that state."

	Even the sports sections of the newspapers every winter tell of your basketball prowess.  And the history of the Republican Party through 96 years records your devotion to party responsibility.

	Victory is the product of teamwork, the product of a united party.  Victory comes from the efforts of many men and many women, not always seeing eye to eye on every question but always--in the matter of party responsibility--joined as a team.

	We Republicans are not servile puppets of a dictated party line.  We don't have loyalty oaths.  We don't have party purges.  Those are administration machine devices that we do not need and do not want.  We want independent minds and men who speak their minds.

	In this campaign, I am requesting voters to support the entire Republican ticket from top to bottom at every stop in every state I visit.  The people of each state are the best judges of the individuals they want to represent their party.  That is a fundamental principle in the American system.  And we are not going to wash that principle down the drain.

	You Republicans here in Indiana have selected our candidates for United States senator and representatives in Congress in your eleven districts.

	I believe that every one of them will support the program that I shall present to the Congress if I am elected president.  I, therefore, urge their election and ask you to spare no effort to see that they are sent to Washington.

	Here in Indiana you have a Democrat state administration.  It is equally important that your candidate for governor and the Republican slate of candidates that he heads from top to bottom all be elected.  They are a part of our team and we'll never get anywhere except as a team.

	And in this campaign, I have undertaken the job of helping to arouse the men and women of America to a realization that they must get rid of the mess in Washington.  The goal is to get every American, eligible to vote and physically able to vote, to the polls on election day.  A big vote will mean one thing for sure:  a real change in Washington.

	Now I ask you:  Isn't that what you want?

	I pledge you that I will keep at my task right down to the wire.

	Together, we can achieve victory.  Let every one of us, from now to November 4th, work on our friends and neighbors to make sure that they are registered.  If we do that, the turnout on election day will dwarf every statistic--except the Democrat national debt.

	May I here venture to suggest to husbands and fathers of America that baby--sitting and washing the breakfast dishes on election day will be an act of patriotism, if in that way a wife is enabled to cast her vote.  And may I point out to the wives of America that postponing a shopping tour or keeping the supper warm an extra hour on that day will be equally an act of patriotism, should thereby a husband be enabled to vote.

	It will be a long time before we get another chance!

	Almost anything can happen in four years.  But one thing won't happen.  There won't be a clean-out in Washington--unless you take care of it this November.

	The hordes of Washington press agents, however, believe they can fool most of the people again this election.  For our undoing and their profit, they have tooled up the song and slogan factories.

	"Don't let them take it away" is their prize piece of musical politics to date.  A cracked phonograph record, endlessly plays the same tune:  that the Republican Party and its candidates are going to take something away from the American people.  And that forlorn tune is symbolic of the frayed hopes of the administration this year.

	"Don't let them take it away" is the theme song of the Washington press agents.  But before November 4th rolls around, they will be stuck with it.  Too much has already been taken away from the American people by the bungling and the corruption of the last seven years for such a song to sound very sweet in our ears.

	"Don't let them take it away," they sing.

	Take away what, I ask you!

	An administration that fumbles and stumbles and falls flat on its face every couple of weeks?  Why, my distinguished opponent is using every trick in the book to get himself off the hook of the present administration record.

	Now when the hand-picked heir wants no part of the heirlooms, why should we? "Don't let them take it away," they cry.

	Do they mean the five percent fees for their court favorites?  That's what they get.  The American people get a ten percent tax on this, a twenty percent tax on that, a whole invisible blanket of taxes on almost everything we buy.

	"Don't let them take it away," they moan.

	Do they mean the campaign contributions extracted from federal employees so that the bosses can stay in power at no cost to themselves?  Let me ask:  Can you show me the Kansas mailman who doesn't earn every dime he is paid and who doesn't need every dime he gets?  Yet, as I learned to my astonishment the other day, that Kansas mailman has had to stomach a threatening pre-election letter from the administration overseer in his state.  That letter said falsely, in effect, that the Republicans, if elected, would fire him.  The letter went on to suggest that a hundred dollar campaign contribution would help save the day--for the mailman and the administration. 

	"Don't let them take it away," they implore.

	Do they mean the four hundred dollar deficit that the average city family suffered in 1950?  Those are the figures of the administration's own Department of Labor.  Even the press agents cannot create an appetite for that sort of financial diet.

	Do they mean the inflation that has cut savagely into the value of the endowments of our schools, the pension funds of our unions, the savings of our people?  The good nickel cigar of Indiana's Tom Marshall is a lost hope in this era of soaring prices for things you buy.

	Take the case of the elderly couple that scrimped and saved to retire on $100 a month in 1945, when the present mess in Washington began.  Now their buying power has been cut to $71 a month.  Or take the younger married couple that sacrificed to build up a $1,000 savings account to send a growing youngster to college.  Now they have $710 of the spending power that was in the bank in 1945.  "Don't let them take it away," they chorus.

	Do they mean the record of losing our friends in Eastern Europe, in China?  Do they mean the loss of 700 million human beings to the Communist slave world in spite of our thousands of casualties and billions of dollars?  Do they mean the record of bungling that trapped us into the Korean war?  It is cold comfort to the bereaved, the lonely and the worried to learn from the official propaganda that the Korean War is only a small war.

	"Don't let them take it away," is a slogan for the gullible.  Possibly better advice for this campaign is found in the Book of Ecclesiastes that reads:  "There is ... a time to keep and a time to cast away."  This is a time to cast away some stupid and wicked things.

	Let me tell you plainly what I want to cast away, with the aid of a Republican Congress and Republican officials in the states.

	First, we shall cast away the incompetent, the unfit, the cronies, and the chiselers.  And it won't take years of Congressional investigation and a lot of tax money to clean out the mess.

	Next, we shall cast away the alien philosophy that our national destiny lies in the supremacy of government over all.  That philosophy sometimes calls itself by the fine old name of liberalism.  But it has nothing to do with liberty!  Sometimes it calls itself progressive.  But its progress is backwards to the day when the king was the government and the government was the master.  That philosophy we intend to cast away and with it all the economic and professional wizards who teach it.

	We shall cast away the agents of centralization who would destroy the vitality of state and local government by assigning all powers to the federal government.  Enormous federal taxation is gobbling up sources of revenue from the states and local communities.  That means local services are being cut to the bone.  Schools are crowded.  Teachers, policemen, firemen and other local public servants suffer as a result.  Let that trend to centralized government continue and in every state you will have a federal governor-general, not an elected governor.

	Finally, we will cast away fear from our national life.  This nation was not destined to stagger from crisis to crisis.  In the tradition in which you and I were raised, we did not recognize as leaders men whose stock in trade was one fearsome warning after another.  We shall cast away the fear-mongers.

	Now what, in the words of our text, are some of the things we will keep?

	Above all we will keep faith, faith with the American people.  We will preserve plain faith in the provisions of our founding documents.  We will preserve the faith that by their guidance we can chart America's future boldly and safely.

	Keeping that faith, we will restore honor and distinction to the public service of our country.  We will call to the high offices of the government the best men and women, the ablest and the most reliable in the land.  Such men and women will gladly report for duty in government, when government itself once more commands their respect.

	The overwhelming majority of federal employees are among our most patriotic and efficient citizens.  I want to make them proud of the government they serve.

	In the field of public policy at home, we will work to keep government close to the people and responsive to their will.  We would never vote for regimentation.  We must not permit it to be fastened on us through our own indifference and neglect.

	You of Indiana have often asserted your sovereignty and refused to accept the dictation of a federal bureaucracy.

	More power to you.

	But you won't have to fight domineering bureaucrats in the new administration.  We shall work unceasingly for a more just, for a more humane, for a more securely prosperous America--without federal overlordship.

	In the field of foreign affairs, there is something vital we will reaffirm and keep.  That is faith in the American people's mission in the world.  We must build an integrated world policy.  Our leadership is now crippled by piecemeal programs limited to certain areas while whole continents are largely ignored.  Our security can be jeopardized at many points.  Our task is to determine the basic factors in the problem; the scope and intensity of our own national interests in every significant sector of the world must be our guide.  The facts must be given to the American people; they must know our foreign aims, the reasons for them and the cost of attaining them.  Communism cannot be thwarted by a hastily built wall here or an emergency dike there.  We almost invite subversion, infiltration and aggression by the Communists when we ignorantly neglect any area vital to our welfare.

	In the words of our text, "There is a time to keep and a time to cast away."

	Now is the time for both.

	The American people will cast out the stupid and wrong things that stand in their way.  They will keep those trusted, dynamic things that have made Americans people of accomplishment in every generation.

	Great goals lie ahead for the winning--peace with honor, prosperity without war and a society fair and humane to all its citizens.

	These goals we can win.  These goals our people are determined to win.

	But to win them we must do better--a lot better.  And Americans are determined to do better.  They are determined to start by setting their house in order next November 4th.

	Our job is to help.  Ladies and gentlemen, let's get started on it right now.
BUREAUCRACYCAMPAIGN FINANCECOST OF LIVINGFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSLIBERALISMVOTER TURNOUT     -9 ù8 ó8 ï8 å8
 ×8 Ò8 Í8 Á8 º8 ¸8 ƒ8 y8	 u 	 j 	 Z 	 L 	 4 	  	  e: