Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1018.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/18STUMPAKRONOHIOOH1980 WORDS
	Mr. Eisenhower apparently doesn't like it when I describe his government as a single-interest government; when I speak of the Cadillac Cabinet. And I gather that Mr. Nixon also is getting sensitive. A day or so ago he instructed his staff not to use any more Cadillacs in his parades. These Republicans think of everything! And now they don't seem to like it when I suggest that President Eisenhower is responsible for the Eisenhower administration!

	But if Mr. Eisenhower didn't want this administration called a big-business, single-interest government, well, why did he ever join the Republican party? He picked the Republican party. He picked his own cabinet. He picked his own assistants. And the consequences are--another Republican administration that fears nothing as much as a change; that is more anxious about what we may lose if anything is done, than hopeful about what we may gain.

	Just the other day he was asked about the Cabinet. This somehow brought to his mind the Secretary of Defense Charlie Wilson, and he said, "Who would you rather have in charge of that, some failure that never did anything, or a successful businessman?" He told how he went about picking the Cabinet. "I got the head of the biggest company I could go to, General Motors, and said, 'will you come and do this for us?'"

	Well, that's one way to pick the men who will serve the people's government--but it's not the Democratic way and we'll do it differently next January! We won't look just to the biggest corporations. We won't go just to the richest moneymakers. We will go to the men who have proved they understand the people's needs--and who have proved they want to meet them. Now, I am sure there are many businessmen who can do that. I do not object to businessmen in government. I was one myself. I only say that there is just one test of competence for public service, and that is a willingness and an ability to act only for the good of all the people.

	There are a great many people in this country who aren't heads of great corporations, but who aren't failures, either. And a lot of them know how to act for the people in government better than some big businessmen we could name.

	The real objection is not to businessmen--not at all. What we object to is an administration dominated by a single point of view. And that is what the Eisenhower Administration has been. Sometimes they admit it. The truth slips out when their public relations men aren't looking. Former Secretary of Interior Douglas McKay told an annual meeting of the United States Chamber of Commerce, "We're here in the saddle as an administration representing business and industry." He ought to know!

	When there was a strike at the auto agency of this Cabinet businessman his comment was: "I don't happen to go along with some of the goons they've got running things." Is that what they think of labor?

	When small-business failures reach an alarming rate, the Assistant Secretary of the Interior says, "There are business failures even in times of great prosperity. It is part and parcel of our American way of life... I do not think we would want it different." Is that what they think of small business?

	When the farm prosperity vanishes, the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture says, "This was a dream world, and no one expected it to last." Is that what they think of farmers?

	And Under Secretary of the Treasury W. Randolph Burgess, formerly of the National City Bank, told the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers University that "our kind of people are now in power."

	And so they are--but not for long!

	Even a conservative Republican like Senator Taft knew that men who were schooled in business only did not always make the best public servants. Shortly before his death, he said: "I am not at all sure that all these businessmen are going to work out." And then he stated the real point. "I don't know of any reason," he said, "why success in business should mean success in public service." Amen!

	Another thing I've been saying lately that seems to annoy Mr. Eisenhower is that his administration suffers from creeping complacency. Mr. Eisenhower says he doesn't know what the word means. Well, let me explain. Many farmers, small businessmen, and ordinary citizens are suffering from the drying up of credit and from the high interest rates. But Secretary of the Treasury Humphrey thinks that the tight-money policy is a good way to deal with the "happy difficulties" of these times. That's what I mean by Republican complacency.

	In this great land there are still thirty million Americans who live in families with incomes of less than 2,000 dollars a year. And yet Presidential Assistant Howard Pyle said the "the right to suffer is one of the joys of a free economy." That's what I mean by Republican complacency.

	I'm not trying to paint a picture of national misery. On the contrary, I think all of us are thankful for the blessings we enjoy. I'm painting a picture of this Republican administration's attitude--an attitude that is the same in bad times and in good times; a complacent attitude toward those who are left out. And I'm saying it's time we changed that attitude, time we left nobody out, by electing a Democratic administration.

	When we Democrats criticize their complacency, the Republicans call us prophets "of doom and gloom." This is always the cry of those who are satisfied with things as they are. We Democrats are never satisfied with things as they are today--and I hope we never will be, that we'll always work for a new and a brighter day, a peaceful New America. And we say that we will not reach the greater tomorrow unless we are willing to look at the truth--the full truth--about today. And today is never good enough for those who care about human beings.

	The Republican candidate is running, he says, on his record. What record? We know the slogan, but what's in the record? What are the accomplishments of this administration? What has it added? Where are the fresh, new ideas and new policies that are the lifeblood of a vigorous and healthy nation? The achievements to which President Eisenhower points with such pride in the past and such hope for the future consist mostly of not repealing what the Democrats have done. The innovations were Democratic ideas, molded by a Democratic Congress and involving the federal action which, on other occasions, the Republicans always denounce as big government, creeping socialism, and bureaucratic statism, and sometimes worse!

	As for the specifically Republican ideas--tax reductions which favor the well-to-do, the "partnership" approach to power projects, in which the private partner gets the profits and the public partner foots the bill, collapsible price supports, hacking away at conservation, REA, and TVA, etc.--these are hardly new ideas. They are as old as the Republican party and represent its lasting principle--to help those who can also help themselves.

	How very different is our Democratic idea of the shape, yes, and the shaping, of our future.

	I want to say a word about the program for a New America--the program that Eisenhower Administration talks about--in election years--but doesn't do about it in any year, the program that the people will carry forward again when the present cabinet is back in General Motors next January.

	I have proposed a program for our schools; a program to build the schools we badly need, help to provide that still more important part of education, the doctors, and help to salvage some of the present waste of promising students.

	I have proposed a program to meet the needs of our elder citizens--adequate income, decent housing, a chance at jobs, indeed, for the meaning and recognition in living that is their due.

	I have proposed a National Health Security Program. It aims to provide for the research that is needed to win the fight against cancer, heart disease, arthritis, mental disorder, and the other crippling and killing diseases of the body and the mind. It proposes to build the hospitals and the medical schools we have to have, to give us the doctors we need, to bring, through the insurance principle, good medical care within the reach of all.

	We Democrats have proposed a farm program to restore true parity of income to the farmer. Price supports, protection for perishables, the soil bank, the food stamp plan, new ways to put surplus food into the mouths of the hungry abroad--these and many others are our weapons.

	But our goal is more than income parity for the farmer; it is also a new understanding of the farmer's problems. This administration has treated the farmer like a poor and troublesome relation. The farmer does not want handouts; all he wants is a fair share. And he needs the protection of his government to get it. If General Motors had to depend on the weather for its production, if it had to dump a year's production on the market in a few weeks, if it cut production, if it lacked the capital to hold goods off the market, General Motors would need protection--and from this administration it would get it!

	I have proposed other programs--for the conservation and development of our rivers, waters, forests, and lands for the people's benefit. I have made proposals for housing, for dealing with juvenile delinquency, for many other problems that make our society less good than it ought to be. I have presented these programs in speeches throughout the country and in a series of program papers. I hope you've read them and if you haven't, I hope you will.

	What, I ask, what one new thing has the Republican party proposed in this whole election campaign? What frontiers has it told us about? What horizons? Why they're satisfied--and that's as harsh an indictment as could be brought against any steward of America's affairs.

	I urge you to decide for yourself which you prefer--the New America, or the old complacency. And I urge you to decide, too, which policy you prefer in foreign affairs--a forward-looking program that looks the facts squarely in the eye, that doesn't present every setback as a triumph, that offers new ideas, or, again, the old complacency.

	I for one am not content to say that nothing can be done to cage the radioactive mushroom cloud that threatens us and our children's children.

	I for one am not content to say that no further steps can be taken toward disarmament and a lasting peace.

	And I don't think the American people are content with those ideas either.

	Peace is not an issue in this campaign. There is no peace party in this country. There is no war party.

	But here is a party with new ideas. And there is a party with no ideas.

	When we talk like this, my opponent and his friends cry out "theatrical gesture" and "catastrophic nonsense."

	Well, we mean to go right on presenting the issues of the campaign and facing the great opportunities of the future. And no Republican scare words can stop us!
 
	Those who like the world as it is never make it better.

	Peace does not last long for those whose refuse to face danger.

	Human need and human suffering do not go away when men shut their eyes.

	Let's open our eyes, let's face the facts, let's work for all the people, not just for some of them; let's get up and get doing and build a better and a peaceful America.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALBUSINESS, CORPORATEBUSINESS, SMALLCABINET OFFICIALSMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCESSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS     8- - þ, ú, ò,
 å, à, Û, Ö, Ò, Ð, Ð, Æ,	 w 	 c 	 P 	 A 	 0 	  e: