Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1031.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/31STUMPCHICAGOILLINOISILEXCERPTS2149 WORDS

	Some of you may remember that here in Chicago, on July 11 last [missing text] I received the nomination of my party for the presidency of the United States.

	Tonight, a good many thousand miles--and goodness knows how many thousands of words later--I am happy to be back with you again at the wind-up of this campaign.

	This has been some campaign!

	The present incumbent and his protege have assailed me with the greatest collection of flim-flamming accusations made in my campaign.  In case you have had any doubt, the opposition is being directed by the senior member of that partnership.  He told a back platform crowd in Manly, Iowa the other morning that he was the man who is running the Democrat campaign for president.

	Why do you suppose he thought he had to tell them?

	At first glance, you might find hard to understand the furious assaults of my Siamese-twin opponents.  After all, four years ago, I was besieged, publicly and privately, by important members of the administration party to accept the nomination for the presidency on their ticket.  In these past four years, I could not possibly have changed so completely as to give real cause for their shift from ardent coaxing to violent condemnation.

	But you know the answer to their strange and unhappy behavior!  Our campaign has touched them where it hurts--has touched them on the sensitive political nerve which registers defeat for them next Tuesday!

	They know I have not changed.  They know my fundamental belief in Americanism.  They know that I am steadfast in my basic conviction that peace is America's greatest need, and that peace for America is inseparable from peace for the world.

	They know that I have long insisted--and do now insist--that isolationism in America is dead, as a political issue.  They know also of my conviction that world leadership will never come from State Department pussy-footing.

	They know that I have always rejected in the domestic scene the doctrines of the extremists.  I denounce reaction just as I reject socialism.  They know that I have always been a sturdy foe of Communism and every other kind of un-American ideology.  They know that I have always believed in a strong and solvent economy, in progressive government, and in adequate security.

	Because the true issues of this campaign are so clear, they are terrifying to the opposition.  The case against the administration party cannot be explained away by any top secret document released to an eager senator.  Nor can those issues be concealed in any of the dark closets of which this administration has so many.  The issues in the case are plain, out in the open, for all to see! They are:  Korea, Communism, corruption and prosperity based on
peace.

	The extraordinary thing is that they--the opposition--thought that the American people would be so blind, so beaten down by seven years of Fair Deal misrule, that they would not rise up and demand a change from the bungling of these issues--a change to a government of honesty, vision, and courage.

	But that demand will be satisfied--four days from now.

	It is fitting at the close of the campaign to review these great issues.

	Korea.  What frantic protests our mention of that country has provoked on the part of the administration.  They know that those of us who have charged that administration blindness and vacillation helped bring on the Korean War have been absolutely right.

	A week tonight, in Detroit, I said that if I am elected president of the United States, I will go to Korea.  I am going for an obvious reason: to find out for myself what is being done there.  I want to find out from those on the spot what more could be done to improve our situation and what could help bring that tragic war to an end at the earliest moment compatible with the honor of the United States.  I have no magic military wand to bring that war to an end.  But I know that on the spot I can learn something that will be helpful in serving the American people in the cause of peace.

	That pledge to the American people in the cause of saving American lives has caused consternation in the ranks of the opposition. They have distorted my meaning.  Anybody who knows anything about war would recognize such a trip as one practical step in working out a plan to stop our casualties and to help bring the war to an honorable end.  That is why I am going.

	Another great issue of this campaign which has driven the administration into pretzel-shaped evasions is the issue of Communism.  That is another perfect example of administration unfitness for four more critical years of power in the United States.

	Even though it is deplorable, there is nothing extraordinary in the fact that Moscow should exert its mightiest efforts to penetrate the military secrets of America.  There is nothing extraordinary in the fact that the Kremlin should attempt to subvert American officials.  There is nothing extraordinary in the fact that the Communists should try to infiltrate policy-making positions in Washington.  There is nothing extraordinary in the fact that they should attempt to spread disruption and disunity in our country.

	What is extraordinary is that the present administration continues to pretend that none of these things have been so--that everything that has happened--every stolen secret, every disloyal official--is, they say, just an unfortunate, almost insignificant, accident.

	We could make some allowance for them if they had the honesty or the common sense, or both, to admit that they had been deceived and to show a stern purpose of preventing similar subversion in the future.

	There has been considerable concern--and rightfully so--about methods to be used in rooting Communism out of our government.

	There are those who believe that any means are justified by the end of rooting out Communism.  There are those who believe that the preservation of democracy and the preservation of the soul and freedom in this country can and must be accomplished with decency and fairness and due process of law.

	I belong to this second school.  But at the same time, I say to you that no differences in theory can excuse my failure to see that Communist contamination inside our government is stamped out.

	When you have in Washington a government that will face the facts--men and women determined to deal with the facts--that determination spreads through every nook and cranny of government.

	Under a new administration, there will be that determination from top to bottom.  And I promise you that the methods used will be the methods of decency, of fairness, and of law.

	A third major issue of this campaign is corruption.

	I was shocked to discover on my return home last June from Western Europe how prevalent corruption in governmental positions had become.  The American people were virtually accepting, as part of their daily life, a corruption headline in their daily newspaper.

	If anyone wants proof of administration brazenness, I offer yesterday's newspapers.  They publicly reveal that a highly placed member of the opposition party was one more five-percenter.  Now I hear that they have fired him.  But he says that the same information on which they fired him was in their hands when they hired him.

	If this is true, the question is:  How brazen can you get?

	Every disgraceful detail in the wretched record of this scandal-a-day administration takes its toll of the moral fiber of the nation. When we lose pride in our government, we lose respect for it.  Think what this means in the home, the school, the community!  As much as any other failure of the administration, this one has incensed the women of America.  They are determined to clean things up.  And I'm glad that American women, brooms in hand, are on the warpath once again.  Judging by what has already been turned up in the corners, they'll find plenty of dirt under the rug.

	How can our representatives abroad, charged with the difficult job of holding together the remaining outposts of freedom, answer any questions as to the fair name of a government that tolerates this kind of thing.

	Uncle Sam could well recall today the words of a wise man:

	"Who steals my purse steals trash.
	But he that filches from me my good name
	Robs me of that which not enriches him
	And makes me poor indeed."

	Let us have in Washington men and women with the will and determination for honesty.  Then the isolated thieves can be readily caught, and scandal headlines will disappear from the daily press.

	But there is more to this business of government than cleaning messes at home and abroad, immediate and important as that may be. There is also the all-important business of prosperity based on peace.

	The administration we would bring in would not only clean up the mess, but would be fair and friendly to the great groups, the great areas, of America without whose whole-hearted cooperation the job of carrying America forward cannot be accomplished.

	Our crusade will fight unceasingly for all those things that have made our American system what it is.  We will strive to make equality of opportunity a living fact for every American.  I have said this in every part of our country-- in Newark, New Jersey and Tampa, Florida, in Boston, Massachusetts and Columbia, South Carolina.  Second-class citizenship reflects second-class
Americanism.  We will put an end to the exploitation of remaining discrimination for political advantage.  Our crusade offers real progress based on positive leadership.

	And, another thing, our crusade for equal economic and political rights will have the indispensable support of the vice president as he presides over the Senate.

	Can the administration party guarantee that to you?

	In other fields, malicious rumors are being spread by the administration.  They tell farmers, workers, civil service employees, veterans, the ill and aged that our crusade will be completely indifferent to their fate.  What bunk!  These groups, in sum, make up America.  Our crusade will not turn the clock back.

	The social gains achieved by the people of the United States, whether they were enacted by a Republican or a Democrat administration, are not only here to stay, but here to be improved and extended.

	We need a healthy economy that provides good, steady jobs at good pay.  We need a government that will enlist all the resources of private industry and that will mobilize all the resources of government to prevent mass unemployment from returning to America. That, our crusade is pledged to do.

	Vital to that healthy, sound economy is a healthy, prosperous agriculture.

	I was outraged to hear recently that the Committee for Agricultural Progress, which is allied with the Democrat National Committee, published an illustrated tabloid filled with deliberate falsehoods. They placed it in every rural mailbox in selected farm states.

	This folder was cleverly designed to frighten farmers into believing that our new administration would pull the rug out from under them.  It tried to frighten farmers by misrepresenting the facts when it said that our crusade is opposed to price supports, rural electrification, soil conservation, and other farm programs. I have made three major speeches and innumerable short talks on
agriculture.  Each and every time, I have flatly stated, with no ifs or buts, that our administration is pledged to strengthen farm legislation for the farmer; that our administration will support the present law on the books; that our administration is pledged to foster conservation, rural electrification, farmer cooperatives, agricultural research and extension, and other desirable farm programs; that our administration is pledged to protect the farmer, not through Washington straitjackets, but through a cooperative federal, state and farmer plan.

	I could go through the list of all the major American groupings and repeat what I have said so many times in so many places within the last two and a half months; and all I would be saying would be to express my basic philosophy toward Americans, no matter what their occupation.

	I believe in the ability, the decency, and the initiative of Americans.  They are to be helped by Washington--not smothered by Washington.  They are to be listened to by Washington--not disregarded by Washington.  They--and not an entrenched handful in Washington--make up this great nation.

	Next Tuesday, we citizens go to the polls.

	To have an abiding faith in this country and in the spirit of its people.  Its power under God is limitless.  What other nation--what other people-today--has such an appointment with history?

	In the spirit of that faith and to the fulfillment of that destiny, our nation and our people look into the years that lie ahead, confident and unafraid.


AGRICULTURE--GENERALCOMMUNISMEQUAL OPPORTUNITYGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORS      3 Ï2 Ê2 ‚2 ÿ2
  2 ≈2 ¿2 π2 ±2 Ø2 ß2 ù2	 j 	 V 	 M  <   e: