Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0903.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/03STUMPBIRMINGHAMALABAMAAL2465 WORDS
	Thank you very much.  Mr. Comer, Mr. Vardaman, Mayor Green and my dear friends, you overwhelm me.  I should tell you just a little bit about the origin of this trip.  When I came back from Europe on the first of June, it was my high privilege to meet in several cities members of the delegations that were later to go to Chicago.  Every time a southern delegate came to me he asked me a question that seemed to be a strange one in my ears.  You see, I am a neophyte in politics, and I did not know that a national politician was supposed to take Southerners for granted.  Consequently, when they said to me, "General, if nominated, will you come to the South?"  I said, "Well, didn't we decide once we were all going to stay in the same nation?  Of course I will be honored to come
down."

	Now, later after the Chicago conventions were over there began to be a great deal of political advice given to me and part of it was a recalling of the tradition that no presidential candidate came to the South.  The one side owned them and the other side didn't know how to invade.

	Now, one reason that you found a Yankee governor of a Yankee state introduced today as my great advisor in all this business is because he agreed with me.  He agreed that at the very least I had to come down and show them my word was good.  And I came down to show them not only that my word was good but so far as I am concerned, every man, wherever he lives, every woman wherever she lives are freeborn American citizens, and I am going to bring them my message if it is humanly possible for me to do so.

	Now, one of these pieces of advice was, "General, if you go South it's going to be a bitter disappointment.  In no place in the South can you gather a corporal's guard."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, if this is a corporal's guard, corporals have got a darn sight higher rank than I ever knew them to have.  You have honored me far beyond anything I could ever dream, this many Americans turning out to hear what message I could bring them about our present situation, the problems we have, the problems that you and I together have to help solve.

	Now, just to give you an explanation of this southern trip, I will read you a letter from a southern lady that was delivered to me about 10 minutes ago on my plane, and I have taken out excerpts so I may read it to you.  She said, "My dear General:  Today I am getting dressed up to go to Jacksonville to hear my first presidential campaign speech.  I was born a Democrat and have tried to be a good one."  

	"Last night on TV Jim Farley said the South was 'in the bag.'  When asked if the inflation status would hurt the Democrats' changes, he said no, the working man was only interested in the fact that 'he is working.'  He didn't 'understand' that he was earning 50-cent dollars."

	"We are proud that you do us the honor to come here and ask us for a vote.  Some of us would like to get out of this 'bag' and I believe that if you make a strong appeal today to all of the South to get out of this 'sack' you will carry the South and give the 'Red Herring Cohorts' the surprise of their crooked careers."

	And now ladies and gentlemen, listen to something that is pretty sad:

	"I would like to sign this, but some of my family work under Civil Service and they are afraid--which, in itself shows you what a state people are in.  I don't care if I get fired for I can get another job, but I don't like to do anything to hurt anyone else."

	"Forgive me, please, but I could not sit by and not speak up--good luck to you, Sir, and I shall continue my work for you here. Respectfully, A Democrat for Eisenhower."

	Now I came south to describe the great differences that exist between the administration party in Washington and what the other party is now trying to do.  I sum that up by saying that one party has gotten us into a mess, has crystallized us into a situation that cannot otherwise be described, and the group to which I belong is trying to clean it out and to give you honest government and honest administration in Washington.

	Now, when I talk about "mess" I have been asked to describe it.  This morning in a southern newspaper there was an editor who took his Webster's dictionary and after giving all of the other meanings, and they are many, he finally says, "And now we come down to meaning number four.  Now we are getting someplace," he says.  "Meaning number four says 'mess can mean a confused, inharmonious, more disagreeable mixture of things; a medley; a hodgepodge; hence, a situation resulting from wondering or from  is understanding; a state of confusion, embarrassment, or the like; a muddle; a botch.'"  That is what I am trying to get rid of.

	I am down here first because I do not believe you are a captive precinct of anybody, and secondly, because I think you would like to help in trying to get rid of that kind of a mess.

	We have seen spending that can be described only as crazy governmental spending, with a budgetary estimate of 85 billion dollars, of which some 10 to 12 to 14 billion dollars is even over and above all of the taxes they charge us today.  In short, a deficit, a deficit that they make up by printing money, making every cent in your pocket cheaper.

	Now, much of that expenditure is not necessary at all.  Of course, we are in troublous times, but we don't have to have duplications, mismanagement, we don't have to have bungling and we don't have to have government graft; we don't have to have centralization of all our business in Washington.

	Only recently the bureaucrats thought they had a fine, splendid chance to get in the steel business.  Luckily, we had a court left to tackle them on the 5 yard line before they really got started.

	Now what is the result of all this indebtedness, all this luxury spending?  Every day the United States population increases by something over 5000 individuals.  Now every baby born to you, every baby born today is inheriting first of all a $1,700 debt.  That's what we are passing on, and that debt goes on day by day.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the Department of Labor's own statistics say that in the year 1950 every city family spent an average of $400 more than it could make in wages.  Now of course, in Washington $400 isn't a lot of money, but to most of us it is still some bucks.  If we are going in debt at that rate all the time, we can see not only where this nation is going, but where we are going. That is what I am down here for, to help you stop that if I can.

	My wife lately has been giving me the dickens about prices, and I am sorry she couldn't be here today.  This would be a tremendous thrill for her, because she has been in the South with me a lot.  When we got to talking about prices, she said something about the man who owned and operated the butcher shop.  I said, "Wait a minute.  I have been having one of these economists around to see me and they are pretty smart fellows and I learned something.  That butcher shop owner is just as worried as you are about prices.  It squeezes and squeezes him on the profit he thinks he is entitled to in order that he can pay the great prices that they charge him and still put something in your market basket.  Think of the amount of the price that he has to pay that is represented in taxes."

	As a matter of fact, I talked to a storekeeper the other day and he said to me, "Do you know what I have become?  I have become Uncle Sam's collector of all taxes that people don't think they pay."

	This economist showed me an egg and he said, "When you get that egg on your breakfast table you are paying 100 concealed taxes on it."  He went back all the way to where the feed was grown for the chickens and what was done with the chickens; the processing and the farmer's taxes bringing it down finally until it is delivered to your table.  You pay 100 taxes.

	We sometimes think farmers must be getting rich.  They are not getting much out of it.  A farmer told me in New York the other day that whereas we are paying 21 and 33 cents a quart for milk to put the empty bottle on my doorstep costs him 14 cents.  The farmer isn't getting very much out of a bottle of milk, but we think we are paying a lot.

	One reason I am down here is to help lower this tax burden.

	The mess in Washington has brought us at one and the same time unmanageable budgets and deficits and high taxes, and still we cannot live within our income.  Ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly true that we must today spend sums of money for our national security that are staggering in their amounts.  But the very fact that we must spend them makes it doubly necessary that every nickel that we put into that kind of a sterile, unproductive thing gives us the greatest possible value in security.

	This crowd is filled with men who have served in our armed forces.  Some have served with me.  You have served in the Army, Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps.  Every single one of you can point to places where you have seen duplication, unnecessary expense, luxury in design, or excessive quantities on the posts and on the stations.

	Ladies and gentlemen, what we have to get down to is the best kind of business management that the best brains of this nation can produce.  We must not merely trust to political leaders or someone way up in the highest offices to do their jobs; we have got to enlist the brains of America to come up and help us run this gigantic thing now costing us $85 billion dollars a year.

	Last night in my speech I tried to show how much of our money was going into some of the sheer, plain, dishonest pockets that exist among the political appointees in the federal government all over the United States.  I recited specific cases of collectors of internal revenue, men holding the highest positions of trust, in three different places across the continent--Boston, St. Louis and San Francisco.  The first two are already serving penitentiary sentences for peculation.  That is the kind of thing we must get
rid of.

	What are the great inflations and the cheapened money doing to us?  Our pensions are not worth what we thought they would be.  The insurance policy that you have saved and slaved to put together is not worth what you thought it was going to be.  Even your government bonds that they ask you to buy.  Patriotic people did buy them.  Now what has happened to them?  What is the value of the $25 bond that you bought in 1943, thinking it was worth $25?  What is it worth now?  Not $25.

	They are destroying the American ideals and qualities of thrift, economy, self-dependence because they say, "Lean on us; we are a bunch of bureaucrats."  We simply cannot do it.  We have got to take this government in our own charge; we have got to depend on ourselves when we can.  When we bring in the government let's bring it in where it should be brought in--for the help, the protection, the assistance of every single one of our 155 million people.  Let's keep it in its own proper functions and let's not let it reach out into our lives, telling us what to do telling the farmer what to raise, telling the people where and how to work.  We, ladies and gentlemen, have the one greatest task of making this again surely America.  That is the whole fact.

	You are sending me back to the North an inspired person, because in spite of the doubts even among my friends as to how the South would react to critical examination of what has been happening to us, you have proven that every citizen of the United States everywhere is interested in one thing--not just the label a man wears on his collar; you are interested in decent, good government and decent Americanism.

	I don't think that any of us takes himself too seriously.  A wise man once said to me, "Always take your job seriously; never yourself."  Certainly I hope to live by that little proverb.  But I do say this:  What is going to happen next November is going to be serious.  The administration has been manufacturing emergencies and crises for a long time.  An emergency, you know, is a handy thing.  You use it as a rug under which you sweep all the evidence of your own errors, corruption and mistakes.  I am not talking about these manufactured emergencies now.  I am talking about a real emergency.  There is going to be an emergency and it will be this:  Your decision next November.

	You people today have honored me mightily.  I have been honored in the fact that Mr. Comer, an elder statesman known throughout the United States has introduced me.  I have been honored by every single citizen of this city and of this state who stood along the road and waved at me as I went by.  I am thrice honored by the size and the warmth of this crowd.

	The real request I should like to make of you now is this:  Just study this country an its problems between now and November.  Make your own decision in your own right as a highly privileged citizen of the greatest country on earth.  With that decision I shall comply willingly and gladly no matter what it is, and hope someday to come back here when I don't have to be up here speaking to you but can be down among you and saying, "Hi, folks!"
BUDGET DEFICITGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEINFLATIONREGIONALISM--SOUTHTAXATION--GENERAL     x4 D4 >4 :4 04
 "4 4 4 4 4 4 4 û3	 g 	 Y 	 < 	 , 	 # 	  e: