Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0908.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/08STUMPLOUISVILLEKENTUCKYKYAMERICAN LEGION NATIONAL CONVENTION2,059 WORDS

	During the mid-1950s, I spent 16 months as a GI in the small South Korean village of Munsan-Ni--not far from the demilitarized zone.

	The job my country asked me to do was not heroic.  My memories are not of combat missions, but of lonely guard patrols, cold nights, army food,--and it was pretty good--friendships made, officers saluted and thoughts of my family back home.

	But I also remember the pride that I felt to be an American soldier, on duty for America, in a land where the hunger for democracy was beginning to grow, and where the strength of America had been felt in freedom's behalf.

	I, and those I served with, didn't ask for much in the way of material comforts.  We had an obligation to serve, and we were proud to meet that obligation.  All we wanted--and all we expected--was to be well-trained, to have weapons that worked, a mission that we understood, and to know we were being remembered and supported in the thought, and prayers of those back home.

	That's not a lot to ask for, but for those on the frontline, it makes all the difference in the world.

	And it is a lesson I will never forget.

	It is a lesson that is especially important in this election year; for the job of defending freedom is not a Republican job or a Democratic job; it is a responsibility we have as Americans; it is the price we pay to protect and defend our ideals; and it is a price we have always been willing to pay.

	Another great Democratic President, Harry Truman, said 38 years ago, that "our great strength is the loyalty and fellowship of a free people.  We pull together when we are in trouble, and we do it by our own choice, not out of fear, but out of love for the great values of our American life."

	It is that love for America that has made us strong, and that has caused millions of American men and women to answer their nation's call to military service.

	And it is that love for America that will not let us rest; that will keep us looking ahead; that will keep us preparing and building for the future; that will keep us working together to keep America strong and to make America better.

	The members of the American Legion are united by shared experiences of the past; by your service as aviators and sailors and infantrymen and Marines in answer to your country's call.

	It is the past that brings you together, but it is the future that must be on all our minds.

	And today, I want to talk to you about the future, and about the obligations, not of the foot soldier that I once was, but of the Commander-in-Chief.

	Under our Constitution, the first obligation of a president as Commander-in-Chief is to assure our nation's security.  It is an obligation I take very seriously.

	Today, America is powerful and well defended.

	But we will not maintain our leadership in the world if we rest here.

	We cannot rest here, because we know that military might cannot be sustained without economic might; that we cannot build a strong national defense on a mountain of debt; without a foundation of good schools and productive factories and world class technology that is essential if America is to be number one and stay number one on the battlefield and in the workplace; a foundation solid enough to defend America and to make America grow; a foundation broad enough to protect our interest and to extend a helping hand to those who struggle for freedom and opportunity around the world.

	We cannot rest here, because Soviet military forces continue to be a threat to our security, and to the security of our friends and allies.  They have more than 10,000 strategic nuclear weapons, and a powerful Army in Europe.  And yet today, we may have the best opportunity of our lifetimes to reduce the risk of nuclear war.  The recent treaty to limit nuclear missiles in Europe was an important accomplishment and I salute President Reagan for it.  But it is not a resting place.  We must build on that treaty, to make the world a safer place for our children, and our way of life.

	We cannot rest here, because we must strengthen our conventional forces, as the Warsaw Pact is strengthening theirs; and we must respond to the threat that new missile technologies pose to our allies around the world, especially Israel, in the Middle East.

	We cannot rest here because today, after 8 years and two trillion dollars, we still don't have an anti-tank weapon that can stop modern Soviet tanks; we have serious shortages in ammunition and spare parts and maintenance; we see billions being spent on weapons that don't do what they are designed to do; and we see too many defense dollars slipping into the pockets of wheeler-dealers and consultants.  And my friends, every time that happens it hurts not only our taxpayers, but the men and women of our armed forces who are risking their lives in defense of freedom around the world.

	We've got to have an effective nuclear deterrent; we've got to strengthen and modernize our conventional forces; and we've got to manage the Pentagon to get a dollar's worth of security for every defense dollar we spend.

	And if the question arises, how strong do we have to be; the answer , I think, can be found in the congressional debate that took place almost 200 years ago during the Presidency of George Washington.

	Congress asked General Washington whether he could support an amendment to limit the size of American military forces to 3000.  Washington said yes, provided that Congress would adopt another amendment limiting the size of invading armies to 2000.

	How strong do American forces have to be?  Strong enough to defend America's interests.  Strong enough to meet our treaty commitments.  Strong enough to crack down on terrorists--with force if necessary.  Strong enough not just to fight--but to win--the war against drugs.  Strong enough to convince any potential adversary that they have nothing to gain and everything to lose by attacking the United States or our allies and friends.

	That's how strong.  And that's what Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to be working for from the day we take office--on January 20, 1989.

	But we must also meet our responsibility to those who have borne the burden of battles past--to the veterans who have kept the torch of freedom burning for over 200 years.

	When I was called, and when you were called to serve our country we didn't negotiate the cost of our service, and we didn't set a price on our commitment to freedom.

	We served with pride.  And we will keep that pride with us for as long as we live.

	That's why there's something wrong when veterans, who should be our most honored citizens, don't receive the respect and the dignity that they've earned.

	Today, we see patients at VA hospitals waiting as long as 8 hours just to get a prescription filled, or as long as 8 months just to get in the door of an outpatient clinic.

	We see thousands of beds in VA hospitals being closed down while the need for those beds is increasing.

	My friends, there is something very, very wrong when veterans are treated this way.  What can we be thinking of?  One out of every four Americans without a job today is a veteran.  That's unacceptable.  And one out of every three of our homeless is a veteran; those who slept in foxholes a decade or two ago now sleeping on streets and sidewalks in the very cities and hometowns they risked their lives to protect.

	We've got to do better than that.

	And beginning on January 20, we will do better than that.

	In Massachusetts, I'm proud to say that while the current Administration was cutting support for housing by 70 %, we launched the nation's first program to find--and help - homeless veterans.

	While they were trying to close veterans' field offices and counseling centers, we were opening them, and creating special outreach centers to reach the veterans of all wars.

	And while they were trying to cut veterans' health care benefits and freeze cost of living increases for disabled veterans, we were boosting state contributions to veterans' housing and medical needs by 40 percent.

	My friends, my opponent in this election is a patriotic man who served his country well in time of war.

	I do not question his love for this country; but there are days--and this is one of them--when I question his priorities.

	Today, he is asking us to give a five year $28 billion tax break, most of which will go to Americans making $200,000 a year or more.  That's an average of $30,000 each to the wealthiest and most privileged among us.

	But a few years ago, he cast the deciding vote in the Senate to cut VA health care benefits by $2 billion and to eliminate cost of living increases for disabled vets.

	What kind of priorities are those?  A tax cut for those who have it made; a cut in income for those who lost a leg at Normandy or were blinded at Inchon or had an arm torn off at Khe Sanh.

	We can do better than that.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to do better than that.

	We're going to work with Congress and with citizens around this country to build a healthy and growing national economy that will help Americans, including veterans, to get the opportunities and the good jobs they so badly want and so richly deserve.

	We're going to invest in the job training and lifelong education programs that will prepare all Americans, including veterans, to take on--and beat--our foreign competition.

	We're going to create a National Partnership for Affordable Housing that will help all Americans, including veterans, to find decent and affordable places to live, and we're going to end homelessness in America.

	And we're going to have a top notch veterans' health care system, because we know it's important not only for our veterans, but for America, as well.

	For decades, the VA has led the way to spectacular breakthroughs in medical research.

	Look at Roslyn Yallow and Andrew Schalley--Nobel Prize winners for medicine.

	Look at William Oldendorf--a pioneer in developing the CAT scan.

	Look at Edward Freis--a leader in research on hypertension.  

	Look at the thousands of VA hospital physicians in cities and towns all across this nation who have honored their profession and their country by caring for the wounded, the traumatized, the homeless, and the jobless; doctors who, like my father, believed that a doctor's first responsibility isn't to look at your checkbook, it's to look at you.

	The veterans of this country gave first-class service to our country; they deserve first-class treatment from our country. 

	They deserve a place at the Cabinet table, and in my administration they're going to have one.

	They deserve America's continuing commitment to bring home our POW/MIAs from Vietnam and Korea.

	They deserve a president who will keep America strong abroad and powerful at home, and in my administration they're going to have one.

	They deserve a vice president who has stood with our veterans on the floor of the United States Senate, year in and year out and in my administration they're going to have one named Lloyd Bentsen.

	My friends, America isn't just a place.  It's not just a piece of land or just another country.  It's the noblest experiment we've undertaken on this planet.

	It's a symbol of what we human beings can do.

	When we understand--and meet--the obligations that we have to each other and to this country.

	When we honor and learn from the past.

	When we prepare, as we must every day and every week, to build a future where America is free, where America is strong, where America is leading the way, where America is number one.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEHEALTH CARE--VETERANSHOMELESS PERSONSMILITARY--CONVENTIONAL FORCESNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)PATRIOTISMMILITARY PREPAREDNESSVETERANS     ∞. |. v. r. j.
 _. Z. U. K. C. A. . .	 æ 	 ù 	 à 	 x 	 [ 	 '     e: