Speeches\1972\dem\S72D1005.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/05STUMPCLEVELANDOHIOOHCITY CLUB4,493 WORDS

	[Missing text]...ending the war in Southeast Asia that I could not be taken seriously as a contender for the Democratic Presidential nomination. So I have reached out to other issues in our own society and elsewhere around the world, and in so doing I discovered that some who advised that course are not calling me back to Vietnam. The truth is that I never left Vietnam. It has been literally an aching, throbbing pain in my heart and on my mind for all of the nearly ten years that I have served in the United States Senate, and I literally weep for this nation and for the people of Southeast Asia over this tragedy. Now, next Tuesday on television I am going to address the American people in some depth on the subject of Vietnam and in that speech I will demonstrate a public plan--as distinguished from the much discussed secret plan of Mr. Nixon to achieve peace in Indochina. Today I shall share my more general views on America's role in the 1970s. 

	We certainly face a much more different world than the one we knew when we grew up, or that we served in World War II, or even as we watched our country plummet into a disastrous Asian war. Less than twelve years ago John Kennedy was inaugurated, and on that very bright and hopeful day, if our surging spirit did not give reason enough for renewed faith, we had as well a new vision and an exciting new voice that dramatized the optimism and the boldness of a new generation. In January 1961, no one could have predicted the Bay of Pigs, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the murders of John and Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther King and other leading Americans, the Dominican intervention, the alienation of so many in our own society and especially those who held the highest hopes in January of 1961, and least of all could we have foreseen the endless mine fields in which we would find ourselves in Vietnam. And yet, in those years that were the battle, we the people would be buffeted by one shock and situation after another until finally in Vietnam we would lose our innocence as a nation and much of our self-confidence. And so today we must try to build as best we can on the painful lessons of those advances in the 1960s and early 1970s. And it seems to me that we must move toward a more mature knowledge that while we are deeply involved and have great influence in the world, that forces beyond our control will probably have the most to do with saving the political arrangements of the future.

	I think we can now see the error, for example, of assuming since World War II that our actions would be decisive in either winning or losing China--after all, China was never ours to lose--or in causing or preventing revolution on the right or on the left in much of Latin America or the developing world. Or in determining the outcome of a distant and confusing civil war in Southeast Asia that I suspect most Americans do not yet comprehend. And yet we must also see that as the richest and most powerful nation in the history of the world--limited as it is to what we do in the world--this will be more important than what anyone else does in moving this planet forward, either to its final destruction or a more secure and peaceful future.

	But possessed now, as I believe we are, with a sense of tragedy, and both our limitations and our responsibilities--of some awareness of what Senator Fulbright has warned as the arrogance of power--we may be better able to play a more responsible and constructive role in the world than we have in the past. What should that role be? I know of no responsible person who would knowingly call for a return to old-fashioned isolationism and, as a matter of fact, however selfish that might appear to us it, is a practical impossibility. And yet in many ways the foreign policies of the present administration are isolated. 

	We are isolated from our historical allies in trading parts of Europe and Asia and Canada because of the kind of disjointed economic diplomacy and failure to consult with them on actions of extreme importance to them as well as to us. We are too isolated, I think, from the developing nations and too unaware of the concerns and the aspirations and the dynamics which are moving in these areas of the world where two-thirds of the inhabitants of this globe live. We are too isolated, partly because we seem to be saying--by the most obvious presence in those countries--that what is good for Pepsi-Cola or the First National City Bank is more than good enough for the people of those areas. And I think we are isolated from reality by the insistence that belligerent talk and big, constantly increasing, Pentagon budgets are somehow synonymous with national manhood and prestige. And most of all, as a nation that began by asserting a decent respect for the opinions of mankind, we are isolated from our own founding ideals as we back a corrupt dictatorship in Saigon by raining fire and death on the heads of helpless people all across the face of Indochina.

	Now I suggest that we reject this unconscious isolationism in favor of a new and more constructive internationalism that is based not only upon our vital national interests but also upon the kind of a nation that we ought to be: the kind of a kind and good and decent people where the force of our own example may be the strongest asset that we have around the world. I think America's new internationalism must follow several clear guidelines.

	First of all, it must be supported by a strong national defense, but one that is free of waste--and as I have previously outlined, forces fully adequate to defend our own land and to fill our vital defense commitments but which does not convey to the world the kind of an obsession with military power as though the only test of internationalism is the number of forces we have stationed in other peoples' backyards. 

	Secondly, the new internationalism must look toward prudent relaxation of tension with potential adversary powers--most particularly the Soviet Union and China. 

	Thirdly, it must look to the establishment of healthy economic and political relationships with our principal allies and trading partners in Europe, in Japan, in Canada and in Latin America. 

	Fourth, it must avoid the kind of reflexive interventionism which has foolishly involved us in the internal political affairs of other countries. 

	Fifth, it must envision a world community with the peacekeeping machinery to settle disputes among nations and to end the war between man and his own physical environment. And incidentally, that end--to save the thin layer of soil and water and air that surrounds this planet--is going to require a much greater degree of international cooperation than any commitment we have yet brought to that all important task. 

	Sixth, we must reassert America's role as a beacon and as a friend to those millions of human beings desperately striving to achieve even the elemental human dignity which all mortals seek. The kind of interventionism that I would favor as president would be agricultural and technical assistance, the building of roads and schools, the training of skilled personnel, the doing of all of this in concert with other nations and primarily through multilateral institutions. 

	Finally, at the bottom of it all must lie a prosperous and just and self-confident society here at home where all our people and the people's representatives are involved in these decision-making matters that affect our lives. As my old friend and colleague in the United States Senate, Senator Humphrey, has often said, America's most constructive foreign policy act in the decade of the 1960s was the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964--and I agree with that.

	And what we must understand most urgently of all is that there is no longer any way to separate the conditions of our own society from our capacity to be strong and effective in our outreach abroad. How then do we proceed? Well, my first act in the field of foreign policy--and this is going to happen on Inauguration Day--will be an immediate and total end to the bombardment of Indochina and of our involvement in that war. I really do not understand how any American--reared in the traditions of humanity and decency and goodness that we have been taught in this country and in our Sunday schools, in our synagogues, taught in all of the religious traditions of this country--how we could look at that wire photo of the little South Vietnamese girl running in pain, screaming on fire from napalm that had struck her school, and not literally have that experience break the heart of this country--and this is the kind of thing that I want to stop.

	But as we look beyond Vietnam, the prevention of nuclear war still remains the first charge on our diplomatic scale. During the 1960s we built a great arsenal to protect the United States and our allies against a nuclear threat from any quarter. We must continue to maintain the powers that we need, and I believe in the concept of the nuclear deterrent. But we also know that too much power is a self-defeating exercise. We have seen the deadly spiral of the arms race and have drawn no comfort from it. We have seen that if we build weapons that go beyond our real needs, we only invite the Soviet Union to follow suit in an endless cycle that makes the world more dangerous for all of us. The agreements with the Soviet Union recently to slow the arms race are significant, and I applaud them. But it makes no sense for the President to return from Moscow with an arms reduction treaty and then call on the Congress of the United States to add another $4 billion to military spending. Any more arms reductions of that kind will bankrupt the Treasury. So arms agreements must not be used as an excuse to escalate the arms race but rather to reverse it. Now, let us have a reasonable level of military defense, but let us not permit the insatiable appetite of our military to replace the good sense and undermine the prospects for reduction in the balance of nuclear terror. Instead, let us work to bring the arms race under control by halting the deployment of more nuclear warheads until and unless they are needed.

	At the same time, we must seek areas of agreement with the Soviet Union that are consistent with the needs and interests of our friends and our allies. And let me underscore this point: we should press very hard for justice for the Jewish citizens of the Soviet Union rather than abandon them for a few dollars in a grain tray. We should have learned in the 1930s that we cannot afford on moral grounds or on any other grounds to be silent while we witness the persecution of a religious minority of the kind that is now proceeding in the Soviet Union, and every American ought to be speaking out against it.

	Now, we should, of course, encourage expanded trade between ourselves and the people of Russia within the limitations that I have just described, and we must spare no effort to build the structure of a lasting peace. If the Soviet Union responds with the cooperation that is dictated by your own interests as much as by ours, then I think we can build toward a future that is not based on outdated stereotypes of military confrontation and power politics. Instead, we can build toward what President Kennedy referred to as a "world that is made safe for diversity, in which we are secure, and a world where there are real prospects for enduring peace."

	Now, I also welcome the progress, as I think most Americans do, that we have made with recent years with China--and this, incidentally, is a course that I have advocated for twenty years. You might be interested to know that the central issue in my first campaign for the Congress of the United States in 1956 was a recommendation on my part that we open up normal relations with the people of China. That was not a good issue on which to fight as a liberal Democrat for election in Republican South Dakota, but I won the election just the same. And incidentally, the polls showed that I would lose. So we must build on the progress that President Nixon has made in our relations with Peking by encouraging China's full participation in the community of nations, encouraging her to provide and take part in providing for Asian security instead of threatening it. And as president, I would begin by urging the recognition of the government in Peking and welcoming her full participation in the community of man.

	I think the future of Asia will also depend in part upon China, but it will depend in the next few years, and perhaps even more, upon Japan--the third most powerful economic nation in the world, a nation with bigness of purpose and a long-standing friend of the United States in spite of our bitter experience of a quarter of a century ago. In recent years, I regret to say, our relations with Japan have been in steady and I think needless decline. Mr. Nixon announced his trip to China without so much as a hint to the government of Japan, although for years we had been putting pressure on the Japanese to have nothing to do with the people of mainland China. We betrayed that trust; we betrayed that nation that we have brought into an Asian partnership with ourselves. The President imposed his new so-called "economic policy" without consultation with Japan and then blamed the Japanese for problems that were largely of our own making. And after these shocks, Mr. Nixon took a year before he convened an important summit meeting with the Japanese Prime Minister. Now, I think that this is the diplomacy of insult and it must not continue, for just as it is important to seek better accommodations with our adversaries, we must never neglect old and treasured friends, either Japan or Europe or Latin America or Canada or elsewhere around the world.

	Now, in Western Europe there has been great progress toward a relaxation of tension and toward resolutions of problems left over from World War II. Again there are diplomatic failures and challenges to our statesmanship. Mr. Nixon has not consulted adequately with our allies on such critical issues as détente, and is raising fears in Western Europe that we will reach agreement with the Soviet Union at their expense. He talks of cooperation, and yet he permitted his secretary of the treasury, John Connally, to badger and bully the countries with whom we most need to maintain a cooperative spirit. He talks of the future, but he does not seem to understand the importance of good economic relations in preserving and strengthening our Atlantic ties.

	I think we must restore better economic and political relations across the Atlantic, and we must restore Europe's faith in our commitment to the success of the European community. At the same time, I believe in a thorough and critical review of the military aspects of European security. We no longer need to maintain 319,000 American soldiers in Europe to deter aggression twenty-seven years after the end of World War II. And let me say, parenthetically, that I believe one of the reasons those American forces in Europe are so incredibly demoralized in spirit and mind is because they know that they are way overextended in the numbers of manpower needed to carry out their assigned missions. But the way we reduce our forces and share burdens more equally is critical to the future of the Alliance and to European stability. The key to forced reductions on the side of the Warsaw Pact does not, in my opinion, lie in the number of American forces stationed in the West. Rather it lies in the cohesion, the cooperation, and the common purpose of the Western Alliance, and the clear demonstration that the American government is consulting close in on all of those political, economic, and military matters that affect the destiny of Europe. If we make some force reduction and yet strengthen our constructive and cooperative attitudes and practices, I believe that there is nothing that the Soviet Union can do to weaken either us or our allies or to reduce our security. Over a three year period, I would recommend that we withdraw more than half of the forces that we now have stationed in Europe and maintain them on American soil instead. And I believe that NATO will be stronger itself. And, by the way, this is precisely the recommendation that the late President Eisenhower made some seven years ago.

	Now, we retain a special concern about the Middle East. I think we have to recognize that Israel in a very real sense is the creation of the conscience of the Western world and we must remain committed to the future of Israel. It is the only democratic state that exists anywhere in the Middle East. We must recognize her right to live at peace with her neighbors and to live behind secure and recognized borders, and we must continue to supply those arms that will permit Israel to guarantee its own security. In my administration, we will do this--not so much because we are afraid of the Soviet Union, but because of our deep and abiding concern for Israel and because we will and should not adopt one policy for an election year and another for the years to follow.

	Now I am running out of time, so with the indulgence of the press I am going to stand on everything that I have released to you, but I am going to jump ahead to conclude these remarks in about five minutes so that we can devote the rest of the time to questions from the floor.

	I said a moment ago that there is no way that we can separate the quality of our society here at home from the impact that we have on the world around us. So I think we must resume building a society in which government helps to bring people together, not to drive them apart; where it helps to increase opportunity for all of our people, not to limit that opportunity; and where it has the deepest roots of the American spirit and what is good and decent and enduring in the American character. I believe that we can have that kind of America again: a first-rate nation at home and abroad, where American greatness and commitment to international cooperation will again become a thing of admiration and wonder to the people of the world. Few other countries have faced what we have come through in recent years, but I reaffirm my belief here this afternoon that we can now be prepared to use what we have learned from this bitter past. We can learn from success and from failure to meet our responsibilities both at home and around us, and we can do that to the lasting benefit of our people and of our fellow mortals elsewhere in the world. In the final analysis, our foreign policy is no more than who and what we are as a free people.  It is a reflection of our attitudes towards ourselves. It is a reflection of the kind of values that we think are important about the conditions of man. It is a reflection of what we believe to be most enduring and most worthwhile in our own heritage. How we live in the neighborhoods and communities of America will determine how we live with our international neighbors and in the broader world community. This is a challenge that is appropriate to our ideals and to all that we have dared and won in nearly 200 years of our independence. As Abraham Lincoln, perhaps our greatest president, once said in a very dark hour for America: "We shall nobly save, or meanly lose, the last best hope on earth. I have faith that we shall nobly save that last best hope on earth."

	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you very much.

	Q: Are you in favor of the continuation in any form of the domestic economic controls?

	SENATOR MCGOVERN: I would like to see us establish a system of wage and price controls that center on the heavily concentrated industries that have the most market power. I think it is impossible, except perhaps in the middle of a great and popular war where the spirit of patriotism and fervor is very high, to make wage and price controls work across the board. But I do believe that certain guidelines could be established for major industries. I would prefer that they function on a voluntary basis, but with the president of the United States using the power and influence of that office as President Kennedy did, and as was President Johnson able to do at least in the first couple of years of his administration, to see to it that those guidelines were followed, even when it becomes necessary for the president to go to the American people and turn the spotlight on some recalcitrant offender who has violated the guidelines. I would also advocate standby authority, which the president could use on the recommendation of a wage-price review board to turn back unjustified wage and price increases by Executive Order in those cases where the Board has found that the guidelines had been violated. I think the trouble with the present system is that it is such a scatter-shot comprehensive effort to reach everything that it reaches nothing. Ninety percent of the price increases that have been requested have gone through. What we ought to do is target in on those areas that really have market power, the major basic industries, and to concentrate on guidelines in those industries both on wages and prices--and I think it would work pretty well. It seemed to me that President Nixon made a great mistake in early 1969 when he scoffed at the notion of wage-price guidelines and in effect invited both industry and labor to go for the sky on wage-price increases. By the time he had recognized the error of his ways, inflation had virtually gotten out of control to the point where the wage-price controls that were brought in have been in trouble ever since. I have always thought that the principal trigger to the inflation that has plagued us for the last six or seven years is the war in Vietnam. And by ending that war and curtailing some of our military excesses, I think we could contribute much to reducing some of the inflationary pressures, to say nothing of the economic distortions that now afflict our economy.

	Q: How do you correlate the ideals that were taught in the synagogues and Sunday schools with the fact that in our own history we have had a bloody civil War and other examples of violence?

	MCGOVERN: I think we have always been at war with ourselves. Life is a constant struggle between good and evil, but what is most enduring in the American character are these ideals with which we began. They are based on the Judeo-Christian ethics. No one can read the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution and the Bill of Rights without realizing that those national ideals come out of the great religious traditions of this country and of Western civilization behind it, so that while it is true we have frequently departed from those ideals--and that happens every time somebody is mugged on the street or hit over the head in an apartment hall--nevertheless that stands in violation to the ideals of the country. And I think nowhere have we so stubbornly and so blindly violated those ideals as we have in Southeast Asia. The tragic thing about our whole experience in Southeast Asia since the end of World War II is that for the most part, we have been on the side of the forces for independence and against imperialism. We encouraged the Dutch to get out, the British to get out, French to withdraw from some of their holdings, but then somehow we have moved into the same trap ourselves in an effort to order other people's lives. And I think everything we are doing now in Southeast Asia, no matter how it is disguised, is a direct violation of what most Americans regard as the enduring ideals of this country.

Q	: I think that the question is the implication that Senator Eagleton was asked to resign from the Democratic ticket because of Jack Anderson.

	MCGOVERN: This is not true. I think the decision was probably as painful a one as I shall ever have to make in my life, and it was based on my judgment that the issue of Senator Eagleton's health would have come to dominate this campaign had we not made the decision we did. I still believe that to have been a fact, and that is too big a price to pay when people are dying in Vietnam and the condition of our own society is in rapid decline. It is not simply a question of the political career of George McGovern or Senator Eagleton or any other one man--the question is, could we have permitted a situation to develop where the real issues before the country would have been sidetracked over a debate over the health history of one man? I made a judgment that I thought was in the national interest; it was one for which I had been severely criticized by the very people who told me they thought it was the thing to do. But in any event, I have always felt that it was the right decision and I make no apology for it. And when I changed my mind on that, or any other issue, I don't regard that as a sign of weakness. I think a leader who is incapable of changing his mind because he fears a loss of face is not a leader at all--he is a disaster.
ALLIES/ALLIANCESDIPLOMACYEMIGRATION--SOVIET JEWSFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALJAPANMILITARY--OVERSEAS TROOPS AND BASESNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINARUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)VIETNAM WARWAGE AND PRICE POLICYWESTERN EUROPE     xc Dc >c :c 2c
 &c !c c c c c c ùb	 	 õ 	 ì 	 Õ 	 ½ 	 ¸ 	 • 	 f 	 L 	 . 	 # 	  e: