Speeches\1972\dem\S72d1007.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/07STUMPST. LOUISMISSOURIMOEXCERPTS FROM SPEECH AT TRUMAN DAY AWARD DINNER2829 WORDS

	There are several reasons why I especially want to win the 1972 reelection in Missouri. First of all, this is Harry Truman's state and I would like to demonstrate, as he did, that the people of this country can still upset the polls and the pundits.

	Secondly, I have had a special relationship with the Symington family for many years. Stuart Symington, one of the most respected men in the Senate, has helped me win hard-fought campaigns in South Dakota. His son, Congressman Jim Symington, was my deputy in Food for Peace during those bright early months of the administration of John F. Kennedy.

	Then I especially want to win in Missouri because of Tom Eagleton. No matter what others may think, there will always be a special bond between the Eagletons and the McGoverns that is only possible when two families go through a difficult and heartrending experience together. I do not say that we handled this matter every step of the way as wisely as possible. But if there were mistakes, they were honest mistakes of the heart.

	To those who are troubled that a presidential candidate could back his chosen running mate one thousand percent and then ask him to step down a week later, I can only say that in politics, as in life, compassion must sometimes yield to more reflective and painful judgment.

	To those who object to a presidential candidate publicly changing his mind, I say that a leader who would rather save face than respond to new insight is no leader at all; he is a disaster--as witness our sad experience in Vietnam.

	I took the hard course that I believe was in the national interest--a course that was only possible with Tom's respect and cooperation.

	We wanted this campaign to center--not on the issue of one man's medical history--but on the great issues of war and peace, the American economy, the quality of our society, and the condition of our Constitutional government.

	With so many significant issues confronting our nation, any American who makes his judgment in 1972 on the basis of an incident that Tom Eagleton and I have now put behind us is betraying his obligations to responsible citizenship.

	Tom Eagleton is on the way to enhanced national stature. And we can put our nation on the way to enhanced national stature if we take the government out of the hands of Richard Nixon and his special interest friends and restore it to the people of America.

	The stakes in 1972 reach beyond the problems of the movement to overriding questions about the future of America.

	What kind of country are we?

	What kind of country do we want to be?

	What kind of life should we seek together?

	My answer is the same as James Russell Lowell's when he was asked a century ago: "How long do you think the American Republic will last?"

	He replied: "So long as the ideas of the founding fathers continue to be dominant."

	Our nation was born in a noble vision of human existence. The pilgrims named their land New England because they hoped to have found a new order. Our forebears inscribed the Great Seal of the United States with the words: "A New Order for the Ages." And on that seal, a pyramid, which stands for material wealth, supports a symbol which stands for spiritual strength.

	So the new order of America was to be based on an abundance that freed men to find meaning in their lives as well as a livelihood for their families. In the American vision, life was supposed to be more than an exhausting effort to exist, more than material comfort and success.

	Our forbears affirmed that people have a right to purpose and fulfillment --a right to glory in their dreams.

	And the faith of our forefathers was cherished by millions who followed after them. From a hundred different lands and every continent, immigrants came to America, not because they believed the streets were paved with gold, and not merely for jobs and economic opportunity, but because here they hoped to find a new birth of freedom for themselves and their children, a new liberation of the spirit.

	Now, after centuries of struggle, we have become the strongest and the richest society in human history. The ancient dream is within our grasp--the dream that here, at long last, will be one place on this planet where all those who are willing to work for it can find freedom from want and war. 

	Yet, in the midst of these wonders, even in sight of this boundless material abundance, our spirit languishes.

	In suburbs as well as slums, our children turn to drugs as they turn away from us. More and more families break up, neighborhoods decline, traditions and values are lost. Workers find themselves feeling irritable and frustrated because the system created to serve them only exhausts them, bores them, uses them up, and exploits them. Our miraculous technology mocks us as it pollutes our land, our air, and water. And the divisions among us grow deeper instead of fewer--divisions of age and race and class.

	It is said that young people these days are alienated. But so are many embittered elderly and angry middle-aged, and the cynical and self-indulgent of every age. It is said that blacks feel shut out of the system. But so do whites and Spanish-speaking peoples and citizens of every race, religion, and nationality. It is said that the poor feel scorned, ignored and put upon. But so do union members and housewives and intellectuals and returning veterans and all the restless dissatisfied people of this land.

	We are doubtful and even suspicious of each other. We wonder why nothing seems to work right any more. We wonder whether America has gained the world, only to lose its soul.

	But I believe we can make America hope once again.

	We cannot do it with words of easy assurance. We cannot recover our greatness and happiness merely by saying that we have no difficulties. 

	War cannot be ended by calling it peace. Recession cannot be solved by calling it prosperity. America cannot be perfected by those who say it is already perfect.

	Do you really believe, as our opponents tell you, that the American nation is now what it was and could be and should be?

	Do you really believe, as our opponents tell you, that the American spirit today is refreshed and hopeful and satisfied?

	Do your really believe, as our opponents tell you, that America can go on as it has for four more years?

	They would do well to remember the words of the ancient orator: "Our trouble is with those who would please us instead of serving us."

	The way for the next president to serve us is by restoring America to its founding principles.

	The first and most fundamental principle is that government and the people must be united by a bond of mutual confidence. Nothing any president says will make any difference if the people distrust him. None of his individual programs or the most eloquent speeches matter half so much as the character of his leadership.

	The next president cannot summon America to a higher standard unless he sets a higher standard himself. He cannot persuade Americans to care about their fellow human beings unless he cares. It will take time to convince the people that this has been done. For too long we have been given rhetoric without reality and promises that were made to be broken. All politicians and presidents are suspect in 1972.

	On a visit to a hospital in Vietnam last year, a terribly disillusioned and badly wounded young Marine told me: "I will never again trust the government."

	Only a president who keeps faith with the people can in time revive their confidence in government.

	He can insist on an administration that is not for sale to any special interest. He can disclose the names of all his campaign contributors. He can share the great decisions of war and peace and taxation with the Congress and the people. He can put a halt to the deceit and manipulation involved in officials advocating one course in public while plotting a different course in secret.

	Finally, the next president can restore trust in government only if he himself trusts the people to face the facts and see the truth. A commitment to openness has a price. No president and no candidate is immune from error; an open campaign and an open administration will inevitably expose every mistake to public view. But better the obvious mistakes of honest leadership than the cold and apparent efficiency of a leadership which blinds us to its blunders until disaster is upon us.

	It has been recently said that people will accept lies, corruption, and even burglary in high places because they expect nothing better. That is tragic, if it is true. But if the next president demands integrity in every part of government, then so will citizens demand and expect a government that corrects evil instead of committing it.

	Yet, this is only the first step. The critical question is what the next president does with the trust he earns.

	The president's job is to act, not merely react; to lead, not merely follow public opinion; to help bring the country forward, not merely be dragged along with it. Above all he must care--as Abraham Lincoln cared about the widows of war, and Franklin Roosevelt cared about the hungry and poor, as John Kennedy cared about the jobless, and Harry Truman cared about the little people of America and the world.

	That is the kind of president that I want to be. That is the kind of president that, God willing, I will be.

	There will be no more White House indifference to scandal in high office. As president of the United States, I shall appoint to my cabinet and administration men and women of the highest honor, ability, and character, regardless of party; and I shall promptly remove anyone guilty of misfeasance or malfeasance, regardless of politics.

	There will be no more White House indifference to generals conducting and expanding and prolonging a war on their own. Our system calls for civilian control over the military; and as your president and commander-in-chief, I will control the military.

	There will be no more White House indifference to the poor and oppressed among us; to those who protest, or those who suffer in silence; to the women who are seeking a more fulfilling role in American society; to the young who are in a hurry for change and to the black and brown or red who can wait no longer for change. No single group's voice in this diverse country must always be heeded; but every voice must always be heard. As president of all Americans, I will hear those voices of dissent and discontent and offer them hope for a better world.

	This is what I offer--not four more years of doubt and drift and indifference, but a determination to call America home to the old values of brotherhood and personal dignity, neighborhood and nationhood.

	Almost every country in the world is a country because its people share a common culture. They speak the same language, read the same poetry, and dance to the same music. Their roots are in one land.

	America is different. America is a land of diversity discovered by an Italian commissioned by the queen of Spain. Our independence was won by men named Kosciuszko, Von Steuben, and Lafayette, as well as Jefferson, Adams, and Paine. Our land has been tilled, our factories have been worked, and our cities have been served by the Poles, the Germans, the Scandinavians, the Greeks, the East Europeans, and all the others. Chinese Americans built the transcontinental railroad from the West, and at Promontory Point in Utah they met Irish-Americans who were building it from the East. Our culture has been diversified and enriched by the American Indians, the Black Americans, and the Spanish-surnamed Americans. Every language that is heard in the world today has been heard within our borders. Every religious creed finds its free expression here.

	We are a country founded not on a common culture, but on common ideals. There is perhaps no other place on this planet that is a country solely because of a set of ideas. And if we lose that, we will be just a collection of people going our different ways.

	In short, if I win this election, I would like to be remembered most of all for restoring the presidency to a moral leadership worthy of a great people. Moral leadership does not tell people something they do not know; it asks them to look into their own souls for the truth that is already there.

	No president can give an individual the fulfillment he must find for himself. But a president can lift the vision of the nation; he can honor its enduring values of family, moral integrity, and the essential worth of every human being.

	He can fight to feed the hungry, employ the jobless, to cure the addicted, to house the homeless, to cease the monotony and drudgery of the factory, to strengthen independent business and family agriculture against the concentration of corporate power, so that people will be able to truly seek what is deepest in their hearts.

	He can, he must, and as president, I will summon America back to a sense of shared purpose and great enterprise.

	Just as thirty years ago Rosie the Riveter was convinced that she was helping to win World War II--and she was right--all of us, whether we are professors or policemen, bricklayers or business executives, whatever we are, must be helped by our leaders to see how our efforts can help make America hope once again. 

	We need to believe that our work as individuals has worth and dignity-- that it is not just aimless, daily drudgery, but an indispensable contribution to a better land and life for ourselves and our children.

	You will not always agree with a president who exercises tough moral leadership. The voters of South Dakota did not agree with me when I first spoke out against the Vietnam war nine years ago.

	Yet I believe that Americans want a president who will tell them the hard truths as well as the easy ones--who will appeal not just to our selfish interests, but to what Lincoln called "the better angels of our nature."

	Deep down, we all understand that racial injustice is wrong--and that we must right the injustice of ignoring it if we want America to truly be America again.

	Deep down, we do not want to be a vindictive and mean-spirited people-- and after peace brings all our sons home from Indochina, our generosity of spirit must not only care more generously for those who have borne the battle, but also reach out to repatriate others among our sons who in conscience could not fight this war.

	A month from now, you will choose the next president of the United States. I think I know how you will decide.

	I am behind in the polls, as I was in the spring. I am short of money, as I was in the spring. But I believe we will win in the fall, as we did in the spring.

	I believe this because I have been out in the country, campaigning among the people. I have traveled this land for twenty months, in quest of the presidency and in search of a vision for America.

	I have looked into the eyes of people from Maine to California. I have listened to them and tried to sense what is in their hearts.

	And this is what I have learned. The people are not left, or right, or center. Rather, they seek a way out of the wilderness.

	They want those who seek their trust to trust them, so they can find their own way.

	They want an open government and open politics.

	They want to cherish this country, to take pride in what it does, to honor what it represents.

	They want a leadership that asks the best of us, so we can glow with a new love for America--and America can lift a new light to all the world.

	That is what I have seen among you.

	That is why I am confident that we will win not only a victory in November, but a rebirth for our nation in the years ahead.

	Then our children and their children after them will love America not merely because they were born here--but because of the great and good and proud land that you and I together have made it.

	Thank you, and God bless you.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESOPEN GOVERNMENTRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     Œ? ö? î? ê? à?
 |? w? r? i? a? _? 0? &?	 ò 	 z 	 ` 	 C 	 - 	  e: