Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0919.004SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/19STUMPSIOUX FALLSSOUTH DAKOTASDSIOUX FALLS COLISEUM5,234 WORDS

	Thank you very much dear friend, Senator McGovern.  I would not have asked this wonderful audience to expend their applause, but I am afraid we're maybe paying for television time, and I just didn't want to see it go to waste.

	Thank you my dear friends for your wonderful reception!  First, may I pay my respects to Chairman Ed Smith, to all the officers here of the Western States Power-Water and Power Consumers Conference, many of my good friends that have come from Washington, the Assistant Secretary Ken Holm, my friend Bob Partridge and others, of course Senator Burdick of North Dakota.  We always like to have somebody from North Dakota come down and see us in South Dakota, and it is a privilege for them. 

	And it is a privilege for us.  I want to join with Senator McGovern tonight in congratulating Ben Strong in getting that fine award.  He surely deserved it.  But the gentleman that received the distinguished service award here this evening is the man I should like to pay my respects to for just a moment.  He has been kind enough, and Mr. Smith has been kind enough, to mention Bob Chamberlain, the Democratic candidate for governor, and Frank Denholm, our candidate here for Congress.  These are two wonderful gentlemen.  They honor your state, they honor this party, they honor you by their willingness to seek public office, and I hope and pray that they may be honored by the majority of this State.  The man that means so much to me and so much to you has just introduced me.  I've got a deep respect for this country.  To pay my respects to George McGovern, I know of no man, no man, that has served more faithfully the people that he has been called upon to represent.  I know of no man that is more faithful to the people of the Plains, to the people of agriculture, the small businessmen, the laboring men, the school child, the families of this country.  I know of no man who truly and deeply in his heart has the cause of peace, personal peace, and international peace more sincerely held than George McGovern, and I want to call upon the people of this state: no matter that you do for any of the rest of us, I want you to see that the United States Senate is privileged to have him back here again for another term. 

	Quite frankly, I haven't the slightest doubt that is what's going to happen. I have looked over the polls out here and I want to say right now, just to correct the record, I have got more relatives out here than they gave me credit for in that poll.  Of course, I might just as well admit some of them are politically unreliable.  I intend to shape them up before too long. But in the meantime, in the meantime, do what I suggested.  Do what you ought to do; re-elect--elect--send back to the greatest liberty body in the world, the United States Senate, a man of conscience, a man of conviction, a man of courage, and your man and my man, George McGovern. 

	Senator McGovern has mentioned my visit today in Boston.  It was a wonderful, beautiful day, and we had thousands and thousands and thousands of people on an intersection as far back as a block each way--four ways; a mass of humanity, good people.  A few that decided that they had a monopoly on what was right or maybe what was wrong, I am sure. But let me join with Senator McGovern tonight and say just this:  that our freedoms are too precious to be abused by anyone, or to be misused.  Freedom of speech is too precious to be denied by government, or by a mob, or by an angry shouting clack and, freedom of assembly is too precious to ever be denied or abridged by a government or by a mob, or any group of people that feel that they have to break up that freedom, freedom of vote.  To vote is too precious to ever be denied by government or by a mob or anyone else.  My fellow Americans, it's time to blow the whistle on those who would deny the American people a chance to reason together, a chance to think things out. There isn't a problem that this country has that will be settled in anger, in bitterness, in shouting, and there isn't a problem that this country has that can be handled or solved in violence, personal violence, international violence or violence against one another or violence on the streets.  I want this fine group of Americans to know that if I am permitted to be the president of the United States, I shall mobilize every resource of the country for the protection of our Democratic rights and, I will never tolerate violence in any form, wherever I can stamp it out or put it out.  

	But I grew up out here and I'm proud of it.  I've had a few people say possibly, this dulls your vision, I don't think so.  I think the clean, fresh air of the plains gives you a better vision than the smog of some other places--and it's a special honor to speak here in this Western State Conference.

	Eight years ago a young senator from Massachusetts addressed you at another conference, at another time of great decision, and how well you remember it.  And looking back over the fifties, the 1950s, when the "no new starts" was a public policy on resource development, when Mr. Krushchev said that he would bury us economically--I think you remember those days--John Kennedy said these words, "I hope that in the United States in the 1960s no slogan is ever put forward which says 'no new starts', no movement forward, let us stand still".

	Ladies and gentlemen:  Whenever this country gets to a point where we say we're unwilling to start something new, that we're unwilling to move forward, that we ought to stand still, or when any candidate says that, we're in trouble; this is a forward-looking country, this is a nation of tomorrow, not of yesterday, and we need leadership in this country at every level, White House, state house, court house, Congress, legislature; wherever it is that has an appreciation of the strength of this nation, and under that we must move forward, and John Kennedy got this country moving.  We have kept it moving and let me tell you how well it's moved.  Four hundred and seventy-eight "new starts" since 1961 in watershed projects, thirty-six "new starts" by the Bureau of Reclamation; and "new starts" on four hundred and ninety-four dams and other structures by the Corps of Engineers. We said we would get this country moving, we said we wouldn't tolerate this false doctrine of "no new starts" and we kept our word.  And believe me, let me tell you, promises made will be promises kept if I am permitted to serve as your president. 

	We did a little something else too.  I know the things haven't been too good and I am the last man in the world to come out here and say you never had it so good because I know better.  I want to tell you something:  I can remember when we had worse.  We had moved forward even on farm income.  I can remember that the repair jobs that we had to do after the Nixon-Benson damage of the 1950s.  Net farm income reached a peak with that grand fellow from Independence, Missouri, that great president, Harry Truman. Then it fell three billion dollars in the next year and then back up again three billion dollars since 1960.  It's taken us eight years to repair the damage of eight years.  Now, my fellow Americans, I don't think you ought to play yo-yo economics with American agriculture. Once you got it going up, I think we ought to keep it going up. What are we going to do then from here on out?  Well, we're in another year of great decision, just like when John Kennedy addressed you.  What do we hear?  We find Mr. Nixon down in Iowa claiming to plow a straight row with a corn picker.  Now that's a trick if you can do that.  That's one I want to see.  I will tell you we can put that in the state fair and get rich.  Then he also promised to change the farm program.  I heard that before.  But I think it would be about time you ask him what changes. Would he change the wheat programs and get rid of the certificates or would he repeal it altogether?  What would he do about the feed business program; would he repeal that?  What about the Farmers Home Administration Credit Program, would he change that?  No, I think we ought to find out some answers before we start putting our ballots in the ballot box.  What about REA?  He was against it all the years when he served in Congress.  Now, I know there are some people that say there is a new Nixon, some people say there is an old Nixon.  I don't agree with any of that. What I'm worried about is the real Nixon.  What I am saying to this audience tonight, let's find out.  I'm going to tell you where I stand, and you know where I stand.  Let him speak out.  Are we going to have some more of that Nixon-Agnew-Benson quackery or are we going to have some real medicine put up along the lines of Humphrey, Muskie, and McGovern?  Now, I spent a lifetime of public service fighting for these farm programs, fighting for rural electrification, fighting for rural telephones, fighting for the kind of rural America I'd like to have and I'd like my children to have and my grandchildren to grow up in; and success is now in sight, and I am not, as Adlai Stevenson used to say, going to let another Republic administration snatch defeat from the jaws of victory.  I am just now going to do it.

	My fellow Americans I know that people sometimes feel that we indulge in two much partisanship, but we have political parties and we have platforms and we have programs and it's right for us to come to you and speak to you, it's right for all these candidates to come to you and speak to you.  You know the record of George McGovern and you know when I served in the Senate with him we voted side by side.  You know the record of the man that speaks to you tonight, you know that when the going was tough we were there and you know that when you had few supporters I was there and I know that you had no other supporters.  To the years to come I will be there if you let me be there.

	So tonight I just outlined for you quickly, and I hope meaningfully a ten point program of the next steps and of "new starts"--none of this no-go-go-slow veto stuff, but "new starts" in the revitalization of rural America.  First, this is no time to cut back on the Great Plains Conservation Program.  It is an investment in soil resources that you and I know will be paid in many fold, and funds are needed to restore it, and I will guarantee this audience right now that to restore those funds we will, if you give me the chance--it will be in the budget and we will go to the Congress and if you keep Burdick there from North Dakota, and McGovern from South Dakota, we will have that program on the road.   And let me tell you something else:  let's speed up not slow down, the Garrison Diversion Project and the Oahe Irrigation unit.  Good grief, these are wise investments. I have worked on them all in my public service days, so have these two senators. In fact, you never get a day's peace when you have McGovern and Burdick around.  They want everything. They want to get these things done yesterday; not tomorrow.  And believe me that's when they should have been done and I will guarantee you that we're not going to delay if we get the chance.  You help me and I'll help you and we'll get the job done. 

	While I am talking about ongoing efforts, we know about regional developments; we set up the Regional Development Commission for the Dakotas, Montana, Wyoming and Nebraska.  The authority is there.  I say it's time to get it moving and get on with the work of regional developments.  But let me pass on some good news.  At least the beginning of good news from Norman Clap, the administration of REA.  I have received a most encouraging report on the programs of the loan application from Basin Electric Power and Cooperative for funds to finance additional generation and transmission facilities, and I want to say to this audience that I begin to call it the McGovern and Budick Basin Electric.  I have never seen anything like it.  Senator McGovern and Senator Burdick, they don't even say hello without saying how is the loan application of the Basin Electric Power Cooperative coming along.  The negotiations with the Bureau of Reclamation have been completed and major technical questions, which are difficult, have been resolved and the process of the loan is moving forward promptly.  The administration of REA assures me that the additional facilities are needed, that the Basin proposal is essentially sound, and Mr. Clap has assured me that he will take action on this application at the earliest possible moment and I was on the telephone to make sure that that means as soon as humanly possible, and let me tell you if he doesn't get it done--and he better--I am going to use all of my effort and power to get it done.  If he doesn't get it done when I sit in the White House it will get done.  I want you to know that. But, we're not going to have to wait that long, that's what is most important.  But I want a little safety valve there because Ed Smith is sitting behind me and a few others and I know what they think about this program and so do I.

	Now, comes the second thing, we need to have more and plenty of electricity for the modernization of rural America.  The electrical program of the 1930s was for the 30s.  What we need now is an electrical program for the 1970s.  We need to think about using the REA as the front line and the lead agency in this country for rural development because our REA's in particular have that unique ability in management and finance of technical experts that can be used to develop rural America.  This means jobs, this means industrial growth, it means our ability to extend the migration into the cities.  We'll depend on it.  You know, one of the problems in the cities today is due to the problem in rural America.  The way you stop a flood is not to build a higher dike downstream; the way to stop a flood is to get up and do something about the water shed upstream, and the way to stop the urban crisis is to do something to make modern rural America better; to make it a place where young people want to live, to make it a place where the next hundred million Americans can come to live and live a good life and that's what we intend to. 

	Let me just say a little more about this electrical energy development:  what I am talking about is area coverage without exception and it means better and better facilities for cooling power and a full exploitation of atomic energy in addition to more federal multipurpose developments.  I think it' now time to consider the construction of more federal transmission line to make various regions and federal power projects together.  Customers of private electrical systems, the municipal, the public power districts and cooperative, this is an investment in what Senator McGovern said is a better America.  What better thing can you do for this world than to fulfill what Abraham Lincoln once said to this nation by making it a better America.  He said, this is the last best hope of Earth and he was a prophet in his time and he was right so let's make this last best hope on Earth better and better and better.  And what we're talking about in this conference is just to make America better--not somebody particularly richer, no special interest--but to make America, every American just a little better.   Then there is this matter of what your friends in the power industry know, REA and public power and private power people know, is territorial integrity that should be a hard and fast rule.  As for nuclear power developed with public funds, its benefits must be available to all sectors in the power industry.  In atomic energy as in all other public power generations, we must preserve the preference clause for municipalities and cooperatives and that will be the policy of the Humphrey-Muskie administration, no doubt about it.   It is in the best interest of all of the consumers that every electrical utility, large and small, public and private, participate directly on a fair and reasonable nondistributory basis in the ownership, the output and the operation of a nuclear power plant.  A great new source of energy.

	Now, thirdly, I think it's time to bring agriculture into the mainstream of American economy.  In fact, we're about fifty years late. Not a generation from now, not a decade from now, but in the next four years.  I have been fighting for this all my life and now I have my chance, and you have your chance, ladies and gentlemen, that at least you have a man standing for the office of president that comes for you, that is one of you, that has lived with you, worked with you, fought with you, suffered with you, was defeated with you, and enjoyed victory with you.  Let's not miss this opportunity to do what you and I have been wanting to do all of our lives.  Let's get this job done.  I want to serve you and I think I will.  And I know that you don't plow a straight furrow with a corn picker.  I also know that agriculture is America's largest single industry.  I know it supports more families than any others.  I know it is basically the viability and indeed the vitality of the small towns and cities that dot most of America.  I wish the candidates of the towns of America as they are in seeing that we have more jails, more penitentiaries, and more policemen.  I am for law enforcement; I am for law and order; but I would like to have a little law and order and law enforcement along with a little prosperity, if you don't mind.  I think it would help. 

	Our farmers are the keystones of America's economic strength and I know it, and you know it, and food will be the source of enormous export earnings through the 1970s and 1980s.  But I also know that agriculture is still the weakest point in our free enterprise system.  What ails it?  Well it's hard to know; we know the problems include low farm prices--that is where you start and inadequate income.  We know the problem is also high interest rates and a farm credit shortage.  We know it's also increasing production costs literally squeezing the profits out of the farm.  We know all of these things. We can do something about every one of them.  I have had people say, "Well, when are you going to speak out, Mr. Vice President?"  Well, let me tell you I am speaking out tonight.  I have talked about a new day in this country, but I want you to know there is going to be a new and better day for the farm family of America and the rural America when I become your president because I have been born and brought up here and I know what rural America needs.  Our farm people are not going to sit in the back row; they're going to be up front; you wait and see.  I can tell my friend, Tony DeShan sitting over here if things work out as I hope they will you will be sitting as close to the inaugural stand of the president of the United States as you're sitting to a candidate right now.   But, Tony, if they don't, don't make the trip.

	Now, point four in my program for revitalization of rural America is this:  people with a specific knowledge and background with agriculture must be permanently located at critical points throughout the government.  Now, some of us know there is no use of having folks in the bleachers, they don't win the games, they don't call the plays, you have to have them down with the team.  And where are those points of decision that affect American agriculture.  Well, in the Tariff Commission, which deals with quotes and imports and other farm trade problems.  The Council of Economic Advisors, which advise the president on taxes and balance of payments and other policy questions.  The Bureau of Budget, where the spending guidelines are established and you need somebody there on the Federal Reserve Board, where the interest rates are established, in the Department of Transportation, that has a great deal to do about how you're going to get your goods to market; and in the National Domestic Policy Council that I intend to establish when I become your president to coordinate all of these civilian domestic peacetime programs.  If I am elected, farm people will not be there, not as guests, not as onlookers, but they will be there making sure that the agriculture gets the attention it deserves and gets it everyday; that's the only way to have it. 

	Now, fifthly, I want to recommend a sizeable increase to the Farmers Home Administration--lending to ease farm credit.  You know we need that.  I shall always continue to urge passage of legislation to enable young farmers to finance land of periods up to forty years.

	Six, we must reform the federal tax structure to remove artificial incentive for the movement of nonfarmers into agriculture as a tax haven.  In fact, that whole tax structure needs renovation and it will get it, make no mistake about it.  I will be back to talk to you about it.  I think I know a little bit about it.  I fought this tax structure once before.  These investors that I speak of now unfair tax bylaws that have the advantage over the independent farmer.  It's not right, it's wrong.  If it's wrong we ought to get rid of it, and I pledge to you I will get rid of it. 

	Seven, we need our basic farm programs; we need the improvements made permanent.  I noticed today the Conference Committee, Senator McGovern, just agreed on a one-year extension.  What a pity, what a pity!  Mr. Nixon said he would go for a one-year extension, what a pity.  I know what that means; that means we've got to start our fight for agriculture all over again next year.  We have got to go through the same routine we had before, and some of you remember we passed the bill three times before we could get it through both Houses.  Ladies and gentlemen, you have got a fight on your hands.  This isn't my fight, let me tell you dear friends:  it isn't so terribly important that I become your president except that I represent your fight.  And when people attack these programs that we're talking about, they're not attacking me, they're attacking you. We're in this battle together, and mark my words, if we lose this election, Edward Taft Benson will look like a social worker compared to what you will get. Boy!  What a social worker he was.  He did more to advance the cause of poverty than any single man and we have had a war on it ever since. 

	I can still see those scenes:  the Republican nominee for president now walking arm in arm coming into the joint meeting of the Congress with that stalwart defender of backward movement and rural poverty, Edward Taft Benson. Well, my dear friends, now you listen to these names.  If you think you're going to get any comfort you know the record as well as I do, you know it better, if you think you're going to get any comfort out of Nixon-Agnew and Benson, then you have been drinking something that I haven't. 

	Eight, we need strategic reserves, major farm commodities, and I favor a program that keeps these reserves and common sense on a clearly defined level and one that specifies how and when they can be released so they do not interfere with the market. If I am permitted to be your president, we're not going to let something happen like has happened.  When the price of corn dropped a little or when another price got up a little, somebody dumped something in the market.  Not on your life!  The farmer is entitled, since he has to take a lot of bumps, he's entitled occasionally to get to the sky once in a while to see what it looks like around there.  And I believe we should let that market--I believe we should let that market rise.  Let me lay it on the line again and we're here in the view of the whole nation; there isn't any reason at all why the American farmer has to subsidize the rest of the nation, it's time for the American farmer to get his fair share of the great rewards of this economy and it's a pity that he hasn't had it. He's not going to get it unless we get point number nine.

	He needs stronger farm cooperatives, farmers continue to face serious price problems, both in buying products, items and marketing the commodities we have and expand the credit for all farm cooperatives, including rural electrics.  I want you to know that I understand the necessity of supplemental financing.  I have already addressed myself to the REA people on this and I also understand the necessity of having an REA administration that appreciates that this is 1970, not 1940, and that we have things to do.  So we need to build our farm cooperatives and you can't build them out of promises; you build them out of credit and you build them out of an administration if you please, that will protect them and defend them.  I remember what we had in the 50s; I remember when they wanted to tax you out of existence.  I remember and I hope you do and may I say to the mothers and fathers: if your children haven't been told about it, you better tell them if they're going to live on a farm because if they get an administration that is unfriendly to the farm cooperative, you haven't got a prayer and you know it. 

	And then my final point:  our farmers will never have and, I repeat, never had true parity of income and full control over their economic destinies until they have what the rest of this economy has, what business has, and what laborers have and what everyone has, from a schoolteacher, to a doctor, to a dentist, to a lawyer, or a working man--until they have the right to bargain in the market place for a better price.   They want this right and they shall have it, that's if you get somebody that is willing to support it.  Farm programs provide only a floor of support, no one will ever get rich off a farm program.  That's a minimum; they are not the total answer.  They never intended to be.  I believe, however, that organized farm bargaining, strengthening our cooperatives, adequate credit does hold the answer to full parity of income of our farmers and I shall do everything if I am the president of the United States; everything in my power to see that they have the right to bargain, and effectively, so that they can do something about their income and their prices.  

	Finally, my friends, America today does have the resources guarantee our citizens rural and urban full and equal social opportunity.  There was a time that we talked only of social security.  That's not good enough anymore.  Dear friends, now we must have opportunity and not just for some, but for everybody.  It's the time that we're going to decide whether your citizens become more impacted; whether our slums grow worse or start to disappear; whether we put enough resources into the hands of our local police to enable them to do the job we want them to do, whether we ask them to fight crime against slogans and opportunities seeking hatred and vengeance.  Yes, America has the resources if it has the will; if it has the leadership, I know we have the know how.  And when peace comes in Vietnam and  it will come, and my dear friends, it is no secret to you   It is no secret to you that my life has been one that has been dedicated to the works of peace, the Peace Corps, the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, Food for Peace, The Disarmament Agency, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, these are the hallmarks of a career.  Ladies and gentlemen:  I took as a top item on my agenda when I become your president on January 20, 1969; I put it at the top of the list to find a way to end this war and to make this country once again united. 

	Thank you.  Thank you very much, my friends, you have given me your answer.  I have given you my commitment.  I know that the days ahead are difficult, I am fully aware of the problems that we face, I am very aware of the difficulties of this campaign, but I say to you tonight that whatever we will do, we can do; there has never been anything that we couldn't do if we had our minds to the task.  Some people have said that doing the impossible is impossible.  I say to you that doing what some people think is impossible, is what makes you great.  I think there is a basic goodness of this country, and I think there is a basic greatness.  That goodness will come to the forefront when a leader calls it and that greatness will come to the forefront when a leader asks for it and ladies and gentlemen, tonight I ask you to join me in the revival of the goodness of the nation, and I ask you to join in the rebirth of the greatness of this nation and together we can get the job done.  Thank you.

AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESBANKING/LOANS/CREDITNUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSRECLAMATION PROJECTSRURAL DEVELOPMENTAGRICULTURE--GENERALELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCES     5q q ûp ÷p ïp
 ãp Þp Ùp Îp Âp Àp ¬p ¡p	 		 ð 	 Ç 	 § 	 “ 	 r 	 ] 	 I  8  $ e: