Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0828.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)08/28STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYNY STATE DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION EQUAL RIGHTS SPEECH2,664 WORDS

	Lest you think I entertain any ill feeling, let me say at the outset that I have forgiven my friend Averell Harriman and the New York delegates to the National Convention for what they did to me there!

	It is with great pride that I come among you this evening as the nominee of the Democratic party. I must add that I also come here with some trepidation, because even in Chicago we have to admit that New York is important--at least on election day!

	I am a Democrat by inheritance--but I am also a Democrat by conviction. I believe in the progressive policies of the Democratic party. I believe that they are the best policies for our country to follow, and I believe the people think so, too, and that the Democratic party will win again in November. And I expect to win running like a singed cat. The singeing hasn't been very painful so far.

	There is one face I miss here this evening--your great senator and my honored friend, Herbert Lehman. But I don't begrudge him one minute of his well-earned holiday in Europe. And I doubt if he begrudges me one minute of my campaign in the United States! For many years Senator Lehman has been one of the best and purest influences in our public life. And today he exerts in the Senate a moral authority and leadership comparable to that provided twenty years ago by George Norris.

	We have a good time ahead of us this autumn. We have a good platform. A group of honest men got together in Chicago and made an honest attempt to grapple with the great problems of our day. They came out with good answers. I stand on that platform. And I don't feel the need--so understandably felt by my distinguished opponent--of having my campaign manager say that I will write my own platform.

	We have a great vice presidential candidate. I hope you in New York will soon get to know him better. To me he is somehow the physical embodiment of the social and economic progress of the past two great decades of Democratic leadership.

	John Sparkman was the son of a tenant farmer. He worked his way up from rural poverty to win an education, a law degree, and an outstanding position as a legislator. But John Sparkman has never forgotten his beginnings. It has been his ambition in life to make more freely available to other poor boys and girls the opportunities which only stubborn determination could win for himself.

	He is a leading representative of the new liberalism which is changing the face and the folkways of the South. He has been the devoted champion of legislation promoting farm ownership, better housing, social security, the TVA, rural electrification, soil conservation, and crop insurance. None know the problems of the small businessman better than he, and his intimate knowledge of the revolutionary convulsions that torment our world has been accentuated by service on the United States Delegation to the United Nations Assembly. He has enlisted for life in the struggle to improve the economic lot and the security of all our people. I am very proud to have John Sparkman as my running mate. And I hope I can keep up with him.

	We have, in addition, a presidential candidate. Perhaps the less said about him the better. You know what we have done and tried to do in Illinois. I propose to outline in the next few weeks what I should like to do in the nation. Let me say now that I shall do my best to conserve our gains and to carry forward the great Democratic tradition of government in the service of all the people, the tradition of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman.

	The Republicans have been talking of late as if I was ashamed of the accomplishments in war and peace of the past twenty years which they, by some miraculous agility, both embrace and condemn at the same time. I have been tempted to say that I was proud to stand on that record, if only the general would move over and make room for me!

	But it is not enough, it seems to me, just to stand on the successes of the past. The people know what has been done, and now they want to know what will be done. A party cannot live on laurel leaves. We remember what happened to Lot's wife. And the people whom we seek to govern, though prosperous and well, are sorely taxed and troubled by war and threats of war.

	The transcendent problem before us and the great unfinished business of our generation is peace in the world. There is only one way to work for peace. It is not an easy way. There is no substitute for the long, complex and patient processes of building strength and unity in the free world--political strength, economic strength, military strength and moral strength--the strength of a common faith that nations can be free and people can stand erect and unafraid.

	I am disturbed by some of the Republican contributions to the foreign policy debate. A Republican foreign-policy expert said the other day that the Democratic party was interested only in Europe and regarded all other nations as "second-class expendables." This kind of statement is not simply absurd; it is also irresponsible and dangerous. And I hope that such excessive partisanship does not do irreparable damage to our country. Of course, we are interested in Europe. But if this country, and I mean Democrats and Republicans alike, stands for anything it stands for freedom and against the expansion of Communist dominion anywhere in the world. Does Mr. Dulles think that President Truman by his prompt and courageous decision of June 27, 1950, treated Korea like "a second-class expendable?" If he does not think so, he would serve his party and his country and our friends in Asia better by more candor and less claptrap.

	I hope that the Republican leaders will permit us to discuss our somber foreign problems on the plane where they belong--not on the plane of demagoguery, but on the plane of serious, factual discussion, and in terms of alternatives that are real, rather than epithets that are false.

	And we could well apply the same rule to the problems here at home. One of these I want to mention here tonight is civil rights. The phrase civil rights means a number of concrete things. It means the right to be treated equally before the law. It means the right to equal opportunity for education, employment and decent living conditions. It means that none of these rights shall be denied because of race or color or creed. The history of freedom in our country has been the history of knocking down the barriers to equal rights. One after another they have fallen, and great names in our history record their collapse: the Virginia Statute of Religious Freedom, the Bill of Rights, the Emancipation Proclamation, the Woman's Suffrage Amendment, down to the 1947
Report of the President's Commission on Civil Rights.

	The record of our progress is a proud one, but it is far from over. Brave and important tasks remain. We cannot rest until we honor in fact, as well as word, the plain language of the Declaration of Independence.

	This is our goal. It requires far more than action by government. Laws are never as effective as habits. The fight for equal rights must go on every day in our own souls and consciences, in our schools and our churches and our homes, in our factories and our offices--as well as in our city councils, our state legislatures and our national Congress. In this discussion, of all discussions, let us not be self-righteous. Let us work for results, not just empty political advantage. We are dealing here with fundamental human rights, not just votes.

	This is a job for the East, the North and the West, as well as for the South. I know. I have been a governor of a great northern state. I have had to stop outrages committed against peaceful and law-abiding minorities. I have twice proposed to my legislature a law setting up in our state an enforceable fair employment practices commission. I am proud to say that the Democrats in our legislature voted almost solidly for the bill. But I must report in simple truth that the bill was lost in Springfield, Illinois, because of virtually solid opposition from the party which claims descent from Abraham Lincoln. All the same, gratifying progress has been made in Illinois toward the elimination of job discrimination by the initiative of business itself. And I would be less than fair if I didn't acknowledge it gratefully.

	In saying this is not a sectional problem, I do not mean to say that there is no particular problem in the South. Of course there is a problem in the South. In many respects, the problem is more serious there than elsewhere. But, just as it is chastening to realize our own failures and shortcomings in the North, so it is both just and hopeful to recognize and admit the great progress in the South. Things are taking place in the South today that would have seemed impossible only a few years ago. In the last two years alone ten state universities have admitted Negro students for the first time to their graduate and professional schools. And that is only one of many examples that could be cited of the wonders that are working in the South.

	We can agree that the problem is nationwide; we can agree that good progress has been made; but I think we can also agree that unremitting effort is the cause of most of that progress, and that unremitting effort is the way to assure more progress in the future. Part of that effort must be legislative. The Democratic platform of 1952 states the goals of federal legislation.

	I have often affirmed my belief in strong state and local administration. I believe--with your own great governors, Al Smith and Franklin Roosevelt and Herbert Lehman--that affirmative state government can rise to meet many pressing social problems, and can thereby arrest the trend toward over-centralized federal power. In Illinois I have worked to make the state government responsive to the needs of the people so that it would not be necessary for them to turn to Washington for help. I like to think that people are becoming more and more conscious of the role of the states in the federal system; more and more conscious that we will save more money by doing the jobs at home than by screaming about waste and extravagance in Washington.

	In the case of equal opportunity for employment, I believe that it is not alone the duty but the enlightened interest of each state to develop its own positive employment practices program--a program adapted to local conditions, emphasizing education and conciliation, and providing for judicial enforcement. That is the kind of law I proposed in Illinois.

	I think the time has come to talk sensibly about how we can make more rapid progress in this field rather than how we can make more votes. I think, indeed I know, that there are leaders in the South who are just as anxious as we are to move ahead. But we must frankly recognize their local difficulties. We must recognize, too, that further government interference with free men, free markets, free ideas, is distasteful to many people of good will who dislike racial discrimination as much as we do.

	This is not the time to discuss all these familiar obstacles. Let me only say that in a spirit of give and take, of tolerance and understanding, we can clean up this fire hazard in our basement faster and more effectively.

	But our platform also favors federal legislation--particularly, I assume, when states fail to act and inequalities of treatment persist. The problem, of course, is what kind of legislation.

	Personally, I have been much impressed by a bill recently reported favorably by the Senate Labor Committee. Only three members opposed it, one of whom was Senator Richard Nixon. Both your New York senators joined in sponsoring the bill.

	It creates a federal commission and encourages it to stay out of any state with an effective commission; by the same token, however, it encourages the states to act because, if they do not, the national government has the power to do so. The bill requires the federal commission to undertake a nonpartisan and nationwide educational program, to proceed by persuasion as far as possible, and, in cases of complaints of violation, to proceed by very careful deliberation and full and fair hearings. Enforcement would be by order of a court, not an administrative body.

	You know as well as I do that we have reached a sort of legislative stalemate in this field in the Congress. In so far as this is due to real legitimate objections to the substance of the legislation, I think this Senate bill goes a very long way toward meeting such objections. It may be that it can be improved still further, especially in the direction of giving the states a reasonable time in which to act.

	Insofar as the present stalemate is due to misuse of the processes of deliberation and debate in Congress, the problem is somewhat different.

	I believe firmly in the principle stated in our platform--the principle that majority rule shall prevail, after reasonable debate, in both houses of our Congress. And from my experience, with the practical workings of representative government, I would interpret "reasonable" very liberally, because majorities can be tyrannical too.

	This principle of majority rule is important in a much broader area than that of civil rights--it is of vital importance, for example, in the field of foreign policy. One of the most famous of all filibusters occurred in 1917 in the debate over President Wilson's proposal to arm merchant ships for the protection of American lives and property against power-mad aggression. It is not inconceivable that a similar situation might occur today or tomorrow in the delicate state of our foreign relations. In these perilous times we cannot risk submerging our national purposes in a sea of interminable conversation.

	The precise nature of the changes that should be made in the present rules of Congress, is, of course, a problem for the Congress itself, for each house, under our Constitution, makes its own rules for doing business. As president I could not make the decision, but I could and would use whatever influence I may have to encourage the Congress to shake off its shackles.

	I would urge in these fields and in many others that affect national policy that all of us resolve to take a fresh look. There has been too much freezing of positions, too much emotion, too many dogmatic statements of irrevocable attitudes. We are dealing with human situations, with human emotions, with human intelligence; our purpose must be to reason together for the common betterment of us all; our interest must be not in controversy, but in results.

	This has been my attitude, and this will be my attitude. If there are those who disapprove, I will be sorry but not surprised. If there are those who approve, I bespeak their best efforts and pledge them mine, confident that in the long run results will be more eloquent than oratory.

	I have been talking about methods. About goals there can, of course, be no disagreement. We believe in the equality of rights and the equality of opportunity for all Americans. In affirming this belief, the Democratic platform was but the mirror of our own conscience. We must continue this fight until it is won.
CIVIL RIGHTSCONGRESSEMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYEUROPEGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALILLINOISLEGISLATION (NEW)RUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     Ý< ©< £< Ÿ< —<
 Š< …< €< x< p< n< << 1<	 – 	 Š 	 ‚ 	 i 	 X 	 R 	 7 	 / 	  e: