Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0920.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/20STUMPBOWLING GREENKENTUCKYKYTAKING CHARGE OF OUR FUTURE--A HEALTHY AMERICA2279 WORDS

	In just seven weeks, the American people will face a choice between two very different record of accomplishments; between two very different visions of America's future.

	George Bush sees a complacent America.  An America that wants to look backward even as a new century is about to dawn.

	I see an America with new horizons to reach and new frontiers to conquer.  I see an America that's ready to take charge of its future again.

	I want to be the president who will stand up for those who have no special interest lobbyists in Washington and no special influence at the bank.  A president who will stand up for those who want to see this country first again, both militarily and economically; first in exporting products, not exporting jobs; first in new domestic investment, not in new foreign debt; first not in the wealth we provide for some of our citizens but in the quality of the schools and health care and housing we provide for all Americans.

	I want to be the president who fights for the average American--who makes a difference for American families.  Two weeks ago, I presented a plan for opening the door of college opportunity to every young man or woman in this country who is qualified to do college work.  Last week, I proposed an action for waging a real war, not a phony war, on drugs.

	Yesterday in Houston, I talked about our energy future--about the importance of a strong and healthy energy industry.  About eight years of drift and indifference on energy--and the people of Kentucky know how important a national energy policy is to your future and to ours.

	Today, I want to talk about how we can strengthen American families by making America first in the health of our people--and I mean the health of all our people, not just the privileged few.

	John Kennedy once said that "whenever the miracles of modern medicine are beyond the reach of any group of Americans, we must find a way to meet their needs and fulfill their hopes.  For one true measure of a nation is its success in fulfilling the promise of a better life for each of its members.  Let this be the measure of our nation."

	Today, twenty-six years after President Kennedy spoke those words, America has the best medical system in the world; the best medical technology; and the best doctors, nurses, and health care workers.  Our challenge as a nation is to make these wonderful resources available to all our people.

	Today, the United States is one of only two industrialized nations in the world that do not provide basic health security for working families.  The other is South Africa.  I, for one, am not satisfied with that kind of company as the "measure of our nation."  We should aim higher than that.

	Today, 37 million Americans do not have a dime of basic health insurance protection.  Most of them are members of working families and the number is growing.  More than 12 million of them are children.  I, for one, am not satisfied with 40 million uninsured American citizens as the "measure of our nation."  We should aim higher than that.

	 This year, 40,000 American babies will not survive to celebrate their first birthdays.  The United States ranks 19th among the industrial nations of the world in protecting the lives of our young children.  A baby born here in America has less chance of surviving than those in eighteen other countries, including Spain and Singapore.  I, for one, am not satisfied with that shameful level of infant mortality as the "measure of our nation."  We should aim higher than that.

	Today, we face a serious nursing shortage in this country.  The shortage is most severe where the needs are most severe--in our large urban hospitals and in our rural communities.  Today, we need 122,000 more nurses; in just two years, our needs will double again.  I, for one, am not satisfied with this as the "measure of our nation."  We should aim higher than that.

	Like you, I care about the families who are one illness away, one injury away, and one operation away from losing everything they've worked for, everything they've saved for, and everything they've dreamed about.

	And I care about the parents who go to sleep every night not knowing if they will be able to afford medical care for a sick child if he or she gets sicker during the night.

	And where is George Bush?  Today, he is visiting a flag factory.  Mr. Bush, don't you think it's about time you came out from behind that flag and told us what you intend to do to provide basic health care for 37 million of our fellow citizens?

	The fact is that Mr. Bush has no plan, but he does have a record--a record of indifference, a record of neglect, a record that even the American flag can't hide.

	He didn't lift a finger to stop his own administration from cutting Medicare and rural health clinics and prenatal care, and child nutrition and polio vaccinations for young children.  The fact is that, when the time came to stand up for the health needs of America's families, George Bush was nowhere to be found.

	You know, one reason I feel so strongly about health care is because my dad was a doctor.  He served his community and cared for his patients until he was eighty-two years of age.  And he never asked to look at your bank account before he'd look at you.  He believed, as I do, that health care is a right, not a privilege--for every American, not just a privileged few.  And as an immigrant who loved his adopted country and believed in the American Dream, he knew how important good health care is to keeping the American promise.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to keep that promise; we are going to make sure that when Americans get sick, the first question they hear will be the question my father used to ask--the question that doctors and nurses ask every day--not "how can you pay?"  But "where does it hurt?"

	And this is what we intend to do.

	First, we're going to work with the nation's employers to provide a basic level of health insurance to all our working people and their families.

	People like Gary Neely, who was laid off from his job as a spot welder at the Corvette plant here in Bowling Green.  Before he lost that job, he had full medical coverage for himself and his family.  Now, he's working at temporary jobs, without medical coverage, and he can't afford to buy health insurance.

	People like Claudia Johnson, a home health worker in Los Angeles.  She earns $3.72 an hour.  She has no health coverage.  After a recent auto accident, the ambulance driver refused to take her to the hospital because she had no health insurance.

	Families without insurance are more likely to get sick because they've postponed routine medical checkups.  They're more likely to wait until an illness has grown serious--and expensive--before seeking any treatment at all.  And then they're more likely to use publicly subsidized clinics and emergency rooms.

	That's why emergency rooms and clinics are filled to overflowing with uninsured patients.  That's why some hospitals are cutting back or closing down emergency services and outpatient care.  That's why so many rural hospitals are closing their doors.  That's why so many hospitals are raising their rates for patients with insurance to pay the costs for those who don't have insurance and can't pay their own bills.  And that's why responsible employers, who provide insurance for their workers, are paying a lot more than they should for their health insurance coverage to reimburse hospitals for the care they're providing to the uninsured.

	That's not fair.  That's not right.  We can--and must--do better.  And, with your help, we're going to do better, beginning on January 20, 1989.

	Five months ago, I became the first governor in America to sign legislation that will guarantee health insurance for every single citizen in my state.  If we can do it in one state.  We can do it for all Americans.

	The simplest and the fairest and the most affordable first step toward that goal is to require all employers, with some exceptions for small businesses, to provide basic health insurance for their workers and dependents.

	We'll work closely with the small business community to provide them with the same tax benefits that large businesses already get when they provide health insurance to their employees.  And we'll help small businesses to buy health insurance at affordable rates.

	For the vast majority of businesses that do provide health insurance for their employees, it means they'll no longer have to subsidize their competitors who don't provide for their workers.

	For the taxpayers, it means no additional burdens on the federal budget.  In fact, we'll save on Medicaid, Medicare, and other programs that help pay the bills for uninsured patients.

	Second, we're going to challenge every sector of our society--business, labor, government, and the medical professions--to find a way to provide a basic level of medical coverage for those Americans who can't be insured through the workplace.

	Providing working Americans and their families with basic health insurance will go far toward realizing the dream of protecting all Americans--but not far enough.  We'll still need to provide that protection to millions more, particularly the unemployed.

	Immediately after the election, I will appoint a task force with representatives of federal, state and local government, hospitals, health professionals, business, and labor.  Their job will be to report back to me by March 30 with a strategy for extending basic health coverage to every American.

	Third, we're going to make sure that a healthy start on life will be the birthright of every American child.

	40,000 American babies die each year before their first birthday.  Many of these tragedies could have been prevented with early prenatal care.

	Tomorrow, I will announce a plan to make sure that every baby can have a healthy start in life, whether or not his or her parents have health insurance.

	And tomorrow, in Lubbock, Texas, Lloyd Bentsen will be presenting the fourth part of our plan--meeting the health care needs of our rural communities.

	Fifth, we're going to give our senior citizens and their families freedom from the fear that a chronic illness will bankrupt them.

	Today, older Americans, many of whom are barely surviving on fixed incomes, have to spend more and more of their Social Security and pension dollars for health care.  The Vice President and his administration have made their struggle more difficult by trying to cut Social Security and Medicare benefits for seven of the past eight years.  Mr. Bush even cast the deciding vote in the Senate in 1985 to increase out-of-pocket costs for the elderly and disabled under Medicare.  And as if that wasn't enough, his administration illegally deprived the elderly of their home health care payments--until a federal judge blocked them last month.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I will stop that assault on Social Security and Medicare--and we'll stop it cold.

	In fact, thanks to his leadership, we've begun to turn it around.  This year, Congress took a giant step towards relieving the worries of senior citizens when it passed the Catastrophic Health Care Act.  But we won't be satisfied until we have found a way to ease the greatest fear of all:  that our families will be bankrupted or torn apart if our parents or grandparents need care for chronic illnesses.

	In the coming weeks I'll be outlining how we can begin to provide affordable long-term care for our citizens, starting with the home health care legislation proposed by Congressman Pepper.

	My friends, America has always been a nation of proud and hardworking people, who had time for their families and respect for the elderly, who always cared enough, even while building the mightiest industrial nation on earth, to keep an eye out for the neighbor who might be having a tough time.

	Today Americans are working harder than ever.  Trying to meet the challenge of tough foreign competition.  Trying to keep up with the demands of changing technology and the need to learn new skills.  Trying hard to be successful at work, and still find time to meet the responsibilities of their families.

	The working men and women of America aren't looking for a handout.  But they are looking for leaders who will work as hard as they do; who will aim as high as they do; who care as much as they do about whether our children go to college; whether our sick are cared for; and whether our country is moving forward to recapture its proper place as the most powerful economic force on this planet.

	George Bush has one view of America.  I have another.  I believe that America is one nation.  One people.  One community.

	I believe there are no limits to what we Americans can do, when we work together.

	I believe that to be our best, we must bring out the best in every citizen, and that we cannot rest until all our people are full shareholders in the American dream.

	And I'm confident, as I look ahead to November 8th, that the best America is not behind us; the best America is yet to come.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHHEALTH CARE--PRENATAL/CHILDBIRTHINFANT MORTALITYMEDICARENURSINGSOCIAL SECURITYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCE     y4 E4 ?4 ;4 34
 (4 #4 4 4 	4 4 Ù3 Ï3	 ‡ 	 i 	 I 	 9 	 1 	 *   e: