Speeches\1980\rep\S80R1002.001SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)10/02STUMPPITTSBURGHPENNSYLVANIAPACyclops Steel Mill1447 WORDS
	All across this country I've seen a hope for renewed growth, for progress, and for recovery from a depressing four years of economic stagnation.

	I've found that hope has a home here at Cyclops Steel, too, where specialty steel is being rolled into the products for building a better economic future for our country.

	What you do at Cyclops Steel is something more than making the best steel in the world--you are making a commitment, every single day, to your family and to our country. You have pride not only in what you do, but in who you are--Americans. That's the kind of pride your family passed on to you and you are now passing on to your children. And it's a well-deserved pride fueled by the hope for a better future.

	That hope has been badly damaged these past few years. But the man whose policies have produced much of your economic misery now tries to tell you that he's the one to make your future brighter.

	You heard that old song once before--back in 1976. Candidate Carter made probably more campaign promises than any presidential candidate in history, and when challenged on them, he said simply, "trust me." Well, we trusted him, and now, as president, he's broken probably more promises than any president in U.S. history. Here in Pittsburgh, and statewide, you've suffered the effects of Carter's broken promises as much as anywhere in the country.

	In 1976, Mr. Carter promised never to use unemployment to fight inflation. Yet this year, he did exactly that, in an unsuccessful attempt to end the price spiral. As a result, two million Americans have lost their jobs nationwide. Here in Pittsburgh, the unemployment rate has jumped from 5.1 percent just a year ago to 8.6 percent today.

	In 1976, Mr. Carter promised an inflation rate of 4 percent. Today, it's three times that great. And in Pittsburgh, the consumer price index is increasing at a 15 percent annual rate.

	In 1977, he promised to dramatically increase coal production. But over the past four years, U.S. coal output has increased at an average of only about 5 percent per year. In East Pennsylvania, where I visited yesterday, the coal industry still hasn't recovered from this administration's consistent overregulation of energy production.

	The record is clear: this administration does not keep its promises. Yet in the last month, you've heard a whole new series of promises. Just two days ago, Mr. Carter finally realized there's a steel industry in this country, and that it's in deep trouble, battered by inflation at home and foreign imports from abroad.

	To show that he hasn't forgotten that steelworkers vote, he had a special set of promises just for you. Here's what he said: we'll--quote--"modernize our industrial capacity, advance our technology, create new jobs and skills, rebuild our transportation system, reduce our energy dependence, and regain our competitive edge--all at the same time."

	That's quite a list, and I'm sure we all agree with it, but have just one question: if he now thinks we need to do all these things, why didn't he start doing them four years ago? Does he want us to believe someone else has been in charge these last four years?

	He waited until twenty-two days ago to start talking about steel, when he visited New Jersey to commemorate the opening of a non-union steel plant in Perth Amboy. Let's hope we also have a few new union steel plants in the years ahead.

	Then on Tuesday, Mr. Carter made his second political gesture to steelworkers by unveiling a steel plan which is more than a little like a steel recovery proposal I made on September 16th. Now I know imitation is the sincerest form of flattery and I don't mind his borrowing my proposal if it will help the steel industry. But I have an uneasy feeling he might not have done anything if I hadn't raised the issue. Well, all right, let's see if we can get him to do more.

	I believe the answer to our steel problems lie in the minds and hearts and skills and energies of the people who make steel. Americans make the best steel in the world, and I think it's time we allowed our steel industry to be competitive, to grow, and to show the world the high-quality steel it can make.

	We first need to encourage investment in the steel industry by accelerating depreciation schedules. American companies are placed at a disadvantage because they have to wait twelve years to write off their investments, while in some countries, investments can be written off in as little as one or two years. Only if we accelerate our depreciation schedules can we allow American steel companies to accumulate the money they need to invest, and become more competitive in world markets. They need to combat the overregulation of American industry. The steel industry is governed by more than 5,000 regulations. And that's a regulatory load that needs to be reduced.

	Now no one quarrels with the goal of protecting the environment. But we must also protect our economic environment, which allows our people to enjoy the natural beauty around them. We should not implement policies and timetables which force steel mills to close down because the plants can no longer operate economically. We must strike a reasonable balance between the need for jobs and the need to protect the environment.

	Third, we need to enforce the laws which prohibit foreign governments from dumping subsidized goods in America. Subsidized foreign imports reduce American sales and profits, and make it even harder for companies to raise the money they need to invest.

	To better enforce these laws I favor reinstating the Trigger Price Mechanism for steel. As we restore this protection against subsidized foreign imports, we must act vigorously to negotiate reductions in foreign subsidies and trade barriers whenever possible.

	For a generation, steelworkers and steel companies have been the scapegoats for government-caused inflation. Those in Washington attack the steel industry to show the public how they want to hold down prices.

	But the steel industry is not to blame. Unless it is allowed to earn a reasonable profit on its investments and sales, it will be unable to generate the funds necessary to modernize and become more competitive. Without this investment, American steelworkers' jobs will remain in jeopardy, and American mills will continue to close.

	These are the steps I believe we need to take to revitalize the steel industry. I'm glad Mr. Carter repeated these ideas on Tuesday.

	But there is a significant difference between Mr. Carter's exercise in follow-the-leader politics and the plan I presented. I have long believed in the goals I announced two weeks ago: the prevention of dumping, increased investment, and balanced environmental protection. For Mr. Carter to adopt them now, however, amounts to not only his running away from his own record, but literally running against it.

	Last April, he thought so little of the Trigger Price Mechanism, he suspended it. Now, with the election only five weeks away, he wants it reinstated.

	For almost the entire year, he has vigorously opposed tax [missing text] causing political troubles in key electoral states, he wants accelerated depreciation.

	Since 1977, his administration has ignored the problems overly strict compliance schedules have caused the steel industry. Now, with American steel's competitiveness falling dangerously low in an election year, he wants to stretch out compliance times.

	It's a complete turnabout, a move, I suspect, designed more to provide political recovery for the Carter campaign than economic recovery for the steel industry. And America's labor union members--especially steelworkers--should ask themselves: Can you really believe it?

	This administration's policies have, for three and one-half years, crippled the steel industry. Now, with the election nearing, they've had a change of heart. But if Mr. Carter is reelected, will steelworkers find the promises of September forgotten in December? I don't believe we are being too cynical in view of the record when we ask that question.

	This year, I think Mr. Carter's going to be surprised that his promises aren't accepted at face value anymore. That some see them as an effort to win votes with election year conversions.

	We need to make American steel more competitive in world markets. We need to reduce the 13 percent unemployment steelworkers now face. And we need to get the economy moving again, so there will be an increased demand for American steel.

	Beginning next January 20th, with your support, we will start achieving these goals.

	I am convinced we can do these things, and with your help, we will.
COAL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMINFLATIONINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESREGULATION/DEREGULATIONUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALSTEEL INDUSTRY     9# # ÿ" û" ñ"
 ç" â" Ý" Ó" Ç" Å" ³" ©"	 ¹ 	 ¢ 	 Š 	 ] 	 T 	 : 	 #   e: