Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0917.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/17STUMPROCHESTERNEW YORKNYPAGE AIRWAYS2,619 WORDS

	VOICE:  Ladies and gentlemen, a very popular mayor of the city of Rochester, Frank Lamb, will introduce our guest for the day.

	MAYOR LAMB:  Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that many of you couldn't see that we gave our two-and-a-half-month-old burro as a token to the vice president and he is going to take it to his farm in Waverly.

	Now, I am very pleased to present to you, the vice president and the next president of the United States, the honorable Hubert H. Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUBERT HUMPHREY:  Thank you my good friends.  Thank you mayor Lamb, thank you for this wonderful, enthusiastic, genuine Rochester, Monroe County and seven other county welcome to this wonderful area.

	All of our friends here on the platform, my special thanks particularly to Chuck Meloy, our chairman with Jim Wilmont and I have a special lady friend who is up here with me.  My wife doesn't really get jealous, but she keeps asking me why I ask about her, Mrs. Sibley.  I want to thank one other person among many.  I have an old friend by the name of Abe Chatman.  Congressman McCarthy, our state chairman here, John Burns, the county chairman over at Erie County, our National Committee chairman Jack English and a host of others who are here to make sure that on November 5, 1968 you have a Democrat in the White House.

	I know that some of you heard that Mr. Alan King, the world famous comedian is here, others may have heard of E.G. Marshall from the Defenders and I gather that you all know Cab Calloway who is a native of Rochester and when you can get that kind of talent for you, you've got it made if we just stick together, friends.

	You're a wonderful, enthusiastic audience.  I want to ask for your attention for just a few minutes on the most serious business that is before us.  I would be less than honest with this audience if I didn't tell you that at this time in this fall election we have our work cut out for us.  I do not underestimate the nature of our task or the difficulties, nor do I underestimate what will befall us if we fail.

	And I should like to take just a little while to first ask for your help, to ask for it for one reason above all.  I need it, more importantly, I think your country needs it.  And above all let me say we all need each other in this struggle that we have before us.

	And, what do we need it for?  Not merely to win an election, because winning an election is not enough, even though winning an election in this instance may mark the difference as to what's going to happen in this country.

	I think there are three realities, three realities that face us, three great issues above all others that confront us:  the first reality of ours deals with the most basic of all--humanity faces a troubled future.  The world is in difficulty.  Invasions, aggressions, war, violence.  These are the characteristics of the time in which we live.

	Is it any wonder, then, that people are distraught?  Is it any wonder that our young who were born, most of them, during World War II or immediately after, having lived through a period of the Korean War, drafted for the war in Vietnam, is it any wonder that they're troubled?

	Is it any wonder that they raise questions for us?

	And we must be able to answer those questions.

	First of all, I think it's patently obvious that violence at home and violence abroad, violence in our streets and war between nations, is no way for civilized people to settle their disputes.

	I made a pledge to you and to the American people in my acceptance speech as the nominee of this party.  I pledged myself to the platform of my party which is dedicated to finding the path to peace.

	But I also said this--I said that the first responsibility of the next president of the United States, if by that time we have not found the way to peace, the first responsibility of the man that occupies the White House on twelve noon January 21, 1969, is to do everything within his authority and power, within honor and within the security of this nation, to find through creativity and innovation, diplomacy and negotiation, through everything he can muster, to find some way to bring this tragic struggle in Vietnam to a close and to an end.

	And to do it not only so that we can save the lives that are being lost, which of course is our first responsibility, but to do it so that we can take the resources that are being consumed in this struggle and bring them home and put them to work here amongst our own people, here where we need to bind up or own wounds, here where there is conflict in our own nation.

	Now, the second priority, as I see it, leads from the first and that is to find some way to put an end to the division, to the violence, to the crime, to the lawlessness that beset this American nation.

	My fellow Americans, there is not a single dispute that we have, not a difference that we have amongst us, no problem that is in our midst, not one of them will be solved by taking our problems into the streets.  Not one of them will be solved; not one of those problems will be solved by violence and disorder.  We cannot tolerate that.

	The first duty of an elected official is to protect life.  His first duty is to see that there is respect for the law, and if I am the president of these United States, make no mistake about it.  I shall mobilize the resources of this nation to the best of my ability to see that America is safe and then to see that America is just.  A safe society and a just society.  

	Ladies and gentlemen, it can be done.  There is no reason, none whatsoever, that the vast majority of the American people should be moved and shoved, bullied and browbeaten by a handful of extremists on the right or on the left or whatever they may be.  That is no way to conduct ourselves.

	Yet our democracy requires, if it is to live, discussion debate, dissent.  Dissent is part of the ferment of a free people.  Dissent, yes. Disorder, no.  That's the formula.

	So we must find a way, my fellow citizens, we must find a way to bring together a calm and a tranquility in this nation that is not an apathy, but a tranquility that releases our energy to do what needs to be done.

	And thirdly, if we're going to do any of these things that we speak of, if we're going to find the peace that the people pray for, the peace that we want, if we're going to find the kind of peace in our own communities that we need, as well as peace in Vietnam and in this world, my fellow Americans, we must be a united people.

	Now, I'm not talking about people that are all of one mind, all that look alike, talk alike, act alike.  I'm talking about a united people in spirit, with a common objective, a common purpose, and we know that this America of ours will get no place divided.

	We know that you cannot divide this people, black and white, rich and poor, urban and rural.  We know that division will ruin us.  We know that division will weaken us.  We know that division is based on hatred, based on suspicion, and doubt and fear.  A people can never be strong if fear, suspicion, doubt, bitterness and hatred are their daily diet.  I call upon this audience of fellow Democrats and citizens.  I call upon you to vanish these things from your heart.  I ask you to join with me in a plea for national unity for national purposes, for great national goals and for a new day.

	Now, my friends, there are three candidates in this election.  One candidate preaches the doctrine of separatism, playing on the emotions of the people.

	Another candidate, the Republican nominee, appeals to you on the basis that we must slow down our progress.  It is always the same with them.  We always seem to be going too fast for people who want to stand still.

	I do not say that my Republican opponent is a racist - far be it.  Nor do I say that he is backward.  I simply say that he does not keep in step with the needs of the times.  The changes demanded from the American people are far beyond the capacity of the Republican nominee to grip with.

	So what do we offer, what do we offer to our people?  It will do us no good to preach of the yesterdays. We can be proud of our achievements, and we should be.  We can hail the accomplishments of Democratic presidents and Democratic congressmen, and I think it's right, but I think you need to know not what I think of the yesterdays, but what do I think of tomorrow.

	What can it be like?  What will the year 1976, our 200th anniversary be like?  What will the year 2000 be like, when a majority of those now living will still be very much alive and in the maturity of their lives?

	We must look ahead.  We must have as our base point not less than the next generation.  Surely we have every right to dream of America as it will be in the 21st century.

	And, my friends, I see an America that is far stronger in spirit and in substance than any of us ever dreamed.  I see of an economy that is growing if we but have the self-discipline to permit it to grow.  I see jobs undreamed of for our people.  I see young people being brought into government, into industry, into every area of American life.

	I spoke of that today in Buffalo, of how this new, wonderful generation can share in the responsibility of this nation and can be brought into the councils of government.

	I see a new day in which every child, regardless of race, creed or color, will have the benefit of a fine education, the best that modern men can provide, from age four through college.  We can afford it in this country and we need it.

	And I say I see a new day when relief and welfare-ism are no longer the pattern.  I see a day ahead of us that we must achieve, when those who live today, through no fault of their own, many of them the victims of deprivation, shall be able to stand on their own two feet, when they shall be trained to work, when they shall be productive citizens, when they shall be homeowners, when they shall be taxpayers and when they shall have self-respect and human dignity.  I see that day.

	And my friends, I see a day when not a child in this land will ever be hungry again, when Americans will see to it that in a nation that knows so much, that in a nation that is blessed by abundance, never will there be a child that is called American that will ever go to bed any nights without having had a satisfying meal during that day.  Hunger never again for a child in this land.

	And, my friends, I see the day when we shall not ask a person of his race, when we shall only ask of his character and his ability.

	I see the time not far distant when we will look to those who today we have almost pushed aside and find the great genius of tomorrow.

	I am as convinced as I stand before you that the great precious human resource of people is yet to be discovered in this country when I see for example, our athletes our champions, coming from families of the poor, when I see some of our great artists, some of our great men and women of the drama and of literature, coming from the families of the ghetto.  When I see what there is, I say to you, my fellow Americans, let's unlock, let's emancipate that part of our humanity, let's give it its chance to help make America great.

	Yes, and I see the new day when our cities shall not be the center of our crisis, but rather shall be the testimonial to our greatness.

	Cities should be the finest of environment for humans, and the elimination of the conditions of slums and ghettos is no longer merely an economic necessity and political necessity, it is a moral requirement of a decent people.

	And I see the day when people will live together in our cities, not in fear, not in suspicion, not in discrimination, but they will live together in a community as the American family in the American site.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, we can do it.

	Any country that can explore the wonders of outer space, any country that can go to the moon with a space capsule and land men on that moon, any country that can do what we have done to split the atom, may I say, if you can split the atom, why can't you split the difference just a little bit.

	Yes, a nation that will be as willing to explore the stars, conquer the universe, should first of all be willing to explore itself and when we explore, when we enter into the American venture of what can be done here, we shall find things more amazing than we find even in the eternity of space.

	You know, St. Augustine once said that the most wondrous thing of all is man himself, and man is God's creation.  The most wondrous thing of all, humankind.

	And, it's that mankind to which this party is dedicated, to which this party directs its attention.  We direct our attention to the emancipation of the human spirit, to the liberalization of thought, to the conquering of our prejudices and our fears and I believe that is what this campaign is about.

	There are those who will come to you with the politics of fear and despair to frighten you into the ballot box, to ask you to vote for them, less America be this or that.

	There will be those who come to you and say, no, let us not move, let's stay where we are, let us pause.

	And, there will be those that will listen.  But I come to you to tell you that humanity is on a forward march and that America must be a part of that march.

	I come to you that my politics is the politics of hope, it is the polities of faith in this the country and people.  And, I ask you my fellow citizens, to give your country a chance.

	I ask you to put your faith in this nation.  I ask you to put your works to this party.  I ask you to give of me your heart and your hands and your head.  I ask you to give me a chance to lead this nation and we will win.

	Let's show these doubters who can win this election.  I want you to know, I just had a letter from Harry Truman and I feel great!

CIVIL DISORDERHUNGER (UNITED STATES)POLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPOVERTYSPACE EXPLORATIONURBAN AFFAIRS/AIDVIETNAM WAR     L7 7 7 7 7
 ú6 õ6 ð6 ç6 ß6 Ý6 Ñ6 Æ6	 x 	 j 	 T 	 4 	 - 	  	  e: