Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1020.011SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/20STUMPPROVIDENCERHODE ISLANDRINATO1701 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen, first let me discharge my most pleasant duty of thanking each of you for coming here today to give me a chance to bring you a word of greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts on my heart and mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	I am here as a leader of a crusade, a crusade whose first--but only whose first--objective is to clean out the mess in Washington and get a fresh start.  Now, let me say at once that this is not a one-man job.  This is a very serious undertaking involving millions of Americans, which requires organization, including many, many in the leadership positions of such a movement.  I cannot tell you how thrilled I am to have such a man as your young candidate for United States Senate.  To see men of his age and ability starting out in public life and destined for the Senate is really something that inspires me to do a little bit better than my best.  And I want to say almost in the same breath something about Mr. Archambeau who was not only a veteran of World War II but was my associate in another job over in Europe, and this gives me a chance to thank him for the good work he did in NATO.

	There are so many things to talk to you about, ladies and gentlemen, that quite naturally I have to hit the high spots in giving you the reasons why we must do this clean-out job and get this fresh start.  But in the first place, let me make this clear; it is not just a repaint job or a repair job, a facelifting job or anything like that that is indicated.  One of the opposition has said all we need in Washington is a little refreshening.  I want to ask you how you refreshen a bad egg.  We are talking about cleaning out and cleaning up from top to bottom.

	Let's look at the record for just a moment.  First, we emerged from World War II seven years ago the strongest power on earth--not only strong in our traditional sense of the greatest productive nation on earth, the men and women with the highest level of intelligence, the greatest skills among our working men and working women, highest in economic output per year.  All of those things had been ours.  But in addition we were militarily powerful, the most powerful nation on earth.  What have we done?  What is the record on leading us toward peace, satisfying the aspirations of one-hundred-fifty-five million people for a sound peace?  We have had Berlin.  We have had Greece.  We have had Turkey.  We have had the loss of China, all of the Eastern nations of Europe.  And finally, Korea with its toll in blood and treasures.  Our loss to Communism in human souls every year has averaged 100 million.  How long can we keep that up and remain a free nation?  We know that to adopt a policy of isolationism is to be isolated ourselves and we can't live that way.  We know we can't.  We would starve to death economically.  We must halt this trend of loss in the foreign field.

	Next, look at our expenditure program.  Now, I am quite sure that no one here knows any more than I do what eighty-five billion dollars looks like.  That is our expenditure program.  I haven't the slightest idea.  But I do know this:  When they tell us that we have never had it so good, that we are the most prosperous that we have ever been in all our lives and our taxes are the highest, we can't even meet these bills by a full fifteen percent.  And when we don't meet our bills, what does that mean?  We go further in debt.

	Do you know that this evening there will be six-thousand more American people than there were last evening?  Most of them are our newborn babies, and each one of those babies is born with a 17,500-dollar debt hanging on its neck.  Now, they used to say it was very costly to have a baby.  Now it is very costly to be a baby.  Our children deserve a little better of us than to keep hanging bigger and bigger debts about their necks that they have to meet before they get square with the world of the future.  That is another item in the count we have against these people.

	Then, along with that, our prices go up and up.  Today when the housewife goes down to buy a bag of groceries the basket she carries on her arm that she paid ten dollars for in 1940, she now pays twenty-four dollars and fifty cents for.  That is the kind of thing we are having.

	All of this is bad enough.  But then when we have subversion in government, they cry "Red herring."  Here is one item that is on the record and no one can remove it by any kind of legerdemain or sleight of hand.  Our most valuable secret that we value in the technical world was filched from us and carried to our potential enemies.  Now, there have been no Republicans in power while that was done.

	All this is bad enough.  But if we have to have these high taxes, and we do--we have to have high taxes, even over and above what we pay those people who line their pockets with our taxes, and we have had some of those go to the penitentiary.  But, over and above that, of course we have to pay lots of money.  But then, do we have to pay also for dishonesty?  We don't have to have corruption in government. That is what we are expected to bear along with the rest of it, and then they say, "Oh, they are just trying to pull a smear on the Democrats."

	Is that the way to answer clear evidence of crookedness in the federal government?  Of course you know the answer.

	Ladies and gentlemen, a lady wrote to me not long ago and said, "General, I would like to vote for you but before I do, will you promise me that you will see that more of my tax money gets to Washington?"  I wrote back to her and said, "Lady, no honest, hard-working American taxpayer has to ask that kind of a thing from a public official.  That is the kind of thing you can and should demand, and don't you go around asking people whether they are going to be honest in the public service."

	This crusade which we are all engaged, ladies and gentlemen, is to substitute honor in good government for bad government.  We intend to pursue policies abroad that will lead toward a sound and lasting peace.  Admittedly it is a long and hard way.  There is no panacea for producing peace overnight, even for bringing overnight the war in Korea to a successful conclusion.  But there are policies and means for beginning to minimize our losses at once and for bringing about a situation in the world that will prevent future Koreas.

	Next, we know that if we are going to lead intelligently and effectively toward peace, the first thing necessary is a strong, solvent, sound America.  If you are going to have a strong, sound, solvent America, what is the first thing you must have?  You must have the assurance there is going to be no more depression.

	This crusade stands pledged, ladies and gentlemen, at the first signs of any approaching thing that could be called economic collapse or depression to mobilize every power of government, of private economy, of the local governments and state governments to prevent it.  And we know that to make certain those signs do not come, we must maintain a country of high wages, high industries, high productivity and great consumption--which means that a section like New England will get just as fair a treatment in the matter of industries, large and small, as will any other section of the country.

	There is a special item of satisfaction, today, for me in coming to this state.  Since the day of Roger Williams, you have been noted for tolerance, for a greatness of soul that was far, far beyond your size in territorial expanse; and so I wanted to bring out this point.  In the campaign of invective that has been launched against me--because the opposition, having no program of its own, finding no way to defend its despicable record, has had no recourse except to launch attacks that are as false as they are terrible in their nature--they have charged me only lately when they overstepped themselves with being anti-Semitic and anti-Catholic.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I leave the answers to those two to my good friends, Cardinal Spellman, Rabbi Silver and Bernard Baruch. Already they have established those stories for the falsehoods that they are.

	One other point, because I see scattered through this throng some one or two uniforms--and you know when I see a uniform I must always say at least one word to them--it has been said I am trying to reduce the pay of the men in the armed services.  I have only this one minute, but let me say to anyone here who has ever worn a uniform or who wears it now, I hope that men who have served with me through tough campaigns, or who served in other sections of the world far removed from my particular sector, will have more faith in me than to believe such lying.

	Now, my friends, three minutes ago, an associate put in front of me a note that I had one minute left, but before I do go upon my way, let me ask you this.  What is going to be your answer to this kind of campaign?  What I want to say is, when I contemplate this series of completely false accusations against me, I get so angry I sort of choke and I have to leave the answer to you.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--BIGOTRYDEBT, NATIONALECONOMY--DEPRESSIONFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMILITARY PERSONNEL     ª$ á$ Å$ }$ s$
 e$ `$ [$ Q$ E$ C$ ?$ 5$	 Ä 	 h 	 Z 	 G 	 / 	  e: