Speeches\1972\dem\S72d1025.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/25TELEVISIONTELEVISION ADDRESS2,820 WORDS

	OPENING NARRATION. Tonight, the Senate wing of the Capitol, the candidate of the Democratic party for the presidency of the United States, George McGovern, speaks to the nation.

	SENATOR MCGOVERN. "In earlier broadcasts, I have discussed the choices facing the American people on two critical issues--the war in Vietnam and the economy of America.

	Tonight, I ask you to consider another issue that troubles the very soul of our country. The issue is integrity. For although we are concerned about our immediate needs, there is a deeper crisis in America--a crisis of the spirit.

	As I have listened to the American people and tried to sense what was in their hearts, one message has come through consistently. It is that people are losing confidence in their leaders.

	I saw that in the eyes of an elderly woman in Wisconsin, who told me she feels abandoned by her country.

	I heard it in the angry voices of men and women on the assembly lines in Detroit, who asked me why so much of their wages go for taxes when some big interests pay no taxes at all.

	I heard it from a badly wounded young Marine in Vietnam last year who told me, "I will never trust the government again." Too many people have told me: "All politicians are crooked."

	When I hear that, I fear for the American future, for our free system of government is founded on trust between those who elect and those who are elected. And when that bond weakens, a part of democracy dies.

	Restoring that bond of trust may be the greatest challenge facing the next president of the United States.

	A few weeks ago, I suggested to the students at Wheaton College in Illinois that the President of the United States has a responsibility greater than running the government. He must also serve as the moral leader of the nation. He can lift the moral vision of America and rekindle our sense of national purpose.

	The present administration is failing that responsibility.

	Consider, for example, the enforcement of our antitrust laws. They were written to protect consumers against too much economic power in too few hands. And they safeguard our free enterprise system, preserving independent business against excessive concentrations of power.

	By swallowing up other companies, ITT has become one of the most powerful conglomerates in the country. When ITT wanted to take over still another corporation--one of the nation's largest insurance companies--the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department said that was too much. So they prepared to go into court to stop that merger.

	But while the case was being prepared, ITT offered several hundred thousand dollars to finance the Republican National Convention. And what happened then? The antitrust case against ITT was dropped and the company destroyed the evidence of collusion in a shredding machine. Abandonment of that case meant a billion-dollar settlement for ITT, higher costs for you, and less freedom in our free enterprise system.

	When Mr. Nixon decided to abandon his first economic policy because it was not working, he set up a commission that he promised would control the cost of living.

	But the Combined Insurance Company of Chicago is not covered. The chairman of that company gave half a million dollars to Mr. Nixon's 1968 campaign, and he has said he plans to give a million dollars this year. Seven days after he had dinner at the White House, the Price Commission gave his company a special exemption from price controls.

	Last year, dairy lobbyists were pressing hard for higher milk prices. The Secretary of Agriculture turned them down. But then a long-time adviser of Mr. Nixon met in the White House with the dairy lobbyists. They contributed $352,000 to Mr. Nixon's campaign. And within a few days, the Secretary of Agriculture reversed his decision and decreed higher prices for milk.

	In 1970, thirty-eight older Americans in Ohio lost their lives in a nursing home fire. After careful investigation, authorities traced the cause of that disaster to a highly flammable carpet. The fire became a raging inferno before the people inside even had a chance to be saved. So stronger carpet safety regulations were proposed, to see that nothing like that would ever happen again.

	But there was another meeting in the White House--between executives of the carpet industry and top officials of the Republican campaign. They gave almost $95,000 for Mr. Nixon's reelection. And the carpet safety regulations were postponed.

	These actions do not demonstrate the moral standards that I believe America wants and expects. What they represent is the immoral influence of big money on the public business.

	Last year, the Congress decided to do something about that. We adopted a new law that says you have a right to know where the campaign money is coming from so you can judge whether special favors are involved. We followed the advice of Justice Louis Brandeis: "Sunlight is the best of disinfectants."

	Although that disclosure law did not go into effect until April of 1972, my campaign has revealed the name of every contributor since I first became a candidate in January of 1971.

	But Mr. Nixon did just the opposite.

	Before the disclosure law went into effect, he launched a massive drive to beat the system and to defeat your right to know. By the time of the disclosure deadline, he had collected at least $10 million from powerful supporters.

	He has not revealed the name of a single contributor. And that is the secret $10 million fund you have heard about. Mr. Nixon is saying, in effect, that it's none of your business who is bankrolling his campaign.

	You have a right to ask candidate Nixon: "Why are you afraid to name your contributors?"

	If we knew the names on that secret list, we might have the answers to some other troubling questions about why our government has acted the way it has over the past four years.

	Why is it that when there is a tax break, it always goes to those who need it least, and never to you?

	Why is it that the inefficient managers of Lockheed got bailed our by a government loan, but nothing is done to save the thousands of small businessmen and family farmers who are going broke every year?

	Why did this administration help the big grain exporters take advantage of the family farmers on the Russian wheat deal?

	And why is it that this administration puts a lid on wages, but lets prices rise on everything you buy?

	These are some of the most important decisions our government has made in the last four years. Each time, the special interests won and you lost.

	Is it any wonder that confidence in the moral integrity of government is declining?

	Mr. Nixon and I disagree on the proper relationship between money, power, and people.

	We disagree, as well, on the conduct of political campaigns.

	Four months ago, five men wearing rubber gloves and carrying burglar's tools were arrested by the police inside the Democratic Party Headquarters in Washington. They were there in the middle of the night to remove listening devices they had previously planted on the telephones. And they were there to steal private files on Democratic senators, congressmen, and party officials. One of them had $114,000 in his bank account--money that came from the Nixon campaign fund.

	And the Democratic headquarters was not their only target.

	We now know that these men were part of a nationwide network of at least fifty agents hired by the Nixon campaign to create confusion and division among the Democratic candidates for president. Part of their job was to distort your impressions of those candidates--what kind of men they were, and what they stood for.

	You may recall the incident in Manchester, New Hampshire, in this year's first primary, when Senator Muskie showed his outrage at the unfair things that were printed about him in that city's newspaper. Many people believe that event had a decisive impact on Senator Muskie's chance for the nomination.

	The whole affair started with a letter, supposedly from a voter in Florida, accusing Senator Muskie of using insulting language. But that Florida voter was never found. And now we know why. The letter was a forgery. And it has been traced to a White House aide.

	This same army of Republican sabotage agents released false statements to the press in the name of Democratic candidates. They tried to place listening devices in my campaign office. They attempted to throw campaign schedules into disarray. They forged letters. They followed our families. They even plotted a disruption of their own Republican convention in Miami Beach so they could blame it on the Democrats.

	And all of this was paid for out of a secret $700,000 espionage fund kept in the safe of Mr. Nixon's finance chairman and controlled by John Mitchell, even while he was still Attorney General of the United States.

	Not one of these facts has been refuted or explained. The only response has been to attack the reporters who searched out the truth.

	During eighteen years in politics, I have never seen such efforts to poison the political dialogue. These Republican politicians have fouled the political atmosphere for all of us who see public service as a high calling.

	They do not seek to defeat the Democratic Party; they seek to destroy it.

	And in the process, they would deny one of the most precious freedoms of all--your freedom to judge which candidate will better serve your interests and truly reflect your view of America.

	If our free system is to survive, we must recall that just as you set standards of decency and fair dealing in your own lives, there are accepted limits of what is right in a political contest.

	But on the few occasions when they even acknowledge these actions, Administration officials use terms like "caper" and "prank." They want you to believe that all presidential candidates accept contributions with strings attached. They want you to believe that all politicians wiretap and sabotage and spy, and they always have. That is simply not true.

	Special favors and secret funds cannot be ignored.

	The crime of burglary cannot be excused by calling it a "caper."

	And $700,000 worth of political espionage is no "prank."

	The men who have collected millions in secret money, who have passed out special favors, who have ordered political sabotage, who have invaded our offices in the dead of night--all of these men work for Mr. Nixon. Most of them he hired himself. And their power comes from him alone. They act on his behalf, and they all accept his orders.

	Yet Mr. Nixon has even promoted some of the officials implicated in the scandals.

	And he has blocked any independent investigation. He refuses to answer questions from either the press or the people. He stays hidden in the White House, hoping you will mistake silence for innocence.

	In 1961, when the Bay of Pigs invasion turned into disaster, President Kennedy did not duck the issue. He accepted full responsibility for everything that went wrong.

	When Harry Truman sat in the White House, he had a sign on his desk: "The buck stops here."

	That is the kind of men they were. And that is the kind of responsible presidential leadership we must restore.

	Our present leadership has not only failed that test, it has undermined the personal freedom of Americans and the constitutional framework of our government.

	We have seen a demeaning of our judicial system with Supreme Court nominations that shocked the nation. Two of those appointments were rejected by the Senate. Two others were stopped short by the American Bar Association. But four of Mr. Nixon's appointments now sit on the Supreme court. And another four years could easily permit him to dominate the entire court for the rest of this century.

	Likewise, the Congress has been undermined by the encroachment of arbitrary executive power. American forces were committed across the Cambodian frontier without so much as a telephone call to leaders of the Congress. Mr. Nixon said of Senator Mansfield's resolution calling for an end to the war that the administration would ignore any such expression by the Congress. Secret arrangements have been negotiated with foreign powers without the consent or even the knowledge of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The war-making power which the founding fathers lodged in the Congress has been preempted by the Chief Executive. And this abuse of power was made all the more dangerous when a military commander went unpunished even after he conducted bombing raids without the approval of civilian authority.

	Other dangerous new practices, such as preventive detention, no-knock searches of our homes, and a requirement that telephone companies and landlords must assist in planting eavesdropping devices--all of these are unprecedented threats to our personal freedoms.

	We want to think that our Department of Justice applies the law with an even hand. But conspiracy laws were used to prosecute nuns and priests involved in a war protest, whereas no action was taken when students were killed at Kent State or Jackson State.

	We are confronted, in short, with both a moral and a constitutional crisis of unprecedented dimensions. Ambitious men come and go, but a free society might never recover from a sustained assault on its most basic institutions. And one can only ask, if this has happened in four years, to what lengths would the same leadership go in another four years, once freed of the restraints of facing the people for reelection?

	The next president will inherit this crisis and this legacy of distrust that has been accumulating over the last four years. It will take time to convince people that they can believe in their government once again. It is not easy to teach respect for law and order when the government itself has scorned the moral and constitutional foundation of law and order.

	But it can be done. I believe that a president who keeps faith with the American people will, in time, revive that confidence.

	The next president can summon the American people to a higher standard--but only if he sets a higher standard for himself.

	He can persuade Americans to care about their fellow human beings--but only if he cares himself.

	And the next president can rekindle our love of freedom--but only if he loves freedom more than power.

	The next president must understand that freedom is not indestructible. He must heed the warning of Benjamin Franklin, as he stepped out of Independence Hall on the day that America was born.

	"What kind of government is it?" someone asked.

	"A republic," he said, "if you can keep it."

	Benjamin Franklin and the others present in Philadelphia that day had risked their lives to secure their liberty from an oppressive government. They were not about to hand it over to more oppression.

	They understand what we must remember--that freedom lost is seldom restored.

	And like those early patriots, we must stand as watchmen, guarding our liberty from the advance of overreaching political power, just as we would defend it from an advancing foreign army.

	I believe we will keep our republic. We will save the ideals we have cherished for nearly two hundred years.

	I believe that because I have been out among the people campaigning.

	And this is what I have learned.

	The people are not left or right or center. Rather, they seek a way out of the wilderness.

	They want a president who will restore their trust in government by trusting them--a leader who will neither distort the truth, nor loan away the government.

	They ask for a president who will tell them, not just what they want to hear, but what they have a right to know.

	They want a leadership that will return a basic sense of fairness to government--that will set not one standard for the powerful and one for those without power, but a single standard for us all.

	They hunger for that clarifying vision of national purpose that only a president can provide--a president who will lift our eyes above the daily entanglements to a more distant horizon, to the time when, as Thomas Paine said, "No land on earth shall be as happy as America."

	That is the kind of president I want to be.

	A president who will ask the best of our people, so we can glow with a new love for America--and America can lift a new light before the world.

	Then our children and their children after them will love this land, not merely because they were born here, but because of the great and good country that you and I together have made it.

	Thank you and good night.
CAMPAIGN FINANCECAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSELECTIONS--CORRUPTION/ETHICSMERGERS AND ACQUISITIONSMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESPRIVACYSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSWAR POWERSWATERGATEGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     0B üA öA òA êA
 ÞA ÙA ÏA ÏA ÏA ÏA ½A ²A	 Î 	 ¾ 	 › 	  	 g 	 Q 	 J 	 0 	 &   e: