Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1030.004SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/30STUMPSTATEN ISLANDNEW YORKNY1551 WORDS

	My friends:  First, allow me to thank each of you for the great honor you do me in coming out here this morning to allow me to bring you a word of greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts that are on my mind as we enter these last few hectic days of this vital political campaign.

	You may recall when the campaign started, we were promised by the opposition that it would be conducted on such a high plane that we would elevate and educate the American people.  Now that program ran into a snag because the opposition found it necessary, in order to carry out this educational program, to trot out and expose to view the entire record of the past seven years, at least all of the record that is known publicly.  They had to review that record, and suddenly, they discovered there was no appeal for it whatsoever to the American public.  For example, where have we gone with respect to peace?  We have jumped from one emergency to another in Europe.  We have lost China and we are in a Korean War.  We have lost, since the close of World War II, human souls to the Communistic dictatorship at the rate of one-hundred million per year.  So that did not look like a very good item in the record to trot out.

	Next, they began to talk about the domestic record.  There, the first thing they ran into was an expenditure program practically sufficient to break any nation, any except this one.  They could break it in one year.  Without attempting to pretend that I know what eighty billion dollars looks like--the size of our current budget--I do know this:  We can't pay our way.  In spite of the highest taxes we have ever had, in spite of this so-called high income prosperity, we can't pay our bills.  That means our money gets cheaper, our prices go higher; and so we know that today, when the housewife wants to go over to the corner grocery to buy a basket of groceries that in 1939 cost her ten dollars, now she pays twenty-four dollars and fifty cents.

	So they said that wasn't such a good item in the record.  Then they turned to administration, and their Congressional committees have dug up page after page of evidence of waste, extravagance and just sheer inefficiency in governmental operation.  So they thought they would pass that one over lightly.  The next thing they brought up was loyalty, the kind of people we have in our government.  You know what happened there.  They called Red agents "Red Herrings," but at least it didn't make a very nice item in the record to bring out here in this political campaign.

	Finally, they got down just to the matter of common, woodshed honesty in government; and here, with a record of agents after agents in the Bureau of Internal Revenue having gone crooked, having been punished or relieved--some of them behind bars--they said, "That's not a good record."  By this time, they were just about out of items and so they turned to another scheme.  They would begin to fear things.  They would sell a program of fear to the American people.  Of course, that is number one mistake, because in many places, battlefields and at home, Americans have proved they don't buy fear very easily.

	They feared, for example, on my part, that I would reduce soldiers' pay.  Of course, that was a great mistake on their part because they didn't happen to know that I have a very great many friends in the service with whom I spent my life.  They knew that one wouldn't go over, but they tried hard.  They went around to every foreign station and to stations at home spreading the story that soldiers, sailors and airmen would all get less pay, longer tours of service,  and no rotation if they let old Ike in on this thing.  So, fellows, I know I am the man who started the rotation system in World War II, but they didn't.  As I say, remember I had too many thousands of very, very fine friends in all these services.  So that one didn't go over.

	Then they began to fear that my associates and I would bring about a depression, that we would like suddenly to see the United States broke, go into an economic collapse.  But it happens that we have been the ones who are preaching that the greater fear and the threat of our time is Communism, and the only way to fight Communism is with a prosperous America--an America that is fully employed, with working men and women at good jobs with good pay, with farmers prosperous.  We preached that and taught it and carried it everywhere.  So they had to abandon that.

	Then suddenly, they had a new one.  They feared I was a bigot.  I was terrible.  I hated everybody who hadn't been born ten generations back in the United States, and they thought I didn't know any American Indians, so this looked like a pretty good one.  They said I was anti-Catholic, anti-Negro, anti-Semitic, anti-everything.  Well, that one I didn't have to answer, my friends.  I am very proud of the fine friends of all those groups who jumped into the public print and into the headlines and said, "That is just a plain lie, because we know he is not."

	Then finally, I said one day that if the American people charged me with heavy responsibilities, specifically the presidency of the United States, I would go to Korea to see what the conditions were there, how we could help bring that particular part of this terrible struggle to a better close, or at least how we could reduce American casualties.

	Now they feared everything.  They feared that this was a grandstand play.  They feared that this was a terrible thing for me to say.  Just why they fear it, I don't know, because again I would like to call for evidence from my old veteran friends.  I will tell you this:  The brass hat, the VIP that they respected was the man who took the trouble to get down and see how they were living, what they were doing, the conditions under which they were fighting and working and living--whether their chow was good, whether they had warm clothing in winter and decent clothing in summer.

	Now what is there against me going to Korea except a bunch of people who are really fearing just one thing:  The only thing they are fearing is that they are going to lose a bunch of cushy jobs down in Washington.  They are very fearful about this because, instead of running governmental positions as they should be in dedication to the public service, they have done it to perpetuate themselves in power--proud of the power they wield--and even in some instances, as a St. Louis judge said, "They have sold their birthright for a dirty mess of dollars."

	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of this campaign is this:  Do you want to have a government--and government remember, is nothing but men and women--in Washington that you respect?  Do you want to have a great body of people that you admire and trust and in whom you can have faith?  My friends, that is exactly what this crusade is about, to get rid of the mess in Washington, to get rid of the shopworn policies and the old dusty promises that they have been making to different groups in order to get elected and re-elected.  The day of reckoning is here.  They have seen the handwriting on the wall and that is all they fear.

	My friends, as I go I have two messages.  First, I did not come here to compete with those people in just making political promises.  All the political promises have been pretty well worn out over the last seven years and some of them are pretty shopworn--and some have been laid back on the shelf because they were never expected to be carried out anyway.  They are just gathering dust.  So I didn't come here to do that.  There will be no attempt on our part in this crusade to set one group against another.  We believe in the good of the United States, 155 million people. 

	I did come to pledge that if you want to put these leaders in positions of responsibility, some have been introduced to you here on this platform this morning--and remember this is a team job, not a one-man job--we pledge you, first, a government that will be fair, one that will be honest, one that will be just, but above all, one that will be friendly, one that will belong to you and not be trying just to override you.  That is the kind of pledge I make.

	My other point is this:  Since we came back from our last train trip, here in New York, they have given my Mamie a lot of chores to do on her own, and that is the reason she can't be here to bring her greetings in person this morning.

	Thank you and good-bye.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--BIGOTRYECONOMY--DEPRESSIONFOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY PERSONNELTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     V" "" " " "
  " û! ö! é! á! ß! ß! Õ!	 À 	 ¨ 	 • 	 q 	 R 	 B 	 0 e: