Speeches\1992\dem\S92D0926.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)09/26STUMPBurlingtonVERMONTVT3857 WORDS
	Thank you for being here. Thank you for loving your country. Thank you for caring enough to show up today.

	I want to thank Pat Leahy for that wonderful introduction and the way he kept holding the crowd while I worked my way through it with great grace and leadership. I want to thank him for the work that he's done on behalf of the farmers of this country, the family farmers, the real backbone of this country, in my state, in Vermont and others throughout the country.

	And I want to say how glad I am that apparently you're going to send him back to the Senate with no trouble. We need him there, and I will need him there in January.

	I want to thank my colleague and friend and early supporter, your remarkable governor, Howard Dean.

	You know, Howard is now our lead governor in the Governors Association on health care. Vermont has passed one of the most innovative health care proposals in the country. You can be really proud of the fact that you've got a doctor with a mind, a heart, a conscience, and a commitment to solve the thorniest problem facing our society.

	I want to thank my long-time friend, your former governor, Madeleine Kunin, for all the work she's done in my behalf--in working with the environment and working with women's groups around America to try to keep the choice movement part of our campaign and in helping me to select a vice president. She did a real good job of that, too.

	You know, every now and then, at least before the last couple of days, when he had a whole raft of new questions on this Iran/Contra business, Mr. Bush says that the election ought to be about trust. Well, you know, we've only made one decision in common, George Bush and I, and my decision was Al Gore. I think I won that first round, don't you?

	I want to thank your mayor of this beautiful city, the state party chair, Congressman Sanders, who's here, all of you who have come out here today. I want to thank every one of you for being here. This is a stunning crowd. I think you're here not for me, but for you. I think you're here because you want your country back, and I'm going to do my best to give it to you on November 3rd.

	You know, Vermont has been a progressive state in so many ways. Both parties have been progressive. Every now and then, you have people who aren't in either party who are progressive.

	And I was looking over a little Vermont history and examining your laws, I guess the backdrop of something that happened in Washington this week that is a symbol for everything that is wrong with the direction this administration has taken. On Tuesday, we were supposed to have the first presidential debate in East Lansing, Michigan, so I showed up.

	Where was George? I'll tell you where he was. He was out there flying around to every state around my state of Arkansas, talking about what a small, rural state I came from--I rest my case; what else is there?--and telling everybody how, you know, bad I was and what a backwater rube I was and all that sort of stuff.

	It really didn't make much of a dent because half of what he said was inaccurate, and then he neglected to say all kinds of things, like we had more private-sector jobs created in Arkansas than in the entire country under his administration; that we are least going in the right direction, while we've been going in the wrong direction.

	He could have gone up there and faced me. You know, he's always talking about these macho things, Mr. Bush, but we had a chance to have one of those macho face-offs in East Lansing, and he was nowhere to be found. He was dumping on me in my back yard when I couldn't answer instead of coming to me where I could.

	And then--then--that night, there was a real distinction between us. I went on Detroit television and interconnected with four other communities and we had a town meeting, and I let people ask any questions they wanted. And real people got up and talked about their jobs gone, their businesses gone, their health care problems.

	And along toward the end of the evening, this young couple stood up. The guy was in kind of a windbreaker jacket that looked like something from his place of work, and he had a nice, attractive young wife, and I thought they were going to tell me that they couldn't get any health insurance.

	And all of a sudden, she broke down crying on television in front of the whole state of Michigan, and said, I have AIDS and my five-year-old child has AIDS and people have real preconceptions about this disease that is sweeping America, and our president won't even utter the words. And I want to know, if I vote for you, that you'll at least face this problem and try to save my life and my child's life. It was an incredible moment, because what she was saying is, I don't ask you for any miracles. I just want to know that I've got a president who's going to get up every day and go to work facing the problems of this country instead of denying them and dividing the American people.

	And then--and after that occurred, after that occurred, Mr. Bush flew back late at night, after the newspaper presses had shut down and after the television news programs were over, so that it was late and out of the news cycle which so dominates their thinking. And he vetoed for the second time the Family and Medical Leave Act.

	And that really bothers me. I know Vermont's got a good law, but let me tell you, it bothers me for two reasons. It bothers me on the merits. I don't know if any of you ever met anybody who lost their job because they had a sick child or an ailing parent and because they couldn't take any time off work. But a couple of years ago when I was home jogging in Little Rock one day, I stopped at a local McDonald's that happened to be two blocks from a homeless shelter, and I met an attractive young couple at a homeless shelter who were out of work, living in the shelter, because they had a child with cancer whom they brought a hundred miles from their home to our children's hospital.

	Al Gore told me he met a family in similar circumstances when their child was in the Johns Hopkins Medical Center.

	And the thing that aggravates me about this is that seventy-two other nations, not two, but seventy-two, have found a way to provide family leave. Now, what this guy is saying is that America can't do what seventy-two other nations can do. I always thought this was a can-do country, and I'm going to give you a can-do administration on November 3rd--if you will stay with me.

	Now, I know it's raining a little bit, folks, but we've been under trickle-down for twelve years. We can wait twelve more minutes, I'll stay here.

	Let me tell you something. I'll make my case short and sweet. We have tried it their way for twelve years. They've had trickle-down economics in the face of global competition for twelve years. Keep taxes low on the wealthiest Americans, get the government out of the way, no national environmental policy, energy policy, education policy, health care policy, or economic policy. Nothing to deal with the fact that we're reducing defense and throwing the factory workers, the scientists and the engineers in the street instead of using them to solve the problems of the last decade of the twentieth century.

	No strategy. Just trickle-down. We tried it their way. Today, according to their own census figures, completed during this administration, two-thirds of the American people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago.

	As my running mate Al Gore says, jobs are down and unemployment's up, consumer confidence is down and the welfare rolls are up. Everything that is down ought to be up, everything that's up ought to be down. They've got it upside down, we want to turn it right side up on November 3rd.

	When they say four more years, it sounds more like a threat than a promise.

	Look, four more months is too long. And what I ask you to do--you know, they say Vermont never votes for a Democrat for president. Tell them you're not voting for a Democrat for president, you're voting for America's future, for yourselves and your children, to pull this country back together again.

	I believe with all my heart that this country has got to abandon trickle-down economics, not for tax-and-spend economics and all the mythical things Mr. Bush talks about, but for what has always worked for America, for using the power of the national government and the power of the presidency to help the people fulfill their God-given capacities and to help move this economy forward with the strategy of investment in new jobs, education for all, control of health care costs, and basic health care for all Americans, a commitment to an environmental policy because that's what it requires to sustain an environment. And a commitment to do all this together.

	You heard Senator Leahy talking about the Republican Convention. They spent the first two nights running against my wife.

	I wanted to send George Bush a telegram and say, just file for first lady. if that's the job you want.

	But I can tell you this, if he thinks he can win an argument with Hillary, he's got another think coming.

	This election in the last few weeks has taken on the depth and breadth of concern that I always hoped it would. We are moving beyond the politics of Democrat and Republican. We have given the American people a new Democratic party with a new Democratic platform that Republicans and Independents and former Perot supporters can embrace. If you don't believe me, look at the fact that we're running proudly on our platform for the first time in a good while and the Republicans are running away from theirs.

	We believe in an investment policy for America, more incentives to people with funds to invest in new factories, new jobs, the farms of America, the things that will put our people to work, but no more tax breaks for sending our jobs overseas, no more tax breaks for short-term deals and S&L boondoggles. Let's invest in America again. That's what we should support, the things that will put our own people back to work and lift our country.

	And we believe that the federal tax dollars of this country should be spent better, too. Instead of taking the money that we're reducing defense by and spending it on the S&L bailout and explosive health care costs, I want to have a system that will invest every dollar of that money in the new technologies of the twenty-first century, in new transportation and communications technologies, in putting the American people back to work in high-wage, high-growth, high-opportunity professions.

	That's what we'll do if you give Al Gore and Bill Clinton a chance on November 3rd.

	We believe specifically in an environmental policy that not only takes the lead in dealing with international problems like global warming and the destruction of the rain forests, but deals with our problems here at home, in recycling more solid waste, in modernizing our systems to deal with clean water and clean air, and in making a commitment to a long-term, sustainable environment as a precondition of economic growth.

	The crowd in Washington today honestly believes that every time they help the environment, they hurt the economy, and vice versa. And for all Mr. Bush's vaunted leadership in global affairs, he embarrassed our country at the Earth Summit in Rio.

	He went down there--this is a classic example--he went down there and spent all of his time fighting against the global warming treaty, fighting against the bio-diversity treaty. Our major competitors, Germany and Japan--they went down there and signed off on the treaties in the first thirty minutes and spent the next week selling environmental technologies to other countries in the world.

	And you know what? Today, two-thirds of the environmental technology purchased in America is produced in other countries. Why? Because we haven't had the leadership we need. That's what the people who used to be involved in the Cold War ought to be doing. That's the work we ought to find for the scientists, the engineers, the technicians--rebuilding America and cleaning it up.

	Let me also say that no person running for president can promise you an opportunity that you yourselves are not prepared to seize. We are living in a world that will never be as it once was, a world in which the average eighteen-year-old will change jobs eight times in a lifetime, a world in which we must have a system of lifetime education available to all.

	And I have offered the American people that kind of program. Let me start at the back and move down. Teach everybody with a job to read in the next five years and give them all a chance to got a high school diploma, and you'll raise the per capita income of America.

	Give every person in every factory of any size and every workplace of any size the opportunity to have annual training so they will always be employable. Do something for the young people who graduate from high school and do not go on to four-year colleges. Guarantee them at least two years of further high-quality training to got good jobs, not dead-end jobs. Our competitors do these things.

	And finally, we must open the doors of college education to all Americans.

	My fellow Americans, if you look in that big, thick, dry census document, you will find some stunning revelations, one of which is that we have a vested interest, you and I, in seeing that as many of our citizens go to college and graduate as possible, because the earnings of younger workers who do not have further education are dropping like a rock. We have got to do that.

	The cost of a college education is the only thing that went up faster than health care in the 1980s. And I have proposed to scrap the existing student loan program and replace it with a national trust fund out of which any American can get the money to go to college--any American--and pay it back either as a percentage of their income after they go to work, at tax time so they can't beat the bill, but even better, by rebuilding America.

	Consider this. What if every student in this country would give a year. or two of their lives, depending on how money they borrowed, either before or after they go to college, to pay off their college loan, working as teachers, police officers, working with children in trouble, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities, working to house the homeless. We could solve the problems of America from the grass roots up, not with government bureaucracy, but with people power, and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	We need to do it and we will if you will vote for us.

	And let me say this. We must--we must--finally, finally become the last great industrial nation to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all of our people. If we do not do that, we cannot afford to do these other things. The fastest-growing part of the federal deficit is in health care costs. Every month, 100,000 people have lost their health insurance coverage since George Bush has been president.

	I have offered the American people a national framework consistent with what Governor Dean has done here, to set national ceilings on health expenditures, but to deregulate and yet control more costs by giving people incentives to be in health care networks, leaving them the right to choose their providers, but reorganizing the insurance, the bureaucracy, and the government regulatory framework so we can save money.

	We are spending 30 percent more of our income than any country on earth, and a hundred billion dollars of it has nothing to do with whether you and I stay healthy. We need to get that waste out of the system and put it back in to covering the people who have no health insurance. And it is not just a tax issue. If we could bring health costs in line with inflation, by the end of this decade, we could be saving literally--literally--hundreds of billions of dollars a year in the private sector which could be freed up for investment, for jobs, for income, for growth. More than any tax incentive, more than any George Bush capital gains tax, more than anything we could do for the economy, bringing health costs in line with inflation would guarantee an economic boom in this country for small business and big business and farmers as well.

	Now, folks, there's a lot of other things I want to say, but every time I say that, old George Bush says, Bill Clinton is going to give you a health care system with the compassion of the KGB and the confidence of the House Post Office.

	It's a great line but it's not true. I would remind you--maybe Bernie Sanders ought to be around here--I'll remind you, George Bush has had the benefit of socialized medicine for the last twelve years. Maybe we ought to send him home and put him in like the rest of us, in the system we've got, and he could figure out whether he likes it or not.

	I got to reading the other day something Herbert Hoover said about Franklin Roosevelt in 1932. He said, "Every time Roosevelt talks, it sounds like what the Russians did." They haven't learned any new lines in sixty years.

	We have got to face this health care issue, and it is no accident that because of the plan that Al Gore and I have recommended to the American people, the Nurses Association has endorsed us, the first time they ever made a national endorsement; a big business coalition has endorsed a plan almost identical to ours; the American College of Physicians, 77,000 doctors, came out for a plan similar to ours. Even the head of the American Medical Association said this week that we were much more vigorous in pursuing cost controls and meeting the health care needs of the American people.

	Don't be suckered by this. We have got to turn this health care situation around to turn the country around, and we need your help to do it.

	And let me say just this last thing. There are many other issues we could discuss. I have to challenge you to be part of this change. I will say again, I can do nothing as president that does not involve your partnership in turning this country around in every workplace, in every school, in every place where health care is delivered, but we can do it.

	The thing that is hurting our country today is not the sweep of our problems, but the dimension of our disbelief. We have been told for so long we can't that we cannot imagine that we can. We are better than what is happening in America today. This country is better than that. This is a great, great country, with enormous potential.

	At the end of the Cold War, a vista is opening up to us of possibilities that we've never imagined before. And what you have to decide in the next thirty-eight days is whether we have the courage to seize those opportunities.

	Let me remind you that when we became a nation, when George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and the founding fathers convinced the thirteen disparate colonies that they ought to be not a confederation, but a nation--give up your own money system, give up your own economy, give up your own army, be a nation--we now take that for granted, but it wasn't foreordained that the Revolutionary War would be won or that we would become one nation. It was a miracle that our Constitution and Bill of Rights were created and bound us together.

	It happened because the American people had the courage to change. And all the time they were changing, there was a crowd of naysayers over in the corner, saying, things could get a lot worse, you'd better not try this.

	In the great Civil War when Abraham Lincoln was elected, let me remind you, we now take it for granted that the union would be preserved during the Civil War, that the Emancipation Proclamation would be made real in the lives of Americans. That isn't true. Abraham Lincoln got elected with 39 percent of the popular vote. The country was divided. His wife lost three brothers fighting for the South.

	It was a miracle that we stayed together, that we solved, at least in law, the issue of slavery. He gave his life for the Union. It happened because in the end enough of our people had the courage to change, not to listen to the people who said, we'd better not fight for this, we'd better give it up, we'd better just pack it in. America was a nice experiment. We'll let it go.

When Franklin Roosevelt was elected president in 1932, 25 percent, one in four of the American people, were out of work. In my state, half the people were living in abject poverty. And from the chains of his wheelchair, he lifted our country because we believed we could do better, we believed we were better than that, and we had the courage to change.

	I ask you here in Vermont to join Republicans and Independents and former Perot supporters and Democrats all across this country to seize your future. Give us thirty-eight days of your heart and your head and your energy. Talk to your friends all across this state and in other states. Tell them this election is about them and their future. It is about whether we're going to be one country again and whether we're going to go forward again.

	I believe we can do better. I am devoted to that. I come from the we-can school of what America is all about. We can do better and you can lead the way. Thank you and God bless you all. Thank you.

ECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGYFAMILY LEAVE POLICYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     U ÜT ÖT ÒT ÊT
 ¿T ºT µT «T ¤T ¢T ˜T	 Ý 	 Í 	 ­ 	 • 	 } 	 j 	 O 	 - 	  e: