Speeches\1984\dem\S84d1009.002SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)10/09STUMPCINCINNATIOHIOOH5,211 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Governor Celeste, my dear friend, for my much-appreciated introduction; to John Wiethe, your Democratic chair; to all of my friends who are gathered here today, especially the young students.

	Am I right that you have taken time off from regular classes?  Am I right that you would rather be in those classes?  Am I right that you have come anyway because you love your country so much you want to participate in the civic affairs today?

	Some things never change.

	Two days ago in Louisville, when Mr. Reagan and I debated, the election and the campaign of 1984 really began.  

	Today this campaign about our nation, and where we should go and who should lead it, is now focused so clearly so that each of you can make a decision.

	I've come here not just to speak to you but to listen to you.  I really believe that the genius of America is that we call our elected officers public servants.  We are not supposed to work for ourselves.  We are supposed to work for you.  We can't do that unless we listen as well as talk.

	So in a few moments, I want to take your questions and respond to your concerns. It is clear that in the election of 1984, the stakes could not be higher.  This election is about the values that we share, our vision of America, our plans for the future, and the leadership that we need to take us there.

	In America we believe in hard work, in self-reliance, and in independence.  We all are taught to carry those burdens.  But that's not the end of the American lesson.  We also are taught that we are a nation, a community, and a family, and that we should care for one another.

	Ours is not a selfish country.  We've never permitted citizenship to end with one's personal security.  We've always asked that we think about each other as well.

	We wouldn't think much of parents who thought about and cared just for the strong children in their family.  We expect parents to give everyone in their family a decent chance.

	So it is with our nation.  There are agreements between the generations to be kept.  For fifty years, this nation, led by Democrats, has built into the laws of our country these family values that I'm talking about, because that's what Social Security is all about.

	That's what Medicare is all about, that's what disability insurance is all about, and that's what student assistance is all about.

	We gather together as Americans to help each other out a little bit at certain points in our lives so that all of us can have better lives.  They bind us together as a family.  Now that issue is at the center of that campaign.  I'd rather be the underdog in a campaign about decency than to be ahead in a campaign only about self-interest.

	One of the central issues that confront us in dealing with our future is this federal debt--$263 billion.  We're paying for it right now.

	In Ohio, you're paying for it in unemployment, as is true throughout the industrial base.

	In rural Ohio, your farmers are having the worst year they've probably ever had.  When young people try to buy a home, when anybody tries to buy a home on an average income, look at those interest rates.  That's the debt.

	What's happening is that this debt is destroying America's position in international commerce.  That's very important to Ohio because you are a very important export state.  The machine-tool industry, the steel industry, the auto industry--throughout Ohio you depend upon exports, and you have to be competitive with imports.

	This is the worst trade year in American history.  Three million Americans have lost their jobs, and they are the best jobs.  More and more, what's going on in America is not just unemployment.  It is that Americans who had jobs that paid a decent wage that allowed them to live in middle-income brackets have lost those jobs and now have jobs paying four or five dollars an hour.  Try to take care of a family on an income like that.

	I have stood up and I have told the American people what I will do to get this deficit down.  The Republicans don't deny that it will work, and they don't offer an alternative.  Instead, they try to say that I want to tax the average American and they don't.  Do you believe that?

	In their 1981 tax plan, if you made $200,000 a year, you got $60,000 in tax relief.  If you made $30,000 a year or less, all taxes considered, your taxes went up.

	They are studying a sales tax and a flat tax.  Do you know who pays that?  That's right.  The same people who didn't get any help the first time around.  My plan protects everyone under $25,000 from any tax increases and is fairer to people under $70,000 than Mr. Reagan's.

	If you don't think there's some adjusting to do, just look at Vice President Bush's taxes that were reported the other day.  One of the wealthiest Americans, vice president of the United States, and pays a lower percentage of taxes than the janitor who has to clean up his office at night.  Americans know the difference.

	But within that budget, cuts have to be made as well.  You have to make choices as to what you are going to do.  I've made my choices, and so have the Republicans.  For four years, it has been these family programs that have been under the most severe attack.  The choice of values in this election can be seen in just two words:  Social Security.

	In our debate Sunday, the president denied that his administration had ever tried to cut Social Security.  Do you remember it that way?

	In fact, as all Americans know, he tried to cut Social Security by 25 percent.  He didn't get away with it because the Congress stopped him.

	Next they went after Medicare.  Shortly after taking office, they said the program was a part of the safety net that they promised to protect.  But they broke that promise.  They cut it by $15 billion, and then they tried to cut $20 billion more.

	Then this crowd went after the disabled.  I ask everybody listening to me today:  Not every family has a member that's disabled, but they are still human beings and they are still fellow Americans, and unless the rest of us worry about them, what's going to happen?  These people in many cases are the broken people in America.  Physically handicapped, disadvantaged, emotionally in deep difficulty, retarded--broken, sad, helpless, defenseless people who, if the rest of us don't care, will live the way no American should be asked to live.

	Under this administration, this past four years, something has happened that The New York Times called "official cruelty."  They let a computer terminate some four-hundred-thousand of these tragic people.  Turned them out in the streets.  These are the bag ladies walking around the streets.  The poor people sleeping over grills.  These sad people--and just cut them off.  The courts ordered them to restore them.  They paid no attention to the courts if they could avoid it.  They must let these people suffer.

	My question is:  What kind of people are we?  Let me give you one example of real life.  Sixteen years ago in Vietnam, Sergeant Benevites was severely wounded while saving eight comrades.  He had two pieces of shrapnel in his heart.  Both his arms and his legs were mangled, and one lung was punctured.

	In recognition of his heroism, the president properly gave Sergeant Benevites the Congressional Medal of Honor.  But a few months later, they took away Benevites's disability benefits.

	Last year the sergeant testified before the Congress, and I quote:  "The administration that put this medal around my neck also cut my disability benefits."

	Now, this is not something that was unknown to the White House.  That's one of the reasons you have to be careful when you elect a president.  You can't just ask, "How do they look?"  You also have to ask, "How do they feel?"

	Finally, the Republicans declared war on students.  In our debate, the president implied that he was just getting rid of freeloaders.  In fact, he tried to cut college loans by 50 percent and grants by 50 percent.  Now, I respect the presidency and I respect President Reagan.  I do not doubt his good intentions, but it seems to me that he just doesn't understand the effect of his proposals on millions of decent Americans who have a right to expect differently.

	Maybe he doesn't understand that his Social Security proposal meant a 40 percent cut for Americans who had to retire at sixty-two.  Maybe he doesn't understand that his Medicare proposals would have added $1,500 to the average hospital stay for senior citizens.  Maybe he doesn't understand that his education proposals meant that thousands of deserving students couldn't go on to college or vocational school or would have had to leave.

	Maybe he doesn't understand that his housing proposals meant no housing for thousands of seniors.  A few weeks ago, he went to Buffalo and stood in front of a senior citizens high-rise and dedicated it and forgot to mention that if he had had his way, that housing unit probably never would have been built.

	In the debate, the president swore again that he will not cut Social Security for those now on Social Security.  It is almost the identical pledge he made four years ago.

	I have two things to say.  First, it is the same pledge he made in 1980.  He broke that promise in 1981, and now, once again, his most trusted advisers are hatching plans to cut Social Security.  Not long ago, David Stockman, his chief budget officer, said, "Our biggest failure was that we didn't create a much bigger package of spending cuts at the beginning.  We should have gone after the big boulders--the social insurance programs."

	A few weeks ago, Mr. Reagan was asked what cuts he would make in his second term, and he said this:  "Take a look at the budgets I've already submitted, and look at the cuts that I asked for and was not given."

	What are those?  Social Security, Medicare, student assistance, and disability benefits.

	In other words, he was saying: "This is my pledge, but if you give me another chance, I promise to cut Social Security, Medicare, disability, and student loans."

	This is not just a question about whether current beneficiaries will continue to have Social Security.  His only pledge was to people now on Social Security.  The question is:  Will he keep it when he didn't last time?  But there's a deeper question about what he intends to do with the rest of you.

	I don't know what is worse:  cutting benefits for people who are on Social Security or asking people to pay into Social Security their whole lifetime and not give them any benefits when the time comes to retire.

	What about the person who's forty-six today and plans to retire?  Can he count on Social Security with that pledge?  What about the young person of twenty-six who's contributing into that Social Security trust fund?  Can he count on his benefits?  How do you plan a life if you don't know whether that's around?  There's that difference.

	I believe that Social Security is a moral commitment, not just to beneficiaries but to those who are now paying into the system.  I will honor that commitment as president of the United States.

	I will veto any legislation cutting back on Social Security benefits or protections provided by the present Social Security law for either present beneficiaries or those who will become beneficiaries, adjusted for inflation.

	This is one of the truest tests of a commitment to Social Security.  I have taken this pledge.  I think it is time for President Reagan to take that pledge without loopholes and make it to the American people right now before the election.

	In our debate, the president said something I agree with:  Medicare is in trouble.  The question is:  What are we going to do about it?  Their approach is to withdraw assistance to seniors so that they pay more and more of the costs of sickness.  My approach is the National Health Care Cost Containment Bill that prevents the escalation of these soaring health-care costs in America.

	What this election comes down to is a question of basic values.  When thousands of people are thrown off the disability roles, when old folks have to choose between heating and eating, when young people can't go on to college and vocational school and fulfill their dreams--if you had your way, you wouldn't permit that to happen.

	The people of Cincinnati would not permit that to happen.  The American people would not permit that to happen.  Neither should our president.  Maybe the president is out of touch with the impact of his policies.  Maybe he doesn't understand what he's done.

	But we need a president who knows what's going on.  We need a president who will say what John Kennedy said: "We are a great nation, but we can be greater."  We will, if we see our future and build on it and understand that decency toward one another is basic to that wonderful America that we want.  Thank you very, very much.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

[MISSING TEXT]

MONDALE:	I would do several things.  We should terminate that illegal war in Nicaragua.  I don't think it's any of our business.  That has strengthened the extremists in the Sandinista government.  It has been used by our enemies in the region and throughout the world to attack us for not pursuing the law and proper approach of nonintervention.  That should be stopped.

	I would press hard for negotiations.  I would support outstanding people like Mr. Duarte, who I think is an outstanding president of El Salvador.  Press for human rights.  Press for a resolution of those disputes and try to find a way to build hope and stability in the lives of the people of Central America.  They're human beings, too.

	What is and has been missing in this administration is:  (1) too much emphasis on force as the only answer; (2) too little emphasis on diplomacy as a possible answer; and (3) no emphasis in terms of working with our friends in the region.

	I will change that in all three respects.

	Q:  My name is Lynn Schwartz, and I'm from Walnut Hills High School.  I'd like to know what role you plan for Geraldine Ferraro in your administration.

	MONDALE:  I'm very proud of my running mate.  I think she's doing a great job.  Normally, when it comes to progress in human rights, America is first.  But in this instance, England has had Margaret Thatcher as prime minister.  Israel has had Golda Meir as prime minister.  India now has a woman prime minister.

	This is one place where we are a little bit behind.  I think it's time to catch up.  Two hundred years of denying a woman any place on the ticket is too long.

	I picked Geraldine Ferraro because of the talents and strengths she would bring to the vice presidency.  She is an experienced legislator.  She is an experienced prosecutor.  She served three terms in the House and is respected by all of her colleagues and is in a position of leadership there.

	She is ready for the vice presidency.  I intend to bring her, as vice president, into all of the aspects of the presidency.  First, because I want her to know exactly what she must do if she has to take over.

	Secondly, in so doing, she can help me in the Congress, around the world in diplomatic affairs, within our government in resolving differences and the rest, and in talking to the American people and listening to the American people about what we should be doing.

	I intend to do exactly that.  There will be no secrets kept from her because I want her to be fully ready to advise me and to become the president should that be necessary.

	Q:  My name is Richard Brown, and I'm an unemployed railroader from northern Kentucky.  I'd like to know, sir, do you have any plans to limit or reduce American money to foreign countries or imports from the foreign countries so that the American people, the American steelworkers, or the American money can be better spent here?

	MONDALE:  As you know, that's one of the big issues in this campaign.  All the way through, I have argued that it is the job of the president of the United States to stand up for American workers and American farmers and American businesses.

	This is the worst trade year in our history by far.  We will import $130 billion more than we export.  People like yourself are losing jobs.  Many other Americans are substituting poorer jobs for better jobs.

	The average job that substitutes for a job slot in exports pays $100 a week less than the job the worker had before, because the American standard of living increasingly is being adjusted downward to compete with cheap labor and cheap imports overseas.  This effect is exaggerated by the distorted currencies.

	It is a disaster.  I was in Peoria the other day.  When I went through the Peoria Caterpillar plant in 1980, they were working three shifts, and they were building a new plant--$300 million--to keep up with the world demand.  The best industry of its kind in the world.

	Now you go over there:  Eight thousand people have been laid off.  They have stopped building that plant halfway through.  Caterpillar is losing out to Kamatsu and others.

	These are our best jobs.  It is these debts that are doing it.  This is a big-machine tool town here.  Machine tools are basic to our defense.  You can't have a defense if your machine tool industry is over.  Ohio is a big machine tool state.

	Four years ago, we were the first nation on earth in machine tools.  We are now the fourth, behind the Soviet Union.

	Not only that:  this is just beginning.  In a year or two more of this, there will be very few machine tools built at all in the United States.  They will have the old U.S. brand name on it, but they are going to be made overseas.

	That's our future.  That's the future of our kids.  What are they supposed to do when they get into the workforce if we are not careful?  So we have to get the debt down.  We have to get the dollar reflecting its real value.  We have to get tough on trade.

	I'm going to look our friends in the eye and say, "Look, you're going to stop this now.  We permit you unlimited access to our markets, and you close your markets to us."  Those days are over.  We're going to play this thing.

	This is a central question, and they don't want to talk about it.  It's not just your jobs.  Look at the farms.  Any farmer in Ohio listening to me today knows that this is the worst year ever.  What happened?

	For thirteen years, farm exports grew every year.   Farm income remained stable.  Farm program costs went down.  Then, in 1981, farm exports went down like a crowbar.  They dropped 20 percent.  Farm income, bankruptcy rates, and everything went right along with them.  What happened?

	It's these debts.  That's why Mr. Reagan doesn't want to talk about this debt.  This debt is like a huge boulder in the center of the road.  You can't drive around it.  You have to get rid of it, or your future, your jobs, your farm prosperity, Ohio's economic future is threatened.

	We can't allow this nation to be shrunk.  My generation grew up believing--I see a couple of you look about my age--when we grew up, we knew that my generation would do better than my parents."  That was the way it always was, wasn't it?

	Now we're not so sure, and it's this debt, the trillion dollars we're dumping on our kids to pay our bills.  It's the shrinking of American exports markets.  It's the swamping of America with these cheap foreign imports, and with it goes a shrinking of the American dream.

	I'm not going to tolerate it.  We're going to turn it around and fight, build our future and make the future here for our people.

	Q:  My name is Nancy Cooper from Cincinnati.  Mr. Mondale, a bilateral nuclear weapons freeze between the United States and Russia is verifiable and is vital to our national security and to our economy.  How do you and President Reagan differ on nuclear arms control?

	MONDALE:  We will undoubtedly be debating that a week from this coming Sunday.  I hope you'll tune in, because this is one of the deepest differences.  Of all the things that matter is preventing those god-awful weapons from going off, because if they go off, that's it.  It's over.  We're talking about the human species here.  It's that important.

	This president has opposed every effort of every president of both political parties to control nuclear weapons since the bomb went off.  Didn't make any difference whether it was Nixon or Ford or Kennedy, Johnson, Carter--he opposed every effort.

	He is the first president since Hoover not to meet with his Soviet counterpart.  For four years, we heard talk about winning nuclear wars; about firing warning shots; about a margin of superiority, which is an arms race; about evil empires.  What we had was not arms control.  We had an arms race instead.

	Now every conceivable weapon is being built on both sides.  We're spending our wealth to do so, and we're far less secure than if we'd both stop it, with an arms agreement, stop this madness before it destroys us all.

	Now, you need to be strong.  I'm not going to allow any weakness in the American defense system.  But to do that, you have to have a sensible defense.  I don't think it helps to pay $7,000 for a coffeepot.  I think most of you can find one here in downtown Cincinnati for a little less than $7,000.  Or $500 for a $5 hammer.  I think the local hardware store here doesn't [missing text] better than that, does it?  That's running through billions of dollars for a gun that won't shoot.

	The other part of it is arms control.  When we approved SALT II, every one of the military Joint Chiefs of Staff agreed to it.  Why did they do that?  Because they wanted it.  Because with arms control, we're stronger.

	This president for four years sounded like President Reagan.  This last week or two, he's trying to sound like Walter Mondale.  Which Reagan would be president if you re-elected him?

	You know who I am.  I'll keep us strong, but part of our strength is to get control of these weapons, to support the freeze.  I will do as John Kennedy did.

	Remember in 1960, the atmosphere was being poisoned, with radioactive waste getting into the milk.  Strontium 90 they called it.  That was a time of tremendous tension between the United States and the Soviet Union.  Kennedy stood up and said, "We're going to stop testing in the atmosphere," and challenged the Soviet Union to do the same thing.

	In three months, I think, we had a treaty signed in which both nations agreed not to do it anymore.  Now you don't hear about Strontium 90 and cancer.

	That's the kind of leadership we need again--to keep strong, but to stand up and take bold steps that challenge the Soviets to cut through this fog of suspicion.  We have a lot of differences.  We ought to meet on the common ground of survival.  I will do that.

	Q:  My name is Shannon Byers.  I'm a student at Xavier University.  My question to you is when you are elected president, in reducing the federal deficit, do you think you will find it necessary to go into the federal aid for students and still decrease that, or would you try to create additional programs for the college-bound student?

	MONDALE:  As you may know, all my life I've fought for student assistance.  I think it's one of these basic agreements we make together as a family.  Their attempts to cut back on student assistance, on scientific research, on training--all of these things--cost us a lot more than is saved.  As president, I am going to support those programs.

	Let me tell you one story that I think tells why this issue is so important.  Two weeks ago, the president and I appeared jointly at an Italian-American Foundation in Washington.  During that speech, the president made a moving story about Dr. Giordano, who saved his life when he was shot.

	The story was, and it's accurate, that this poor immigrant family--like so many of the rest of us--came over here, worked hard, had a bright young son in the family.  He went through medical school and saved, in this case, the president's life.  That's really America at its best.

	Two days later, Dr. Giordano wrote a letter to the editor.  It said, "Mr. President, I'm glad we could save your life, but you should know I got through medical school with the help of a low-cost federal loan."  He said, "You should also know that most of the people working with me that day got more help than I did."  Finally, he said, "Those modern miracles of medicine that saved your life were mostly the result of the federal support for health research and the National Institutes of Health, the support for the great university research centers of our country."

	Finally, he said, "I want you to know that my father and mother are on Social Security, and my dad got a little help from Medicare last year."

	The point is this:  Helping Dr. Giordano, we didn't lose money.  Giordano, I'll bet, has paid that loan back through higher taxes several times, and I'll bet he doesn't regret a penny of it.  It produced new talent in America.  The support for medical research doesn't make us poorer--it saves lives.  It extends years of healthy living.

	America's greatest source of wealth is the mind and the spirit. When we invest in our kids and get the best out of them, when we invest in science and research and get all we can out of them, we're going to be clear out ahead of the rest of the world, and nobody can touch us.  When you pull back in those areas, you're really pulling back the future of America.

	And when you talk about the trade problem, read the newspapers.  More and more in the last three or four years, you'll find the Europeans, the Japanese crowding us in scientific areas in which we used to have the whole thing to ourselves:  Europe in high-energy physics,  Japan in that fifth-generation computer.  That's our future going there, and we've got to get it back in the United States.  I believe investing in education is the best thing we can do.

	My dad was a minister.  I was at Fort Knox, Kentucky for two years, and the biggest vacation we took--I think I took it three times--came up to Cincinnati.  Four bucks in my pocket.  But, if it hadn't been for the GI Bill, I couldn't have afforded law school, I don't think.

	I've paid the government back several times.  I don't mind it, and I want your generation and all generations in American history to get the very best.  I want you to learn.  I want you to challenge yourselves.  I want you to stretch that mind.  I want you to think of new things and dream of new dreams.  I want your life to be thrilling, and I want to help you.

	Q:  Mr. Mondale, my name is Joe Mazie.  I live in Westwood. I would like to know what your stand on capital punishment is.

	MONDALE:  I do not support that.  I'm an old prosecutor, and in my opinion, it's tougher to get a conviction because the jury knows it.  Occasionally, you make a mistake.

	But I've got other ways of really being tough on criminals, because I think we've got to be.  There's got to be tough punishment.  I think when a serious crime is committed, there should be no plea bargaining.  And if the person is found guilty, they ought to go the slammer and, if it's a serious crime, for a long time.

	Secondly, I want to do something about the real source of crime in America.  There are many different sources.  But do you know where most crime comes from today?  Drugs.  Twenty-five percent of all murders, 35 percent of all burglaries, and over 50 percent of all robberies are committed by people supporting their drug addiction.

	In the last four years, the use of cocaine and heroin has soared in this country.  Four years ago, twenty tons of cocaine came into this country.  This year, I think it's going to be something like eighty tons of cocaine.  Every emergency room and every hospital in America will tell you that the number of deaths and health problems associated with drugs is rising.  Every law enforcement officer will tell you that you're being swamped by drugs.  I don't know what the situation is here in Cincinnati, but you'll be lucky if it isn't the same.  Because it's running throughout the country, poisoning our young people, and fueling crime.

	Now, this is a foreign invasion of America, and it's right here now.  I proposed a couple of weeks ago taking the Air Force and the Navy.  Today we intercept only 180 of 18,000 planes bringing illegal drugs into this country.  We intercept only about 8 percent of the boats bringing in these drugs.  We know where they're coming from.  Why don't we use the Navy?  Why don't we use the Air Force?  Why don't we get tough with these people and stop that stuff before it gets into our country?

	Secondly, we ought to get tough with countries that are participating in this drug traffic.  I wouldn't give a dime of foreign aid to any country that was participating, producing, or a part of the drug traffic that's coming into this country.  I'd say, "No more of it."

	You need to eradicate those crops.  You need to interdict them.  You need to get tough here at home on drug pushers and drug users.  In other words, let's do the sensible, strong, tough things that make a difference.

	Both Geraldine Ferraro and myself are not new to this issue.  We've both been prosecutors.  We know what this problem is all about, and we're going to get tough on crime in a way that makes a difference.  Thank you very much.

	Thanks for your great questions.  Thank you very much.

CENTRAL AMERICACRIME, DRUG-RELATEDDEATH PENALTYDISABLED PERSONSFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALHOMELESS PERSONSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMANUFACTURINGNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SENIOR CITIZENSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVETERANSWOMEN CANDIDATESBUDGET DEFICITEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDMEDICARESOCIAL SECURITY"     Fu u u u  u
 ıt t Ît ·t ›t €t €t –t 	 û	 è	 |	 o	 _	 2	 	 	 Ù 	 Á 	 ≥ 	 ü 	 Å 	 r 	 ] 	 U  E  7     e: