Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1022.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/22STUMPSeattleWASHINGTONWAPike Place Market2,341 WORDS

	Twelve more days! Wow! Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.

	I want to say, first of all, I'm glad to be back in Seattle. I love this crowd. I love this town. I love some of the signs I see here. "Vietnam Veterans for Clinton," thank you very much. "Pro-Jobs, Pro-Choice, Pro-Education, Pro-Clinton." Here's a little southern fried pride, "I'm voting for y'all."

	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say first how grateful I am to my friend and your governor, Booth Gardner, and all these other western governors for joining me here. This has been an historic tour. We have now eight western governors. Eleven of the sixteen governors of the west are Democrats, and there is a new Democratic party in America today leading the cause for change.

	I want to thank your mayor, Norm Rice, for his strong support and for his leadership of this city and for his leadership for the cause of cities in our country.

	And I want to ask you to give me some help in our efforts to change this country. Send Patty Murray to the United States Senate. And Maria Cantwell and George Tamblin and Mike Kriedler to the Congress. And elect Mike Lowry governor. I want to work with him here. We need him there.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the campaign of the incumbent has begun to resemble the old Peanuts cartoon strip where Lucy says, "If you can't be right, be wrong as loud as you can." They have had the White House so long that they've run out of energy, run out of ideas, run out of direction, and they ought to be run out of town. And with your help, we can.

	All they know how to do is to say the words "tax and spend," but look at their record. Look at their record. It was Mr. Bush who said, "Read my lips," and then signed the second-biggest tax increase on the middle class in history; Mr. Bush who raised spending higher than any president in the last thirty years; Mr. Bush, according to the conservative Heritage Foundation, who increased regulation on the private sector more than anybody in the last twenty years. And he found it very inconvenient because he wanted to run down my state. He says it's a little state. We have the governor of Wyoming here. He likes little states. We were in Montana last night. They like little states.

	It's inconvenient for the Republicans because now my little state ranks first in the country in job growth, second in the low tax burden, and has the lowest per capita spending in the country, and we're still increasing investment in jobs and education and promoting people.

	And that's what we're going to do in the United States if you give us a chance to do that.

	There's been a lot of talk in the last few days about who represents real change. Let me tell you, folks, there are of all the choices you have in this election, only one has never been part of the Washington insider establishment, only one has ever balanced a government budget, only one has ever done anything to restrain the influence of lobbyists and promote political reform, and only one has ever passed a program through a contentious legislature to increase jobs and improve education. And that candidate is the candidate of the new Democratic party, Bill Clinton and Al Gore.

	My fellow Americans, this election has taken on a remarkable texture in the last few weeks as we have broadened the base of our campaign beyond party to people, embracing Republicans and Democrats and Independents and former Perot supporters.

	The Portland Oregonian, for the first time in the 142-year history of the newspaper, endorsed a Democrat for president.

	Twenty-four retired admirals and generals, including the deputy commander in chief of Operation Desert Storm and the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they cared about the future of their country.

	In northern California, twenty-one executives of companies that created more jobs in the last four years than the Bush administration in the entire country created endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket even though two-thirds of them were Republicans.

	This is not a matter of party. It's a matter of people and the country and the future of America. We've got to change this country. Ladies and gentlemen, the change we need will revitalize the private sector and restore our cities. The change we need says no to trickle-down economics, no more across-the-board tax cuts for nothing, no more tax cuts that make no distinction between a vacation home, a sports car, and a factory. We will say we believe that we ought to create more millionaires in America, but we've got a nutty idea. We want to do it the old-fashioned way by putting the rest of America back to work, and lifting the incomes of the people of this country.

	We want a tax system that says to people, "If you want to lower your taxes, there's a simple way to do it. Invest in a new factory, start a new business, explore new technologies, start new transportation systems, lift up the people of this country, put them back to work, and you can make a lot of money the old-fashioned way in America, moving toward the twenty-first century.

	We believe--we believe that every dollar by which we reduce defense should not be squandered on the S&L bailout or higher health care costs, but should be reinvested in jobs, or transportation and communications, and environmental clean-up to restore the American economy and lift the American people. We believe it can be good for the American economy.

	We believe we can create jobs by preserving the environment, not destroying it. We believe that the environment is preconditioned--is a precondition to a strong American economy, and the Clinton-Gore ticket will lift up the environment and the economy in the United States as we move toward the twenty-first century.

	We believe--we believe that we must finally become the last--but hopefully still the best--advanced nation in this world to at last control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans. I'm tired of being told we can't do it.

	We believe that there is a place in this country for a great partnership between government and the people and their private lives, but there are limits to the amount of intrusion that the government should have in people's private lives. They ought to give people a good lettin' alone on things that are truly private.

	We don't want big government, but we want a government that works. We want a government that works for a change. We want the lobbyists to have less influence, the ordinary people to have more. We want the American people to be challenged to be more responsible, we want a new sense of community in America where we are coming together without regard to race, or region, or age, or sexual orientation, or income. We believe we can be one nation under God, indivisible. We believe that.

	My fellow Americans, this is not about the Republican charges. I got tickled in the last debate. Mr. Bush said, "Well, the economy of Arkansas is terrible. Their income grew at only one-third of the national average." Then the next day, that great organ of the Democratic party, the Wall Street Journal, said, "There he goes again. Income in Arkansas increased 40 percent more than the national average for the last ten years." It's not about that.

	This election is not about labels, and it's not about leaders, it's about people. For all the well-known people I cited that have endorsed this campaign, the people who have meant the most to me are those that I have met along the way who embody the courage, and the determination, and the hopes of ordinary Americans.

I met a woman in Pueblo, Colorado, yesterday who had seven children between the ages of eight and fifteen, who said that she was worried about her kids, she could barely feed them, and she didn't want her kids to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents, and she was going to support our ticket.

	I met a woman in Orlando, Florida, eighty-three years old, who said, "I have never voted before, but I'm going to vote for you because I'm worried about my country." Eighty-three years old.

	I met a man and a woman in a rodeo arena in Ocala, Florida, in the heart of conservative America, who gave me a picture of their son from Ocala, who died of AIDS, and they said, "I want somebody who will talk about this issue all the time, not just at election time, and who will try to do something about it."

	I remember the homeless veteran I met on the streets in Tampa, Florida, who said, "Governor, I served my country in uniform, and I'm ready to work tomorrow. I ought to have the dignity of having a place to live if I'm willing to work. Will you give me a country where I can work and live? That's the kind of America we ought to have."

	But I also want you to know there are a lot of America's winners who know we can do better--people in little factories in New Hampshire who had to start all over again, who are working their way back into economic health in the snows of New Hampshire even as we are here in this beautiful place today; people in the Midwest who had lost their jobs who've now started new ones. All over the country there are people who know we can compete and win if we only have a government that's on our side, not on our back; a government that's fair to everybody, not just the privileged few; a government that brings us together instead of dividing us; a government that faces our problems and tells the people the truth instead of denying them until election time and then try to throw money at them at the last minute. I tell you, we can do better than that.

	Ladies and gentlemen--twelve more days, we got. Twelve more days. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, about this time in the campaign of 1960, John Kennedy said to the American people that at this stage of the election, the choice is about more than the candidates: it is about the people themselves. You have to decide what kind of people you are, what kind of values you have, and what kind of future you want.

	This is an historic election which will shape the future of America well into the twenty-first century. We are at the end of the Cold War, and before us lies a daunting array of challenges and a glittering array of opportunities. The years ahead of us can be the best years America ever had if we have the courage, the courage to change. Make no mistake about it, this is a race between hope and fear, between the courage to change and being stuck in the status quo, between the "things-can-be-better" crowd and the "things-could-be-worse" crowd. In the whole history of America, once a generation we have always had this conflict between the "things-can-be-better" crowd and the "things-could-be-worse" crowd. Every time Mr. Bush steps up to the plate, he's part of the "things-could-be-worse" crowd. He vetoed the Family and Medical Leave Bill twice because he said, "Things could be worse." I say--I say--if seventy-two other nations can have family and medical leave when there's a baby born or a sick parent, we can do better.

	He refused to take on the daunting challenge of health care because he didn't want to tackle the health insurance companies and the bureaucracies and the others that are making a killing out of a system that costs 30 percent more than any other on earth, refuses 100,000 people health insurance a month, because, he says, "Things could be worse." I say, we can do better. We can do much better.

	He even vetoed the women's health care bill--$300 million for breast cancer, for osteoporosis, for ovarian cancer. Why? Because he caved in to the far right because he was afraid that things could be worse. And now, all over America, there are Republicans whose children have diabetes, and people who live in families where there are medical problems which will not be attacked because that veto was sustained. I say, we can do better than that. I'm part of the "we-can-do-better" crowd, and I want you to be, too.

	I want you to look at today's paper. Look at this administration. You've got the FBI investigating the State Department--Justice Department--and the Justice Department investigating the FBI. You've got the CIA and the Justice Department fighting over which one of them really lied to a federal judge about the Iraq scandal. And now it turns out that the State Department was not only rifling through my files, but actually investigated my mother, a well-known subversive.

	Funny? It would be funny if it's not so pathetic. This is a crowd so desperate to hold onto power they have forgotten that the purpose of power in a democratic government is to use it to help people and to lift them up. That's what this is about. That's what this is about.

	I want you to be on the cutting edge of change. I want the West to lead a new day in America, a new Democratic party, a new democratic America, a new direction for this country. Lift this country up. You can lead the way. You can bring it home. And together on November 3rd, we will begin to make this country what it ought to be.

	Thank you, and God bless you. Thank you.
ENDORSEMENTS--PERSONS-ON-THE-STREETGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHEALTH CARE--WOMENINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     ¤4 p4 j4 f4 ^4
 S4 N4 I4 B4 84 64 %4 4	 ª 	 ‡ 	 Z 	 ? 	 - 	  e: