Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0903.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/03STUMPELLIS ISLANDNEW YORKNY1,523 WORDS

	Seventy-five  years ago, a young girl arrived on this island from a city in central Greece, the cradle of democracy.

	She arrived with her parents and three sisters, after a long voyage on a converted coal ship; the quarters were crowded, the weather was terrible, the food was worse; the fare for the six of them was $80.

	Like the millions of others, who have passed through here on their way to America, she spent one long and fearful day in quarantine.  Her father called this island the Palace of Tears, because of that fear; the fear that, for reasons of health, they would be denied their place in the Promised Land.

	But she and her family passed that test; and together, they had their first meal in America--lamb chops, naturally, being Greeks; and French Fries, naturally, being new Americans.

	That young girl, so timid at first, got on well in America.  She studied hard, she learned English, and she worked afternoons and summers in the shoe factories of Haverhill, Massachusetts; to earn the tuition she would need to become the first Greek-American young woman in her community to go on to college.

	Later, she went to New Hampshire, to teach school--and to lay the groundwork for the 1988 presidential primary campaign.

	Tomorrow, that woman, my mother, will celebrate her 85th birthday.

	Along the way, she met and married a young Greek-American doctor named Panos Dukakis, who had arrived at Ellis Island the year before she did, with $25 in his pocket, and the American dream in his heart.

	And just about two months from today, if all goes well, their son will be elected president of the United States.

	My friends, their story is your story; it is our story; it is the story of America.

	It is the story of the most diverse nation on earth, forging out of that wonderful diversity a spirit of patriotism and community and caring that is unmatched anywhere else on earth.

	It is the story of a practical, realistic, problem solving people united by a unique and powerful dream; the story of a people committed to the principle of opportunity not just for some, but for every citizen, no matter who they are or where they come from or what the color of their skin.

	America's story is the immigrant's story.  Newcomers arriving, some on slave ships, to our lasting shame; some on converted coal ships, like my mother; immigrants from every corner of the earth drawn by the torch of freedom.

	And from the beginning, the immigrants who have come to America seeking a better life for themselves, have worked in America to create a better life for us all.

	They came in search of religious freedom, and built the moral foundation of a free society.

	They came in search of economic opportunity, and made America the most powerful economic force the world has ever known.

	They came in search of refuge from persecution, and strengthened our resolve to defend freedom around the world.

	My friends, what an inheritance we have!  And what a responsibility we have.

	For we must never forget that we--like those who built our nation--must have our minds on the future.  For America's dream is now in our hands.

	We must never forget--though some would have us do so - that the dream belongs not just to the privileged few--but to all of us.

	We must never forget--though some would have us do so - that today the rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer, and those in the middle must work twice as hard just to stay in place.

	We must never forget--though some already have--that in America no one is irrelevant.  In America, everyone matters.  We stand by our neighbors, and we stand up for each other.

	Last month, unemployment was up again.  Over 200,000 more of our citizens denied the opportunity to work and earn and support themselves and their families.  One high-ranking government official dismissed those people as irrelevant.  My friends, those 200,000 Americans are not mere statistics.  And they are certainly not irrelevant.

	They're our neighbors.  They are honest, hard-working people in the American dream.

	Never forget---though some would have us do so--that we have a responsibility not to be satisfied; not to be complacent; not to rest until all our citizens are full recipients of our shared dream.

	And this fall, we must choose--as those who came before us chose--between accepting the world as it is, and accepting our responsibility to make it better.

	Between sitting back--and going forward.

	Between settling for second best--and working to make this the best America.

	We must be doers, not just talkers.

	We must be producers, not just consumers.

	We must be leaders, not just followers.

	And we must never let this country down.

	Like the Minutemen of 1775, we must be prepared.  We must be militarily strong.  But we must understand, as well, that military strength cannot be sustained without economic strength, and that when all is said and done, our greatest strength comes not from what we have, but from who we are; not from what we possess, but from what we believe.

	We believe in opportunity for all Americans; and we will not rest until every American has the chance for a good job at a good wage; until every school is a good school; until all our children are able to rise as high as their energy and skills will take them; until the cancer of racism and anti-Semitism and discrimination of all kinds has been banished from this land.

	We believe that the strength of America comes from the strength of our families; and we will not rest until we have brought the prosperity of America home to every family in America; until every family has basic health insurance and a decent place to live; until our older Americans are given the dignity and the security they deserve after a lifetime of hard work; and we will not rest until we have won the war against drugs.

	We believe in the rule of law, and we will not rest until we have restored competence and integrity and high standards to the highest offices in this land.

	We believe in the future, and we will not rest until we have built an America that is so strong no nation can challenge us; so productive no nation can compete with us; so true to its purpose that no force on this earth can divide us; so committed to the American dream that we have made that dream come true for every citizen in every region of this land.

	Behind me today is not only the Statue of Liberty, but the American flag.  I don't know what some people see when they look at that flag; but I know what I see.  I see a quarter of a trillion faces of all ages, all colors, all shapes, and all sizes; I see a nation dedicated to a belief in individual right, strengthened by a commitment to family values, united by an understanding that for all our diversity, we are one nation, one people, one community.

	When I look at that flag, I see a dream that millions have crossed seas for and borne unendurable hardships for; a dream that many have died for and that we live for.

	I see the faces of generations present and past; of heroes and patriots, soldiers and tradesmen, teachers and just plain citizens; I see the faces of my children, who are here in spirit; of my mother, who is here in person; and of my father, who I believe also is here, in some way that we, blessed as we are, are not given fully to understand.

	Above all, I see in that flag a trust that we together must keep, so that our children and grandchildren in their time, will be able to stand, as we stand today, proudly and at peace by "the sea-washed sunset gates" of America; here, beside "the mighty woman whose torch is imprisoned lightning, and whose name is the mother of exiles;" here beneath the lamp of liberty so boldly lifted beside "the golden door."

	My friends, America isn't just a piece of land or just another country.  We are a nation of immigrants who came to where there are no kings, or gulags, or death squads; to where there are no concentration camps; to where there is no one to tell us where to pray or what to print or how to think.

	We are the inheritors of a proud and glorious past.

	We are the trustees of a great and successful democratic experiment.

	We are determined, even as we celebrate the past, that we will one day leave our own footprints on Freedom's Trail.

	And we are confident, as we turn to face the future, that the best America is not behind us, the best America is yet to come.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMFLAG/FLAG ISSUESUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALIMMIGRATION     Ê! ≤! ¨! ®! †!
 ï! ê! ã! ! w! u! u! j!	 h 	 J 	 0 	     e: