Speeches\1996\rep\S96R0918.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)09/18STUMPWEST HILLSCALIFORNIACACHAMINADE COLLEGE PREPARATORY HIGH SCHOOL2,443 WORDS

	As you know, Bill Clinton and I are engaged in a public debate on drugs, and that is good, because the scale of the problem demands it. But even in the heat of a campaign, it is important to step back a moment and remind ourselves why this issue matters; to talk about the flesh-and-blood reasons that we care. That is what I am going to do today.

	One fact in this debate stands out for me. If a young man or woman does not use drugs by the age of twenty-one, there is virtually no chance he or she will ever use them. And that decision is usually made between the ages of fifteen and seventeen.

	Let me tell you what that means. It means that every violent crime of a desperate addict, every AIDS death from a dirty needle, every life that ends from an overdose in a gutter, with no one to mourn--all these things come down to a child and a choice. A child at the most vulnerable and impressionable stage of his or her life. A choice that can follow them forever.

	Look through the eyes of a seventeen-year-old--of any race or region--and look at the world they see. Two-thirds say they know where to buy marijuana within a day. Almost 60 percent say they know someone who uses LSD, heroin or cocaine. Forty percent have seen a drug deal in their own neighborhood.

	It is a world of temptation and confusion. A world where their heroes die for heroin and not for honor. A world where over a million more children than just four years ago have given up and given in to drugs. A world that, too often, leads a child from drugs to petty crimes to more and harder drugs and to more serious crime.

	I utterly reject that this is acceptable in America. I utterly reject that the world of our children must include addiction. We must begin the job of ending this disgrace. And those who are content or complacent, without a serious plan or direction for change, have no place in this fight and no business leading our nation.

	I know that changing the choices of children is not simple, because their minds and motivations are not simple. And I also know that this task is not purely political.

	But this much we can say with confidence: Children are not at fault for this crisis. It is their nature to test limits. It is the role of adults to maintain those limits, with courage and confidence. If standards are not treated seriously, they are not taken seriously. If our actions contradict our words, our lip service means little. When adult worlds, the entertainment community, and government fail to define a confident standard on drug use, our children are endangered.

	There can be no question that the perceptions of a 15-year-old are shaped by music, movies, and fashion. This is not a matter of debate; it is the daily struggle of countless families.

	And there can be no question that the trendiest trend of our popular culture is the return of drug use. Stars too young to have seen the devastation of drugs in the 1960s now seem intent on repeating it. The marijuana leaf and the heroin needle have become the symbols of fashionable rebellion.

	Two of the most widely praised movies of the past two years, Pulp Fiction and Trainspotting, feature the romance of heroin. The latter has been reviewed as "the first funny, upbeat look at heroin addiction." Just what America needs.

	Fashion magazines feature models what is known as the "junkie look." Rock musicians create and celebrate a culture of heroin. And some have become role models, even in death. When a member of one rock band died recently, demand for his brand of heroin rose dramatically after his overdose.

	There is a cultural problem with all drugs, but heroin has become a symbol, embodying an attitude. A fascination with risk and death. The attraction of self-destruction.

	I have been making a case that I will continue to make. Our popular culture owes a duty to the fragile world of children. The market is not the only standard by which we live. It is possible to entertains without debasing us. Free expression does not require the destruction of our children's character.

	Just a few years ago, heroin was a taboo restricted to the margins of society. Now drug education curriculums have been revised to warn eighth graders about its increasing popularity.

	I have a message to the fashion, music, and film industries: take your influence seriously. Respect your talent and power. Stop the commercialization of drug abuse. Stop the glorification of slow suicide. Not because you are frightened of public outrage, but because you are responsible adults with duties and standards.

	In politics, we are not exempt from those duties and standards. And I also believe that political failures have complicated the choices of children.

	I have spent several weeks calling attention to the actions--and inaction--of the Clinton administration.

	Days after taking office, Bill Clinton slashed the staff in the Office of National Drug Control Policy by 83 percent--from 146 employees to 25.

	This was followed by a conspiracy of silence on this issue. Of over 1,600 presidential statements, addresses and interviews in 1993, illegal drugs was mentioned just thirteen times. In 1994, of 1,700 presidential statements, the subject was mentioned eleven times. In formal addresses to the nation during those years, the drug problem was never mentioned, not even once.

	And while the rest of the administration ignored the war on drugs, Surgeon General Jocelyn Elders suggested that illegal drugs should be legalized.

	The administration's indifference to the issue was seen elsewhere, too. Between 1992 and 1996, the Department of Defense's drug interdiction budget was cut by 53 percent. In 1994, the administration proposed cutting the number of drug enforcement agents by more than 600. And even as drug use began to spiral, federal drug prosecutions fell by 10.3 percent from 1992 to 1995. President Clinton's National Security Council dropped the drug war from one of the three top priorities to number twenty-nine on a list of twenty-nine. In just one year, the Clinton administration let two million commercial trucks pass through the busiest point of entry without seizing a single kilogram of heroin...[missing text].

	Any one of these things would be disturbing, but not decisive. Taken together, they communicate that drugs are no longer a national priority. The President has sent up a white flag of surrender. It is a naked failure of leadership.

	And I do believe this sends an implicit message to parents and children. The adult world of politics is not serious about drugs; it is casual, permissive, and liberal. Zero-tolerance has become live-and-let-live.

	Sometimes this implicit message has become very direct--and directed at children themselves. Bill Clinton, you'll remember, was asked on MTV, before an audience of teenagers, if he would inhale marijuana given the chance again. Laughing, he told them, "Sure, if I could. I tried before."

	Think about that for a moment. Teenagers, many struggling with the lure of drugs, have seen a United States president make light of his own experimentation with drugs. A president is supposed to show the way. This president has shown his moral confusion. We will never have a firm, confident, national message against drug when our leaders are ambivalent themselves.

	Americans should understand, however, that our political resolve must be local as well as federal. When a local community shuts down an open-air drug market, it is also a signal that adults are serious about drug use. When local police strictly enforce the law against marijuana, that is also a visible symbol of strength. By proving our resolve, at every level, we make children less likely to doubt it and less likely to test it.

	Adults, of course, are on the front line in the lives of children. Their message is strengthened when it is reinforced, not undermined, by our culture and our government. In preventing drug use, there is nothing more dangerous than resignation, and nothing more effective than communication.

	At one time not long ago, all these institutions of the adult world worked together in the interests of children. Movies and music condemned drug dealers as villains and drug users as losers. Nancy Reagan set a simple standard of "Just say no," and politicians, of both parties, pounded that message home. Parents became more educated and involved. We communicated a clear, unmistakable message. And we made a clear, unmistakable difference.

	Elite opinion, of course, dismissed this effort. As recently as last week, The New York Times Sunday Magazine published an article which flatly asserted that the "Just say no to drugs" campaign was a failure.

	That is flat wrong. Between 1979 and 1992, overall illegal drug use fell by half. We reached and changed the world of our children. We convinced them that drugs were unfashionable and dangerous and wrong. And we saved many from empty lives and early deaths. That is the power of confident conviction. That is the power of drawing bright lines in our national life. That is the standing and authority and hope we must find again.

	In truth, as Bill Bennett points out, the war on drugs in the 1980s was one of the greatest social policy victories of our times. Can you imagine a 50 percent reduction in violent crime? Or a 50 percent reduction in out-of-wedlock births? These things would be hailed as miracles. Yet, on drugs, this triumph was abandoned at the moment of our success. And this is why the dangerous resurgence of drugs is the greatest social policy failure of our times. We came so far, but have lost so much.

	Through much of August, President Clinton traveled around the country by train, telling Americans that the nation is on the right track. Let me suggest, Mr. President, that when it comes to the war on drugs, we are on the wrong track.

	Both victory and defeat are temporary against drugs, because our effort must be repeated each year, as new children cross the threshold into a world of hard choices. Every child is another chance to make things right--to recover our nerve. So often our children are encouraged to "Just Do It." That's good advice on the basketball court or the football field. But when it comes to advice about drug use, the Dole administration will set a very different but simple standard: "Just Don't Do It." When we are accused of being simplistic and repetitive, we will repeat it again. "Just Don't Do It." And we will honor and reinforce those words with actions.

	As president, I will ensure that the Office of National Drug Control Policy is adequately staffed and given the tools to do the job. Never again will this office be abandoned by the president and left with twenty-five people.

	As president, I will not preside over a conspiracy of neglect. I will speak out on drugs every month that I am in office. I will not let one month go by without adding my voice to the chorus of the concerned who will say to our young people: "Just Don't Do It."

	As president, I will encourage the movie, television, and music industries to embrace a no-use, zero-tolerance message in the products they market to America's youth. I will invite parents groups, educators, and members of the entertainment industry to a White House conference to establish a voluntary strategy to end the glamorization of drugs.

	As president, I will ensure that the Justice Department and federal prosecutors throughout the United States take a hard line against drug dealers. When it comes to fighting drug crime, our nation will keep its word.

	As president, I will spearhead the creation of 1,000 new community-based anti-drug coalitions, involving parents, religious leaders, businessmen, educators, policemen, and health care professionals in spreading the word against drug abuse.

	And as president, I will establish a concrete, measurable goal as the test of our success: a 50 percent reduction in teen drug use by the end of the year 2000. This is not impossible. We have done it before. We must do it again.

	When we say, "Just Don't Do It," the first question from our children--as anyone knows who has had children--is "Why?" We can answer that drug use is bad for their health, which is true. We can answer that drug use is not in their long-term interest, which is true. But if that is all we say, we have not said enough. People should not use drugs because some things are right, and some things are wrong, and this is badly wrong.

	This moral understanding is the source of our certainty. Drug use is wrong because it destroys individual character and responsibility. It is wrong because it leaves us useless to God and our neighbor. It is wrong because it drains humans of their humanity and robs children of their childhoods. It is wrong because it numbs our capacity for loyalty and love.

	It has been widely reported that in the movie Trainspotting, the main character concludes, "I choose not to choose life. I choose something else. And the reasons? There are no reasons. Who needs reasons when you've got heroin?"

	Drugs are wrong, not just because they hurt our bodies, but because we want our children to choose life and what is best in life--to choose dignity, to choose kindness, to choose family, to choose nobility of purpose. This is the world we want for them, for every child, with all our heart. And this is the reason we must restore the certainty of our standards, and the commitment of our government.

	We know that resolve and moral clarity have the power to change our world, and the world of our children. We know it, because we have done it before. Together, a president and a nation can take a stand and make a difference. Let us resolve to take that stand for our children.

	There is only one goal worthy of their hopes: a drug-free America. No compromise. No excuses. No uncertainty. No ambivalence.

	It is a goal that must be shared by every institution of the adult world. To this effort I can pledge one thing. I will bring all the power and prestige of the office of president of the United States to a renewed war on drugs. So help me God.

	Thank you very much, God bless you, and God bless America.
DRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG ABUSE--HEROINDRUG TRADE--GENERALENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRYMEDIA CRITICISMDRUG ABUSE--MINORS     œ8 h8 b8 ^8 T8
 L8 G8 B8 88 .8 ,8 8 ø7	 € 	 \ 	 J 	 7 	 !   e: