Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1004.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/04STUMPDULUTHMINNESOTAMN1440 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen:  It is a very great privilege to return again to your beautiful state.  I am honored to be introduced by your governor, a man who strikes me as one of the able young statesmen of our country.  Moreover, I come here, as you know as the standard-bearer of a great political party, a candidate for the highest office in the land.  You thoroughly understand that if we are to carry out the programs that we have been outlining before the people of the United States, we need a team.  So before I say anything else, I should like to urge upon you the need for sending Ernest Orchard to Congress and certainly returning your Senator Thye to the Senate.

	When I was here last, over in St. Paul, I took occasion to review some of the accomplishments of the Minnesota state government and showed their application to the national scene.  I have been continuing that kind of crusade throughout the nation, bringing out, as well as I was able, to my fellow Americans what would be the great advantage to our country if we could substitute for the inept leadership that we have been having over the past seven years the kind of positive, forward-looking leadership that would do much to bring us peace abroad and prosperity at home.

	In the course of these talks I have discussed many special problems or problems of particular interest to certain groups:  for instance, over in Kasson not long ago I talked about certain features of the foreign problem.  Down in Omaha I continued that talk.  One thing that I have not mentioned as I have others, is the place of the cooperative in our farming industry, a device to make and to keep the family farm as the cornerstone of our agriculture, as it should be.  Of course, there have been a lot of questions raised about the taxation of these farm cooperatives.  That problem, as I see it, has been well and soundly settled by the Congress and there is where I take my position.  Moreover, I have promised farmers all over this country that anytime a new farm program is under discussion in the federal government when it is headed by a Republican administration, farmers themselves will be brought in and their counsel heeded as new programs or modifications of programs are worked out for the good of our whole country.

	Last evening, I talked about Communists in government.  I was over in Milwaukee.  I tried to point to the danger that we are in, a danger that can grow if we are too complacent, if we are not watchful.  Ladies and gentlemen, I equally wanted to emphasize this point:  when we go after corruption or Communists or anything else in our country, we do it in the American way.  We respect every citizen in America.  We respect his rights and his privileges.  We respect his equality before the law.  If we do not do that we endanger our own rights.  So I expressed the conviction then, which I should like again to express here, that we can in this country eliminate these Communists from our economic and particularly our governmental life, and we can do it justly and fairly and in full observance of the American system of justice.

	In other places, ladies and gentlemen, I have talked about corruption.  It is not a nice word.  I want to tell you about a letter I got.  A lady wrote me a letter and said, "General, I would like to vote for you, but first I should like your promise that if you are elected more of my tax money will actually get to Washington."  Ladies and gentlemen, it is something to make us hang our heads in shame or sadness when a hard-working American citizen has to make an appeal to a prospective official saying, "Will you promise that the taxes I pay are actually used for governmental purposes?"  She didn't even ask that they be used for necessary governmental purposes.  She didn't bring up extravagance, duplication and waste--just sheer thievery.  Yet she had reason to do so when we have had nine of our important tax collectors relieved of their duties or imprisoned for not doing their work properly.  It is high time we were giving thought to these things.

	Suppose she had gone into our record of waste.  The army, buying a sufficient number of spare parts for a particular part of the jeep, bought a one-hundred year supply.  The Navy bought a fifty year supply of anchors at one time.  And the air corps got two airfields in North Africa for the price of five.  Those are just mere incidents that you pick up.

	Let me give you a smaller one.  This one only cost $22,000.  You know, to a Washington bureaucrat that is practically chicken-feed.  But the $22,000 was spent for a lemonade machine for Indo-China.  Now, you know $22,000 is still some money to most of us.  It is enough to give us a headache when we think of it being spent that way.

	Unless, ladies and gentlemen, we have a government of the kind at home that inspires your pride by its integrity, by its efficiency, by its frugality, economy and watchfulness for your dollar, you lose more than merely some of your tax money.  I will tell you what you are losing that is even more important.  Your government and your country are losing that prestige, that standing abroad that is absolutely necessary if this country is to lead the free world into a sound system of collective security against Communism.

	We know that our country cannot live alone.  The very word "isolationism" is meaningless when--while we get many of our materials for our great steel industry from this area--we must complement the iron from your Mesabi Range by getting other materials from as far away as India where we get manganese, we get tungsten and cobalt from Malaya and we get uranium from Central Africa.  Those countries must take our great agricultural surpluses and there must be profitable trade if we are to have prosperity not based on a war economy but a prosperity based on peace.

	Again I say, ladies and gentlemen, you must have a government in which you have confidence, that excites your pride because then, in its basic purposes, it is reaching out for peace.  In its efforts to avoid wild and unnecessary spending you will all back it up but you won't back up a government in which you don't have confidence.  A strong, united America is the very cornerstone of peace.  We must have that or we will have only turmoil in the world.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't tell you how highly honored I am that a crowd like this should have turned out to allow me to give them a word of greeting this morning and to express one or two of the ideas on my mind as we pursue this political campaign.  Therefore I say good-bye to you, I want to give you a single pledge.  I am not going to make any promises.  Whatever political promises are possible--and many that are impossible--have been made to you time and again over the past twenty years, some with no idea of ever being kept.

	But I can make you an honest pledge.  I can pledge you that if you want to join the crusade that is trying to displace the present inept leadership in Washington, then this new leadership that you put in there will do these things:  first, it will bring into Washington's executive departments, into the appointive offices, men and women who are incorruptible.  The single standard shall be merit, not political reward.  Those men and women, because they are incorruptible, will in turn choose their subordinates from incorruptible men and women, and you will get rid of corruption in government, duplication, extravagance, waste and working one against the other because they will work for one thing--the government and the people of the United States of America and not for their own self-aggrandizement.  So if you send these people to Washington in the House of Representatives, in the Senate, and in the executive departments, they will go there with one ambition:  to stand before a crowd like this four years from now with the great hope that each one of you could say, "They were honest; they are fair; they were just; and they were friendly.  They were of us and did not try to rule over us."

	Thank you very much.
AGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTENATURAL RESOURCES--FOREIGN COUNTRIESTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     ¨  x  r  n  d 
 V  Q  L  F  =  ;  ;  1 	 ô 	 Å 	 d 	 T 	 0 e: