Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0905.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/05STUMPDENVERCOLORADOCOSPEECH AT MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM2,564 WORDS

	Mr. Carroll, Senator Johnson, these distinguished Democrats on the platform and my friends of Colorado: After Mr. Carroll's remarks I am reminded that a little flattery is all right, I suppose, if you don't inhale. And, if the things that you have enumerated have been an inspiration to the people of Colorado, Mr. Carroll, I can assure you that the people of Colorado have been an inspiration to me.

	After this reception, indeed, I have concluded to do all of my campaigning in Colorado. The only distress I have suffered at all is the fact that this is an auditorium, and auditoriums always remind me of the horror--the public speaker confronted with the solemn fact that "auditorium" is derived from two Latin words, "audio" meaning to hear, and "Taurus" the bull.

	I am not wholly unacquainted with Colorado. My maternal grandfather arrived in Denver driving a mule train just 93 years ago this summer. He dug for gold around Leadville. I think it was called California Gulch at that time. Evidently a good Democratic precinct.

	But he returned to Illinois empty-handed, and here I am prospecting in Colorado again. This time for votes, almost a century later. I hope you are not going to send me back to Illinois empty-handed.

	I have always resented the fact that that grandfather of mine who came out here to prospect for gold before the Civil War couldn't at least have bought a lot in Denver. And you know, what is more, I too came to Denver long ago. But I didn't come in a mule train. The fact of the matter is I came feet first in a perambulator. That was about 50 years ago. I think I stayed a year. I didn't find any gold either.

	But my older sister tells me it was in Denver that I first saw Santa Claus. And you know, the sad thing is even if I am a Democrat, I haven't seen much of Santa Claus since. And in case by any chance he is still in Denver I hope someone in this audience will take occasion to let him know I am staying at the Brown Palace Hotel, and I am a candidate for office and that if he has anything in mind for me on account of I have been a good little boy, I should much prefer to have it before November 4.

	My father didn't bring back any gold from our life here in Denver either, but he did bring back some mining stocks. It wasn't necessary to inventory any of them in the estate. I have always resented the fact that he too didn't buy a lot in Denver. And here I have sitting on the platform with me one of my boys, and I suppose he will come back here sometime and resent the fact that I didn't buy a lot. Maybe somebody better do something about Denver in my family.

	However, I will forgive you the fact that both my grandfather, my father and myself have returned empty-handed. That is, I will forgive you in exchange for six electoral votes.

	I like Colorado. I have been here for vacations several times; and I wish I could spend, in all seriousness, the next two months on the side of a Colorado mountain studying the problems that afflict our world instead of going around trying to persuade people that somehow I am a gift from Providence. I don't feel like a gift from Providence, and I really don't believe I am. I don't believe I am a Messiah. I feel very much like a corn-fed Illinois lawyer who had gotten into the big time unintentionally.

	But I do think, my friends, that the Democratic party, if not an exclusive club for saints and prophets, is apparently the repository of most of the political hope and wisdom in this country.

	I wish you all could know your vice presidential candidate as well as myself. And I hope you in Colorado get to know John Sparkman and get to know him better and soon. To me he is somehow the first embodiment of the social and the economic progress of the past two great decades of Democratic leadership.

	He was the son of a tenant farmer. He worked his way up from rural poverty, one of 11 children, to win an education, a law degree, and an outstanding position as a legislator, but he has never forgotten his beginnings. It has been his ambition in life to make more freely available to other poor boys and girls the great opportunities which only stubborn determination could win for himself. He is a leading representative of the new liberalism which is changing the face and the folkways of the South.

	He has been the devoted champion of legislation promoting farm ownership, better housing, social security, the TVA, rural electrification, soil conservation, crop insurance, and many other progressive and forward-looking legislative programs.

	None knows better the problem of the small businessman than he. And his intimate knowledge of the revolutionary convolutions that torment our world has been accentuated by service on the United States delegation to the United Nations.

	He has enlisted for life in the struggle to improve the economic lot and security of all of our people. I am very proud to have Senator John Sparkman as my running mate. Indeed, I only hope I can keep up with him.

	As for me, I hate thieves. I don't like big government. I like free men, free markets, free ideas, freedom to succeed or to fail. But I know that this is the 20th century; and most of the Republican leaders don't know that.

	And, most of all I feel what could happen to all of the 20th century progress, the social revolution at home and our firm directions in the great world revolution of this age, under Republican leadership.

	You remember how the two Republican parties pulled out their six-guns and went after each other in Chicago. Well, there is still today the same divided, confused, quarreling bunch we all saw on the TV screen when they had their scrimmage out there in the stockyards at Chicago.

	The leaders of one branch of the party are still complaining bitterly about all of the positive programs for peace and for public welfare of the last twenty years. These men seem to think the United States started down the path of perdition with the passage of the graduated income tax.

	The leaders of the other Republican party are willing to admit that some fine things have been done for the country by the Democratic party in the last two decades. Things like social security; putting the farmer and the businessman back on their feet.

	They are now busy trying to convince us that the Republican members of Congress really didn't mean it when they opposed all of those things just a few years back.

	Now, the very distinguished candidate of the Republican party, apparently, is in the unhappy predicament of trying to ride both of these horses, trying to spread himself over both Republican parties. He would apparently like to join what is loosely called the "modern"--the 1940--pattern of the Republican party, but every time he makes a step in that direction, he is pulled back by the nineteenth century model. I am afraid he is like a fly on the fly paper; the more he struggles to free himself, the more he is gummed up.

	By the way, that reminds me, what happened to all the flies? There doesn't seem to be as many flies in the world as there used to be. I suppose some agency in the federal government, under Democratic administration, disposed of the flies. I will have to look into that.

	When he addressed the American Legion in New York, his prepared text contained a fine and forthright disavow of character assassination and witch hunts and the merchandising and the distribution of mud, but when he actually spoke he had evidently been persuaded to leave his forthright words out of his text. It would be a sad thing, indeed, it seems to me, if a great soldier to whom we owe undying affection and gratitude ended up politically between the two Republican parties like that mule I heard about one time that starved to death standing between two stacks of hay, trying to make up his mind which to eat.

	Now, in a way, I sympathize with his plight; for some time I have been wondering when he was going to find something to say that would not offend one of the Republican parties. Now, at last I think he has found it. In recent days, he has come forth with a fine free-swinging attack on that old punching-bag, corruption.

	Well, let me put his mind at rest; there is no issue between him and myself on corruption. I am not only against it--I have actually done something about it. I was elected in Illinois to clean up one of the most corrupt regimes that ever inflicted itself on the state, and it was, by the way, a Republican regime. I worked hard for four years to lift the moral tone of my state government, and I will stack up my record against that of any other man who has faced the problems of corruption and of administration anywhere in real life and not just from the political rostrum. This is not the issue between the parties in the election this fall. No one, so far as I know, is running on a pro-corruption ticket.

	The real issue in this campaign is whether the nation is going ahead with progressive political policies to solve the difficult and complex problems that confront our country. So far the Republican candidates have not advanced a single positive idea for meeting the issues of tomorrow.

	They seem destined to make happy talk of the old issues of yesterday. The record of their party and of their platform indicate that they would spend most of their time sitting still and then resting on it and moving backward.

	Let us take just a quick look at some of the issues of particular relevance here in Colorado, such as housing, slum clearance; the Republican membership of the Congress has consistently done nothing to help people get decent housing and to clear away the slums; they have done nothing to forward the objective of decent housing and decent environment. Look at rural electrification. Thousands of farmers in Colorado have electrification now because of the work of the REA. The farmers of this state know where REA started, and they know that time after time when the chips were down, the Republican members of the Congress voted against rural electrification.

	Today the REA coops are still having trouble getting enough power at reasonable costs to serve the needs of their members.

	Is the Republican administration in Washington likely to do anything to help get the power they need? And you can also ask about reclamation. Colorado is a state with a lot of irrigation on both sides of the divide. You have a huge task of harnessing the water that is rightfully yours and putting it to use in Colorado to add to the productivity of the land and the supply of low-cost power.

	Which party has had the imagination, the vision, the courage to develop our water resources for reclamation and for public power? And, finally, look at the public lands and the forests. You know, here in Colorado that the public lands and forests are not only of great importance for their lumber and their recreational value and their sports value--they are absolutely crucial for your water supply. If the grass and the trees go, flood and silt will ride behind.

	We have got to preserve and improve our public rangelands, and one of the keys to that is to prevent over-grazing. I think those ranges should be used for public grazing purposes, but they are public property and must be managed for the public interests and not for the interests of a preferred few. The Republican platform, my friends, in guarded but unmistakable language advocates turning over the control of public rangelands to private interests. This has aroused the concern in this part of the country of even the Republican newspapers and I don't blame them.

	I have mentioned only a few of the real issues, hard issues, issues that separate the men from the boys. I ask you to watch whether the Republican candidates ever take a stand on issues like these. It isn't enough to take the middle way, to utter prize platitudes about trying to find agreeable answers to tough questions.

	This country is alive and growing and changing; whether it changes in the right direction depends on what answers we give to specific concrete, practical questions. The answers to these questions are of great importance to our working for peace, which is the most important unfinished business of our generation.

	If we are to win through in the world our country must be self-confident and imaginative. You can't rise to strength and liberty from fear and paralysis. You can't go forward abroad and backward at home at the same time.

	The Democratic party has the record, it has the platform, and it has the program. It has and it can and it will lead this country forward toward an ever better day for ourselves, and with the help of God and a patient people toward the security and peace that is humanity's everlasting dream. I offer you, my friends, no soft answers and no easy tomorrows; there are none. Our generation is not destined for intolerance or complacency. We can win a brighter future, but only if we call forth the courage and resolution and valor our fathers had in conquering the Rockies and the Western deserts.

	If that is the way you want to face the future, I am with you, and let me say that I have enjoyed coming here to Denver; I have enjoyed being here with you tonight, with you Democrats who have today done the hard missionary work that wins elections.

	I was thinking, coming over here--just before I came over--of the story of a man of Illinois. Many of you will have heard of him; his name was Peter Cartwright. He was the great early carpetbagger; we called him a saddlebag preacher who came to the Illinois prairies at the time the state came into the Union. He spent his entire life preaching the gospel across that barren, wild pioneering soil. I have an old speech from the Democratic State Convention in Springfield, Illinois, in 1860. They called upon him for a speech and he concluded his address something like this: He said, "All of my life I have traveled the prairies in the heat of summer and in the cold of winter night preaching the gospel. I forded the rivers in the flood and on the snow and on the ice 10,000 miles. I have lain upon hard ground on the prairie with nothing but a canopy of heaven above us. I fought a good fight all of my life; I have fought the Devil and all the other enemies of the Democratic party."
CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION--PUBLIC LANDSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSHOUSING, LOW-INCOMEPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYRECLAMATION PROJECTSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)RURAL DEVELOPMENTWATER RESOURCES     ‡9 S9 M9 I9 A9
 49 /9 *9 $9 9 9 ü8 ñ8	 ý 	 ß 	 » 	 • 	 x 	 e 	 R 	 > 	   	  e: