Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0913.002SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/13STUMPHARRISBURGPENNSYLVANIAPAFUND-RAISING DINNER2440 WORDS
	I came here tonight to summon the Democratic party in Pennsylvania and in America to the cause of freedom, the cause of human welfare, and the cause of peace.

	And I summon all Americans who believe greatly in these things to join with us. We claim no monopoly in the ideals we assert. They are America's ideals. The victory we seek is not just for a party; it is for a people. But we do claim that this victory will come only to the bold and the brave, to those who are willing to make democracy's ideals come true in the lives of every man and woman and child in America--yes, and in the world. This is our Democratic goal. This is the victory we seek in November. And I am going to fight for it with everything I have.

	Our party is honored that leadership in our cause is shared by a man so widely loved and trusted as Senator Estes Kefauver. But it is not by the candidates that this cause will be either won or lost. Democracy's price is the participation in it of the people it serves. And I join the President in urging every American, regardless of party, to register--and to do it now, before it is too late. And I would add, too, that when you have to pay such heavy taxes and send your children to the Army to defend the right to vote--to defend government by the consent of the governed--then the most important business you have just now is politics and voting.

	I read this morning that another political campaign was opened yesterday just forty miles from here, before what the paper called "a crowd of more than five hundred of the Grand Old Party elite." I went to my dictionary. Here is what it says: "Elite--a group or body considered or treated as socially superior." Well, Joe Smith got it again.

	I'm mighty glad to be here tonight to open the 1956 Democratic campaign before ten thousand Pennsylvanians, with the whole nation as our invited guests.

	This is my third visit to Harrisburg in the past two years. Each time the crowd gets larger, just as each month all across the country the tide of protest and of hope has risen. And that's why, after generations of Republican rule, the people called on the Democrats to clean up Philadelphia; and that's why, after decades of Republican rule, the governor of Pennsylvania is a vigorous, gifted young Democrat--George Leader; and that's why the next United States Senator from Pennsylvania will be a Democrat--a dedicated man of noble principle and demonstrated competence--Joe Clark.

	(And, if I may claim a point of personal privilege, all these are reasons why your good friend is my campaign manager--that wise and gentle Irishman, Jim Finnegan of Philadelphia.)

	And what is happening here in Pennsylvania is going on in state after state. Just this week the rising tide burst the dikes in the state of Maine.

	Why is this? Why is President Eisenhower the first president in this century to lose control of Congress in his first elected term? I think it is because the fog is rising, the fog of half-truths and amiable complacency, and people perceive that all is not well.

	In the few minutes I have I want to tell you a little about Washington and the world and what is at stake, as I see it, in this 1956 election.

	First, our Republican friends have been suggesting in one way or another that there are no real issues between the parties. And they contrive this remarkable transformation by talking--now that it is election year again--like Democrats.

	Well, when someone says to me that the two parties programs are just about the same, I say that so are two checks, signed by different people. The question is which one can be cashed and which one will bounce.

	And I say that for 150 years, and today, and tomorrow, a check by the Democratic party, written out to the American people, has been, is, and will be, worth its face value. We say what we mean. We mean what we say. And the record proves it.

	This is the fifty-sixth year of the twentieth century. America has spent twenty-eight of these years under Democratic government, twenty-eight years under Republican.

	During these Democratic years we abolished child labor, commenced unemployment insurance, old age retirement and minimum wages, made collective bargaining work, guaranteed bank deposits, financed home ownership, started public housing, put a floor under farm prices, set up TVA and REA, protected investors through the Securities Commission, and consumers through the Federal Trade Commission, and lifted the nation from the rubble of bankruptcy and despair to a great plateau of abundance.

	And, most of all, it was under Democratic leadership that this nation met and defeated the greatest threats to individual liberty and national freedom in modern history--from the Kaiser, Hitler, Tojo, and Stalin. And in these Democratic years we pressed toward ultimate peace and security through the League of Nations, the United Nations, the Marshall Plan, NATO, the Point Four Program.

	These are only a few of the things we did during our twenty-eight years--not we Democrats; but we Americans under Democratic leadership.

	And what did the Republicans do in their twenty-eight years of leadership? Well, there were to be sure some accomplishments that must not be dismissed lightly. But they don't even compare with these I have mentioned. And that's why I say that to get things done, America will once again turn to Democratic leadership.

	Indeed, it is a central issue in the election--whether America wants to stay on dead center, mired in complacency and cynicism; or whether it wants once more now to move forward to meet our human needs, to make our abundance serve all of us, and to make the world safer--in short, to build a New America.

	The Republicans pose the issues of this campaign in terms of slogans--"Peace, Prosperity, Progress." I pose these issues of this campaign in terms of facts--the facts of America's unmet human needs, the facts of a revolutionary world in the hydrogen age.

	Here are some of those facts:

	In four years--four years of wealth and abundance--our government has let the shortage of schoolrooms and teachers get worse. It has done almost nothing to stop the slum cancer, which today infects ten million American dwellings. And juvenile delinquency, which breeds in slums and poor schools, has increased at a frightening rate.

	We have done nothing to help the lot of the poor and of our older people, most all of whom must now subsist in a penury that gets worse as the cost of living climbs to the highest point in history.

	We have done precious little to aid the fight against cancer, arthritis, mental disease, and other crippling and killing diseases, or to make up the shortage of doctors and nurses.

	We have watched the rise of higher costs and lower prices close on the hapless, helpless farmer whose only offense is that he has done his job too well.

	And the small businessman, who built this country, is now being pushed to the wall.

	Instead of turning our natural resources to the public good we have seen them raided for private profit.

	And the facts of our progress toward peace are even more sobering. The Soviets have advanced, while we have fallen back, not only in the competition for strength of arms, but even in the education of engineers and scientists. Millions of people have moved more toward the false promises of Communism than the true faith in freedom. And today there is doubt in the world about whether America really believes in the freedom, which is our birthright, and the peace, which is our greatest hope.

	Why has all this happened?

	It has happened because for four years now we have had a government which neither fully understands nor wholly sympathizes with our human needs or the revolution that is sweeping the world. The Republican administration took office on the pledge to make it a business man's government. Well, that's one pledge they kept. President Eisenhower filled two out of every three top ranking offices in his administration with men whose lives have been spent representing business, mostly big business.

	Then--partly by choice, partly by necessity--President Eisenhower turned over to these men of limited interests and experience still more of the powers of government. Where business interests are involved, these men who dominate the Eisenhower Administration have not been bashful. If it is a matter of cutting taxes for the well-to-do, turning our natural resources over to private companies, chipping away at TVA with Mr. Dixon and Mr. Yates, the men in the Cabinet and the White House have been highly effective. But where human interests are concerned--the interests of the young and the old, the workman, the farmer, and the little fellow--where the need is to wipe out poverty or to build schools and hospitals, to clear slums, even to distribute the Salk vaccine--there, no one leads.

	And when all the world read with dismay of Mr. Dulles' boasts about how close he had brought us all to atomic war, the President of the United States said that he had not had the time to read it.
	
	I respect Mr. Eisenhower's good intentions. I have even been accused of undue moderation toward his administration. And certainly in Congress the Democratic party has constantly rescued the President's program from his own party.

	Everyone shares the sympathy for the circumstances, which have created a part-time presidency. But we cannot understand--and we will not accept--turning the government over to men who work full time for the wrong people or a limited group of people. And the plain truth is that this situation would get worse, not better, in a continuation of this administration, because what influence the President has with his party in Congress has depended on his running again.

	But from here on the future of the Republican leaders will depend not on Eisenhower, but the Republican heir apparent, Mr. Nixon. And the Vice President seems to sail downwind no matter which way the wind blows.

	These are stern facts. To ignore them is perilous. They are the reasons America's human needs go today unmet. Nor will they be met so long as the President is not master in his own house.

	I firmly believe that America does not want to rest on dead center, that it wants--fervently--to move forward again to meet these needs. And I firmly believe that a leadership that will ask Americans to live up to the best that is in them will carry us across the threshold of the New America that now opens before us.

	I think America wants to be called on to build the schoolrooms and train the teachers our children so desperately need.

	I think Americans want to be called to clear away the slums and bring basic decency to millions of American families.

	I think America wants to attack relentlessly the vast realm of human pain, and lift from those hit by serious accident or illness at least the added burden of grinding debt.

	I think America wants to give to the lives of people when they grow old the dignity and meaning they yearn for and deserve.

	As I have in the past, I will lay before you, in as full detail as a campaign permits, proposals for meeting our needs. And we will talk soberly about their cost and the ways and means of approaching them in a fiscally responsible manner.

	Most of all we want a program for peace. Whatever we can do here at home will be meaningless unless the world is such that what we do can endure.

	When we are spending $40 billion a year for defense, when the peace the Republicans boast about looks more fragile by the moment, when the hydrogen bombs and the guided missiles are multiplying, when Communist influence is spreading among restless millions nearly free, when we can lose the Cold War without firing a shot, then I say that most of all America is anxious about America.

	It is not enough to pile pact on pact, weapons on weapons, and to totter dangerously from crisis to crisis. There must be a call to war against the poverty, the hunger, the nothingness in people's lives that draws them to Communism's false beacon.

	We must guide the hopes of mankind away from the blind alleys of extreme nationalism or bogus Communist internationalism. We must turn them instead to an ideal of partnership between the nations in which disputes are settled by conciliation, not violence, and in which the weapons of death are limited and controlled. We must make the skill and capital of the more advanced people work in partnership with the United Nations to remove the poverty, stagnant trade, inadequate resources, and all the other underlying pressures, which drive nations to despair, envy, and war.

	We have never been and we will never be a nation content just to count today's blessings.

	We have confidence in ourselves, confidence that we can build what we have to build, grow as we have to grow, change as we must change, and play our full part in the making of a better tomorrow for ourselves and all mankind.

	Our plan for twentieth century man is not just for his survival, but for his triumph.

	If I were to put my political philosophy tonight into a single phrase, it would be this: Trust the people. Trust their good sense, their decency, their fortitude, their faith. Trust them with the facts. Trust them with the great decisions. And fix, as our guiding star, the passion to create a society where people can fulfill their own best selves--where no American is held down by race or color, by worldly condition or social status, from gaining what his character earns him as an American citizen, as a human being, and as a child of God.

	So I say, let us be up and doing, probing ceaselessly for solutions of today's problems and for the new ones tomorrow will find on our doorstep. And if you share my view, the Democratic view, that this election is a summons to a sleeping giant, then I hope you will join us to make that summons clear and strong on Election Day.
BUSINESS, CORPORATECOMMUNISMHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIES     O7 7 7 7 	7
 ü6 ÷6 ò6 è6 Ü6 Ú6 Ç6 ½6	 E 	 2 	 ) e: