Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1013.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/13STUMPCASPERWYOMINGWY2258 WORDS

	Governor Barrett, I see there are some people around here who have the right idea. The first thing I find is a wash-rag and it says, "Clean up with Ike."

	I have got, of course, many, many reasons for being pleased when I get out into this country.  Ever since 1919, friends of mine have been asking me out to fish and hunt, and it has been a grand country, but of course, I don't much chance, so I spend a great deal of time reading western stories.  One of the first ones I ever read was written right around here in this country.  I think it was written in Medicine Bow, Owen Wister's "The Virginian."

	On the way up here someone reminded me about an incident in that great novel.  Do you remember the night that the ranchers and their wives and the cowboys and all the school teachers went to a dance and, having no baby sitters, they took along the babies and they had them bundled up against the cold--so for a good place to put them they lined them up along the hallway and just put them down one, two, three, four, and of course one of the cowboys was certain to be a practical joker, and so he sort of changed the order and he mixed them up.  There was a terrific scramble, you remember, the next day, the whole countryside was trying to get the right baby in the right home.  If Owen Wister, who wrote that great book were alive today, he probably wouldn't call it "The Virginian," he would call it, "The Washingtonians."  They are really mixed up down there.

	Well now, you know something about it.  You got about fifty percent of your land owned by the federal government around here.  And you have got the Forest [missing text] Service, and then you have got the Land Management Service and they are both leasing it out at different prices--and one of them will offer four times the amount the other one will lease it for, almost identical land, and one puts a certain percentage back into the country in taxes and the other puts another percentage.  I am told that altogether, fifty-nine separate federal governmental bureaus have some kind of a finger in this pie of western land and resources.  Well now, of all the babies those people scramble up, it seems to me that you people, who not only know about it but have to live with it, would understand that part of this crusade we talk about when we say we have got to get some efficiency, some just ordinary business methods back into government.  That is part of the crusade on which we are embarked.

	As you know, from foreign lands we have great delegations of men come from their industrial establishments--Belgium, France and so on--to go through Detroit and Gary and Pittsburgh and our great industrial areas to find out about our methods of management and production, and they learn a lot and are delighted, but have you heard of anyone going to Washington to find out how we run the government down there.  They don't do it.

	As a matter of fact, I will read to you a little sample of something I picked up out of a report to show you why I don't.  I have been abroad, as you know, and I know what our governmental agents do over there.  Here is what a very competent observer had to say about how we do things abroad governmentally:  "There are so many American officials dealing at so many levels with European governments on so many different aspects of economic policy that very often one branch of the United States government does not even know what another is doing in the same European capital."  I am quite sure as long as we keep up that kind of record, they are not going to come to us for help.

	Out in Seattle the other evening, I talked about another one of the particular problems of the West:  that of conservation--development of Western resources.  There I pointed out a different kind of corruption from that which I have been talking about mostly through this campaign.  Ordinarily, I have been talking about the corruption of the tax collector kind--and we have seen enough of that in our headlines; there is no use of my talking about it this morning.  It is just the kind to make us hang our heads in shame and anger.

	Now, there is a different kind of corruption:  that of corrupting the original idea of the federal-state partnership in the running of our government.  We have a sort of whole-hog theory, I call it, where in Washington they must do everything for us and to us or we just get no service from Washington whatsoever.  They adopt policies that are deliberately intended to stifle the initiative and the knowledge and the activities of local interests in the whole matter of development of water resources and any other resources of the West.

	This whole-hog theory is that the local citizen--the rancher, the farmer, the municipal government, the state government--don't know anything about their business, and they shouldn't attempt to do anything for themselves but should wait for Washington to tell them how to do it.

	Now, there are obviously many things that Washington must come in and help if we are going to develop this great West the way it must be developed--and that means to the limit of its capacity to absorb development--but when they do come in, the federal government must come in as a partner; they must take seriously and earnestly the advice and the counsel of the people who are on the spot, and if we don't do that the West will never be developed as it should be.

	The crusade upon which we are now embarked has that as one of its purposes--in every section, to pay respect, to give due influence to the knowledge and information that local people have on their own problems and not try to do these things from Washington.

	Now, on this business of establishing good government in place of bad government in Washington, there are many phases, and I have been discussing them around the country.  They are, at home, such things as extraordinary expenditure programs that leave deficits in our budget.  Those budgets tend to inflate our money still further, raise prices, and we get caught in the double squeeze of high taxes and high prices--just plain, sheer dishonesty in government.  All of those things I have discussed time and again.

	I want to bring, as the most serious thought I should like to leave with you this morning, this one idea:  the relationship between an efficient, effective, fine government in Washington and our chances for promoting peace in the world.  There is no hope for peace in the world unless we have a strong United States.  A strong United States means not merely planes and ships and guns and regiments--not at all, my friends. It means a United States that is strong, first, spiritually--a United States that knows that it is trying to do a decent thing in the world, is going in the right direction, and is confident of its own moral rectitude.  Secondly, a United States that is strong intellectually, scientifically, and productively, as we are.  That we know.  It also means a United States that is solvent, a United States that does not undertake things that are going to bring us to bankruptcy, because a bankrupt United States is the first target of our Communist opponents.  Finally, it does mean an America that has the proper part of its strength organized for use--in other words, military strength. 

	Now, how do you obtain such a position of strength?  We have to work as a body; we have to have leadership.  Otherwise, we would have to reorganize together by regimentation, by force.  In our country--in a democracy--we are organized together for these great national jobs by leadership.  Unless, therefore, you trust your leadership because it is honest, because it is efficient, because it is effective and knows where it is going and what it is doing, you will not be united, and the United States will not be the strong, powerful [missing text].

	If we are strong, if we are honest, if we are straightforward in our dealings, we will have the prestige abroad, we will have the support abroad, that is needed if we are to lead the free world into that combination of power that will stop Communism in its tracks, and, because it is stopped, finally force it to recede--induce it, at least, to recede--into the areas from where it originates.

	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious proposition that you must study as you reach your own decisions that you are going to register in November.  What kind of government can you afford to have in Washington?  My contention is that you can afford to have none but the best.

	If you are interested in programs of peace that will gradually lift this terrible burden and the shadow of Korea off our backs and eliminate future Koreas, if you are interested in expenditure programs that the United States can afford for necessary purposes, if you are interested in getting a businesslike administration instead of the terrible confusion we have in Washington now, if you are interested in getting just plain woodshed honesty in government so you can respect and honor it, our crusade and all its leaders contend we must have a change.

	The big job I have outlined for you, ladies and gentlemen, is not a one-man job; it is a very serious teamwork job.  It involves the combat troops right down on the front lines, the men who are going into the voting booths and getting all their friends and all their family to go at the same time.  Suppose each of you, for example, got ten people--and we do that all over this country.  If we get them all in the voting booths, of course we are going to have a reformation in this government.  Anyway, starting with the combat troops and going right on up, you get into the leadership of each state.  One reason I was very anxious to come into Wyoming--by no means must you forget that if you were to send me there, with the responsibilities of executive leadership, you must send men like Frank Barrett.  He is exactly the kind of man who is needed in the leadership team for this great crusade.  And you must send Congressman Harrison along with him.  So I come to say: Here is a team job for all of us, and whether you are interested in the great oil deposits of this oil capital of the Rockies, whether you are a rancher, whether you are a businessman, whether you are the housewife who is bringing up the youngster in the home and you want to hold before him an example of decency as applied in your government--whatever you are, ladies and gentlemen--you have got to have good government, honest government, efficient government, and above all, dedicated government.

	That is what this crusade wants to give you.  It comes before you not with any specific promises--at least not with competition in promises.  You know, all of those political promises have been worn out in the last twenty years anyway.  Many of them were made and never kept and many were made with no intention of keeping them.  But, in any event, the people who are leading this crusade--and are going around the country to get all the American people to join with them--are interested in this business of giving you good government that is honest, efficient and dedicated.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell each of you how deeply honored I feel by your presence here this morning.  You have come a long way to see me, to give me a chance to look into your faces, to get reactions from you as to what you are thinking and what you believe, and you encourage me mightily.

	You know, in the profession in which I was raised there are a lot of textbooks.  One of them tells about the general going around to visit his troops.  There are a lot of ex-GIs here who have been [missing text] by having VIP brass hats come around, and the purpose of those visits was supposed to inspire the combat troops, you know, get them all pepped up.  I used to make those visits, and there are a lot of them here who have seen me come around, but I did it for a different purpose; I went around to get inspired.  I could recite to you by the hour stories--when I went around feeling very low about a battle that was coming up, and the soldiers looked at me, grinned, and said, "What are you worried about, General?  We are on the job."  One great thing, wherever I go, in all these meetings, from Florida to Washington and across the country, and from north to south, when I meet people like you, I go away feeling better.  You look to me like you are on the job.  I thank you for coming out this morning.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALREGIONALISM--WEST     …1 Q1 K1 G1 =1
 /1 *1 %1 1 1 1 1 1	 Y 	 A 	 , 	  e: