Speeches\1996\rep\S96R0901.002SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)09/01STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCCONFERENCE OF B'NAI B'RITH2,550 WORDS

	I am delighted to be here to address this conference of B'nai B'rith.

	Your organization's ideals reflect the highest aspirations of democratic society. B'nai B'rith has helped make America a more open, more fair and humane country. I am honored to address you.

	I made a statement in San Diego last month that bears repeating: my campaign is broad and inclusive. We have strong convictions, but among those convictions is the importance of respect for the different opinions of others. Jack Kemp and I want to address ourselves to every citizen of every background. As I said, we represent the party of Lincoln, and for anyone who believes in exclusiveness, well, the exits are clearly marked. To those with malice in their hearts toward any ethnic or religious group: we oppose you, we pity you, we bid you leave our ranks.

	I have seen firsthand what happens when nations give in to group hatred. Everyone who played a part in World War II witnessed the evil that results from such hatred. In my time in political office, I have never forgotten this lesson.

	Every American has a right to equal opportunity, to equality under the law. We should all have a chance to build a better life for ourselves and our children. And nobody should live in fear of violent crime.

	We have an administration today content to congratulate themselves for the status quo. They say crime is under control. They claim we have the strongest economy in thirty years. They think that everything in America is the best that it can be.

	Yet I am running for president because I believe America can do better.

	Is the war on crime being won today, as Mr. Clinton assures us? Try asking the people who live in any city in America. They'll tell you: cocaine use is up. Heroin use--up. Marijuana use--up. Violent crimes committed by teenagers? Way up--almost beyond belief. And how about prosecution of drug-related crimes? Down.

	That is not a record I would care to defend. It is one that I intend to undo. And I will start by resuming the war on drugs that was abandoned almost four years ago.

	The President says he is committed to equal opportunity. But this is playing with words. The real meaning of equal opportunity is that every person should be treated as a person, an individual, an American. In law as in our daily lives, we should not be dividing people up into ethnic categories.

	Now, many of you are veterans of one of the great causes in American history: the fight for civil rights. I take pride in having supported such achievements of the movement as the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the 1965 Voting Rights Act, the 1982 extension of the Civil Rights Act, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991.

	But something is happening to the civil rights movement in America. It is still moving. It is moving beyond demands for rights to demands for opportunity--for real, meaningful economic opportunity. And that's why Jack Kemp and I are working to create jobs, to create opportunity for all Americans by balancing the budget and reducing tax rates 15 percent across the board.

	In the civil rights movement, the moral victory has been won. What remains is the practical work of creating jobs, bringing broken families and cities back to life, and protecting people from violence. No government program alone can do that. Only a free people, left with more of their own earnings, can move our economy forward and bring opportunity into every corner of America.

	When I think of free people, people whose spirits are indomitable, I think of Americans, and I think of our allies in Israel.

	Israel's relationship with the United States is unusual. It's unique in its intimacy. It's more than an alliance.

	Why is this? I think the answer is rooted in our two countries' most profound interests--interests that go beyond individual leaders and the policies of this or that government, interests that stir our sense of morality and religious conviction. We've all heard many times that Israel and the United States cherish the same values. We think of people in the same way: as beings endowed by God with individual worth and rights. This is of great importance, but it's a view that links the United States to the world's democracies in general. What binds Americans to Israel is even more than that. It is enthusiasm, admiration, indeed awe, for the revival in the land of Israel of the national existence of the Jewish people, the people of the book, the book we share and that serves as a foundation stone of the American republic. Therein lies the key to the unique ties that bind Americans to Israel.

	It's impressive that Americans generally view Israel not only with sympathy but empathy. This is as it should be. This is how it will be in a Dole-Kemp administration. Let me explain to you what I mean by empathy.

	Israel just went through its own national elections. The United States respects democracy in principle. We've traditionally shown that respect by refraining from gross interference in the domestic politics of democratic allies. We wouldn't want the government of France, Germany, or any other country interfering in our domestic politics. We'd resent it and call it an insult. Which is why the Clinton administration's intervention in Israel's recent election was harmful--and embarrassing for America. The Dole-Kemp administration will not interfere in the elections of our democratic allies.

	Israel has elected a new conservative leadership committed to free-market economics and the pursuit of peace through strength. I can assure you that the Dole administration will find it easy to harmonize our policies with those of Prime Minister Netanyahu. Though I don't doubt for a moment the basic goodwill of President Clinton toward Israel, I believe that Jack Kemp and I will work more smoothly with Israel than would a second-term Clinton administration.

	Why? We would not preempt Israel's sovereign right to devise its own national security policies. In contrast to the Clinton administration, we would not push Israel to give the Golan Heights to Syria. We would not condemn Israeli security concerns as intransigence. We recognize that the new Israeli government wants a sensible, levelheaded approach to national security, as we do for ourselves in America. Negotiations have their place in foreign policy, but the Dole administration would stress that our national security and successful negotiations ultimately hinges on strength, not on the promises of dictators. The same principle applies to Israel.

	Support from the United States is a key element of Israeli strength, and Israel will have that support from the Dole administration, because we actually believe in peace through strength.

	In this regard, I want to stress a difference between myself and Mr. Clinton. At the Democratic convention, Mr. Clinton said we should foreswear personal criticisms and instead engage in vigorous debate over policy. In that spirit, I want to declare that I think our gravest military deficiency now is our vulnerability to ballistic missile attack. Let's be clear about this: if a ballistic missile were fired at the United States or Europe or Israel from China, Iraq, North Korea, or elsewhere--whether on purpose or by accident--that missile would hit. Though we can stop enemy aircraft, or ships, we have no system that can stop ballistic missiles.

	The United States is vulnerable to this threat, but Israel is even more vulnerable, because it has neighbors with missiles that can reach it now. We must, of course, continue our cooperation with Israel on systems like Arrow, but this will not be enough. America needs a versatile missile defense which can be deployed to any trouble spot. I led the fight in the Senate for effective and affordable missile defenses.

	One of the best systems under development--one deployable on Navy ships--could cover the eastern Mediterranean in the event of a threat to Israel or to others in the region. President Clinton has cut the funding for this system, mistakenly declaring that missile defense is not urgent.

	Israel suffered Iraqi scud missile attacks five years ago. It is irresponsible and dangerous when the President of the United States and his administration, over and over again, underestimate serious military threats facing us and our allies. Our troops recently paid a terrible price for this in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. The price will be far more terrible if we underestimate the ballistic missile threat.

	I'd like to highlight another distinction between President Clinton's views and my own. I think it's time to move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Israel's capital, Jerusalem. I not only think this, I wrote the legislation that last year was adopted by more than ninety senators and more than 90 percent of the vote in the House to compel the move. President Clinton opposed it, and when the legislation passed, he refused to sign it. So it became law without his signature--though he still refuses to implement it.

	In an effort to have it both ways, Mr. Clinton says he favors moving the embassy, but only after Israel and the Palestinians reach agreement on Jerusalem. This completely undermines the point of the law. There will never be a Arab-Israeli peace unless the issue of Israel's legitimacy as a state is put to rest forever. As the legitimacy issue is the heart of the conflict, so Jerusalem--as the sovereign capital of Israel and only of Israel--is the heart of the legitimacy issue.

	I strongly believe that it doesn't serve U.S. interests--or promote peace--for the United States to signal that its support for Israeli claims in Jerusalem is an open question. Here I disagree with Mr. Clinton. He thinks it's desirable to withhold this sign of U.S. solidarity with Israel because it would displease Chairman Arafat. I think it would promote realism, peace, and security if the United States moved the embassy and closed this issue of U.S. policy and our support for Israeli legitimacy once and for all.

	In the last few months, Saddam Hussein has been testing American leadership and finding it lacking. In May, the U.N. moved to ease the sanctions on Iraqi oil sales with the acquiescence of the Clinton administration and over my strong objections. Since June, Saddam has been obstructing the efforts of U.N. inspectors to uncover his nuclear and biological weapons and the United States has done nothing but join in weak statements by the U.N. Security Council. The very fact that the Kurdish factions in northern Iraq are fighting, when four years ago they came together at American initiative, is itself a failure of American leadership.

	For the last few weeks, the threat of Iraqi intervention in the North has been building, yet the Administration has delegated the problem to low-level officials, hoping that its verbal warnings to Iraq would suffice. It should be no surprise that the Iraqis have ignored those barely audible warnings.

	We have learned over the past forty-eight hours that thirty to forty thousand of Saddam's Republican Guard troops have moved into northern Iraq for the first time since the initiation of Operation Provide Comfort five years ago. They have captured the town of Irbil, shelling civilians and almost certainly rounding up opponents of Saddam's regime. Yet the Vice President of the United States says that the situation requires "careful analysis" and "careful observation." We don't need to analyze Saddam's action; we need to condemn it. We know his record. We know he supports international terrorism and threatens its use. We know he continues to hold on to nuclear and biological weapons. We know he continues to slaughter his own people. We know what he is capable of. We know he is not going to change.

	Saddam's latest brutality against the Kurds further demonstrates that America's friends and allies in the region will never truly be safe as long as this bloody dictator remains in power, and as long as America fails to lead.

	The American people's empathy with Israel has been intensified recently as a result of the increase in terrorist attacks against Americans and especially the increase of terrorism in America. All too often when other people are victimized by terrorism, we read even-handed, understanding articles advocating negotiations between the terrorists and their victims.

	We read about the importance of addressing the grievances that are the so-called root causes of terrorism. But it's my view that we cannot have an effective policy against terrorism if our leaders are lost in moral confusion. Focusing sympathetically on the political "cause" of the terrorists is exactly the wrong thing to do. It rewards terrorism when we should be penalizing it. The essence of our policy should be an unshakable commitment not to allow terrorists to convert their crimes into diplomatic or political capital.

	Unfortunately, this has not been the essence of U.S. policy in recent years. The diplomatic solicitude shown by the Clinton administration to Syria's Assad and Serbia's Milosevic sent abroad the dangerous message that terrorism pays. Mixed signals from the Clinton administration have emboldened terrorists and alienated key allies.

	Iran is the world's most notorious sponsor of terrorism. Yet, during the war in Bosnia, Iran was given a green light by this administration to send arms into Bosnia, and thus gain a foothold in Europe, because President Clinton refused to do what was right: lift the immoral and unjust arms embargo on Bosnia.

	The Clinton administration has not halted or even slowed Iran's drive to acquire nuclear weapons. Syria harbors terrorists in Damascus and in the part of Lebanon it controls--yet President Assad has received more than twenty visits from the U.S. Secretary of State. Libya continues to protect the murderers who blew up Pan Am Flight 103, yet the Clinton administration is content to place its hopes in the United Nations to bring these killers to justice. We must isolate and punish terrorist states such as Iran, Iraq, Libya, and Syria.

	I want to declare here that the Dole administration will not allow terrorists to victimize Americans and America with impunity. There will be no more mixed signals to states that sponsor terrorism. We will follow the principle enunciated by Ronald Reagan when he retaliated against Libyan attacks on Americans in Germany. This goes for the World Trade Center bombing, Dhahran barracks bombing, the destruction of a U.S. airliner, or any similar outrage. State-sponsored international terrorism should not be dismissed as the act of individual criminals. It cannot be dealt with only by domestic law enforcement agencies chasing after individual culprits. It is strategic crime, a form of war, and must be responded to accordingly.

	The world's democracies have an exciting opportunity to create in the twenty-first century a golden age in world affairs. The Western democracies won the Cold War without a hot war. We can afford to be strong. Indeed we cannot afford not to be. If we are sensible, if we are wise and steady, we can keep the peace and extend it, especially as we succeed in extending the domain of freedom and democracy around the globe. The Dole administration will make the United States and Israel partners in this great endeavor.

	Thank you very much.
CIVIL RIGHTSDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALEMBARGOES/SANCTIONS (OIL)--AGAINST IRAQEQUAL OPPORTUNITYIRANIRAQMISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSWEAPONS PROLIFERATION--MINOR POWERSISRAELTERRORISM     G= = = 	= ÿ<
 ÷< ò< í< ã< Ï< Í< ³< ¨<	 ² 	 ¦ 	 ‰ 	 b 	 Q 	 M 	 I 	 2    	 e: