Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1027.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/27STUMPJOHNSTOWNPENNSYLVANIAPACAREER2163 WORDS

	My friends:  You warm my heart.  I can think of no greater honor that can come to any American than the knowledge that another American would take an hour out of his busy day to come out just to hear him bring a friendly greeting and to express a few of the thoughts that are on his heart and mind.  I sincerely thank every single person who is out here today.

	Numbers of my friends began to talk to me about a possible political career as long ago as 1945, seven years ago.  As some of you may recall, in January of 1948, I wrote a letter that I thought forever and a day removed me from any possible future connection with politics.  I tried to order my life accordingly.  However, as time went on, probably over-prejudiced friends decided that I was not correct in this conclusion, and they started to bring to me the idea that there was still another type of duty that I might perform in this country.  Among those people who tried to persuade me that I had a political duty, none was more influential than Senator Jim Duff of your state.  Today, as I was riding into this city of yours with him and Governor Fine, he told me that here in this city a man who was then Republican Chairman of this county was among the first to raise his flag and say, yes, he thought that Eisenhower might do pretty well in this kind of thing--and that man's name was Andy Gleason.  You know the old story of the man who said, "That man has a big mind; he agrees with me."  I want to pay that same tribute to Andy Gleason for his compliment to me.

	I am exceedingly proud, my friends, to address you in a hall that is a war memorial, dedicated to our veterans. I hear that more than twenty-thousand people contributed their funds to make this hall possible.  Whenever anything comes to my attention that involves veterans, I, like most other old soldiers, want to reminisce a bit.  Never do I get tired of reminiscing about the heroism, the sacrifices, the devotion to our country of the millions of men and women who made up our fighting forces in World War II.  I am really proud that the city of Johnstown has chosen to take a building such as this that will be used by your citizenry through the years to make it a lasting useful memorial to their services.

	That brings on another thought.  Here I am today trying to bring to you some understanding of what is on my heart and mind as I am the standard-bearer of a great crusade, the purpose of which is to bring good government in Washington to displace bad government--to bring there a government that you can respect; the kind of government behind which you will rally in great causes; the kind of government that will challenge the best that is in your devotion, that is in your dedication to country--when we are going out really to seek great programs of peace, to bring prosperity in our own country without war, to do all those things in this country that are for the good and welfare of 155 million people.  That is what this crusade is about.  So I conceive it to be quite natural and quite correct that I should come to you, to your faces, and try to explain it.

	Yet the other night when I mentioned another type of problem where I would want to go out and see those on the spot--to work out a way in which the conflict in Korea might be more quickly resolved or at least place us in a less disadvantageous position--find that the newspapers carried this kind of report:  The opposition thinks I should not go out to Korea.  Why not?  I did it all during World War II, to try to learn more about what the soldier was going through, to learn about how he felt, about his life, what was the state of his supplies.  Should I not do that again if we want to diminish this flow of American blood in Korea?  If you charge me with the responsibilities of directing the Executive Department of this government, don't I have that duty to you?  I think I do.  In any event, my friend, if you charge me with that responsibility, I am going to Korea, no matter what anybody says.

	As I have explained time and again, I do not think there is any quick patent medicine cure for Korea, but I do think we can do better than we are doing.  Americans are not defeatists and their leaders owe it to them to search every single thing that there is possible to search to bring to them a more constructive, a more positive, a more firm and a more successful program leading toward peace.  In any event, if such a trip on my part could even possibly do no more than save one young American's life--to keep out of one American home the grief that comes from the loss of a loved one, a brother or a son, then from my viewpoint, such a trip is worthwhile.

	And now, as we turn to the home scene--to all of our domestic troubles--we likewise need a government that can challenge the best that is in us.  What is government my friends?  Government is men and women.  Government is Americans who are gathered together and given specific responsibilities in the conduct of our national affairs and in the interest of 155 million people. 

	The first thing that is necessary is that those men and women be made up of those people whom you know--and other communities like you in the United States--to be the outstanding men and women of their areas, of their particular callings--whether they come from the ranks of labor, from management, from the professions, from our universities, or wherever.

	The very character of your representatives, their prestige, their incorruptibility must be your guarantee that that is the kind of government you have got.  You say, "I know that that friend of ours would not be down there and be in that government unless it was one that was worthy, that was honest, that was decent and friendly."  That is the first requisite of the government that must be established in Washington.  We must get rid of men who are far too small for their jobs, but too big for their britches.

	What will such a government do?  First, it will make one single yardstick the measurement by which every single proposition, every single proposal, will be gauged as we determine whether or not to adopt them.  That yardstick will be:  Is this good for all America?  Not, Is this a measure that may get us a few votes from one section or one state or one group at the expense of America, but, Is this good for all the United States?

	If we have a composite accumulation of measures that are good for the United States, what shall we have?  We shall have first a government that intelligently seeks a road to peace in the foreign field, and does it persistently and well.  Secondly, we will have a government at home that lives within our means, that eliminates from these vast federal expenditures all that is unnecessary, all that is extravagant, all that is waste.  It will be a government that remembers the value of such words that we have read in our copybooks as "frugality" and "thrift" and "economy"--"A penny saved is a penny earned," at least as long as the Fair Deal lets a penny mean anything.

	It would be a government that would abandon the deliberate effort to inflate your money, to make it less and less valuable.  Why would it do that?  Because, ladies and gentlemen, the necessary social security programs which this crusade earnestly supports--old-age insurance and all the rest of it--go by the board unless our money retains value.  If you put money into an insurance policy, then when the time comes that the funds in that insurance policy are to be used and are worth one-half or one-quarter of the money you put into them, what kind of security is that?  The same applies to every insurance program, to every bond, to every savings account.

	To do that, we must have businesslike methods applied in government to eliminate from government waste and extravagance.  It would be a government of men and women who would have faith in the localities and the ability of people to run their own business.  It would be the kind of government that would try to keep its long nose out of industrial disputes.  It would believe in collective bargaining.  It would believe in the power of strong and responsible unions to meet management and determine their best interests right on the spot, instead of trying to get the White House and all the rest of Washington into every single one of them, and at one time siding with one side causing a strike and the next time siding with the other side and causing a strike.

	We need prosperity and a prosperity that does not depend upon the uncertain happenstances of a war economy to have that prosperity.  That means we must have men and women who are working at high rates of pay and high levels of employment so that, as we are more and more capable of absorbing the raw materials which we draw from all sections of the globe, we will, in turn, be producing more and more items that they can take from us.  So we will have in a peaceful world opportunity to raise our standards of living, and I do not mean merely television sets and ice boxes and automobiles.

	I believe in the satisfaction of our spiritual standards--better churches, more and better schools, more roads, more hospitals.  That is what this crusade stands for.  In it, of course, we want every single American who believes in this kind of a forward-looking government, and who believes first of all in getting the kind of men and women in Washington who will and can do that.  Especially, I address myself for the moment to the women, not only because there are two million more women voters in the United States than men, but because they are the keepers of our homes.  They are the ones who, first of all, give to us, when we are young, our standards of understanding in moral values.  They keenly understand that free government is the political expression of a deeply felt religious faith, and they bring that to us.  So they belong in this crusade because it has a spiritual and a moral base.

	I make a special appeal to the very young, the first voters.  I will tell you why.  If I am lucky, I still own about twenty years of my share of the United States of America.  A first voter owns something on the order of sixty years, and if they are lucky and with what the doctors are doing for us these days, maybe eighty.  But that is an indication of our relative holdings in this country.  Wherever this country goes, you youngsters are going to be there.  You are now passing through a time where the decisions taken up are going to affect us for decades.  Take a serious interest in them.  Demand from these older people, who still are pretending at least to have an influence in this government, the kind of men and women that you can respect and believe in.  Demand that they show us where these people are coming from.

	To you youngsters I say this:  Demand from us oldsters the lessons of our generation, and make us come through and confess to you our errors as well as the successes we like to brag about.  Demand that we show you why we have been in two World Wars and are in another in Korea; why we have a government in which we are told that we are having a prosperous time, and in spite of the heaviest taxation we have endured, we cannot meet our bills. 

	Make these people show you these lessons and vote according to those understandings which you derive from the case that is made in front of you.  Do not be fooled by anybody, by scandal or by lies, or by innuendo.  Try to dig out the truth.

	Let me paraphrase what one great American said not long ago.  I think it is something that each American can take to his own heart.  "Now is the time for every American to caucus with his own conscience."  More than that, no man can ask of you.
FOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAGOVERNMENT WASTEKOREAN WARMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENSTANDARD OF LIVINGVOTING--WOMENVOTING--YOUTH     ì. ¸. ². ®. ¤.
 –. ‘. Œ. ƒ. w. u. o. e.	 ‡ 	 c 	 S 	 I 	 , 	  	  e: