Speeches\1972\dem\S72D0906.002SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)9/6STUMPLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACALA BOARD OF RABBIS4,157 WORDS

	I come before you today on a day of national mourning throughout the world for the young Israelis who died yesterday. And I come here also in a sense of anger and indignation over what has happened. This desecration of the Olympic Games is the latest act in a brutal wave of terrorism that has been carried out by international gangsters for the purpose of destroying the State of Israel. That is a goal they will never accomplish on the field of battle, and it is a goal that they cannot win by cowardly attacks of this kind on innocent young people. 

	It is not Israelis alone who are under attack. All of the civilized world was a casualty of this invasion yesterday of the Olympic Games. Just as all of civilized society was the victim of the June massacre at Lud Airport in Tel Aviv and of the attacks upon airline passengers in Germany and Switzerland and of the repeated hijackings of commercial aircraft that has become part of this planned international terrorism. At Lud it was innocent civilians, most of them Christian pilgrims, who suffered and died. Yesterday it was athletes in the very prime of their--young men who doubtless looked forward to years of strength and hope and happiness engaged in peaceful sports competition under circumstances that epitomize the very spirit of cooperation and brotherhood that unites all of us. Tomorrow there will be more violence of this kind, I regret to say, unless the world acts to place the responsibility where it belongs and to assure that this kind of outrage does not occur again. All of us are potential hostages of a few fanatics in the Middle East. So we must place the responsibility and we must be honest and firm in our actions.

	The blame lies with two Arab governments--Egypt and Lebanon--and let us call the facts as they are. The Government of Egypt regrettably has bestowed its blessing on indiscriminate terrorism as an instrument of its foreign policy. In November 1971, four members of the same Black September gang that boasts responsibility for the Olympic killings murdered the Foreign Minister of the State of Jordan. The Egyptian state prosecutor announced at the time that the assassination was justified, and the four confessed murderers were released on bail and freed to return to their homes. Can anyone doubt that these men have resumed their terrorist savagery? And there is blame too for the government of Lebanon--the main offices of the terrorist gangs are in Beirut. There the funds are collected that buy the weapons of murder. There the travel documents are issued; the plans drawn; the sabotage plotted; the training given and the rehearsals conducted. There is the headquarters of the Palestine Liberation Organization, of which the Black September gang is apparently a leading member. 

	Now there is only one way to stop this terrible reign of terror. The world community must ostracize and punish any country that harbors or offers sanctuary to these international criminals. And as long as we fail to do so, we are going to continue to see death in the daily papers and we are going to continue to face danger every time anyone of us travels abroad. There are reports that our government may resume diplomatic contact with Egypt. And as a general rule, I favor a policy in which we carry on diplomacy even with governments whose political views are obnoxious to us. But I urge our government to demand, as a condition of diplomatic contact, that Egypt shall rout out those international outlaws who seek to impose the peace of the grave on a whole region of the world and on innocent people from every part of the world. Only when all nations accept the existence, the independence, and the freedom of the State of Israel as a historic fact that no threat or terror of war can change, and only when the Arab nations finally sit down and negotiate a permanent peace, can the bloodshed that we saw in Munich yesterday be lifted from the conscience of the earth. 

	And what about those athletes who will never run a race, or lift a weight, or ever smile again? Let us at least draw some meaning that is lasting from their martyrdom. As I said here in Los Angeles last night to a large rally in the streets--I have no careful solutions to offer, and nothing that is strikingly new to say. What needs to be said once more all around the world is "Let us stop the killing and stop the killing everywhere." Let us stop it here in our own land before we convince our own children that violence is in fact the normal way of life. Let us stop it while we still have the capacity to love one another as human beings--not just the few people right in our neighborhood, our own families and those around us--but people everywhere who, like us, want their years of happiness and life. But if I have anything to say about the course of events in the years ahead, there is one thing, above all else, that I would like to say and do. I would like to make it possible for a child in the Middle East, or anywhere else around this world, to live a full and secure and happy life before that child dies. I want to try to make it possible for that little girl in Vietnam that we saw running into the arms of the camera lens on fire from Napalm to be blessed by the warmth of love rather than the tragedy of war. I want to try and make it possible for people to live as though we really were created in the image of God rather than in the image of our worst fears and suspicions of each other. So I say "Peace"--not just now, but peace always. I say "Peace"--not just in one land, but in every land where there are men and women and children who don't know what it is to see a sunrise or to see trees in the springtime. I see and say "Peace"--on a planet which gives us life, among people who have no right to take it away from others. And I ask, as I did last night, that you say with me, in the words of that great prayer of St. Francis of Assisi, "Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love." And then we will reap all of the blessings that we, and the generations before us, had hoped for, and our children will bless us because we have given them the fullness of life. That is what I most want for the people of the United States, the people of the Middle East, the people of Southeast Asia and for people who inhabit this planet all around the globe.

	QUESTION: What steps should be taken to avert such tragedies as last night?

	ANSWER: I have been thinking about that last night and all of this morning, and it occurred to me that one thing that the United States might take the lead in would be to press before the United Nations Secretariat a proposal that plans be developed to more carefully monitor and to neutralize the activities of this terrorist gang. This is a threat to every human being and particularly those who travel in any part of the world. It cuts across all religious grounds, all international boundaries, and it is, in fact, a responsibility of the international community. And I think that some kind of surveillance and monitoring and counteraction is going to have to be developed, hopefully under the auspices of the United Nations, to deal with this problem. I don't have a clear, specific view in mind, but I think that something could be worked out by men and women who are interested in dealing with this problem of terror and death.

	Q: I believe that as long as Israel is strong militarily and Arab nations are weak that there will be peace in the Middle East. Would you concur with this thinking?

	A: Yes, I think that this is the principal ingredient that has not only preserved the survival of Israel but has, for most of the time during the last twenty years, dealt with the temptation that the Arabs always had to attack in a moment of weakness. So I think it is important that Israel maintain its strength and that the United States do what is necessary to assist in that effort. I think it is fair to say that Israel has the most committed and most effective fighting force that has ever been assembled, man for man, anywhere in the modern world--and woman for woman, in the case of Israel. And what our role is as a country is to see that the equipment that Israel needs to survive is supplied and supplied promptly. One of the reasons that I so resent some of the criticisms that have been directed at me on a partisan basis about my support for Israel is that, ever since I first came to the Congress in 1957, I have always been on the side of those Congressmen who were pressing the administration--no matter which administration it was, but including this one--to move more quickly in meeting the requests for planes and military equipment that Israel needs to survive. The first significant roll call that I answered, as a brand new member of Congress way back in 1957 when I was in the House of Representatives, was to vote against the so-called Eisenhower Doctrine in the Middle East, which in more concrete terms was a proposal to provide $200 million in military aid to the Arab states. I voted against it and the Congressional Record will show that I took the floor to warn that military equipment of that kind would be used, not to defeat Communism in the Middle East, but would more likely be used in an attempt to destroy the State of Israel. And I was right in that prediction and I think that the votes I have cast in the Congress over the years are clearly on the side of providing strong support for the survival and independence of Israel.

	Q: The text which the Senator just referred to, quite by chance, may be of interest to my colleagues and to all of you ladies and gentlemen--it is January 30, 1957. First the Congressional roll call of the Senator--the vote. As a nation that has played a key role in the creation of the State of Israel, the only real democracy in the Middle East, America may be ill-advised in strengthening the hand of those Arab chieftains who will insist that they will not rest until Israel is destroyed. It would hardly be a victory for democracy if democracy's showcase in the Middle East was destroyed by futile despots with the help of American guns and militia.

	Q: Senator, you were quoted at the Fairgrounds in Oakland with respect to Proposition 22 and SeÒor Chaves. Would you comment?

	A: I think that the great danger with Proposition 22 is that it denies farmworkers the traditional collective bargaining rights that other workers in this country have long been assured. It really singles out one of the most depressed groups in our country, and one of the most vulnerable groups, for special restrictions that deny them the opportunity to improve working conditions and to improve standards of life for their families. It is a discriminatory proposal, in that it denies to those who work with their hands on the land the same kind of organizing and collective bargaining rights--the same kind of instruments that other working people have to advance their conditions--and on that ground alone I would oppose it. It is a discriminatory measure, it is an unjust measure, and it runs counter to the best traditions of a free labor movement and that is why I opposed it.

	Q: You are obviously a strong moral voice for change. I appreciate your comments about establishing and maintaining a balance of power by supporting Israel--but what do you propose to do so that there can actually be peace in the Middle East?

	A: I don't have an easy answer to that and I am not optimistic about an early solution of the struggles and the tensions in the Middle East. Those problems run very deep and I do not envision a quick and early resolution of the problem. I can only say this: that I see no other workable alternative other than direct negotiations involving the Arab governments and the State of Israel. That may take some time and I think it would be a mistake for the United States or any outside power to try to predetermine the results of those negotiations. Our only function can be to continue to press all parties to sit down at the conference table and negotiate out these differences on a face to face basis. There will doubtless have to be some concessions on both sides, but no concessions will last that deny Israel the right to defensible borders and that involve commitments that they feel jeopardize their security. But our role in the meantime must be one of standing by with military assistance to see that the balance doesn't shift, to see that nothing is done that would tempt another Arab attack.

	Q: With respect to proposed reduction in our armed forces--specifically with respect to the Mediterranean and your proposals--how would this affect Israel? Would you comment on that?

	A: Yes. What I have proposed is a phased reduction in military spending over the next three years, hopefully to achieve reductions at the rate of about $10 billion a year in a budget that will otherwise by 1975 reach close to $90 billion. The Brookings Institute recommends that by 1977--an estimate--it would go beyond $100 billion. I think we all know that there are areas in the military budget of enormous waste and anybody who has ever been in military service knows that to be a fact. It isn't that it is intentional; it is just that it is part of the nature of the animal. There is waste built in, and I suppose some $75 to $80 billion have been thrown away on weapons systems in the last ten years that proved to be boondoggles that we abandoned after a period of time. Maybe a little more careful scrutiny might have avoided that waste. What I have proposed is that we look a little more carefully at what are the actual defense needs of our own country and the needs of our allies, including Israel, including our historic allies in Europe and elsewhere around the world. And that we construct a military budget not on the basis of what we have always said we needed, but on the basis of what actual conditions in the world, so far as we can forecast, would dictate. And the alternative budget that I have proposed would still leave the mightiest aggregation of sea and air power in the Mediterranean ever assembled in the history of the world. We would still have an aircraft carrier task force in the Mediterranean. Another standing by that could be moved in very quickly. We would increase, under my budget, our submarine capacity in the Mediterranean and in other parts of the world to offset the increasing Soviet ship surfacing capability and that is the proper way to respond to increase Soviet surface ships. That is to beef up our own submarine fleet. I suspect that we are moving towards the day when the submarine will become the flagship of the American fleet. But we do, under the alternative budget that I proposed, which has been endorsed by some of the most thoughtful military experts in the country, retain both the conventional capability and the nuclear capability of responding to any reasonable threat we can anticipate. We could, for example, with the military budget that I have suggested, destroy every significant target in the Soviet Union and China simultaneously and we could destroy those targets at least twenty times over. I don't know why you have to kill anybody twenty times, but it would have that capacity if necessary--that kind of built-in overkill capability. I do call for reducing the number of forces in Western Europe from four-and-one-third divisions to two divisions. But as you know, we have a very effective airlift in this country and if it were necessary to move forces back in, we could do that very quickly and our enemies and friends know that. I think it would actually give us greater flexibility and greater mobility to reduce some of these overseas forces and to take advantage of the airlift capacity that this country has.

	Q: It has been reported that, according to the Kissinger Plan, there will be an honoring of our current contracts of delivery of arms to Israel, but that thereafter there will be no further contract and that a contract with Russia to stop the delivery of all arms to the Middle East thereafter. With a change in administration, would this alter that plan in any way?

	A: Yes, it would. I don't think that prediction is too far wide of the mark. There were reports some weeks ago, if my memory is right, quoting two high ranking Egyptian diplomats, who said they had been told by Secretary Rogers that with the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Egypt, that after the election we would review our commitments in the Middle East and press harder on the Israeli government to accept an adjusted settlement of some kind. It has always seemed to me that the clearest difference between my commitment to Israel and the commitment of the Nixon administration is that I am committed to the State of Israel because I believe in the humane values and the concept of freedom and dignity that Israel represents. I would be for the State of Israel if the Soviet Union didn't exist. On the other hand, I think, and I don't want to be unfair to the Nixon administration because they have done some very worthwhile things in the Middle East, but I do think, in all fairness, that their chief motivation has been Cold War power politics, in which their commitment to the State of Israel really stems from the Administration's fear of what the Soviet Union is up to in the Middle East. And once that threat appears to subside somewhat, I will predict that the commitment of this administration to the State of Israel will subside and once again Israel will likely be thrown up against military and political and terroristic pressures from her surrounding Arab neighbors, without the kind of response from the Nixon administration that you get when you think they are dealing with Russia rather than with the Arab threat in the Middle East. That is the difference as I see it.

	Q: Would you please clarify your position on the tragedy of yesterday compared with Vietnam?

	A: Yes. Well, what I was trying to do, Rabbi, was to express my own indignation and horror at the kind of killing that is taking place in various parts of the world, but especially in Vietnam. I--my conscience can't live with the kind of pictures that we had in the press here a few weeks ago--these little children running from a bombed-out school. Now I know that the pilot that dropped that napalm is on a different moral level than the terrorist who killed those young men in Munich on yesterday. But regardless of those differences which we all recognize, I personally can't live with the kind of situation that we now have in Southeast Asia, where tens of thousands of innocent people are being killed, however inadvertently, by an American military involvement that I think is against the best interests or this country and which I believe are not in the interests of the people of Vietnam.

	Q: A few months ago I was at the White House with a group of Jewish writers and editors and I asked directly if Mr. Rogers' plan was dead or alive. And they came back and said it was very much alive. Could you comment?

	A: I think that it is still alive--going back to your question here that we will see the Rogers plan revived once the election is over. I think that there will be a real effort to press the Israeli government to turn to the 1967 boundaries and personally, as I have said here repeatedly, I think we are not in a proper position in trying to impose a predetermined settlement. Our only responsibility is to encourage negotiations and let the parties in the Middle East work out the boundary settlement. But I think the Rogers plan is very much alive.

	Q: What about the quota percentage for the Jewish community?

	A: I don't believe in percentage quotas. I do believe in the kind of effort we made at the Democratic National Convention this year to arrive at representation for various groups on a basis that was more in proportion to their percentage of the population than we have done in the past. I think it was all to the good that we set forth guidelines that increased the number of women participating in the Democratic Convention. In 1968, only 13% of the delegates were women. And we said that with regard to women, and on grounds of sex, on grounds of age, and on grounds of race, that the delegations from the various states should bear some relationship, not a percentage quota, but some reasonable relationship of their proportion to the total population. Now that means that nobody is going to stand up and holler if it turns out that there is a 40-60 split between men and women. It means that nobody is going to stand up and holler if the black people have 8% or 12%, but there is something wrong when they only have 5%, which is what the situation was in 1968. Now I think with reference to the government service or entrance to other institutions that you have a different set of factors operating--a national conference must in fact be represented by all the people of the country. In terms of government service, the merit factor must play a stronger role. I would think that this ought to be the first criteria in deciding who is going to be hired for a job. Who can best serve the country. And the other principle that we have to take into consideration is the one which is raised by a quota system. And I would do that not by going to a quota system, but by stepping up the efforts to recruit and inspire more participation in the government on the part of those groups that have been passed by--and this means more women, more black people, more Spanish-Americans, more Indians, additional appointments to well-qualified people--but in all cases the merit factor must be kept at the top of the list.

	I have to speak at the National Convention of Machinists this morning, and I can't afford to antagonize any members of organized labor after what Mr. Meany said about me on Labor Day, and I have to cultivate those people that still think I am a good American.

	Q: What men are you considering for secretary of state?

	A: Well, I think I made a mistake going into that subject at an earlier time. I really, and I say this in total honesty, I really don't have anybody in mind as a secretary of state at this time. On one occasion I set off a great clamor on the part of some of my Jewish friends by saying that the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was a well-qualified man. But I am familiar with the sharp view and differences that he has with me on the questions of the Middle East, and for that reason I would think that he would not be compatible with my own views. I do admire the positions he has taken on Southeast Asia. I think he has kind of led the Senate in thoughtful and prudent criticism in that area, but there are many competent people across the country. What I would like to do...[missing text].
CABINET APPOINTMENTSISRAELMIDDLE EAST--ARAB NATIONSMIGRANT WORKERSMILITARY AID--ISRAELMILITARY AID--MIDDLE EAST--ARAB NATIONSMILITARY CUTBACKSOLYMPIC GAMESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPACIFISMQUOTASSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)TERRORISMVIETNAM WAR     ÕZ ôZ ìZ èZ áZ
 {Z xZ sZ hZ ^Z \Z JZ ?Z	  	 ‹ 	 ÷ 	 Ω 	 Æ 	 ö 	 s 	 b 	 U 	 = 	 5 	 / 	  	  e: