Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0920.002SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/20STUMPNEW JERSEYNJNEW JERSEY LABOR MEETING; POST-CONVENTION SPEECH1661 WORDS

	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ed. Many, many thanks my friends of New Jersey labor and your friends who are here to welcome us today. I want to say first of all that it is a pleasure to share this occasion with one of our colleagues in the United States Congress who for many years has had a perfect record in representing the interests of the working people of this part of New Jersey and of the nation--Congressman Dominick Daniels. My office is right down the hall in the old Senate Office Building from Pete Williams, another one of the great champions of labor in the United States Senate, and we need by his side a man who is also on the stage with us today and a candidate for the United States Senate and who will have a great record if he is elected to the United States Senate--Paul Krebs.

	I couldn't help but think as I listened to Ed Muskie a few minutes ago how much more comfortable it is and reassuring to have him speaking for me rather than competing with me. He is a great and good man and the most decent kind of an opponent, but beyond that a great source of strength and inspiration to all of us in the Democratic party and I think the kind of a man who has those qualities that Americans want to see come to the forefront in the government of this country. We have had a great deal of discussion in the last few years about the credibility problems in our government, and put very bluntly, what that means is that millions of people in this country have come to the point where they no longer believe the pronouncements even of the president of the United States and the highest officials of our government. So it is reassuring to have a man who speaks the truth as Ed Muskie does about campaigning for the Democratic National ticket. I especially appreciated what Ed had to say about the public opinion polls. I come from a state that is not dissimilar from Maine. It is a state where the Republicans have us outnumbered about 2 to 1 and where Democrats always have to come from behind in order to win an election. The first time I was elected, just two years after Ed made it in the state of Maine, it was considered kind of a freak accident that would never happen again, but from that day to this we have been coming from behind in hard-fought election contests in that state, and I think the secret of it is that we have never taken the voters for granted; we don't do what President Nixon is now doing--sitting in the White House on his Gallup Poll ignoring the press, ignoring the people of this country, but rather we are taking the issues before this country seriously enough so that we think we have some obligation no matter what the polls say to be out with the people, addressing the great questions before this nation, and I have a deepening conviction that it is that kind of a people's campaign taken to the people of this country that once again is going to prove that the public opinion polls can be reversed and that is going to happen in 1972.

	I have heard this slogan too about the Nixon-Agnew ticket wanting another four years, but the more I listen to the concerns and the aspirations and the problems that face the people of this nation, the more I am convinced that we simply can't afford another four more years of Nixon and Agnew. We can't afford another four more years of five or six million men and women walking the streets of this country looking for jobs that aren't there.

	Now Martin Gerber made reference to the Harding Administration--earlier today I met with a group of labor leaders in Columbus, Ohio, and the Governor of that state said that he felt this administration had done the worst job of managing the economy of any administration since Herbert Hoover. I think that kind of comparison is a little bit unfair to Mr. Hoover because he brought on a Depression by accident and this administration deliberately set out four years ago to plan increased unemployment. It wasn't an accident there was a great meeting just about four years ago at the Homestead Hotel in Hot Springs, Virginia; it was held just a couple of weeks before the 1968 election when Senator Muskie and Vice President Humphrey were in the closing days of that campaign and the National Business Council of the 100 largest corporate leaders in this country met at that hotel and they came out with the recommendation that the best way to deal with the problems of inflation and to create the kind of a soft spongy labor situation that would be favorable to big business would be to increase the amount of unemployment in this country, and they set a target of between 5 and 1/2 and 6 percent as the unemployment rate that they thought would be desirable. Now it is just a historical fact, it is not political rhetoric--it is historical fact that will be written in the history books some day that for the first two years of this administration they were deliberately trying to slow down the economy, to decrease the number of jobs, to increase the amount of unemployment in this country because they thought that was the way to confront the problems of inflation.

	It didn't work. It produced more unemployment but the inflationary rate got steadily worse, and now as we come into the fourth year of the Nixon-Agnew administration we not only have some six million people unemployed but we have an eighteen point increase in the cost of living in this country over the past three and a half years. We have the biggest cumulative federal deficit that has been accumulated since World War II--something over $80 billion in federal deficits, which represents one-fifth of the entire national debt of this country compiled ever since the days of George Washington. We have an administration that has done nothing about the runaway corporation that is depriving workers in this country of needed jobs--and as a matter of fact, we have provisions written right into the federal income tax laws of this country that make it attractive for corporations to earn money in this country, then take it overseas to develop a plan there to get the tax breaks involved and dump back into the American market at the expense of workers here in this country. That is the kind of big business favoritism that has characterized the Nixon administration from the very beginning, and it is the kind of favoritism and special interest consideration that we are going to have to end on November 7th.
	
	Vice President Agnew has been expressing his unhappiness for the past twenty-four hours because we are telling some of the facts that have taken place in this administration, and he is worried about the revelations on the Watergate burglary and wiretapping case. But I ask every person here to think very seriously about the implications of what happened at the Democratic National Headquarters. It is not simply the problem of a major national headquarters being wiretapped and our conversations being monitored. It is the fact that an administration whose agents will engage in that kind of thing at a Democratic National Headquarters won't hesitate to wiretap and invade your union office, or your school, or your bank, or your law office or anything else and this is the kind of callous and cynical disregard for personal privacy and personal liberty that I think we have to end in a change of administrations next year.

	Now as Senator Muskie has said, there is one way to do that, and that is for the people in this country who believe that government ought to be in the hands of the ordinary citizens of this land to unify, to come together in common cause. And we have one of the greatest unifiers and healers of the Democratic Party ever produced in the history of this country and that is Richard Nixon himself. So let us recognize that our common goal as Democrats, as members of organized labor, as those who covet a better future for this country than what we have in common is the desperate need to restore this country to the kind of government that represents the public interest rather than the kind of narrow and special selfish interests that have dominated our government in recent years.

	The people of this country are good at heart. There is nothing wrong with the great ideals and principles on which our country was founded, and we are going to observe the 200th anniversary of this country in the last year of the next administration--the year 1976 will mark the 200th anniversary of a movement for independence here in America that was consecrated to a rebirth of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for all peoples. Those still ought to be the priorities of this country. There is nothing radical about calling this nation to live up to the great ideals that gave us birth two centuries ago. Those are the priorities which I have set my hand as a candidate for the Presidency of the United States, and it is around those central goals and purposes that I believe the working people of this country, the labor leaders, the rank and file and the members of the Democratic Party and good citizens everywhere can unite--and it is on that basis that we are asking for your help here in New Jersey in the 1972 presidential election campaign. 

Thank you so much for your presence here today.

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS, CORPORATEELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCEINFLATIONUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWATERGATE     ,% ø$ ò$ î$ æ$
 Ú$ Õ$ Ð$ Ð$ Æ$ Ä$ ”$ Š$	 _ 	 Q 	 > 	 ' 	  	 	 e: