Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1003.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/03STUMPREDDINGCALIFORNIACAREDDING WELCOME2071 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to ask your indulgence this evening.

	Normally at wonderful rallies like this I do my stump speech. Now that's the speech in which I tell people how I feel about various issues. For instance, on taxes I have a tendency to say, "Read my lips..."

	But I have just come from the space shuttle. We welcomed it back to Edwards this morning--[it] came at us through the blue sky like something shot from an arrow. And all I'm thinking about is space. And what I want to talk about tonight is our future in space, and what my hopes are.

	So do you mind a change in plans?

	Let me tell you what it was like today. We'd been waiting out in Edwards in the sun for about an hour--and suddenly, just barely through some scattered clouds, you could see it. And then there was the boom from breaking the sound barrier--two quick booms that just go through you.

	And when it landed, and you could see the dust it was sending up from the lakebed, everyone around me erupted in applause. Including my friends in the press over there.

	When the astronauts came out--I don't know if you saw it--but they greeted me holding in their hands the American flag.

	And they said they felt a bit wobbly, but you'd never know it.

	The return of the shuttle--the return of America to space--has been enormously moving for all of us. I was overwhelmed on the day of liftoff by the cheers and tears, by the children jumping up and down--and parents too.

	But the most moving thing, for me, is this: In a democracy--if the democracy really works--the people always lead the way. They're always ahead of the government and the media. Thursday morning, "the people" were pointing the way from the beaches of Florida. Today they were pointing the way from Edwards Air Force Base. They were pointing upward, toward space--they were looking heavenward.

	[Missing text]

	This is a good time to take some quick stock. As many of you know, NASA was founded almost exactly 30 years ago, on October 1, 1958. Eisenhower was president and the nation was at peace, but its contented slumber was disturbed one night when the news crossed the wires that the Russians had launched a satellite called Sputnik. Suddenly there was a space race, and they were winning.

	A reporter at one of the radio networks called Cape Canaveral and asked them for a response. The fellow who answered is supposed to have said, "Gee, I don't know, we're all asleep here." Which more or less summed up the situation.

	But the Cape recovered, and NASA was born, and in time our space program became what would have been called, in another age "one of the wonders of the world." We went from the shock of Sputnik to "Houston, Tranquillity Base here, the Eagle has landed." And now we have gone from the shuttle disaster of 1986, to the shuttle triumph of 1988.

	We are back on track, but it's time to ask: Where are we going? And what is our purpose, anyway?

	President Reagan put it well the other day when he said we must lead in space if we are to continue to lead on earth. Space is where the great scientific and commercial breakthroughs of the future will be made--space is where we can achieve progress in making our country safer from a nuclear launch or attack--space is where the medicines of the future will be mixed and made--space is where some of our children may make their living. Heck, it's where some of them may live.

	We are a searching people, man is an explorer, and men and women are impelled to push on. Americans have always been eager to get into the future--more than almost any country on earth we are future-oriented--and so it's inevitable that we would push on into the last frontier.

	But where to next?

	This will be a matter of profound debate in the next administration, whoever is president. I want to tell you how I feel.

	I am fully and utterly committed to the U.S. space program. I am fully and utterly committed to the peaceful exploration of near and far space. I am convinced this is not only an adventure but a responsibility, and one we shirk at our peril. I believe we must move forward. And I believe we are at the beginning of this journey, not the end, and that we have miles to go.

	There are budgetary considerations of course. This is no time to be wasteful. But, bottom line, a good investment is a good investment, and that in part is what space is.

	I believe that one thing we must do now, 30 years after the beginning of the modern space program, is develop a new and comprehensive strategy for space. As president, I intend to create a National Space Council, to be chaired by the vice president and composed of the heads of the Defense Department, the State Department, Transportation, and Commerce, and NASA. This Council will be asked to do two things: Make recommendations regarding specific directions for the future, and act as a focal point for international cooperation.

	I will appoint and listen to this Council. But I will be going in with certain strong notions about what our priorities should be, and I want to tell you about them.

	The way I see it the logical order is this: first the shuttle, then the space station. First the moon, then--perhaps--Mars.

	Why the space station? Because it is the critical next step in all our space endeavors. With it we will be able to pursue further scientific, medical and commercial experiments, and we will be able to make progress in becoming used to working and living in space.

	It always sounds rather dry to speak of "important medical and scientific breakthroughs" that can be achieved with a space station. But think of the experiments we've been doing on the shuttle alone. Scientists have been sending aloft experiments aimed at creating an anti-cancer enzyme. They're trying to grow crystals of Alpha interferon--the protein that stimulates the body's immune system.

	These are commercial ventures of profound scientific and medical promise. And they're only the anticipated benefits. In every great venture there are unexpected benefits. America's early settlers and pioneers knew they'd find the west, but they didn't know they'd get the Grand Canyon in the bargain. We don't know what the "Grand Canyons" of space will be, but we know they're there. And when we talk about opening up space to private enterprise we are in the area of unanticipated benefits. I have been an entrepreneur and I know something about the genius of the marketplace. The fantastic--and I mean that literally, fantastic--explosion of technology [of] the past two decades has been a private affair, largely, and not a government one. But when I think of the minds that invented the laptop computer being let loose in space I realize that even our most sophisticated guesses probably couldn't keep up with what American entrepreneurs and American inventors will come up with.

	The space station is also the critical next step in a journey to Mars. Now, I am not completely sure Mars is the next place we ought to go, and I want to receive the best thinking on that. But if we decide to go, we'll have to be ready, and a space station is part of that process.

	Because of the key nature of the space station in all our future endeavors, I have decided this evening, to announce that I will, as president, commit this nation to the development of an operational space station by the year 1996. This will demand the commitment of men and women and resources, but it is a commitment well made. This goal is achievable, sensible, and worthy of a great nation. 1996 also has a certain resonance for me as I hope that's when we'll be finishing the work of the second term of the Bush administration.

	[Missing text]

	There has been debate, and there will no doubt be more, about whether the great space journeys of the future should be manned or unmanned. There is much to be said for the latter--safety, greater range, economy. But I am convinced the future of the American space program includes manned flights, even puts the emphasis on them. I am inclined to put the emphasis on manned missions for a reason that is, to me, obvious: These are journeys of discovery and daring, and they will lose their impact and their meaning if they are performed only by machines. Sir Walter Raleigh wrote wonderful journals of his many voyages, and lent to the whole idea of exploration a romance and an excitement that moved later generations to follow in his footsteps. Men and women do not follow machines; they follow great men and women.

	Of course there are risks, as there are in all great ventures, and every precaution must be taken. But we can work at planning and improving safety as we press ahead.

	I am committed to a vigorous Strategic Defense program. You know as I do that the Soviets, with the energetic backing of General Secretary Gorbachev, have been working on their own strategic space defense for many years. They've been working so hard because they know a workable SDI could truly make them safer from nuclear attack. The Soviets, as you may have noticed over the years, aren't exactly sentimental when it comes to military decisions. They're not for SDI because they're dreamers, they're for SDI because they're calculators--they have calculated cost against benefit and decided the potential benefits more than outweigh the costs. We have to come to the same decision. It's not acceptable to dismiss SDI, as my opponent has, as unworkable and unrealistic. Gorbachev knows better. So does Ronald Reagan. And so do I.

	But space is not merely a playing field for international competition. Space can also be used to pursue peace on earth. We will sometimes compete with the other space-faring nations, but the expansion of our frontiers to the far reaches of the solar system should also be a matter for cooperation among the peoples of the world. For we voyage outward not only as Americans or Japanese or Russians or the French, but as human beings. Even as children of God. And there is much to share in terms of discovering, and pooling knowledge.

	So I see the future as very exciting. The American commitment to near and far space exploration is stronger than ever. And the bright future I anticipate is one in which a slightly bowed and somewhat grayer President Bush comes out here once again to make a speech about the imminent launch of the space station "Freedom."

	And I leave you with this thought. The other day President Reagan said he saw our continued involvement in space as a "liberation." Space, he said, is a place where mankind may be liberated from hunger and want and oppression.

	That is a pretty thought, as Hemingway used to say, and I do not differ with it. But I would add that it has long seemed to me that while the higher purpose of our space program is science and progress, there is another purpose. The U.S. space program gives us a lift. It brings us together. In a time in which we have 235 million citizens with at least 235 million distinct dreams, this great national endeavor brings us closer--sometimes quite literally, in front of a TV set, as we root for the launch and hope for a successful flight. We share the lingo, from "A-OK" to "T minus 20 and counting." We share in common the exhilaration of liftoff and the subtle relief we feel when the astronauts return.

	And anything that brings us together as a nation is a good thing. And has my support.

	I thank you for inviting me here this evening.

	I hope you'll ask me to return.

MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMSSPACE SHUTTLE/SPACE STATIONSPACE EXPLORATION     ¬- x- r- n- d-
 \- W- R- K- A- ?- 0- &-	 C 	 ,   e: