Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1031.003SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/31STUMPBATTLE CREEKMICHIGANMI3,881 WORDS

	Aren't they wonderful, aren't they great?  Give them a great hand. 

	May I say, Senator Hart, and to the director of this band that if you ever wanted to make a man feel good, a man that has been on the road many hours today and has talked to, oh my goodness, many audiences, you have revitalized me tonight.  This wonderful Battle Creek Democratic crowd.

	And that choir, or that singing and choral group, listen, is there any chance that I could just take this band and group with me from here on out?   Are you ready to go?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	Well, they are just grand, and I know that they have entertained you tonight as has my good friend Chubby Checker and his group here, and as has Miss Pat Morrow, and I am sure you have met my friend Rafer Johnson.  These wonderful people that come with us and help us.  There are so many here tonight that quickly I would like to just acknowledge because you have waited oh so long, but I am going to tell you why, and I think you may be will forgive me.  I hope you will forgive me.  But I do want to especially thank tonight a lady that has helped me so much in Michigan, that was with me early and has been steadfast in her helpfulness and loyalty and support and that is Patty Know, and, Patty, I have been waiting to do this a long time. 

	VOICES:  We Want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You have got him.  He is right here.  And the distinguished Attorney General, Mr. Kellem, and the Secretary of State, Mr. Hare.  And the two next congressmen that we need for the 3rd and 4th Districts, Tom Keenan--and John Martin from the 4th District. 

	I hope you had as much good fortune as I expect to have and as I feel we are going to have because tonight, ladies and gentlemen, as it has been for many a day, I feel that there is a big, big, big surprise ready to be--just to be unpackaged and unleashed on November the 5th, 1968, when Hubert Humphrey and Ed Muskie are elected. 

	You know this is Halloween, and I declared Halloween this morning the official Republican national holiday.  

	But I must say that we Democrats have undercut it a little bit because on Halloween it is supposed to be both tricks and treats, but for several weeks now you have been having some Nixon Republican tricks and on November 5th you are going to have some Humphrey-Muskie treats.  

	Yes, good friends, that is what is going to happen.  I have told many an audience that I have read these stories of doom and gloom about our campaigns, and at times they almost impressed me, and I read a couple of weeks--three weeks ago where the election was said--Mr. Nixon had the election in the bag, and you know what somebody told me last week?  He said, "Don't let that bother you, Hubert, just don't let it bother you a bit because," he said, "when Mr. Nixon opens that bag on November 5th, out will jump Humphrey and Muskie."

	And I want you to be around to witness it because that is going to be quite an act.  We are going to really enjoy it.

	Now, friends, how can one properly thank an audience like this except to get right down to business.  You have been here, you have waited, and the people at the airport were there tonight.  This audience--auditorium is jam packed, and outside there are yet hundreds that could not come in, and I consider it one of the high tributes and honors that can be paid to any person in public or private life, and I want to talk to you both seriously and pointedly about the decision that we are about to make.  As a matter of fact, in the next four days--the next four days we are going to decide what is going to happen in this country for the next four years, and the decisions that are going to be made in the next four years are going to have a great bearing on what is going to happen in this country and other countries for many years.

	Tonight I feel much more--or let me say that I feel more pointedly, more deeply serious about the nature of this campaign than ever before, because of developments that have taken place that your President announced and also because of something else.  When I saw these wonderful young people that are behind me on this stage tonight, and the others that I see in this audience, since I have young people of my own, I feel an extra sense of both duty and opportunity to serve and to be worthy, may I repeat, to be worthy of their confidence, to be worthy of their trust.  If there ever is anything that can make a man want to do good and want to do well, it is when young men and women put their faith in him and their trust in him, and I want this audience to know tonight that the young people that are here, if I can possibly do it, and I think I can, that I shall be fully worthy of their trust and of their confidence.  I want to do so.

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!  

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  My dear, and Humphrey wants you.  The question is for every voter, and the question is for those yet to be voters, because they have a new and a great influence in our country, is whom can we trust, in fact you will have to answer this question very personally in the quiet and secrecy of the voting booth, whom do you trust with the presidency, the highest office in the gift of this land.  

	VOICES:  You!  You!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And you have to answer a second question, whom do you trust, whom do you trust to stand just one...

	VOICES:  Humphrey!  Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  whom do you trust to stand just one heartbeat, one heartbeat away from the presidency?  

	VOICES:  Muskie!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And it really boils down to whom do you trust for the future of America.

	Now, it is that beautiful word "trust" that means so much, and it is a word that is like a contract, it is a bond.  The element of trust binds our democracy together.  Trust in each other carries us through the most difficult and turbulent times, like trust in a family, and trust in each other gives the people and the president facing together the strength that we are going to need to build a better America, a just and prosperous society, an open society for every American, no matter who he is or how he looks, his race, his creed or his color, because every American deserves the best that we have to offer in our country.  

	Now, Ed Muskie, my running mate, and isn't he a wonderful man?

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Ed Muskie and I have come with you, or come to you, with our campaign and our statement of issues.  We have literally the dust of America on our shoes from our many walks and travels, and we have shaken your hands and we have looked into your eyes, and we have heard your cheers as I have heard them tonight, and we have listened to your complaints, and we have some to you, the American people, in audiences like this, open to anyone, on street corners, wherever we can go.  We have come because we care and because we have the basic belief in the ability of the American people to make honest judgment.  We haven't screened our audiences, we haven't tried to sanitize them or deodorize them or pick them or select them.  We have just gone to the people, to the poor and the rich, to the city and the rural, into the ghettos, and on the great avenues of New York, we have been there, and we think that we have had a message to give and that message is that we represent a party and a government that cares about people, and a party and a government that cares about people is fulfilling what Thomas Jefferson once said is the only legitimate objective of government, and what did he say it was?  The welfare and the well-being and happiness of the people.

	Now, that is the purpose of this government.  We are trying to exemplify that in our contact with the people, and we told the people the truth as we saw it.  We told them the truth about peace and about war in Vietnam, and that peace tonight, my friends, is closer, thank goodness, and it is this that has detained me from this meeting.  As I walk with others...

	VOICE:  Tell us why you killed the Americans, you pig.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  All right, all right.  

	VOICES:  Throw him out!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Sit down.  Please be quiet, let this man speak. 

	VOICE:  I thank you for the opportunity to speak.  

	VOICE:  Sir, I thank you for the opportunity to speak.  I had no desire to speak, but I have very strong feelings.  I feel that the issues of our country are very, very important as you have brought out.  Sir, I feel that the issue of war and peace is essential.  I feel and I believe many Americans feel that while you may end this war, I would like to know what you are going to do.  Is a new war going to be in Thailand? 

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you, thank you.  Thank you.  May I ask this audience, may I ask to let this young man speak.  Are you through?

	Before this young man leaves, may I say that every man is entitled to his point of view.  I just wish he would address me by my right name, that is all. 

	VOICES:  Humphrey!  Humphrey

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Dear friends, don't let one unhappy and indiscreet moment break up what is a good meeting.  People have a right to their point of view.  I just regret that sometimes it is expressed in terms that are not always as polite as they would like.  We all make mistakes.  I don't stand here in a glass house.  Let me just repeat what I said a moment ago.  We have told the people the truth as we saw it, and we told the people the truth about Vietnam, and that peace, I say again, is closer tonight, thank God.  Hanoi has agreed to proceed with prompt and productive discussions.  The President has taken an action by his order for the cessation of bombing of the North that I believe will have the support of the vast majority of the American people.  I know that I support it.  Now let us hope we make--now let us really hope and reverently pray that the negotiations which are underway in Paris will now be able to move forward towards a truly honorable and lasting settlement.  This is the desire of the American people because the work of this nation is then--has been and continues to be the work of peace, peace here at home amongst ourselves and peace in this troubled world that surrounds us, and let us dedicate ourselves tonight by word and deed and prayer and thought to the attainment of that wonderful objective of harmony at home, peace at home, and a real genuine peace abroad.  This is what we have addressed ourselves to.  

	Senator Muskie and I have also told the truth as we saw it about the subject called law and order and how we can make our America safe, safe for everyone, black and white, rich and poor, make it safe once again by supporting our laws, but supporting our local police, by supporting them not with just slogans and bumper stickers but with better pay and better training and better equipment and then, too, by building a better and a more just society for the many people in this society that feel that organized society has not been fair to them.  Now this is what we need to do.  

	Now, our opposition, Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace, have appealed not to reason but to fears and emotions.  They have not offered plans for programs.  They have offered talk, but fear and emotion can never bring you and your family the security and the safety that you have every right to expect.  The first duty of government is to protect life, to insure liberty, and hopefully to make that life a little more meaningful, so that you can be blessed with a degree of happiness throughout your life.  These are the duties that were laid out even in the Declaration of Independence, subscribed to in our Constitution, and may I say an oath of office taken by every member in public life to support that Constitution, to support the protection of life, and indeed the protection of property, and I can tell this audience tonight that the Humphrey-Muskie administration will be one not only of civil order but will be one of civil justice because the two go together. 

	And we believe the American people will understand all of this on election day.  We believe the American people are going to vote their hopes and not their hates.  We believe, my friends--we believe the American people have more faith in this country than they have doubt.  We believe they have more trust in this country than they have doubt.  We believe they have more trust in this country than they have suspicion, an we are going to put our case on the line, on the basis of appealing to the essential goodness and the decency of the American character, and I think you are going to see it come forth once again on election day in a great national referendum.   

	And we told some other truths as we saw them.  We told the truths about economic progress in the past eight years under Democratic administration, and we are reminded of another truth in this city alone.  In 1968, one out of every thirteen workers were out of a job here in Battle Creek, Michigan, one out of every thirteen.  Today that number has been reduced to one out of every twenty-five.  We say that is still too high.

	Mr. Nixon's advisers say something else.  They say that what America needs is a little more unemployment.  Well, I tell you that will cool things off all right, and it would send America right into the deep freeze of another Nixon Republican recession. 

	And we told the truth about something that relates to these schools.  We told the truth about federal aid to education from preschool in Head Start, to elementary and secondary, to higher education and indeed vocational and special education.  We told the truth about how our children must have the best education that we can possibly give them, and how the money spent on education is the best investment that we can make, and if you don't believe it, look at the young people on this platform tonight.  There is the living proof of it.  

	My friends, we have also told the truth of how federal aid can help lift the crushing load of the local property tax which every community today faces, and without assistance from your federal government, which has the income tax base, local governments will be forced to apply heavier and heavier and higher and higher property taxes until home ownership and property ownership becomes not an asset but a liability.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to the overburdened local property taxpayer is a better degree of federal aid for your schools so that the tax base can be more equitably shared, and we are going to do it. 

	Now, Mr. Nixon has fought federal aid to education all of his life.  I noticed within the last two weeks he has had a sudden conversion.  I must say that it is both sudden and subtle.  I can't help but feel that this is what I call political deathbed religion.  I think we should judge them by their deeds, not by their most recent words, and, Mr. Nixon, Richard Milhous Nixon, for twenty years, you have stabbed in the back every program of federal aid to education, and I don't believe you support it now. 

	Mr. Nixon has come to this city and he has brought a message on the date of October 23rd which says the "U. S. World Lead Lost, Nixon Tells Battle Creek Audience," and what did he say?  He said we have lost our military superiority over the Soviet Union in such crucial areas as bombers, tactical fighters, and submarines.  When he was challenged both by myself and the Secretary of Defense, his only answer was another radio broadcast to say that he suddenly realized maybe he should be interested in peace.  He knew that he misled the public.  He knew there were no facts to justify his conclusions.  He knew that he helped destroy the confidence of our allies, and he must have known that his words could have led to miscalculation by our enemies. 

	America today is the strongest nation of the face of the Earth, and for Mr. Nixon to indulge in politics that says we are losing our lead is to, let me say, to lay with crucial issue of national security, foot loose and fancy free, dangerous politics there. 

	And according to one of our leading newspapers, his proposals would cost about $50 billion a year more with national defense.  That same money which is not needed for our national security, that same money could have sent 12.5 million young people to college for four years.  I think that would be a wiser investment for the president to make. 

	And we told the truth as we saw it about how we must halt the nuclear arms race before that nuclear arms race halts humanity.  And let me say this now as clearly as possible:  I say that you cannot trust Mr. Nixon or Mr. Agnew with the awesome responsibility of stopping that arms race, and you can't trust them to protect the people's interests.  In this campaign Mr. Nixon has made appeals to the very special private interests.  The duty of a president is to have but one interest, and that is the interest of the entire nation to be the people's representative n the White House every day of the year.  

	Now, there is a third-party candidate, you have heard of him.  His name is George Wallace--and he has as his candidate for vice president a man who is a distinguished militarist but is known as a bombing general.  Now George Wallace and I disagree on almost everything.  And I hope that you and George Wallace disagree on almost everything.   

	And I want to give Mr. Wallace credit for one thing, he was willing to stand up and debate the issues of this election and that is more than you can say about Mr. Republican.  At least Mr. Wallace was willing to debate.

	Now, the question which Mr. Wallace's supporters have to answer for themselves, and they can only do it themselves in the voting booth, is this:  As they search their conscience, as they thing about their families, as they think about their jobs, as they think about their mortgages, as they think about their children, the question that they have to answer is, can Mr. Wallace run the government.  Can he keep workers on overtime and off unemployment lines?  

	My answer is he couldn't do it as governor of Alabama, and I fear that he couldn't and wouldn't do it as president of the United States.  So we come down now to the finish line.  Your next president, whoever he is, and I hope that I know in your heart who it will be...

	VOICES:  Humphrey!  Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That was a pleasant thought--your next president has some awesome responsibilities, and this is why he needs along side of him a man of great integrity, competence, maturity, experience and responsibility.  In this election you are not voting for just one man.  You are voting for president and vice president.  You are voting for a man to be your president and another man that stands a heartbeat away.  You are voting in a time of unprecedented events, of uncertainty, and, my friends and fellow Americans, the first test of a presidential candidate is what kind of a man did he select as his running mate, and I ask you to think of that as you go to that voting box.  I ask you to think about the possibilities that could happen in this country.  I do not like to think of them myself, because they carry with them tragedy, personal tragedy, at least for one, but you must think of your country and so must I, and we must think of the future of this country, and not just of its present moment.  So that its next President must have a working partner with him, and if you elect me as your president, there will be a trustworthy, competent working partner standing along side of me to work with me.  

	So then what shall we do?  That next president must help, if peace is not obtained by January 20th, to secure that peace in Southeast Asia.  He must end and indeed he must have the courage to end the nuclear armaments race, and he must hold this country together because only together can we build.  He must heal the wounds, and he must, above all, be dedicated to building one nation, one great America, one nation under God and indivisible and with liberty and justice for all because without it is for none.   

	He must enforce the laws but he must also work to see that the laws are just.  He must insure order, but he must also see that every injustice an every inequity and wrong is righted.  These are the things that I want for America.  These are the reasons that I come to you to ask for your help, not your help only for me, because I am involved as a candidate, and you are involved as the popular sovereigns of this country, and on election day you will be heard.  On that day the power of the ballot becomes the most powerful instrument in the hands of the people.

	These are the things that I have outlined tonight that I think that we can do, and these are the things that we will have if you will give me your help.  And I ask you to go out now and work these last days as you have never worked before.  I ask you to see that every voter votes.  I hope he will be able to vote for our ticket.  But, above all, I want him to perform the duty and the privilege of American citizenship, and I call upon the young in this audience below voting age to make themselves committees of one in their own homes to make sure that every person of twenty-one years of age and over is at the ballot box early to cast a vote for this last best hope of Earth which is your country and mine--let's take care of it--so help me God. 
CONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALEDUCATION--GENERALMILITARY PREPAREDNESSNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPROPERTY TAXRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)UNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     YU %U U U U
 U U ˝T ÒT ÈT ÁT ÁT ‹T	 Ù 	 ÷ 	 Ω 	 ´ 	 ñ 	 g 	 ? 	 3 	  e: