Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0912.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/12STUMPALBUQUERQUENEW MEXICONMTHE NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY3,452 WORDS

	This is my last stop on my first major tour as a presidential candidate; eight states, thirty speeches--good, bad and indifferent. I confess I am tired, but I have been having a lot of fun and I am not ashamed of it. I like people; I even like Republicans, especially if they say they are going to vote for me. 

	Somebody has been asking me how I was feeling and it reminded me of a story of a man who was shot in the back by Indians in an attack on a wagon train out in this country in the early days. Some time later some troopers came along and found the poor man unconscious with three arrows between his shoulder blades. They revived him with whiskey, and when he could whisper they asked if it hurt awfully, and he said, "It sure does, especially when I laugh." 

	Well, we Democrats seem to be having entirely too much fun for some of our dour and solemn critics. I have been accused of the hideous crime of laughing a little. I am afraid, my friends, that I have no option but to plead guilty. Politics is a serious business, but I believe in going gaily into battle. I believe that the Happy Warrior has always been a good American symbol, and I am going to go on being myself whether my critics like it or not. 

	Some people say that I have been going to the left; other people say that I have been going to the right. On the whole, I don't think the average is too bad. But it sort of reminded me of a story I heard long ago about the church that was trying to get a new minister, and they said--the committee said--"Now, we want someone who is not too conservative and not too radical. You know, we want somebody just mediocre." 

	Well, I am frank to say that I don't look on this political campaign as a funeral--at least, I don't look on it as my funeral. And how could you help but be amused when you look at that Republican party, that two-headed elephant? No matter how solemnly you examine this interesting spectacle, I find it very hard not to crack an occasional smile. One head huffs and puffs and announces that it is fighting mad at the Democrats, while the other head claims credit for all of the Democratic achievements of the past twenty years. I understand the elephant put its two heads together today in New York for a peace conference. They must have eaten crow for breakfast. If they did make peace, I wonder what happened to all those declarations of undying principle we heard from both sides while they were calling each other nasty names in Chicago--names, by the way, that they usually reserve only for Democrats. 

	Now, after seeing the announcement--or a brief synopsis of the press announcement--I am tempted to make a very profound comment: It looks as if Taft lost the nomination but won the nominee. 

	But tonight, my friends, I want to speak seriously about some very hard and difficult things. They are issues that present tough choices to the American people. The choice we make will have an effect on the life of every man, woman and child in this country. Our country faces today a crafty and a ruthless foe, as you all well know. It is the purpose of that foe to dominate the life of every person in the world. The modern miracles of aviation and of atomic power have given, or will soon give, this foe weapons with which it can spread destruction everywhere. As the old spiritual has it: "There's no hiding place down there." No one knows that better than you in New Mexico, who live as neighbors to Los Alamos and White Sands. 

	I want to say a few plain words tonight on this subject of Communism. You have heard a good deal about it in these past years, and I suspect you will hear a great deal more about it in years to come. Unfortunately, too much of what we have heard has been shrill and excited or else it has been soft and insidious. If we are going to deal effectively with this disease, it will only be because our approach remains cool, calm and thoughtful. 

	What is the nature of the threat which Communism brings to the free world? It is the threat of an all-powerful state, dedicated to the extinction of individual dignity and individual freedom--individualism, in short. To put it more simply, Communism is the death of the soul. It is the organization of total conformity--in short, tyranny--and it is committed to making tyranny universal. 

	Now, this makes it, first of all, an external threat, the threat of a sullen, aggressive, expanding imperialism, thrusting forth its power in all directions at the points of least resistance. It does not seem probably to me that the Soviet Union desires general war; I suspect it will refrain from any action that it knows will provoke general war. But it has no fear of local war--especially when it can get other peoples, like the North Koreans and the Chinese, to fight local wars for them. And it proposes to extend its power, above ground, under ground, wherever economic insecurity or political chaos or moral weakness or military unpreparedness give it a bridgehead or foothold. 

	How do we counter this external threat of Communism? There is only one sound answer to this, and that is by increasing the strength and the unity of the free world. We can end the conditions which invite Soviet aggression in only one way--by transforming positions of weakness into positions of strength, and this cannot be done by any magic words, by slogans or by radio exhortations. It can only be done by hard, patient building of strength in the free world, enough military strength to deter overt aggression and enough economic and political and moral strength to deter subversion and infiltration. And this means collective strength, that is, strength exerted by the free peoples in concern so that, to an ever-increasing extent, the security of one becomes identical with the security of all. 

	With these policies, we have already checked Soviet aggression and perhaps saved the world from a third world war. The Truman Doctrine, the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Pact have restrained Soviet power in Europe. Our resistance in Korea has checked Soviet aggression in Asia. If we had let Europe fall to the Soviets, if we had acquiesced in aggression in Asia, the Soviet Union would have been emboldened into rasher and rasher adventures. By the time it occurred to the Old Guard of the Republican party that resistance was necessary, we would have been isolated, a beleaguered garrison state in a Soviet dominated world. 

	But, my friends, the building of free-world strength does more than just restrain Soviet aggression. Its effect is to make the free world itself--both because of its freedom and because of its strength--a potent counter-attraction to Soviet power. And the emergence of this world, united, powerful, friendly and free, will exert an ever-increasing influence on the captive states within the Soviet Empire. 

	Now, I say to you in all sobriety, that in this direction is the long-run hope of restoring the independence of nations now under Soviet dominion. We must face the bitter unhappy fact that this is no easy task. It cannot be done, as the Republican opposition has sometimes seemed to suggest, just by secret agents or by parachute drops or by radio propaganda. Harsh language and "cold finality" will do us little good unless we are willing to start a third world war which would end by obliterating the very men and women we seek to liberate. 

	There is only one way to rescue these peoples and that is through a policy of peaceful and relentless pressure designed to loosen the Soviet grip over these countries. The first requirement of such a policy is the building of collective strength in the free world. Without this, nothing can be done to maintain spirit and hope behind the Iron Curtain. As this is done, we are in a position to intensify political and economic and other peaceful pressures against the Soviet Empire. 

	This is what we have been doing. This is what we will continue to do. The Republican call for a policy of "liberation" means, in hard fact, either the continuation of the present policy or else it means the initiation of a third world war, but I fear it is neither of these things. I fear it is rather a cynical and transparent attempt, drenched in crocodile tears, to play upon the anxieties of foreign nationality groups in this country. We Democrats are opposed to war. And we are opposed to the exploitation of foreign policy and foreign friend for domestic political purposes. 

	It is singular to me that Republican leaders, on the whole, do not seem to become much interested in foreign lands until those lands have been lost to the enemy and then, of course, it is too late. Today they seem to be concerned about Eastern Europe but not about Western Europe. They are concerned about China but not about the rest of Asia. 

	We must never forget that the road to the liberation of the slave world lies only through the strength and unity of the free world and that so-called shortcuts are all too likely to land us in a third world war. 

	But I suggest that we would err, certainly, if we regarded Communism as merely an external threat. Communism is a great international conspiracy and the United States has been for years a major target of that conspiracy. Communist agents have sought to steal our scientific and military secrets, to mislead and corrupt our young men and women, to infiltrate positions of power in our schools and colleges, in business firms and in labor unions and in the government itself. At every turn they have sought to serve the purposes of the Soviet Union. 

	In the pursuit of their objectives, the Communists have been ingenious, disciplined, obedient and ruthless. Along the way, they have gained the help, witting or unwitting, of many Americans. The communist conspiracy within the United States deserves the attention of every American citizen and the sleepless concern of the responsible government agencies. 

	I fear that there are still people in our country under illusions about the nature of this conspiracy abroad and at home. There aren't many American communists--far fewer than in the days of the Great Depression--and they aren't, on the whole, very important, but they exist, and we should not forget their existence. Some, perhaps, are obstinate and hopeless in their faith. Others, perhaps, can be won back to loyalty to the things that we deem precious in our democratic way of life. 

	Communism is committed to the destruction of every value which the genuine American liberal holds most dear. So I would say to any Americans who cling to illusions about Communism and its fake utopia: Wake up to the fact that you are in an alliance with the devil, and you must act soon if you hope to save your soul. And to those who, in the service of the Soviet Union, would commit acts prejudicial to the safety and security of the United States, I would say: under me as president of the United States, federal agencies will deal sternly and mercilessly with all who would betray their country and their freedom for the sake of manacles and chains. 

	There is only one way for a free society to deal with this internal threat, and that is through the processes of justice. We have tightened up our espionage and security legislation. We have instituted a federal loyalty system--and we did so, by the way, in 1947--three long years before the Senator from Wisconsin made his shrill discovery of the Communist menace. We have prosecuted the Communist leadership. Where the law has been violated, the Justice Department has indicted and convicted the criminals. In all this effort, we have had the faithful and resourceful work in national protection of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Now, I do not believe that any agency of government is wholly infallible, and I think that of all agencies, a bureau of detection should get the most strict and unrelenting public scrutiny. 

	But, so far as I can see, the FBI is doing and has done an excellent investigation job. To tell you--or to imply, as some do for political reasons that the government is crawling with Communists today is to say that the FBI does not know its business. Moreover, the Department of Justice has now established a new division to deal exclusively with this problem. 

	We can never relax our vigilance at home and abroad. When I say this, I don't intend to approve all the excesses and the injustices committed in the name of anti-Communism. Unfortunately, there are among us men whose hope it is to profit from anxiety, hysteria and fear--to confuse, to build, to obscure the issues for the American people. 

	If there were mistakes, let us discuss them. But let us never confuse honest mistakes, mistakes of judgment, with the insidious designs of traitors. Those who corrupt the public mind are just as evil as those who steal from the public purse. 

	And let me say too that it is a shabby thing for a man to cry treachery now who only a few years ago said that the only difference between Chinese Communists and Oklahoma Republicans was that the latter did not carry guns. 

	So far as I can see, many of the people most vocal in pursuing Communism with words at home are the same people most silent when it comes to supporting the fight in the front lines abroad. We must recognize that the fight against Communism in our own country achieves its purpose only to the extent that it strengthens and does not weaken democracy. 

	But the excesses of those who exploit anti-Communism do not alter the fact that our nation can never for one moment relax its guard. We must take care not to harm innocent people. We must remember that liberals are not Communists and that Socialists are not Communists, and that radicals in the American sense--in the American tradition--are not Communists. But where true Communists are concerned--men bound to the service and the defense of Stalinist tyranny--we must root them out and give them the consequences of treachery to all America holds dearest. 

	Now, this region of clear air and broad spaces is the last place any politician should try to dupe people. You can spot a speck on the horizon out here ten miles away. You will not be fooled by men who try to tell you that patriots are traitors and honest men are thieves. 

	Nor will anyone believe the Republican orators who say that under Democratic administration we have all been ruined by the government in Washington. A man who could say a thing like that hasn't been around our country lately. Or if he has been around he has been conferring all day with Republicans. 

	I say look around New Mexico. Cattle which sold twenty years ago for $30 a head now sell for $200. You know that the workers are making twice as much today, after allowing for price changes. You know that your manufacturing output is now twenty-five times what it was twenty years ago. You know that not one cent was lost to anybody last year in federally insured banks. Not one cent. 

	Let us ask ourselves--who was ruined? Who was ruined when better schools were built for our children; when old folks could afford to stay with their families instead of going to the poorhouse; when forests were saved; when land was irrigated; when oil wells and mines found a market; when electric power was brought to farms and homes? 

	The Democrats haven't ruined this country; they have vastly enriched it. And the sad thing about it is that the Republican orators know it. Their real complaint is that the only thing the people have lost in the last twenty years is faith in the Republicans. 

	And why? Why? Because they simply cannot understand that you can't win elections in this country by fooling people. You win them by a record of service for the people's wants and the people's needs. The Democratic party has no secret love potion which makes Americans vote for us when election time comes around. Our methods are open and simple. Time and time again in the last twenty years we asked the Republicans to work by our side in the interests of all the people. We told them in plain language that you don't win at the polls with tricky words, with miracle drugs, with slander and with slogans. We told our Republican friends that the way to win an election once every four years is to win it each day by meeting the needs of our times. 

	But our friends have no eyes to see, no ears to hear and evidently no heads to understand. Or, maybe too many heads with conflicting ideas, or no ideas. These people seem to believe that newspapers have not been invented, that records are not kept and that the tally sheets of votes in Congress are habitually lost. But all these things are available to the public. Americans do read the minutes of the last meeting. And they add up their reactions on election day. If they also add up to another Democratic victory, the Republican leaders have only themselves to blame, even as the Whig Party had before them. 

	They talk of change. These days they do little else but talk of change. But where were the Republicans when the great changes of these twenty years were made? I'll tell you where they were. They were trying to stop the changes. 

	Look, my friends, at the things that have meant so much to New Mexico. The Democrats have worked to bring you water. We have steadily supported reclamation measures, as you know. When they had the chance in that famous 80th Congress, the Republicans cut the budget requests for reclamation work so far that some projects had to be stopped in the middle. 

	The Democrats have worked to provide price insurance for farm crops--cotton, for example. What did the Republicans do? Just this last June--three months ago--more than half of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against the law to extend price supports at 90 percent of parity through 1954 for cotton and for other basic crops. 

	The Democrats have worked to preserve, to protect the public grazing lands against overuse. We know that protecting the forests and grasslands against overgrazing is essential to protect the watersheds. We want to have the grazing lands used and used to their full capacity. But overgrazing leads to floods and silt, and loss for all. 

	The Republican platform for this year, if it means anything, means turning over the public grasslands to reckless private exploitation. These are public property, and we Democrats insist that they shall be widely used for the public benefit. 

	Another example: The Democrats have worked for years to provide a sound system of social security to help the old, the blind, dependent children, those who through no fault of their own cannot fully support themselves. And, where are the Republicans? They say nice things about extending social security to more people, but when they had a chance in the 80th Congress, they took social security away from more than half a million people. Now, do you want that kind of leadership in Washington? 

	I say that you want instead men who are working for progress and hope and human decency. We have great tasks ahead of us. We must continue with imagination and with implacable purpose the task of building peace in this tormented world. And here at home we must continue to strive for a better living for all of our people. We are united in a single purpose--the great American purpose of freeing men to use their strength and their courage in building a better life. This is the purpose for which the Democratic party stands, and this, my friends, is the purpose I should like to serve with your help.
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCOMMUNISMESPIONAGEFEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI)GOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYRECLAMATION PROJECTSSOCIAL SECURITYSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     ðM ¼M ¶M ²M ªM
 M ˜M “M ˆM ~M |M cM XM	 å 	 Ì 	 § 	 ž 	 • 	 p 	 Q 	 > 	 * 	  e: