Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0912.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/12STUMPWILMINGTONDELAWAREDEDEDICATION OF DELAWARE MEMORIAL BRIDGE3,374 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Governor Terry.

	Mr. Chairman, Governor Terry and Governor Hughes, the Reverend Clergy, distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans:

	Just a few minutes ago, Governor Terry--just prior to your addressing us--I noticed someone out there in the audience who had a sign that said, "Horatio at the Bridge."

	And now I know why I was invited. 

	I do not suppose there is any other candidate for public office who has the credentials at bridge dedications that I have.

	Truthfully, I feel highly honored to be permitted at these ceremonies.

	I come to you today as a friend, fellow Americans, and as your vice president.

	As has been said, today we dedicate this second span and here rededicate the first span of the Delaware Memorial Bridge, and we dedicate it to the highest of purposes and to the finest of men, to the memories of those Americans from Delaware and from New Jersey who have given their lives in war since World War II and in subsequent conflicts, giving their lives not for conquest, not for delusion, not for our national wealth, but, rather, in our national security and even may I say for the peace and the security, and the safety of millions of others who do not inhabit this land.

	Never has there been a nation so generous with its resources, with its people, and with its most precious possession, its young men and women, as this nation.

	This great bridge today is more than concrete and steel.  It represents a living memorial to those who have gone to their eternal reward.  Let us keep that in mind even as we hear the hum of traffic which represents the life of a busy nation.

	Interstate cooperation is evident here today, and I want to pause to speak with you just a moment as a student of government to note with you how we in this system of ours are able to adjust our institutions of government to the needs of the people.

	Our Constitution is a living document and not an historical article.  That Constitution made it possible for the fifty states of this great federal union to work together in harmony with the central or federal government for one purpose and one purpose only--the well-being of the American people.

	We are, in fact, engineers in human relations as well as engineers in the more orthodox sense of that term, engineers in the sense of government--adjustable, flexible, innovative, and creative.

	I say this because, as has been noted from this platform today, a bi-state Delaware River and Bay Authority was created by two states--Delaware and New Jersey--and then ratified by the Congress of the United States to make it possible for this Authority to finance this great undertaking and to do it out of revenue bonds instead of out of the public treasury.

	My fellow Americans, this tells me something--and I hope it tells you the same thing--that whatever we need to do and whatever we want to do, we can do it if we just make up our minds to get the job done.

	So to those who are always preaching premature funeral sermons for our republic and our society, let me say this is a living society, a growing nation, an useful people, and I, for one, am one who believes that the better days are yet to be lived.  Indeed, that is my philosophy.

	But, now, in memory of those for whom this bridge is being dedicated, how shall we be worthy of them?

	Only by concrete and steel?  Hardly enough.

	We must build new bridges, but not just bridges of concrete and steel, but rather, human bridges of tolerance and of understanding and of cooperation.  We must build these bridges among our own people right here in our own blessed land, and we must build these bridges to the outside world because, my dear friends, there is but this one world for us.  This is our world, our neighborhood, and if we isolate ourselves from our neighbor, we are the losers and we are in the more danger.

	In recent days the whole concept of bridge building, bridge building between nations, the idea that previously hostile societies and peoples should increase their contacts and communicate has been brought into serious question.  At least it is being questioned very seriously by many people whose view of history has been of the moment rather than in the long perspective of history.

	The aggression of the Soviet Union into Czechoslovakia has, in a very real sense, shocked the entire civilized world, and it has reminded us, once again, of the danger and of the seriousness of the times in which we are living.  It has brought us into a new realization that peace and freedom are under constant attack by the forces of totalitarianism--sometimes under attack by insidious circumstances, sometimes perhaps under attack by subversives, and then sometimes in naked aggression.

	We have seen it in Czechoslovakia, and we have seen it and we pay a terrible price for it in Southeast Asia.

	And as we face this increased tension, it is quite obvious, it seems to me, that we must maintain the vitality and the cohesion of the great alliance known as NATO so that no nation may be tempted to take an unnecessary risk of country.  And the grave difficulties that beset this troubled world will not be settled in the streets or on the battlefields; they will be settled in the conference, in negotiation, among the nations and in the great institutions of international understanding.

	Now, if ever, we should reason with one another and do it in confidence.

	This is a time when friends must stand together.  This is a time when Americans must stand together, forgetting our petty differences and understanding that this nation of ours offers such promises not only to ourselves but to all of God's children.

	Never was there a time in which we are more needed than now, and never was there a time when we needed each other more than now.

	So listen not to those voices that divide us; listen not the haters and those who would destroy this sense of community and brotherhood that we need; listen not to those who, once again, would return to the past and suggest that the answers to the problems that are now confronting us should be found in self-destruction.

	This is a time, however, that we must serve notice on our adversaries that there is far more to be gained from peaceful engagements in work and relaxation of tensions than from the reversion to the Cold War.

	We have two choices to make.  That is what I am trying to say to you.

	We have a choice to make now in America.  It is whether or not we shall continue now as a nation of nation builders, of bridge builders, or whether we shall back into all the old bad habits, the old antagonisms, the doubts and the suspicions, the failure and the despair, that divide human beings from one another.

	I would hope that, in memory of those for whom this span is dedicated, that we would have come to the understanding that violence in any form is not the answer to the problems of mankind.

	Yes, I recognize--and we must understand--that, for the moment, there is greater tension among the superpowers of the world than there was a month or a year ago.

	But the very fact that tension tells us that we must work unceasingly to reduce it--ever vigilant, ever prudent, ever watchful--but also ever probing, ever reaching out, to find ways to heal the wounds, to find reconciliation.

	First, I believe that we must have the courage to try, out of all of the gifts of our intellect and spirit, to turn back the national arms race.  I remind this fine audience that the super powers and, indeed, a few others, have now, at this moment, the capacity of total destruction, total annihilation, of all of God's creation.  We will either halt the arms race, or it may very well halt humanity.

	One erratic act, one unreasoned decision, one emotional outburst on the part of an unstable person in a position of leadership today can unleash on this world a holocaust of catastrophe and disaster that the human mind is unable to comprehend.

	Make no mistakes about it, my fellow Americans, the world is not short of destructive power.  The world is short today of healing, of reconciliation, of love, and of peace.

	We must have the determination, therefore, we here in America, to try to halt the spread of nuclear weapons.  We have more than we need, and others have more than they need.  The Soviet Union and the United States stand today like super giants, for within their hands is unlimited power of total destruction.

	We have come to an agreement after months and years of negotiation to try to stop the spread of nuclear weapons technology, to see to it that no more of these weapons go around this world in other hands--it is dangerous enough now as it is--to see that those weapons do not find their way into Asia or Southeast Asia and the Middle East, where violence is rife, where emotion, all too often rules rather than reason.

	I say that we must have the determination, then, to support the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty; as it is called in its technical terms, now awaiting ratification in the United States Senate.

	To delay in the building of the Cathedral of Peace is not a contribution to the Cathedral of Peace.  There need be no delay.  Eighty nations have ratified the treaty.  It is our child; it was our dream; it was our proposal.  And for the strongest nation on the face of the Earth, equipped as no other with an arsenal of power, that we should halt, that we should delay, in setting into place this great building block of peace in the Cathedral of Peace I say is to deny our greatness and to, in a very serious way, prove that we are unworthy of trust.

	So I call upon the Senate of the United States and I call upon the leaders and spokesmen of all political parties to lead and to follow us in this all-important endeavor, which does not restrict our national security, but, rather, enhances it, which does not jeopardize the peace of the world, but, rather, protects it.  It is in our national interest.

	And, then, we must have the patience to strengthen the United Nations.  The United Nations is not a perfect instrument, but it is the best that we have been able to create in this post-war world for bringing about a better spirit among the nations and peoples and peace.  And we must strengthen its peacekeeping machinery and all international institutions of security and peace, and we must have the fortitude to see through a long and demanding negotiation at Paris, which may finally bring peace to Southeast Asia and Vietnam.

	For if nations should finally be unable to build these bridges of respect and cooperation between each other in this Year 23 of the nuclear age, we cannot hold much hope for the future either of ourselves or the rest of the human family.

	Now, here at home the need for the building of bridges of human understanding has never been greater.  We see today our nation beset by those who would divide us--black from white, rich from poor, city from countryside, inner city from the suburb, young from old, and even North from South.

	There are voices being raised in this land today, heated voices of hatred, and very definitely they call us to destruction, not to build.  They call us to battle, not to tolerance.

	And we must ask ourselves: is this the kind of America that we want--dividend, torn by conflict, filled with doubt and suspicion and fear?

	I think not.

	I still believe that most Americans, oh, yes, that an overwhelming preponderant majority of Americans, still believe in the American dream of one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.

	What will this country be like in the year 2000?  In that year, most Americans who are alive today will still be alive.  What will it be like for them, for our children, and our grandchildren?

	What it will be like will be determined by the decisions and the choices that we make now.  The decisions of today chart the course of tomorrow.  With the pace of science and technology, with the onset of new patterns of living that will last for generations, we must make these choices soon and now or lose the chance, perhaps forever.

	We must make the choice to keep this economy of ours still growing so that the social dividends of better living can come to more and more Americans.

	We must make the choice now to see to it that every child, regardless of race or religion or background or circumstances, shall have the best education that modern teaching and modern schools can provide.

	We must make the choice now as to whether we are going to live as a family of Americans in friendship and respect or whether we are going to live as an armed camp of enemies, filled with apprehension and animosity.

	I think we know what choice we have to make.  I think we know that the source of strength of this nation is in its people.  I think we know that in our unity is our strength.  I think we know that there is more that binds us together than tears us apart.  I think we know that we need an America of one spirit, and I think we have the capacity to create it.

	Yes, as evidenced by what we have done here in building this bridge between states, we must do elsewhere in our social and economic and political fabric.

	We must do it in the rebuilding of our cities, where most of our people are living and where a hundred million more Americans in the next twenty-five years will seek to find a home.

	We must apply the engineering and technology and, indeed, the planning and the financing that is so evident in this great engineering feat to our cities.  The city of man was made for man, and the city of man ought to have the environment in which the spirit of man can be enriched and loved rather than degraded and beaten to the ground.  Cities must become living institutions, rather than dying monuments, to the excellence of the human spirit.

	We must rebuild our cities by purging them of blight and slurrings of the character.  Any country that can create an environment in a space capsule to put a man on the moon can create an environment in a city to help put a man on his feet.

	And we must rebuild our cities by transforming the neighborhoods into living communities where men, women, and children can live in safety, and not in fear, and live in comfort and live in security.  We must rebuild our cities by ridding them of the dulling pall of noise, of smoke, of crime, of congestion, and decay.

	And it can be done.

	If it is not done, then America has had its most glorious hour and it is on the way down to defeat.

	But if it is done, which I know it can be done, then the future offers greater promise than any nation or any civilization has ever known.

	And I believe we can purge this nation of more than the blight and the noise and the smoke and the crime and the congestion and the decay; I believe that we can purge from within our hearts the misunderstanding and hate of which I have spoken, which are far more destructive to our nation than any physical blight.

	I believe that we, as a people, must be and are willing to make that commitment.  I believe that the American people will turn away from the temptation of inwardness, selfishness, and isolation.

	I believe that we can, in our time, become known as a nation of bridge builders, of human engineers, building bridges of understanding, of hope, of purpose, and of faith because, fellow Americans, we are nation builders, we are understanding builders, we are the future, even as we build for today.

	That famous American poet who understood so well the spirit of our nation, Carl Sandburg, said it this way--and he said that he envisioned our he saw, in his mind's eye and spirit, that such is the real voice of America.

	Listen to those beautiful words:

	"I see America not in the setting sun of a black night of despair ahead of us.  I see America in the crimson light of a rising sun, fresh from the building, creative hand of God.  I see great days ahead, great days possible, to men and women of will and vision."

	What a prayer for our nation, what a testimonial of faith, and what an inspiring message from the heart of a poet who understands what America is, the last best hope of Earth.

	Thank you. 

	Mr. Alexis I. duPont Bayard: I am going to ask the Legislature of Delaware to pass a resolution authorizing the flying of the flag of America, the United States, on a twenty-four-hour basis, the year around.  It seems that this is a most suitable place.  And if the Legislature consents, which I'm sure they will, it will be the eighth time that such an event has been authorized.

	Now, at this time, I have set aside the time to thank Dick Hughes, the great governor of the state of New Jersey, for the warmth of his friendship and for his great help and cooperation between our two states, Dick Hughes, whose vision and understanding is responsible for great civil legislation in his state, has enriched the people thereby.

	And, Dick, I am sorry to see you leaving the governorship of New Jersey, and I'm quite sure that the one and only reason for that is that you are constitutionally prohibited from serving longer.

	Mr. Vice President, it is with genuine pleasure for me that I present you with two mementos of this occasion.

	The first is truly indicative of the construction activities of this project: a hard hat embellished with the Authority's seal, colored in gold and blue colors, and inscribed on the other side with your name.

	Second is a booklet containing the commemorative medallions for this event.  On one is the Twin Span, and on the other is the Authority's seal.  The medallion was designed by Mr. Glen Roberts, who also designed the now-famous John F. Kennedy half-dollar.

	May I put the hat on?  Do you think I should put the hat on?

	Governor Terry, I always catch the dickens from my wife each time I keep putting these hats on.

	I have at least two members of my staff and my wife who say, "Why do you always do that?"

	And my answer today is that I took orders from the sovereign state of Delaware, the governor of that sovereign state, and I wanted to remain in peace and a free man.

	I am very grateful--very, very grateful.

	My friends, there is a formal part of this ceremony which I've been asked to participate in.

	I have been very happy to participate in the dedication ceremony for this magnificent twin bridge.  And as a member of the activities, it is now my extreme pleasure and privilege to dedicate the twin bridge officially to those veterans from the states of Delaware and New Jersey who gave their lives for our country in World War II and in subsequent military conflicts.

	Ladies and gentlemen, will you please stand with me and join in the formal dedication arrangements?

	Thank you very much.

AWARDS AND COMMEMORATIONSBUILDING AND BUILDING TRADESCZECHOSLOVAKIA--SOVIET INVASIONNATO (NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION)NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSUNITED NATIONSURBAN RENEWALWEAPONS PROLIFERATION     ÓJ ∫J ¥J ∞J ®J
 úJ óJ íJ àJ ÄJ ~J XJ MJ	 Ò 	 ÿ 	 º 	 ù 	 t 	 E 	 0 	 " 	  e: