Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0925.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/25STUMPNEW ORLEANSLOUISIANALAEXCERPTS FROM REMARKS1,821 WORDS

	I always enjoy coming here because New Orleans is endowed with a unique talent for demonstrating the true meaning of the term, "Southern Hospitality." And the warmth of your welcome today tells me that you have lost none of that talent.

	I had a particular reason for wanting to visit Louisiana for I wanted to express to you my appreciation of the great good sense the people of this state showed in 1952. Four years ago, as I well remember, Louisiana was one of a lonely band of states that stayed with the Democratic party. This year, I venture to predict you will have plenty of company---and when I say plenty, I mean more than enough to elect a President. Some things are clearer now than they were four years ago--at least in some of those other states.

	There was a notion then that the Republican candidate and the Old Guard of the Republican party were two entirely different products, and that any resemblance between the two was purely coincidental.

	But we all have 20-20 hindsight. These four years have made plain again the old truth that in this system of ours, neither a candidate nor a president can stand apart from his party. He can lead it--or fall behind it. But he cannot be separate from it. It is part of his strength--or his weakness.

	This is the lesson of these four years. And there is evidence that it was a painful lesson for President Eisenhower. We have learned only recently, through that remarkable book entitled Eisenhower, the Inside Story, that in 1953, after less that a year's exposure to the true nature of the Republican party, the President became so disheartened that he gave serious thought to the formation of a third party of his own.

	Yet only a few weeks later he made his unhappy peace with the party. That was when he said, on October 30, 1953, that he "favored the election of every Republican over every Democrat for every office any place."

	And that is the course he has pursued ever since. He has not hesitated to endorse any Republican, be he a Taft Republican or a McCarthy Republican. The only notable exception was an Eisenhower Republican--Senator Wiley of Wisconsin, for whom the President didn't lift a finger. It used to be said that Mr. Eisenhower would reshape the Republican party. You cannot help but wonder today who has reshaped whom.

	The people are wise, and they know that the Republican party is still the Republican party. That is why, in 1954, despite the active campaign of President Eisenhower and the ill-will tour of Vice President Nixon, the people elected a Democratic Congress--the first time in this century that any President has lost control of both Houses of Congress during his first elected term.

	And you have to marvel at the shameless cynicism of the Republican leaders who acclaim Eisenhower as their leader but make little pretense of following his leadership in Congress. To reshape the Republican party is as hard as reforesting a bald head. And both presidential candidates ought to be able to agree on the difficulty of that!

	Events move swiftly in four years' time. As America grows, new problems confront it. Four years ago, when I spoke here, there were about 64 million people in America's job market; today there are over 69 million. And, although the number of available jobs has grown, it has not kept pace with the rise in job seekers.

	The truth is that the rate of expansion of our economy has slowed down during these past four years. And your own state of Louisiana has not been spared the effects of that slowdown.

	These are the facts: the number of people employed in manufacturing in Louisiana has declined in the past four years, and the number of unemployed has risen.

	This, it seems to me, points to the problem that faces us on the road to the New America--and that is the problem of maintaining an ever-expanding economy.

	And I know of no more dramatic example of an economy expanding under Democratic leadership than the case of mid-continent America, of which New Orleans is such an important part.

	Thirty years ago--even less--this area of the country was virtually in economic bondage to the North. Barely industrialized, bowed down by debt and discriminatory freights rates, starving for electric power, its soil wearing out, it lagged far behind the rest of the nation. The New Deal changed the face of the South, freed it from the domination of the North, and set free the boundless energies of its people.

	The story of the New South does not end there. What has happened since the end of World War II is a modern miracle of continuing expansion and industrialization--new jobs and new opportunities. Why, a sixth of all industrial construction in the entire United States since 1945 has taken place on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico.

	This I submit, was no accident. Just as the South was reborn through the far-sighted programs of a Democratic administration in Washington, so have other government programs which we sometimes take for granted nourished its growth--and especially in Louisiana.

	Through the years, and especially during the past decade, midcontinent America has developed one of the most comprehensive inland waterway systems ever known. Today, a barge can travel through this system from western Florida to the Mexican border; from Pittsburgh to New Orleans. The use of this system has expanded beyond all expectations. In the 1930s when the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway that runs through this state was first conceived, it was thought it would carry only five million tons a year. Today, it is carrying more than five times as much.

	On this great waterway system, the produce of mid-America flows into New Orleans, and through New Orleans to the world. Today half the waterborne freight of New Orleans is served by inland waterway ships. That is the measure of the economic growth of midcontinent America, and of your celebrated city.

	And those great inland waterways that mean so much did not come about by happenstance. They came about because of the foresight and intelligent planning of men like those who represent you today in the Congress of the United States, men who have seen to it that the government make wise investments in opening our rivers to navigation and protecting our farms and factories from floods. I use the word "investment," for those public expenditures are repaid manyfold, not only in the prevention of a flood's destructiveness, but also in the increased prosperity of this region, the greater well-being of its citizens--and, incidentally, greater revenues to the United States Treasury, a point our Republican friends frequently overlook with their total preoccupation with today's figures rather than tomorrow's growth.

	This year, the Congress authorized one of the most forward-looking of all the waterway projects--the Tidewater Channel that will halve the distance from New Orleans to the Gulf, open up vast new industrial areas in your state, and enhance the prosperity of your city.

	I hope I may be pardoned for pointing out that it was a Democratic Congress that authorized this project, and for reminding you that, when it came to providing the initial funds for the planning of this great project, the Republicans in Congress yielded to their instincts--they were against it.

	But, lest I be accused of excessive partisanship, let me be entirely fair and say that not all of the Republicans opposed those funds--one lone Republican congressman from the state of Tennessee joined the Democrats.

	Your Mayor, Chep Morrison, rewarded the independence of the single Republican congressman with honorary citizenship of your city. And, while I know full well that Mayor Morrison made the gesture out of no partisan consideration, I think this act is symbolic of the eagerness of Democrats to welcome back into our ranks those who may have temporarily strayed from the paths of political truth and righteousness four years ago. And by this, I do not mean to imply that we are any less eager for the support of those who, for reasons of their own, have considered themselves life-long Republicans!

	Last week, in his opening speech of the campaign, the President accused the Democrats of "walking into the past backwards." I find this a strange criticism--coming from a party that has always had to be dragged into the future backwards--that has stubbornly opposed almost every forward-looking step for the benefit of all our people and therefore the nation during this century. If the President had time to read a little more political history, I don't believe he could have read, let alone written, such words.

	For on the record the Republican leaders have consistently opposed the full development of our natural resources, they have consistently turned their backs on new ideas and bold new programs, and they have consistently ignored the human needs of millions of our people. This very year in Congress they fought bitterly Democratic bills to pay Social Security old age benefits to women at sixty-two and to pay benefits to those, fifty years or older, who become permanently and totally disabled. They opposed the increase in public assistance benefits--a humanitarian bill introduced, incidentally, by your own Senator Long. But we passed them anyway--to the eternal credit of the Democrats in Congress.

	I suggest to you that this stubborn opposition of the Republican leaders to every new idea is not the way to the New America. I suggest to you that we will not move forward to new levels of human well-being nor to new levels of prosperity and abundance if those who run our government instinctively oppose measures for the betterment of our human and natural resources.

	I suggest to you that this need not be--that midcontinent America is the living example of the gains that can be realized when government wisely cares for the needs of the people and wisely invests in the protection and development of the people's resources.

	America cannot stand still, for if we do, events, both at home and abroad, will overtake and engulf us. Our population is growing, and with that growth comes the need for new jobs, new industries, new technology. Thirty years ago, no one knew better than the South the need for these advances. Today, no one knows better than the South that such progress can be achieved, for you see it all around you.

	Your choice this year, and America's choice, is between a party that talks progress, and a party that really believes in progress; between a party that slows up growth and one that believes that an always expanding America--a New America--is more than a necessity, that it is also the glorious destiny of the American people.
ECONOMY--GENERALMANUFACTURINGPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSREGIONALISM--SOUTHSHIPPING/SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRYWATER RESOURCES     Œ* ö* î* ê* à*
 {* v* q* f* ]* [* F* ;*	 q 	 a 	 T 	 ? 	 - 	  e: