Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1024.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/24STUMPWATERBURYCONNECTICUTCTECONOMIC ADDRESS3098 WORDS

	In just over two weeks--just fifteen days, to be exact--the American people will perform a quadrennial ritual; the most important ritual in our free society. They will travel to the schoolhouse, the general store, the town hall and they will cast their votes for president of the United States.

	You have heard much talk over these many months of campaigning. You have heard the media meisters and the pollsters and the national press talk about the horse race--who's ahead and who's behind in the latest, soon-to-be-forgotten poll.

	You have heard me lay out detailed plans to clean the environment, to strengthen our national defense, to improve our educational system, to stimulate the domestic production of energy, to buttress the code of ethics in government, and to do many other things that would help build a better America. My opponent, to his credit, has also offered some plans on various issues.

	But when you, the people, step into that voting booth on November 8th, you will be thinking of more than one issue paper, of more than the latest poll. You, in your gut, will have a sense of what direction the country should take.

	You will, I hope, have a clear view of which philosophy, which set of values embraced by these two very different candidates, is more likely to keep our nation growing and strong, to create jobs and build the peace.

	And you will have, in your own experience, the evidence you need to make a choice: How did the policies espoused by my opponent work out the last time they were tried? And how have the principles which Ronald Reagan and I brought to office served the people of this great and diverse nation?

	In 1980, Ronald Reagan framed this question clearly when he asked the American people to consider one simple question: "Are you better off today than you were four years ago?"

	After four years of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale, the answer of the American people was a resounding no; and Ronald Reagan and I were called upon to bring about a change.

	Again in 1984, Ronald Reagan and I asked the question: "Are you better off than you were four years ago?" This time the answer was different--because we did bring change. The country was headed in the right direction, America was back on the move, and the people gave us a 49 state vote of confidence.

	Today, when you strip away all the rhetoric, all the words, all the analysis, the question remains the same. "Are you better off today than you were eight years ago?"

	I would submit to you that when all the evidence is in, when you go past all the sound bites, and the horse race, and the tank rides, the answer is a clear yes. We are better off as a nation. The Republican policies of low taxes and high opportunity are working.

	So what I would like to do today is to offer some evidence about what the American people have accomplished in these last eight years, to remind you of where we were when the party of George McGovern and Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale and now Michael Dukakis last controlled the White House and to lay out my vision of the important work that lies ahead.

	Many Americans would like to forget the shape America was in back in 1980. Now, I don't want to ruin your day, but let me give you a brief snapshot.

	If you opened a newspaper on October 24, 1980, you would have seen an inflation rate humming along at over 13 percent. As inflation roared, each year families could afford a little less.

	In 1979 and 1980, the last two years of the Carter-Mondale administration, average total compensation--adjusted for inflation--fell by 1.4 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively. That's a drop of seven percent in just two years--making them the worst two years for average total compensation in the entire post-war history of the United States.

	And if your wages were lucky enough to have kept pace, double-digit inflation pushed into higher and higher tax brackets--all the way up to a top tax rate of 50 percent for earned income, and 70 percent for all income.

	You've heard talk from my opponent about a "middle class squeeze." What he doesn't tell you is that under his party, it was a downward squeeze--middle income families were being squeezed back to lower income. Under the Carter-Mondale economy, the middle class shrank while the percentage of families making less than $20,000 grew by almost 11 percent.

	And the job-creating environment for business was polluted with over-regulation and high interest rates. The liberals like to brag that when they controlled the White House, they created a lot of small businesses. Unfortunately, in their case, those small businesses used to be big businesses.

	On that day in Connecticut, over 88,000 people who wanted jobs couldn't find them. Right here in Waterbury, the unemployment rate stood at 7.8 percent.

	Interest rates were soaring out of control. On that day, the prime rate was 14 percent. By the end of that year, it had risen to 1.5 percent.

	The bottom line is that America was in deep trouble. Families could afford less and less. Entrepreneurs were stifled. America was losing its confidence.

	How much America has changed since those gloomy days--the days of malaise.

	Go right down the list. Look at the newspaper today.

	You'll see inflation running at one-third of its 1980 rate--just over four percent. Frankly, that's a tremendous improvement, but it's still too high. I want to see inflation at 2 percent or even lower.

	Wages are growing. In fact, median family income--the income, adjusted for inflation, of the family right in the middle, is at an all time high. It has grown by eleven percent since we took office--after falling by seven percent under the previous administration.

	My opponent loves to point out that real income hasn't grown much since 1973. But he's a little less eager to point out why: it fell fast the last time we let a liberal tax-and-spend governor take over the White House, and we have made up all of that lost ground, and then some. Now we're poised for a new era of growth.

	Today, the "middle class squeeze" has a different and positive definition: as the percentage of the population with lower and middle incomes has fallen, the percentage of those with higher incomes has shot up. Millions of middle class families have been squeezed--right into higher income brackets.

	That's before taxes. We cut the top rate of income tax from 70 percent to 28 percent. The average family in America has saved $6,000 since 1980 in federal income taxes as a result of our tax cuts.

	This, my friends, is the tax cut bill that Michael Dukakis called "a government-made disaster," "one of the worst bills that Congress ever could have passed."

	When you add it all up, America is in the midst of the most sustained explosion of new jobs in our entire peacetime history. We've created 18 million new jobs in the last six years. That unemployment rate in Waterbury--today it's been cut in half, to 3.9 percent.

	The jobs we've created have been good jobs, at good wages. Imagine the other party adopting that as a slogan--it's not often they talk about our accomplishments.

	Four out of five jobs created in the last year are in categories that pay over $26,000 a year. And overall, more than 85 percent of the full-time jobs created in this recovery are in categories that pay more than $20,000. Only a small fraction of the jobs created under the previous administration paid this much. But we're not finished yet.

	Just the other day, we passed the one year anniversary of Black Monday on the stock market--an event that, in the words of one liberal economist said marked "the last chapter of Reaganomics."

	Well, here we are a year later. America is still growing at a healthy pace, we are still creating jobs, and the economy has proven to be so strong that it can withstand almost any emergency--with the possible exception of a liberal Democrat in the White House.

	The job is definitely not finished. And it won't be if my opponent returns us to the old tax and spend days. The fact is that the American people don't want to go back to the policies, which brought us to the brink of national disaster. The fact is that we won't be able to afford to spread the recovery even further if my opponent's tax hike policies plunge us into a recession. The fact is that a growing economy--and only a growing economy--provides the sound base for compassionate social policies.

	To be charitable, my opponent is confused. He says, according to the headlines, that our standard of living is deteriorating.

	But he doesn't tell you that the income after inflation for the average black family is up by nine percent, after it fell by eight percent under Jimmy Carter.

	He doesn't tell you that weekly earnings for those women right in the middle are up by 11 percent, after they fell by six percent under Jimmy Carter.

	My opponent claims that families are better off only because women have been forced to go to work.

	I'll ignore the sexism in that statement--a statement that implies that women wouldn't choose to work unless they had to--but I will tell you this.

	Women entered the workforce at a faster rate in the seventies than they have in the eighties. And even for the average two-earner family, income after inflation fell under Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. It's risen sharply under Ronald Reagan and George Bush.

	I've buried you in a blizzard of statistics, and I know that all these numbers can sometimes lose their meaning.

	But let's step back for a minute. What do these numbers mean to the average family?

	The income of the average American family, the one right in the middle, is almost $3,000 higher than it was in 1981--after you adjust for inflation.

	I talked about lower taxes. That same average American family is paying $2,200 less this year in federal income taxes than it would have under 1980 rates.

	And high interest rates were devastating to families trying to afford a home. Today they're down, and look at the effect: that average American taking out a $98,000 mortgage saves $340 a month in mortgage payments--that's right, about $4,000 a year--because of the decrease in mortgage interest rates.

	So if you step back from the trees for a minute and look at the forest, all of these statistics add up to something very simple: more money in the pockets of American families.

	You have a new economic power--and I'm not going to let them take it away from you.

	The fundamental point is this: this remarkable economic performance didn't just happen by accident. And it shouldn't really be taken for granted. After all, economic growth doesn't die out from old age; it is smothered by bad policies. And my opponent's plan to raise taxes--just as he did in Massachusetts--is exactly the kind of policy that will kill our economic recovery.

	Americans are better off today because we cut taxes, created jobs, and got this country's economy moving again. This administration took America from double-digit inflation to double-barreled recovery.

	But we can and must do better--and that's why I'm here today. After all, as Will Rogers once said, "even if you're on the right track, you'll get run over if you just sit there."

	Employment is up in Connecticut, and almost every other state. Employment is up by over 15 percent here in the last five years, and nationwide a higher percentage of Americans are working today than ever before.

	But I won't be content until there are jobs for those who want them in all 50 states. That is my mission as president.

	I've spelled out some of my plans for building a better America--a growing America that creates even more jobs for its people.

	The foundation of that growing America is low taxes. That's why the first part of my plan is simple: No new taxes.

	But our commitment to keep taxes down has to be matched by a commitment to control spending--and that's why one of my first acts as president will be to sit down with the leaders of Congress and negotiate a plan to cut this federal deficit--a plan that holds spending down to the rate of inflation, for what I call a flexible freeze.

	Cutting the deficit is one priority action, but there are dozens of others I've proposed to plant the seeds for further economic growth.

	I will ask the Congress to join me in creating enterprise zones in the most depressed areas of our cities and the poorest rural areas.

	I will push for a cut in the capital gains tax--for a very simple reason: It will help create jobs. Ask the entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley or in Massachusetts, in central New Jersey or right here in Connecticut. They'll tell you--the last time we created a capital gains tax differential, millions of new jobs, many in new industries, sprung up. And it can happen again.

	My opponent calls this a tax cut for the rich. He's wrong. Go ahead and ask those new companies along Route 128 in Massachusetts--they'll tell you the capital gains tax has increased jobs and opportunity. It has also boosted revenues to the federal government.

	I want to invest in our children. A recent very detailed study of America's needs for the new century, an excellent report called Workforce 2000 made a critical point for tomorrow's leaders.

	"The foundation of national wealth," the report said, "is really people--the human capital represented by their knowledge, skills... and motivations."

	That's why one of the soundest job-creating investments we can make is in education. I've already suggested some ideas: an increase in Head Start for preschoolers, more rewards for great teachers, and a college savings bond plan to help families save for college.

	Just the other day, the Senate passed, 94 to 0, a college savings bond plan like the one I proposed last year. And every state that's tried such bonds at the state level--including Connecticut--has found them enormously popular.

	I'll tell you why we need them: A majority of the new jobs created between now and the year 2000 will require post-secondary education.

	So if elected, I look forward to signing a College Savings Bond plan into law. All the kids in America should have the chance to go to college if their ability and their desire carry them there.

	You know, some people think that my desire to create millions of new jobs--coming on the heels of this longest peacetime recovery in our history--is unrealistic. But I don't think it is.

	I don't think it's unrealistic if we tap those Americans who've never before been tapped. Right now, there are five million disabled Americans ready to work, if we only give them the chance. That's why I want to do everything I can as president to bring disabled citizens into the economic mainstream.

	I don't think it's unrealistic if we help working parents find the childcare they need to balance the demands of work and family. That's why I've proposed a childcare plan that puts money--and choices--in the hands of working families.

	I don't think it's unrealistic if we follow the path of lower tax rates and less government interference in people's lives that is taking the world by storm even as we gather today. Nations all around the world, from Asia to Africa to Europe to Latin America, are following the example of the great American job-creating machine.

	So it's doubly ironic that my opponent now wants to turn back--to clog up the circulatory system of America's economy with exactly the kind of big government schemes the Europeans are discarding. Economists call the resulting economic paralysis "Eurosclerosis"; I call it Dukakinomics. It rhymes with Carternomics. It didn't work then, and it won't work now.

	It was twenty-eight years ago that another presidential candidate came to this great city near the end of his long campaign. It was hours after midnight when John F. Kennedy came to Waterbury on that rainy night back in 1960, but thousands waited for him.

	That night, he quoted Thomas Paine, who said that the cause of America is the cause of all mankind. The cause of all mankind, JFK added, is the cause of America. "If we succeed here," he said, "then the cause of freedom is strengthened."

	It's important to remember how President John F. Kennedy went about strengthening the cause of freedom. He signed one of the most important tax cuts in our history. He rapidly rebuilt America's national defense. And from that position of strength, he was able to negotiate a test ban treaty with the Soviets.

	How much the national Democratic party has changed since the days of John Kennedy. How far it has moved from those policies of lower taxes and a stronger defense.

	Today, in 1988, history has called upon the Republicans to take up the causes of economic growth through lower taxes, of peace through strength, and of jobs and opportunity for all in this great land.

	America is better off today than it was in 1980--but we can be better still.

	I believe we are "the last, best hope of earth," and that if we continue our economic leadership with policies that are working, the cause of freedom will be strengthened around the world.

	 My friends, I have the plans to continue our growth, I have the commitment to build our defense, and, most of all, in the American people, I have the ultimate weapon needed to keep on creating an America that is second to none.

	I ask you to join me in building this better America.

	Thank you, and God bless you.

BUDGET DEFICITCAPITAL GAINS TAXEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDJOB GROWTH/CREATIONWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEECONOMY--GENERAL     E ëD åD áD ×D
 ÏD ÊD ÅD ¼D ±D ¯D ŸD •D	 x 	 j 	 Y 	 9 	 &   e: