Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1101.007.txtDemocratSTEVENSON (D)11/1STUMPFORT WAYNEINDIANAIN1,869 WORDS
     Governor Schricker, and my dear friends of Fort Wayne.  I am mighty glad to be in Indiana.  It is that much closer to Illinois.  You do me, and all of us, a great courtesy by coming here this afternoon in such large numbers, and you warm my heart.  It looks to me as though something was happening in Indiana, and it is very healthy indeed.  I might say it is always a comforting sensation to get into a community where you have a favorable newspaper.  I should like to pay my heartfelt thanks and respects to the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette because I think it is a very discriminating newspaper.

     I have been told time and again while traveling around the country--usually by Republicans--that I was talking over the people's heads.  Well, I am mighty glad to have an opportunity at last to get up on a pedestal.  This has been a wonderful day for me.  We have had happy crowds all along the way.  There is a feeling of victory in the air.  I don't know what happened at the University of Illinois this afternoon, but I hope I am not premature in saying that.

     Well, that seems to be the way it goes in Democratic campaigns.  In August the newspapers tell us that the Democrats might just as well save the expense of campaigning, because they don't have a chance.  The polls show that the Republicans will carry everything, and possibly Georgia.  And then in September the newspapers tell us that the Democrats are gaining a bit, but no one needs to worry, for the Republicans are so far ahead they can't be caught.  But the September polls seem to begin to worry the Republicans a little, and then they step up their attack on the Democrats.  They accuse us of every baseness, that is, if they can think of anything they haven't called us before.  They even say that our prosperity is false, and then by mid-October the newspapers begin to concede that the election will be fairly close.  And then is the time that they say that all Democrats are Communists or crooks, or something dreadful.  Have you ever noticed that criticism by a Democrat is always a smear but criticism by a Republican is a public service?  And then by the end of October the newspapers say the election is hard to predict.  The polls show a neck-and-neck situation.  And usually at that time they begin to despair of the two party system.

     Now I really don't think that they were ahead any of the time.  I think they just throw so much confetti at each other and cheer each other so much that they begin to think that there are really a lot of Republicans around.  They see nothing but their own billboards, read their own advertising, gaze at their own sky-writers, look at their own posters, until they think the country is 100 per cent Republican.  But, as usual, they are wrong.  It sort of reminds me of a story a fellow told me down in Texas of a man who contracted to ship 100,000 frogs' legs to a restaurant in New York.  When they finally arrived there were only six, and the buyer telegraphed back and asked where the rest of them were.   He said, "Well, there aren't any more.  They just made so much noise, I thought there must be at least 100,000."  The Republicans are wrong because all they do is to criticize the Democratic record.  They never present a program of their own.  They say that everything we have done is fine, even though they voted against it.  But they say that our program for the future will ruin the country.  And that is what they do every four years, but somehow the country gets better and better.  My, it is a wonderfully well-disciplined audience, Henry.  They know exactly when to applaud.  I think you must have been coaching them out here.

     They seem to think of this as a caretaker--you should cut the grass but do nothing about the house we live in.  We Democrats want to go on building because our American family is growing fast and needs more homes to live in, more schools, more food.

     I would like to talk about agriculture for a few minutes here in this rich Indiana farm country.  Twenty years ago when we began to fight our way out of the depression, we caught a vision of a country in which no one one could be secure unless every one was secure; in which no one could prosper unless every one prospered; this is the philosophy which underlies the farm program of the Democratic Party.  Before these programs were enacted you know what would have happened in a harvest season such as this, with one of the largest corn crops in our history crowding the market.  The price would have been driven lower and lower until farmers lost the advantage of their big output; until they had to sell their big crops for what they would have had for a small one.  And this is how it was all the way through the sham prosperity of the 20's.  I know the farmers of Illinois and the farmers of Indiana suffered in a depression all their own during those years while Republican vetoed farm aid bills and talked glibly of good times.  They were far from good times for American agriculture. 

     In the past week or so we have seen the change work by Democratic farm policies.  Now the farmer is not defenseless when he has a big crop to market.  Corn has dropped further in the past few days than it should, and one reason is that we still don't have enough storage space to handle a crop as large as this year's.  But there has been no panic in the market and no rush by farmers to dispose of their crop at any price with one disastrous price break following another, as in the old days.  The difference is the Democratic price support program with loans at 90 per cent of parity.  I should not have to remind an Indiana audience of this except for the fact that General Eisenhower has again tried to duck the Republican Party's record of opposition to these programs.

     A majority of the Republicans in the House of Representatives in Congress last June--just before the Republican Convention--voted against price supports at ninety percent of parity.  Yet the General asks farmers to believe that the Republican Party has now reformed and changed.  Congress makes the farm laws, not the President, and General Eisenhower is the candidate of the Republican Party--at least, I guess he is.  I sometimes wonder who I am running against; whether it is--well, I don't know; I am running against all of them.

     And their voting record on farm policy is open for everyone to examine.  It is a record of opposition and harassment for 20 years, not only on price supports, but on all of the other Democratic programs on the storage program, rural electrification, soil conservation, crop insurance, rural electric coops and so on.  The Republican Old Guard has never understood the philosophy behind these programs; it has never understood the programs themselves; it has never understood how they work.  The warning is plain; the Old Guard is hoping that the General can make his easy promises to farmers so convincing that they will forget about their own voting record.

     I don't think it will work, but I don't think, frankly, much of this whole technique of talking down to people, of getting them with promises.  I sometimes wonder if the Old Guard politicians have caught up with the fact that we have a lot of schools in the United States and that most every one can read and write.

     I think people all over the country are going to remember the record when they go to the polls next week, and I think they are also going to compare the programs of the two parties for the future.

     The Republican Party offers no program--only confused promises; whatever you want, they will promise you.

     The Democratic Party offers you a carefully spelled out program, which is the same in Indiana as it is in Texas; and it is the same in New Jersey as it is in Oregon.  It is a program for peace and for continued prosperity here at home; you know what it is.  To carry it out, I shall need the help of a great Democratic majority in the Congress, and I am proud to ask your support for my good friend and your great and beloved Governor, Henry Schricker, for the United States Senate; and for the House of Representatives, Howard Morrison, a man who is well known to all of you for his understanding of both farm and labor problems; and while you are at it, I suggest that you send John Watkins down to Indianapolis to succeed Henry Schricker.

     You know as he--Governor Schricker reminded me that he nominated me at the Democratic Convention in Chicago when I didn't want the nomination; I was awful mad at him for a while, but I have forgiven him of that because I have had a wonderful time; win, lose or draw, I have had a wonderful time.  I have seen more of America, more Americans, more -

     Our party, our cause is the people's cause; it is a just cause; it has made tremendous progress in a social revolution that has taken place in this country in the past twenty years, and we ask your support so that we can go on growing with this great country of ours.

     I am so grateful to every one of you for being here this afternoon.  I am grateful to the laboring men who have taken the time to come here, to the housewives who have taken the time to come here--and I hope there are not going to be a lot of cold suppers in Fort Wayne.

     You have done me a courtesy, you have encouraged me and heartened me, and before I go, I should like, if I could, to take this opportunity to present to you my youngest son, John Fell Stevenson; he needs a haircut.  May I also introduce my aunt, Miss Letitia Stevenson, who traveled to Washington sixty years ago to see my grandfather inaugurated as Vice President; and my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives.  We also have the National Co-Chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson, which has convinced so many Republicans of the error of their ways; that is Mrs. Dick of Chicago--she is a reformed Republican, too.  We always keep a light burning in the Democratic window for any of those strays that want to come in and join us.

     We must go along now, and I am so grateful to all of you for coming here.  May I express also my warm thanks to your wonderful band; I wish we could all stay here and have a band concert; it would be a lot more attractive than listening to me. 
AGRICULTURE--GENERALAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESPUBLIC OPINION/POLLS     ) á( Ù(
 Ì( È( Ã( ¹( ²( °( °( ¥(	 v 	 b 	 = 	  e: