Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1031.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/31STUMPHARRISONNEW JERSEYNJRCA PLANT2,668 WORDS

	Thank you.  Thank you, Governor Hughes.  You know, I said he was the greatest Governor in the United States, and I still think he is.  And you folks are mighty lucky.  And Mayor Rogers, and my good friend Mayor Kenney, and the Dean of our New Jersey Congressional delegation, one of the finest men that ever came to the Congress of the United States--Pete Daniel--and all of the distinguished officials.

	You know, this is really a Democratic country.  Oh, this looks good to me today.  I like the signs, I like the spirit, I like the people, and I like RCA.    

	And I'm so happy that my old friend Kenney O'Donnell can be with us today--Ambassador White is here with us, the mayors of some of the other communities are here, and our great county leaders.

	Now, I have taken the liberty today of sort of summarizing the campaign at this point on this occasion.  

	It's a beautiful day, a little crisp.  But it is sort of--well, it is a Democratic...[missing text]... The skies are clear. 

	The other day I was in Ohio and Pittsburgh, and you know, Mr. Nixon had been there the day before.  And it was cold, and the rain was coming down.  Some of the reporters said to me--the spirit doesn't seem to be here.  And I said--now can you have spirit after the Republican entourage has moved through the community.

	By the way, friends, today we celebrate the Republican holiday.  This is Halloween, you know--tricks or treat.  Lots of tricks.  But you are going to have to wait for your treats until November 5, when you vote for Humphrey and Muskie.  And believe me, you are going to do it--I know.

	I can see here that there are the workers in this great Hudson County that make possible these great Democratic victories.

	Your county is legendary in Democratic politics.

	I want to thank you for all that you do for us.

	John Kennedy used to tell me about this county and what it did for him.

	Now, I want you to do for me against the very same man what you did for John Kennedy in 1960.    

	And I want you to do for me what you did for President Johnson in 1964.    

	In fact, I want you to do for me what you did for both of them.  

	Then we will be sure we have New Jersey in 1968.

	Now, some of you may have noticed here some time back that--oh, the men that analyze politics were saying that Mr. Nixon had this election in the bag.  But I want to let you in on a secret.  Somebody came to me the other day and said to me--"Mr. Humphrey, don't worry about that, because when Mr. Nixon opens that bag on election day, out will jump Humphrey and Muskie."    

	You know what?  I might just as well ask you the same question I asked an audience in another state.  What have these Republicans ever done for you?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	Now, friends, this campaign has only a few more days to run.  It is drawing to a close.  Pretty soon the balloons will all be deflated, confetti will all be gone, campaign slogans will fade away, and we come down to the issue--the one overwhelming issue that every mother and father and ever son and daughter must face up to--whom do you trust with the most powerful position on earth, and whom do you trust, and who are you going to trust for the future of this country.

	In other words, the question is--whom do you trust--period.  

	I don't believe that this city and this state is gong to put its trust in a Republican candidate and in a Republican party that failed to keep that trust when it had its opportunity in the 1950s.  I don't believe that you want to return to days when you were looking for jobs.  I don't think you want to return to times when your schools went neglected, when our elderly people were forgotten, and when no one seemed to care about our cities.

	I have a feeling that the people of America know that there is a new day that is dawning, and I think they want to seize that opportunity.

	Now, trust is the issue--trust between the president and the people, and between the people themselves.

	Just look at this great audience here today--white and black, Catholic, Protestant and Jew.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, what we are seeking to do and what we ought to seek to do in this campaign, and in every moment of our national life is to build this spirit of trust and confidence, faith and friendship, between our peoples.

	Regrettably, in this campaign one candidate has appealed to the passions--yes, to the evil, to the bitterness, to the racial prejudice of people.  And I suppose all of us have some of it.

	And another candidate, of the Republican party, has merely said that we are going too fast--he wants to slow down the pace of our country; he wants to sort of tread water while the rivers of change move by.

	And I want to warn you that when you stop, when you stand still in a world of change, and in an America that is growing and expanding, you do not stand still--you lose ground.

	And I hope that Americans in this election will not vote to stand still, will surely reject appeals to return to the past.  And I think that I know what they are going to do.  I sense it as I go across this country.  And I have been to every part of this nation.  The dust of the American countryside is on my shoes.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, I think the people on November 5TH, are going to vote for what they have always wanted--a better day, a new day, a better future--yes, the future of America.

	And that means the Democratic party and the Democratic ticket. 

	You know, there are two kinds of campaigns.  One is to appeal to your hates and the other is to appeal to your hopes.  I try to appeal to the people's hopes in this campaign--the hope for your education, young people; the hope for your job, Mr. Worker; the hope for greater expansion of your business, Mr. Businessman; the hope for a better America, for every one of us.

	I know there are divisions in this society , and I know that there are sores and wounds that need to be healed.  And I want to be your President for one reason above all--and that is to be a healer, to pull people together, to help this nation make room for the hundred million new Americans that will be ours as fellow citizens in the next twenty-five years.

	I want to see everything that this government does related to the well-being of our families, related to the well-being of our communities.

	And I believe that the American people are sensing in these days of the campaign that that is the way it ought to be.

	I have heard your message.  And I intend to act upon it.

	I have talked about the kind of a presidency that I want for you, and not only for me; an open presidency, where the soft voice can be heard as well as the loud, where the young will be considered as well as the old, where people will know that their president cares, and indeed I want to even make it possible that the presidency and the White House go to the people as well as having the doors of the White House open to the people.

	I know that Mr. Nixon has his views.  I listened to him the other day.  He singled out one group for a special message and special treatment.  He has a sort of preferential group.  It was one of the finance groups on Wall Street.

	Well, I have a very special group that I like, too.  And I plan to give that group preferential treatment.  And I speak of the greatest group in the world--the people of the United States of America, all of them. 

	Now, I have spoken to you of the issues.  I have asked Mr. Nixon to come to the platforms to debate these issues.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I say that if a man is not willing to face his opponents in an election, he is most likely incapable of facing our adversaries in international relations. 

	Mr. Nixon has taken you for granted.  His campaign has been pre-packaged, prefabricated.  His advisers told him that the White House would go to the man with the biggest advertising budget.  I tell you that the White House will go to the man that has the confidence of the people, an I am out here to get that confidence. 

	Mr. Nixon has refused to fill the empty chair that is on every platform, and for better than for two months I have asked him to face up to the issues and to face up to the electorate.

	Well, I suggest to the voters of America, I suggest to Mr. Nixon that the voters of America will refuse to let him fill that empty chair which will be in the White House, and at high noon on January 20, 1969, they are not going to let him have it.  And they know why.  First of all, they know there is somebody else they would like to have in there.

	By the way, you know I cannot help but just mention it to you--the job of the presidency is a tremendous responsibility.  You need a helpmate, you need a partner.  I ask you to compare the ticket of Nixon and Agnew with Humphrey and Muskie, and then make your choice.

	I don't believe--I do not believe that this community would like to contemplate the prospects of President Agnew.  But I do think that you can feel secure and you can fell safe, you can feel strong--if fate should decree it--with a man by the name of Ed Muskie in any position. 

	The first decision that a presidential candidate makes is his most important one, and the test of his judgment and character.  And the first decision that Mr. Nixon made after he was through consulting with Strom Thurmond was his appointment and his selection, I should say, of a vice president.

	The first decision that I made was the selection of my vice president.  Thank goodness I had many to choose from.  But I submit to you, ladies and gentlemen, that in my vice presidential candidate you once again see the difference between the Republican party and the Democratic party, between Richard Nixon and Hubert Humphrey.    

	Now, these big issues.

	Mr. Nixon has refused to discuss the issues of war and peace.  He has refused to speak out on matters relating to Vietnam or Southeast Asia.  But he has not been above using the faces of our fighting men in his Madison Avenue commercials.  But he has been above debating the issue.

	Oh, yes, the people know.  They know that we believe that every child in this nation is entitled to a good education, and they know that the Nixon Republicans have opposed every form of aid to education--public, private or parochial.  They know that.  And they are going to vote that way, too.

	They know--they know that we believe Social Security should and can be extended.  And they know that the Nixon Republicans have opposed social security for thirty-three years--with one little exception in 1954.  

	They know that we believe in and fought for Medicare, and I am its original author.  But 93 percent of the Nixon Republican opposed it.

	And I want every senior citizen here to know it, and every young married couple that worries about their mother and their father.

	This crowd have no concern for you.  The Democratic party's hallmark is that it cares for the people.  I care for the people.  You care for the people.  And we care for this nation.  And that is why the Democratic Party and the people are going to have a great compact, a great alliance, on election day, November 5th, with a victory that will rock this nation, a victory that will be a miracle. 

	I am trying to get all these men to rewrite their headlines.  Why, you know, they have had block type set up for weeks.  We are going to do for the headline writing business more than any candidate since Harry Truman.

	You know, somebody said to me the other day that Mr. Nixon has been acting like president so long that by November 5th people will think it is time for a change and vote me in.

	Yes, my friends, Mr. Nixon, the man who specializes in the doctrine of unemployment as the cure for economic ills.

	I want to ask the management of this great company what unemployment ever did for them.

	RCA did not grow to what it is today with an unemployed work force.

	Mr. Nixon said, and his chief adviser, that we ought to have a little more unemployment; that the country should take it; that it was the remedy that he thought for price stability.

	Who is to be unemployed?  I have a suggestion.  Richard Milhous Nixon.    

	And then they gave their views on the cities.

	The Republican vice presidential candidate aid that if you have seen one slum you have seen them all.  Well, let me tell you--if you have seen one Nixon you have seen them all, too.

	But in more seriousness, let me tell you that if you have seen one slum in this, the richest nation on the face of the earth, you have seen one too many.

	And what Mr. Nixon should have been saying--and what Mr. Nixon should have said was to chastise his Vice Presidential candidate and say what we are saying--that wherever there is deprivation we will go to work; wherever there are people that are illiterate, we will teach them; wherever there are people that are jobless, we will train them; wherever there is no opportunity, we will open opportunity; wherever there is need, we will answer it.  And wherever there is a call for help, we will respond.  Now, that is the kind of a government that you need. 

	Friends, I come to you to tell you what is on my heart and in my mind.  I need your help.  There are only five days left, when you will make the decision, not only for yourself, but for generations yet unborn; not only for America, but for the world--because what happens in our country affects the rest of the world.  We are not isolated from it.  The eyes of the world are watching us.  And they are asking--are we to have a period of stagnation and recession, or are we to have a period of progress and progression.

	I think you know the answer.  And I want you to join me now in a huge people's effort.  Let's put our people power against their money power.  Let's put our folks to work.  And I don't have to tell you what to do.  Get on that telephone, call up somebody that may be staying home, talk to your neighbors.  If you don't have a button, make one.  If you don't have a sign, get one.  If you don't know what to do, just to go out and talk to somebody.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the people of America are rising up, they are going to win this election for themselves.  And they are going to win it for a better day and a new day--for the American people.

	Thank you.    
ELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNOPEN PRESIDENCYRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     ﬂ8 ´8 •8 °8 ô8
 ç8 à8 É8 {8 q8 o8 f8 [8	 w 	 Y 	 J 	 , 	  e: