Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1010.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/10STUMPOKLAHOMA CITYOKLAHOMAOKCITY AUDITORIUM STEPS2981 WORDS

	Governor Murray, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen: I thank you for your very cordial welcome and also for the lovely day. I am happy to meet here again an old friend and colleague of mine, your distinguished governor, Johnson Murray. He and I have seen alike on a good many things, but we don't see enough of each other and I have come down here to see him.

	When I talked in New England not long ago, a rainstorm seemed to follow me everywhere I went. I wish I could have brought it along. I am sure that two inches of rain would have been far more welcome than a Democratic candidate for president of the United States.

	In our own state of Illinois we have had a very dry fall too, and I think I know very well the anxiety that a long, dry spell can bring to farmers and to city people alike. Many of you here today can remember standing on Northwest 39th Street here in Oklahoma City twenty years ago watching the jalopies, as we called them then in those days, heading west on U.S. 66, carrying the few belongings of the farm families who had been forced off the land by drought and by dust. Those people were just as honest and just as industrious as anyone else, but there was nothing they could do when their crops dried up and their land blew away.

	These things happen not only here in Oklahoma, but all through the Great Plains. In 1937 the report on what was called "the Future of the Great Plains" was sent to Congress. Somebody--I suppose it was a Republican--said that he was surprised to hear that the Great Plains had a future. Well, they did have a future--one that we are only now beginning to realize. By years of sustained effort, the dust bowl has been brought back to fair and fruitful production. Let there be no mistake about why that happened. It happened because we had in the White House a president with a great heart for the people's welfare--and I mean Franklin Roosevelt. And we had Democrats backing him up in Congress who knew, as he did, that the purpose of government is to serve the people's needs.

	The dust bowl was conquered because the resources of the federal government were put to work, in partnership with individual farmers, businessmen and state and local government to meet a common problem.

	Up in Illinois, as Governor Murray has said, I am known as a man who believes that the federal government should do nothing that can be done by the people for themselves, or through their state and local governments. I am proud of that reputation because I have worked hard to earn it and I believe in what I have said. But I also know a real problem when I see one. And I know the people of the Great Plains would never have licked the dust bowl without the help of their government.

	It was that kind of help that made it possible to bring back the grass on upwards of ten million acres of blowing land. It was that kind of help that made possible building about half a million stock water ponds in twelve years time--and in a drought year like this one these ponds have saved uncounted thousands of cattle.

	And it was government too, my friends, that brought good soil conservation practices to thousands of farms in Oklahoma. And I don't need to remind you that all these programs are being run in the democratic American way, by the farmers themselves, working through their own locally organized districts and their own locally elected committeemen.

	I don't need to remind you either how every one of these conservation programs was fought to the bitter end by the Republicans in Congress. We can all remember how the Republicans scoffed at President Roosevelt's proposal for starting shelter belts throughout these Great Plains. They said that the trees would never grow, and they sneered at the whole project as "Franklin's Folly."

	Well, today thousands of homesteads across the plains are protected by groves of trees. During the last fifteen years, more than 200 million trees have been planted. Every one of them is now a living testimonial to the difference between the Republican and the Democrat ideas about government. You know what happens. The Republicans just throw up their hands and say, "We can't do it," and then we Democrats go ahead and do it. And we did more. In working our way out of the depression we worked for good incomes for people in towns and cities who are the farmer's main market. And we worked out a system of farm price supports to protect farmers from disastrous drops in prices like the price collapse of twenty years ago. The farm price support program has been stubbornly opposed by the majority of Republicans in Congress from 1933 right up to this year. On June 30th of 1952--this year--just three months ago--a majority of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against 90 percent price supports for cotton, for wheat, and the other basic commodities. The Republican candidate for president has been making a lot of promises, as perhaps you have observed. But the real intention of the Republican bosses has been made clear by Senator Taft. He says straight out that he is against 90 percent price supports, and what's more, he says he is sure that the General will want to lower price supports when the present law expires in 1954. 

	Senator Taft ought to know. He runs the Republican machine in Congress; he now seems to be running the Republican campaign and the Republican candidate. You know, there is a lot more to a good life on the farm than just a good income. One thing every farmer wants is to rescue his wife from the drudgery of the old-fashioned scrub board, the old-fashioned wood stove, and the old-fashioned hand pump. That is why the Democratic party started the system of local, independent, farmer-owned and also farmer-managed rural electrification co-ops that have brought electricity to so many farms in Oklahoma. And our Republican friends were against that too.

	We have come a long way in these twenty years, but we have a lot of work and a lot of worry ahead of us in addition to the Old Guard Republicans. We have a lot of hard work ahead of us to make sure that we never have another depression, to make our farms as fruitful, our cities as fair, our lives as decent and as honorable and as secure as we should like.

	One very urgent piece of unfinished business is to achieve a complete conservation of our land and our water resources. [Applause] You fellows sound awfully well coached to me here. However, it is all right with me. The more applause, the better, I don't get out in the sunshine very often.

	This means building terraces and small dams on every upstream watershed on the pattern which you are now developing here in Oklahoma. It means flood control downstream wherever it is needed to protect our cities and our farms. It means a far-sighted and a comprehensive development of all of our resources, of the kind now being undertaken by the special survey commission for the Red, the Arkansas and the White Rivers. Here we have a new approach to river basin development with emphasis on local planning and management--and, as a veteran defender of states' duties as well as of states' rights, I think it is precisely where the emphasis ought to be.

	And here again I don't need to point out to you that the party which has fought the battle of conservation for generations is the Democratic party, and that we have fought the battle over bitter and consistent Republican opposition.

	Another job ahead of us is the improvement of our existing farm programs. We ought, for example, to be able to find ways to operate our crop allotment system with less red tape and fewer irritations to the farmer. We also need, I think, to take a fresh look at our price support programs to see whether they are broad enough. Range cattle prices have dropped as much as ten dollars a hundred pounds in these last few months because drought has forced thousands of ranchers to sell their stock. I notice, too, that beef prices in the butcher shops up north have dropped scarcely a cent. Why is this? What is wrong about this? I don't think we can be complacent about our farm program so long as disparities like this can happen. We should be able to find some way to protect farmers and consumers alike from natural disasters, such as droughts and floods. Building carefully on the foundations that we have laid during the last twenty years, the Democratic party should be able to find solutions, because it is led by men who understand these things, and who care about the people--and some of the finest leadership comes from the state of Oklahoma.

	Here you have two great United States senators--Bob Kerr and Mike Monroney--who are acknowledged and esteemed the country over. Bob Kerr doesn't have to worry about an election of his own this year--and how I envy him. But he is pitching in to help the Democratic campaign just as if his own seat were at stake, and I might say, he is doing it without losing his own sense of humor too--thank heavens. Mike Monroney, one of the soundest and hardest working men in Washington, is heading up the speaker's Bureau for the Democratic National Committee. And Johnson Murray, a great governor of a great state, who bears a famous political name, is working just as hard as if he were running for office himself. In fact, I sometimes think I ought to stop and let these fellows do the job. They could probably do it better.

	Another distinguished Oklahoman who is running for office is John Jarman. I am confident that you will send him back to Washington to continue his splendid work. You have got a winning combination--just like that other great Oklahoma combination, Allie Reynolds and Mickey Mantle. It would be a pity to break that up too. I was telling Allie Reynolds, coming in from the airport just a moment ago, that last night, speaking in Granite City, in Illinois, a man pushed his way up to the side of the automobile and thrust a baseball into my hand, and when I got it--it was in darkness--he mumbled something in the crowd and I couldn't understand what he said. When I got it into the light I looked at it, and there was inscribed on it, "This ball was hit by Mickey Mantle in the third game." And he said, "I hand it to you with the love and affection of a family of five Republicans, all of whom are going to vote Democratic."

	I want to express my personal gratitude to another outstanding Oklahoman, your former governor--Roy Turner. If any of you people in Oklahoma wonder whether we Democrats understand the needs of this country's farm families, the best answer I can give you is that Roy Turner is heading up the Agricultural Division of my personal staff.

	Now, I am genuinely sorry, actually, that the Republican party doesn't have this kind of farm leadership. It never has had. Will Rogers summed it up once years ago in some memorable words that you may have forgotten. He said: "As a young boy I didn't know a Republican from a Democrat, only in one way; if some man or bunch of men rode up to the ranch and my father set me to watching them all day--if my father set me to watching them all day to see what they did and what they carried off, well, then I knew that they was Republicans." 

	And I say the farmers of this country had better look sharp at what the Republican leaders are trying to carry off this year. They talk a lot about government regimentation. Is it regimentation when 68 percent of Oklahoma farmers own their own farms today compared to 38 percent twenty years ago? Is it regimentation when farmers get together in their own self-supporting co-ops to bring electric power to their homes? I warn you to look out when the Republican leaders start to talk about what they call regimentation. I suggest you had better set a boy to watching them. Because, the fact of the matter is, that they don't like the programs that have brought the farmers out of the dust and the mud and have given him a chance. This Republican talk about regimentation is like the talk about the way the Democrats have ruined the moral fiber of the nation. You and I know better. And I have seen some of you in this audience somewhere before, although we may not remember one another as individuals, because I saw you in Italy in 1943--and you were wearing the yellow thunderbird of the 45th Division. You landed at Salerno. You marked up a record of 511 days in combat, capturing 125 thousand prisoners. And I remember that the German commander who opposed you described the 45th as one of the two best American divisions in the war.

	And when it was all over, you came back to accept a nation's honor, but with that heavy feeling in your hearts that those who most deserved it were not here.

	Nor was that the end of the record of extraordinary service of this extraordinary division. Five short years later, when the call came again, the Oklahoma National Guard was one of the few that could report "ready," and the 45th was the first National Guard Division committed to action in Korea.

	I salute the men and the fathers and the mothers of the 45th Division-- who have done much more than their share for our nation.

	You are wondering, I think--we all are--when it will be possible to achieve peace in this world, peace to match the well-being and the good times that we enjoy here at home.

	I should like to meet this question honestly. We will not play politics with your anxieties and we will not play politics with war.

	My distinguished opponent in this campaign has a record of military service which is honored by every person in this country, but he talks of cutting taxes by tens of billions of dollars when he must know in his heart that this can be done only by weakening our defenses against Communism. No doubt he has been told that this is smart politics, but it is dangerous national policy, for to hesitate now, to retreat, to draw back, can only weaken our defenses and that means increase the risk of another war.

	Instead of easy promises, I offer you these cold facts:

	There is fighting in the world today because cold-blooded men in the Kremlin are determined to dominate our world. In this drive they are using every weapon from propaganda to naked aggression.

	In 1950, they attacked in Korea and the free nations, led by the United States, halted them there--halted them there in Korea with a grim determination that will live forever in our annals and in the history of Western civilization. The point of resistance might have been at some other place or at another time, but it had to be somewhere, or all of Asia and all of Europe in turn would have been overrun by the Communists, and then weakened--we would have been alone.

	I thought Senator Kerr stated the case exactly a few nights ago when he said that we fought in Korea so that we would not have to fight in San Francisco, in Los Angeles and in Oklahoma City.

	No one can be sure what the future course of the battle will be. They have powerful forces, and they might decide to renew large scale fighting. They might continue their present scale of effort or they might at any time accept an armistice on the honorable and the reasonable basis that we have proposed--but we know they cannot win unless our will to ourselves fails us.

	Powerfully, slowly, bit by bit, we are winning the peace. We are growing strong here at home, and with our help and our leadership, the free nations are growing in strength and in unity, and that is the only way to peace.

	The whole purpose of the American policy is to win the peace without the ghastly holocaust of the next--perhaps, the last--war. There is only one way to do that--by building our strength and holding our tempers and standing up to Soviet aggression.

	No one can promise when peace will be won, but if you ask what hope I carry in my heart, I say to you that I am confident that, if we in the United States measure up to our awesome responsibility now in the days and the years of decision that lie ahead of us, then our remaining lifetimes and our children's will be lived in peace.

	And now, in closing, there is one promise that I do want to make. Once more it was Will Rogers who gave me the words. As he said--"I shall try during these next four years--to conduct myself so that when I come back to Oklahoma, I can shake hands with all my friends and not just have to wave at them while I am running."
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--GENERALAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCOMMUNISMDISASTER RELIEF--GENERALKOREAN WARREGIONALISM--MIDWESTSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)WATER RESOURCES     kA 7A 1A -A %A
 A A A A ù@ ÷@ â@ Ø@	 » 	 ¢ 	 Ž 	 i 	 ` 	 H 	 > 	 * 	  e: