Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1008.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/08STUMPWAUKESHAWISCONSINWIMOTORCADE FROM MADISON TO MILWAUKEE1,643 WORDS

	Mayor Smith, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen of Waukesha: I am very much flattered and honored that so many of you could find the time and find it convenient to come out here to greet us this afternoon. I am tempted to think that the large crowds we have met today in Wisconsin have been due less to your curiosity about the Democratic candidate for president than they have been due to your innate courtesy to the governor of Illinois, and that in turn is due to the fact that Wisconsin abused Illinois so badly on the football field last Saturday.

	Having spent many of my summers in Wisconsin, I feel anything but a stranger here this afternoon. Having had intimate identifications with Wisconsin in a business and in other ways for all of my life, I feel very much part of Wisconsin, but I always suspend my affections during the football season. And this year, when I was busy campaigning you took advantage of me. I was thinking as we came in this afternoon how much Waukesha water I must have drunk in my life. And I hope that the Republicans aren't going to say that the governor confessed he was a heavy drinker when he was speaking in Wisconsin. I have been speaking so much today and driving in the wind so many places that I was reminded of the time that I asked a doctor if he didn't think that I was talking entirely too much for my vocal cords and for my throat. He looked at me quizzically for a moment and he said, "No, Governor, I don't think you are, but I think you are talking entirely too much for your reputation." And here I am at it again.

	I hope you will bear with me for a moment while I attempt on my own behalf, and I think on behalf of the gentlemen that I have the privilege of traveling with this afternoon--Mr. William Proxmire, Mr. Tom Fairchild, and Mr. Horace Wilkie--to tell you something about what seems to me to be the basic problems in this campaign. It seems to me that it is becoming pretty clear that there are two basic things in people's minds as the election in this fateful year of 1952 approaches. One of them is peace. The other, I suppose, is prosperity. It is clear, too, that the position of our two major parties on these issues is precisely the same as it was and as it has been for twenty years. The Republicans say that they are for peace and prosperity, but they don't want to do anything about it. We Democrats say that we are for peace and prosperity, too, and we have been doing something about it, and have been doing it for twenty years.

	Now, you mustn't get the impression that I dislike Republicans. On the contrary, I have been associating with them for so long that I have almost despaired of convincing any of them--and then, every once in a while, one of them comes around and says he has begun to see the light. I really secretly suspect that he has begun to read and write.

	Hurriedly, let me only say of the foreign policy issues that they seem to boil down to this difference: Republicans say, and their record confirms, that the threat to this country is internal--not external. The first job, therefore, they say, is to cut taxes rather than to increase defense. But that policy leads to weakness; and the ultimate consequence of weakness is war. The Democratic position, on the other hand, is that we and our friends and our allies must be strong--still stronger than we are today--to be secure, for in our strength is our only guarantee that the war lords of the Soviet Union will not plunge this world once more into war with consequences which can be only too grim really to surmise.

	Whenever I hear one of these Old Guard Republicans talk about cutting our taxes when he knows that this means weakening our nation, I think of that gloomy old pessimist who was driving along in his automobile one day. He said to his chauffeur, "James, drive over the precipice, I want to commit suicide."

	You know, I think, what the Democratic party has stood for on the domestic issues. Our record has been written into the statute books of the nation--written into our lives--into your jobs--into your system of social security--into your housing--your education--and in the abundance of opportunity that is available for all Americans in this age and day. And you know, too, what the Republican party has stood for. It has stood for a bitter and unrelenting opposition to every important measure of social change in these past twenty years. It has stood for a hands-off attitude toward our economic engine. It has stood for letting the economy boom and bust at its own wild speed, first into inflation and ultimately into depression.

	Twenty years ago, after twelve years of Republican do-nothing and care-nothing policy, this nation was flat on its back--and every older person here today knows it. The system was running down like a broken clock. The Republican administration was dispirited and baffled. And then a great Democrat became president of the United States, and I think this nation will never forget, and should never forget, what it owes to that great, peerless leader, Franklin Roosevelt. Under him the American people began the long, hard climb up out of the pit of depression and despondency. Government at long last became warm and vigorous and decisive. Government at long last began to care about the people of this country. And, because it cared about the people, it released the people's energies. In twenty years our people have built a new America--a strong and friendly America--big enough to take care of its own; productive enough to assure steadily rising living standards; and fair enough for equality of opportunity for all.

	Some people say now that we have these things it doesn't much matter which political party holds the country's reins. That kind of attitude reminds me of the old boss of a wrecking crew in Chicago who said one day, "I can wreck in a day what it takes the contractors a year to build."

	It is now completely clear that my distinguished opponent, the General of the Army, has accepted the principles of the Old Guard wing of the Republican party. And if you know what I mean, they are the most accomplished wrecking crew in this nation's history. They did the job once, and you older people will never forget the Great Depression that followed twelve years of Republican administration. Even in the past five years--even in the past--with all of our experience, they have voted almost a straight ticket in Congress against the people. They have voted against farm parity price supports--which mean security for the farmer. They have voted against fair collective bargaining practices which mean security for the American worker. They have voted against social security changes which mean fuller security for more of our older people. And they have voted against inflation controls--which mean security for all of us against inflation--an enemy as sinister and as inscrutable as Stalin himself. They are always against everything, and they are never for anything. And their candidate? Well, he has given the Old Guard a first mortgage, a second mortgage, and a third mortgage on every principle he must have once held.

	The Democratic program for America isn't complicated. We stand for the people, and everybody knows it--and we have, ever since the time of Thomas Jefferson. We believe that the rights, and the power, and the welfare of the people don't seep down the mighty trunk from a brimming cup on the top, but they climb up through the myriad roots that are the people. Our programs grow from what we think are people's needs--and I don't mean just a few people--I mean all of the people. That means equal opportunity for all, regardless of race, of color, or creed. Most of all today we stand for peace--not for another war to end all war, but for peace without war.

	We are not making the promises the Republicans are. They stand for peace, too, and I would be the first to acknowledge it. I don't believe there is a war party in this country. I don't believe any Republicans, any more than I myself, or any of you, has anything but anxiety to preserve the continuity and the enduring peace of this land. But I tell you that we don't make promises that we can't fulfill. And we don't play politics with promises that we know we cannot keep. We know that there are no easy, no cheap solutions for the terrible problems that torment our world--the problems of Communism, of hunger, of want, of misery, of anxiety, of fear that bedevil our world. We are recognizing that the course ahead is a stern course, but we believe with all of our hearts that if we make this nation strong we can keep good times at home and we can avoid that war that would destroy this world. It is toward that purpose that we direct our best energies and our efforts, and we ask for your support.

	I tell you again that I am deeply touched and grateful to every one of you--Republicans and Democrats alike--for coming here this afternoon on this lovely autumn day in Waukesha and affording me this opportunity to talk to you even briefly--and I hope it has been briefly.

	Thank you very much indeed.
HISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSMILITARY PREPAREDNESSTAXATION--GENERAL     Í$ ∂$ ∞$ ¨$ §$
 ó$ í$ ç$ Ö$ |$ z$ W$ L$	 ô 	 q 	 H 	 & 	  e: