Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0916.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/16STUMPNORTHFIELDMINNESOTAMNSPEECH AT CARLETON COLLEGE1617 WORDS

	My very good friends--I am certain you will allow me to call you my very good friends; otherwise I could not imagine how both St. Olaf's and Carleton would have come out here to hear me, to give me a chance to bring them a word of greeting and to express a few of the thoughts that are on my mind.  I am, of course, a college president on leave.  You people will determine next November 4th whether my leave is permanent.  

	The University of which I am president is one of the great city universities; both in numbers and its attainments--it is a remarkable institution.  But I want this morning to pay special tribute to the small college.  I know something of their trials and tribulations, some of the financial and other worries, because I have many friends that are now in the administrative bodies of those institutions, but I want to say to those who are struggling to keep the exchequer reasonably in balance, and I want to say to those of you who are attending those colleges, that you are doing something throughout this country that must be done.  It is a holding up of standards; not only standards in education, standards in intellectual attainment, in the facts with which we may crowd our minds, but you are holding up standards in the sense of values, because the free small college is one of the greatest symbols of free America.

	Free America places at the very apex of all its values the worth of the individual, the fact that man is created in the image of his God.  That, it seems to me, is one of the things that the small college upholds as it trains people not merely to be good educators or good professionals in any line, but to be good citizens of the United States of America.  Because no one can be a good citizen of the United States of America in my opinion unless he remembers, recognizes and observes the great truth that underlies our freedom.  And that is:  that our system of government, our freedom, is based directly upon an unshakable faith in an Almighty.

	In attempting to explain our form of government, our forefathers had to say to the world, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights."  They did not say those rights grew from the soil, were granted to you by a king or an overlord or an almighty government--"by your Creator."  In no other way could they explain a system that makes you your own ruler, makes you the participant in your own government.

	Now, I realize that today in this complex world of doubts and questions and problems, there are many things that worry the youngster as he is entering this college.  There are many things that worry us oldsters as we try to give to you youngsters what is in our hearts and minds, as we try to glean from our experience, including our failures as well as those things called successes--as we try to glean from those the lessons that we think are valid and hand them on to you, we are worried too about peace and war, about the great problem of American leadership in the world, to lead steadily and consistently toward peace.

	One thing that encourages me is this:  referring again to these great moral values that are inherent in our system, we find that as we attempt to pursue our own enlightened self-interest in the world, which we should, we are paralleling the dictates of our own conscience at the same time.  It is to our enlightened self-interest that all of the countries of the world from which we must necessarily draw the raw materials needed by our economy be certainly free of domination from Moscow, from whence comes the great threat to our form of life.  But humanitarianism, altruism, moral values also dictate the same things.  And so it goes.  If we check the various things that we think should be done in the world, we find that our own moral impulses, our own conscience is dictating the very same things that our enlightened self-interest should dictate, meaning, as I see it, that enlightened self- interest is just another way, as long as we use that language, of saying we are doing what our good sense, our conscience and our hearts dictate.

	That, in my mind, is what we must do this very minute.  We must proceed in our foreign relations in full cognizance of the moral values that have made this country great.  We must apply them abroad.  And that means we are pursuing our own enlightened self- interest throughout the world.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, in the fifteen minutes that we have here this morning there are many things--many questions that I could discuss with you.  I could tell you of St. Olaf, of the very close connections I have in Norway and how deep in my affections are the people of that country.  I could tell you of Carlston, of what I know of Kellog and people of that kind.  I think I should use up my time just talking to you students about one thing--your opportunities.  Absorbing this scale of values which puts the moral standard at the very apex, you can look forward to the task that you have, the task during the next 60 years, of making this country something that you will be proud to turn over in your turn to your children and grandchildren.

	Certainly, I cannot conceive of your doing a worse job than my generation has done.  But if you gain nothing else from us, you learn possibly how to avoid some of our mistakes.  Now that is what you are learning today; in the next four years, the four years through which you are now passing or which you are just entering, you will learn how to use those 60 years, to keep close to our hearts an appreciation of the values that have made our country great and which in turn we must apply if we are going to lead the world toward peace, security and prosperity.

	You are sitting at the feet of instructors who have no other desire than to serve you; and their example give you another of the lessons that you must observe.  Your satisfaction in life, believe me, is not going to come from the numbers of dollars you turn over to your children when it comes your turn to pass on such things; it is going to come from this:  a consciousness that you have done your part in the sense of doing that part for others.

	The threat in the world that we call Communism has as its basic tenet this thought:  free government has failed; free government cannot use the resources of a great complex nation such as ours to the benefit of all; free government must be supplanted by direction.  And the Communists say, "We give that direction in our doctrine."  And they established what they called the dictatorship of the proletariat.  If you can, when it comes your turn to sit on the back porch and rock in contemplation rather than be running down the street to your job in the morning; if you can say, "I have done by cooperation, by my desire to help others, what Communism attempts to do by force," then you will have done your part.

	Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the observance and practice of this desire to cooperate is what will bring freedom in the world.  Again we find our problem at home related to our problem abroad.  Indeed they cannot be separated.  But if you can prove day by day--and by you I mean 155 million people--a people that under God comprised the greatest and mightiest force that has ever been placed upon His footstool; if you can by cooperation show that you can outdo, outthink, outwork, outearn any dictatorship that has ever existed no matter what its force, you will have done your part.  And your reward in life will far surpass those of the man whose last days must be given over to a desperate attempt to make his will so that the heirs will not fight over the dollars.  You will turn over to your children and those after you, first of all, the kind of opportunity you had, the opportunity to choose between Carleton and St. Olaf's.  And there are many countries where you would not have that opportunity.  You would go where you were told.  You will turn over to them the opportunity to make of themselves what they will in the same set of standards that you observed.

	I have been often reminded of how poor I was as a boy.  I was one of seven brothers.  Now, it is true, we were very poor, but the glory of America in my mind is this:  we did not know it then.  We had to grow up to find out that as children we were very poor.  No one will ever be poor that will absorb what these two colleges have to teach you, what their devoted faculties will try to place before you.  You can never be poor, as you will impart those things to yourselves to those who come after you.  They will never be poor.  They will, on the contrary, be strong in their devotion to America and to their God.  They will be rich in the satisfaction that comes to a human who has served both patriotism and the Almighty.

	Thank you very much indeed.
DEMOCRACYMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUESCOMMUNISMRELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY     G# # # 	# ÿ"
 ñ" ì" ç" Ý" Ô" Ò" ¸" ®"	 ? 	 6      e: