Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0917.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/17STUMPBUFFALONEW YORKNYSTATLER-HILTON HOTEL3,638 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Chairman Joe Crangle, thank you Mayor Sedita, our thanks to the Rev. Joseph Moore, my fellow Democrats.  You have been here a long time.  You have been waiting a long time and I am going to get down to business.

	I want to serve notice on the Republicans that our victory march started in Buffalo today.  We are on the way, friends.

	I knew it would.  I knew you could do it.  Let me tell you, there is enough enthusiasm and spirit from the people that I have met here in Buffalo, so that we can export it.  Yes, we can bottle it.  We can put it in jars that we can send all across America to pump any tired Democrat that we might meet.

	You know, I know that you read all the bad news.  So do I.  I know you have heard all the dire predictions.  So have I.  I have heard them analyzed, reanalyzed, inside out, upside down.  I have read these political orations that some have written and some have said.  But I want you to know something: I was elected to the Senate in the same year that Harry Truman became president and we can do it all over again.

	On, I know that some people are saying, it is different now, Mr. Vice President; there is a new Nixon.  Some people say there is an old Nixon.  The one you want to watch out for is the real Nixon.

	Now, my dear friends, look here.  This Democratic party has never asked disciplined obedience from all of its members.  We are Democrats because we are thinkers, because we are activists.  We are Democrats.  On occasion, we like to kick up our heels and have our way.  We are not a bunch of old fogies.  We are not the grand old pessimists.  We are optimists.  We are young of heart and young of spirit.

	I know that there are people in this party that have fought hard for what they wanted in a platform and fought hard for a candidate that they wanted.  Some of us won some place and some of us lost another.  But my fellow Democrats, the question now is not the battle in the Democratic party; the question now is which party do you want to run the affairs of this country?  The question now is do you want Mr. Humphrey in the White House or do you want Mr. Nixon in the White House; do you want Agnew or do you want Muskie?  Now, that is the question.

	The main thing about this party of ours is that it welcomes change.  We are not the enemy of change and we do not look upon it as an enemy, we look upon it as an ally.  And every generation we see as a new birth of life, a new birth of freedom.  Every generation we look upon as an asset to this country.

	Every time this nation has been in trouble, it has called upon Democrats to help it out.  Every time it has been in any serious difficulty--you check the history of this century--it has looked to the Democratic party for its leadership.

	This country is in trouble.  You know it and I know it.  This country has conflict, it has division today.  There are perpetrators of hate.  There are those who would set people against people.  There are those who spreads suspicion and doubt and fear.  And I think the American people are once again going to look to our party for leadership.

	You know, I remember, and you do too, that it was in this spirit, this spirit of being willing to welcome change as an ally, this spirit of being forward-looking and grasping the future as if it belonged to us--it was that spirit, one of confidence and faith in our ability to master the future, that Franklin Roosevelt told his America in our time that we had nothing to fear but fear itself.  And how right he was.

	And it was in the same spirit of confidence, it was in this same spirit of accepting change for what it was, and of belief in the future, it was in this spirit that the one and only Harry Truman let 'em have it and told them where to go, and told it like it was, too.

	And in this spirit of faith in the tomorrows, that beloved man, Adlai Stevenson, talked sense to the American people when so few others would.  And how we miss this great, good, and gentle man of sense and peace.

	And it was in the spirit of confidence in this country, in this spirit of service to this nation, that John Kennedy told us what every man and woman in this America must remember to his dying day, those immortal words that are the rallying cry for every person that loves his nation:  Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country."

	And in this spirit, Lyndon Johnson rallied a grief stricken nation and said, after our beloved President Kennedy had been taken from us, he said, "Let us continue."  Then he went on in his own right, whatever may be the criticism, whatever they may say, to accomplish more of the unfinished business of American democracy than any of his predecessors.  The record has been nothing short of remarkable these last five years.

	But I don't come here to sympathize with you, nor do I come to apologize to our critics.  I come here to take our message to you and I ask you to take it to the people.  We will not win elections nor will we deserve to unless we believe in our cause.  We will not win elections nor do we deserve to unless we believe we have unity in this country.  I know that we have.  I know the Democratic party has built a solid foundation of social progress that has given more and more Americans a chance for a better life than any administration.  I know that there are millions of people today who only a few years ago were the victims of poverty that can stand tall and straight, with dignity and self-respect, because their party cared, because their government acted, because leadership was there.

	I know that there are cities that are better today because the government cared and a party worked.

	I know that there are millions of youngsters in school today who never would have had a chance, who would have been deprived of a decent education, were it not for the fact that a Democratic party and a Democratic Congress and a Democratic president worked together and cared and helped this nation of ours to do better.

	I know there are millions of our senior citizens today that would still be the victim of relief and welfare-ism, who would still be pleading for hospital and medial care, who can today go to the hospital of their choice, go to the doctor of their choice and have the finest hospital and medical care under the terms of Social Security and Medicare that any nation can provide.

	Let me lay it on the line, ladies and gentlemen.  These things did not happen because of Nixon Republicans, did they?  They did not.  It was not Mr. Nixon and his cohorts that fought for aid to education to a child, whether that child goes to public or parochial school.  It was not the Nixon Republicans that gave you Medicare.  It was not the Nixon Republicans that gave you civil rights.

	It was the old coalition, the modern Nixon-Southern coalition, the modern Nixon-Southern strategy, the modern Nixon that fought every measure of human equality, that fought every measure that today makes the bulwark of our great programs in civil rights.

	Ladies and gentlemen, it was not the Nixon Republicans that gave this country prosperity.  It was the Nixon Republicans that had three recessions in eight years, that cost Buffalo and cost Erie County and cost this section of New York vast unemployment, lost income, people losing their homes, seeking unemployment compensation.  Do you want more of it?

	I have often said in this great country for Democrats that every election is a great testimonial to our faith in the future and every election is a memorial to our great leaders of the past.  My fellow Democrats, do you want the memorial to Franklin Roosevelt, do you want the tribute to Harry Truman, do you want the memorial to John Kennedy, do you want the memorial to Adlai Stevenson, do you want the tribute to Lyndon Johnson to be the election of Mr. Nixon?  I think not.

	This is the man who accused our party of twenty years of treason.  This is the man who fought against Mr. Truman.  This is the man that tried to belittle Adlai Stevenson.  This is the party, if you please, that fought Adlai Stevenson, called his nuclear test ban a cruel hoax; this is the man that fought at every opportunity against progress and this is the man I intend to whip in this next election.

	We must join the issue and we must carry the fight.  This election cannot be won by me alone, and you know it.  This election will be won when we stand united.  I say to any Democrat who has any doubt, I say to any Democrat who is dragging his feet, I say to any Democrat who wonders whether he should back us, I say examine your conscience.  I say to you to take a look at the record.  I ask you to ask whether or not you feel you are serving your election or your party, I ask you too, to--if you will rethink whether or not you honor the memory of President Kennedy or of Adlai Stevenson, if you honor the memory of Harry Truman, if you permit by your lack of enthusiasm in this election to be lost.  You had better hesitate and think it over.  Together, we can win; separated, we will lose.

	Together, we can build a better America.  Separated, America will stand still.

	There are three vital issues before us, and you know them as well as I do.  The first is the necessity and the absolute necessity, as soon as it is humanly possible, in honor and in dignity, for a just and enduring peace in Vietnam and the world.  And the Democratic platform, if you will study it carefully, says to the next president of the United States that he must search for that peace and find it, that he must be willing to take calculated risks for that peace and then outline a program if we follow it and if we do not veer from it, that you can bring us that day when once again, we can tie down the dogs of war and once again go on to peace.

	But, my friends, we are not going to have the kind of peace we want when you have a candidate for the highest office within the grasp of this land which says, "Stop, don't negotiate a treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons."  Every mother and father in this room should shudder to think of what would happen if these powerful, destructive weapons should get into the hands of madmen, should get into the hands of people who are erratic.  We have tried for three years to negotiate a new treaty, to prevent the spread of the unbelievable destructive power of nuclear weaponry.  Eighty nations have sustained it.  It was our idea.  And it stands there in the U.S. Senate ready for our ratification as a testimonial to the part of this nation in the building blocks of peace as we seek to build a temple to that peace.  The man who seeks to be president under the  Republican ticket gives you one of those "Yes, but answers".  He says he is for it, but.  He says he believes in it, but.  He says we ought to have it, but not now.  I want to say to the American people that delay could be disastrous.  I want to say to the American people that if we miss this opportunity, we may have missed the opportunity to save this world from nuclear confrontation.  And Mr. Nixon, I ask you to be a statesman and quit playing politics with the lives of humanity.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  The second reality is the necessity for peace and justice in our cities and our nation.  I have not heard a more succinct and clear statement than that from Joe Crangle:  justice is the proper role.  It is a role like a mighty river--justice for every American.  That is what we believe in.  We also believe in order.

	The Constitution of this country requires--it obligates us--to assure domestic tranquility, to assure justice, and if Mr. Nixon has not read it, then I will send him a copy.  The preamble to the Constitution does not just say double the rate of convictions, it does not just say law and order.  It says to insure domestic tranquility and to assure justice.  They go hand in hand as a constitutional republic; they go hand in hand.

	Yes, the Republican nominee is bold with words.  He says double the convictions and all that Mr. Humphrey wants to do is double the poverty program.  Ladies and gentleman, let Mr. Nixon build his penitentiaries.  I want to build neighborhoods and homes for America.

	While he is talking of law and order, let me say that as a mayor of a great city, I know what it means to get law and order.  I headed a police department.  I saw that it was trained.  I saw that it was paid and better paid.  I have yet to hear a Republican candidate say, "Let's honor our police, let's honor them with decent salaries, let's honor them with greater respect."  Oh, no, he says law and order.  But I am not running for sheriff, I am running for president.

	Let there not be the slightest doubt that if I am president of these United States, I will do everything within my power to mobilize the resources of this country to see to it that our streets are safe, that violence is put down, that rioting is stopped, that respect for the law will be the pattern of the day.  You can be assured of it.  But you can all be assured of something else:  that just as I will see that those who break the law and those who are the criminals and those who are guilty of violence and looting and burning, just as they shall be punished and suppressed, so shall I wage relentless war on the inequities and the deprivation that make far too many of our citizens, white or black, wherever they may be.

	The final issue of this campaign and the third reality before our country is the necessity for unity in America.  We will get no place divided.  As I said to that great group of people out here in front of this hotel, in that very brief moment, there is not a single problem that effects this nation today that is going to be settled in the streets.  None of our problems is subject to the solution of violence.  None of our problems can be settled by shouting.  None of them will be settled by demagoguery.  We will settle our problems by sitting around the table, like we are sitting here talking to one another.

	Come, Isaiah, let us reason together.  And a great free society should long ago have put aside violence, should long ago put aside cheap demagoguery, bigotry, discrimination.  A great free people and a great free nation like this should exemplify the best in reason and rationality.  We should exemplify confidence and faith, responsibility and restraint.  And we should demonstrate to the world that we know how to work together.

	We cannot have a nation torn apart.  Yet we have candidates today, one who builds his whole case on separatism; we have another who is not a racist, but nevertheless, has entered into a strange compact with some of the most reactionary elements of this country, and who calls upon America to slow down the rate of progress, whose words confuse and whose statements are evasive, who on the one hand says he supports a Supreme Court decision, on the other hand says he does not like the way it is being implemented, who on the one hand down grades the attorney general and on the other hand asks children to believe in law and order and the law enforcement officers.  Yet the main law enforcement officer of this land is the attorney general.

	He on the one hand says to you respect the law, and on the other hand, condemns the Supreme Court, which is the supreme tribunal of this nation under law.

	Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not confusion, then attach another name to it.  At best, I call it confusion.  It has many other elements which I will leave to you to interpret.

	But this America of ours is not going to solve its problems through separatism. We are not going to solve our problems by pretending that they are not here and we are not going to face up to the issues of our time by saying that all we need is repression.  We are going to have to sit down and think them out and work them out and we are going to have to recognize not only by law but by practice human dignity, self-respect, equal opportunity in every major and every minor aspect of our life.  This nation cannot be divided between rich and poor, black and white, urban and rural, nor can it survive that way.  We cannot be separate but equal, a nation divided, a people divided.  There is only one way and you know it and I know it, so let's face up to it.

	It is not an easy way.  It is not painless.  It is not going to come without struggle.  But there is only one way and that is for all of us to exemplify by our words and our deeds for persons, tolerance--to literally cleanse ourselves of every form of bigotry and discrimination, religion or racial, to make ourselves whole and clean once again.  And let me tell you, it has never been said more directly and beautifully as to what we need and what this party works for and stands for and what I stand for and what Senator Muskie stands for.  We know what we are for.  We are for what you believe in, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.  That is what we are for.

	We are not going to get any of this.  All the lofty goals that we have, all the lofty ideals we espouse, all the beautiful things we say will come to naught unless we unite this party.  You can't unite a nation if you can't unite the vehicle that wants to help the nation.  And we must put away our differences.

	We all want peace with honor.  We want a better America.  We want to do away with deprivation wherever possible.  We want Americans, one and all, to be participants in the processes of this democracy and in the benefits of this economy.  We want that.  This is why I helped the Democratic Convention select the vice presidential nominee. and I want to conclude on what I think is the best part of my message:  I had to make no deal.  There was no one twisting my arm.  I did not have somebody from the South or from the North, from black or white, telling me, Mr. Vice President, we want you to take this man for vice president or else.  I had no one say to me, "If you don't take one or two of these men, you will not get our support."  Not a single person came and told me that I had to do this or do that.

	I have had the privilege in my public life to know many people.  I served as president of the Senate for four years.  I served as majority whip for the Senate for four years.  I have seen senators, all kinds of them, and I have seen men in public life.  I have told the Democratic party and I have told this nation that I would recommend to that convention as my selection, my choice, a man for vice president that possessed the qualities of maturity, responsibility, and experience; a man that was educated and trained in government, a man with total integrity, a man who understood the problems of our time and had the vision of tomorrow; a man that could serve as president any day and serve bravely.  And ladies and gentlemen, I have kept my promise and I have given to you on this ticket not someone who is just anybody; not someone who came as a result of compromise; but someone who came as a result of searching for the best.  I submit to you that in the candidacy of Ed Muskie I have presented to the American people one of the great men of our time.  If you will join with me, we can elect this ticket and we can turn the polls around and we can turn this political process into a great victory march.  I say you can elect Humphrey and Muskie if you want to and I say you want to.
CIVIL DISORDERCIVIL RIGHTSCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--CONVICTIONSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGRACE RELATIONSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SENIOR CITIZENS     ÂM ŽM ˆM „M |M
 pM kM fM _M WM UM AM 6M	 (	 	 	  	 ã 	 º 	 ˜ 	 ~ 	 O 	 ; 	 - 	  e: