Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0906.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/06STUMPSAN FRANCISCOCALIFORNIACAAT THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS CONVENTION2152 WORDS

	I have come here, first, out of sincere respect for the International Association of Machinists. You have made this association an acknowledged leader of progressive American unionism--unionism that fights for the rights of its members, that has full regard for those with whom it deals, and respects its obligation to the public. As a member of that public--just as we all are--I salute you.

	I have come here, second, to speak my equally sincere and even more personal regard for your President, Al Hayes. I know what his leadership has meant to this association and to the whole labor movement in America. His appointment as chairman of the AFL-CIO Ethical Practices Committee was a fitting witness to his accomplishments and his integrity. It said to us all that this committee meant business, and even within the week there have been new and significant reports of what the AFL-CIO is doing to drive every racketeer out of organized labor the way you drove the Communists out.

	I have also come here--and it is no secret--to talk politics. I say this with no thought of apology. Politics is as much your business as it is mine. In a democracy it's everybody's business, and their most important business, too.

	There was, as you know, another convention held in San Francisco two weeks ago. This was billed as a political convention. I wasn't sure, frankly, as I watched it, whether it was a convention or a coronation--although I had some question as to whether a Cow Palace was a fitting scene for such a ceremony! The first time I tuned in I saw a movie star mumbling some words from a script. They weren't from the Bill of Rights.

	Then I saw a glee club singing a song about a clambake--but there were no verses about amending the Taft-Hartley Act.

	I saw 124 pom-pom girls dancing in the aisles--which I assume was for the benefit of the small farmers and small businessmen.

	And finally, I saw a cheerleader jumping around on the floor trying to whip up enthusiasm with about the same success as an eggbeater in a bowl of ice cubes. I couldn't help thinking of the old Roman Emperor's political formula of bread and circuses. Well, it didn't save Rome and I don't think it will save the Republicans.

	Yet I think that before that convention was over its ringmasters had in a very real way placed clearly before the nation's voters at least two of the basic issues in this campaign.

	First, they ruled Joe Smith out of order, which is what has happened to the ordinary Joes--the workingman, the small farmer, the small businessman, the consumer--for several years.

	Then, in the last act of this television spectacular, there were a couple of what I would call good speeches. The only trouble was that any resemblance between them and the Republican party was strictly coincidental. And while those lofty speeches were being read from the platform in the Cow Palace, the old Republican wrecking crew who will vote to keep each of the forward-looking parts of those speeches from ever becoming law were sitting complacently on the convention floor and chanting for the leader they seldom follow.

	We must face the fact that every four years the Republican candidates talk like Democrats. I'm always flattered when they borrow our ideas, but they don't keep them long enough. It reminds me of the man up in Minnesota last winter who told me that he had voted for Eisenhower in 1952 because it never occurred to him that the Republicans would behave like Republicans!

	Your own newspaper, The Machinist, has been keeping the record. Among other things, it shows that Senator Kefauver, with whom I am honored to share this Democratic ticket, has been right for The Machinist on every vote. And this record shows that the Republican senators and congressmen who cheered the President's speech, voted against those same things in Congress. (There is significant irony in the fact that they held the coronation in a building built under a WPA program which their political ancestors voted against almost to a man.)

	The Machinist's list of important issues shows an interest in our government not just as workers, but as fathers and mothers, as taxpayers, as consumers, and as citizens with high idealism and a sense of justice. The list covers almost the whole range of American politics: taxes, Social Security, housing, highways, the farm problem, national defense, atomic power.

	It is by examining the record of the parties on specific issues like these, and not by listening to election-year platitudes, that we truly learn which party has a vision for the future--which party has in it the strength, the determination, and yes, the compassion to build a New America.

	Let's look, just as an illustration, at the very human issue of Social Security. The Democratic leadership in the 84th Congress brought about some important improvements in that great program. These improvements make it possible for disabled persons--totally and permanently disabled workers--to draw their full Social Security benefits at fifty instead of having to eke out a dependent existence until they reach the age of sixty-five.

	These Democratic amendments also help to meet the special problems of widows and women workers, who suffer, in their later years, extra difficulties in finding suitable employment. The amendments lower the age at which they can retire from sixty-five to sixty-two.

	Now, what was the performance of the Eisenhower Administration on this humane legislation when the issue came up and the chips were down?

	They had talked about it. In his first State of the Union message, Mr. Eisenhower pledged himself to the principle that "... the individual must have safeguards against personal disaster inflicted by forces beyond his control"... but when the Democrats in the 84th Congress took him at his word, and offered these amendments to safeguard the worker against such "personal disaster," he proclaimed them "unwise and unwanted!" He threw the whole weight and power of his Administration into an all-out effort to defeat them.

	Fortunately for all of us, his effort did not succeed. It failed because the Democratic majority in the United States Senate stood together and fought for their convictions. The leader of that great Democratic victory was Senator Walter George of Georgia, who climaxed a long and distinguished career of unselfish public service by committing all of his great prestige and influence to the aid of the disabled working man. In his moving speech on the Senate floor Senator George called attention to the fact that the members of the Congress themselves enjoyed the benefit of a very liberal pension plan which pays disability benefits regardless of age. "A senator entering Congress in 1955 and becoming disabled after ten years would get an annuity of $5,625," said Senator George. Then he added, "senators voted for that provision, but now they haggle and hesitate when they are asked to do something for the poor people of this country who earn their living by the sweat of their brows."

	Compare Senator George's leadership with the performance of the Republican leader, Senator Knowland. At a workers' conference in Washington on April 23rd of this year Senator Knowland was asked a direct, straightforward question: Would you support... a bill to reduce the retirement age for women and include a disability payment for totally disabled workers?" His answer was flat and unequivocal: "Yes, I would support such legislation." But what did he do? On July 17, 1956, when the showdown came, Senator Knowland not only voted against this disability provision himself--he also, as Senate Republican leader, directed the unsuccessful Republican drive to kill this vital measure.

	And look at the votes of the two parties on that measure. On the key test (the Senate vote on the disability amendment) 85 percent of the Democratic members voted for the interest of the disabled worker, while 86 percent of the Republican members voted against those interests. That is a fair measure of the difference between the two parties.

	In the same way, Mr. Eisenhower and a majority of Republicans, who talk feelingly now about the minimum wage law, opposed the raising of the minimum wage to one dollar--but that action was put through with Democratic votes.

	And in the same way, the Republicans, who now imply that there is another tax cut coming for everybody, gave 91% of their 1954 tax out to the corporations and the wealthy and only 9% to families with incomes under $5,000. And let me say just a word about vision versus complacency in labor relations. You remember, back in the first days of his Administration, that Mr. Eisenhower appointed to the Cabinet an outstanding labor leader, the late Martin Durkin of my state of Illinois.

	Unfortunately, the true reason became all too clear almost before Senator Taft had finished calling it unbelievable. The advertisers want something to put in the window.

	Secretary Durkin had been promised that the Taft-Hartley law would be revised, softening many of the anti-labor sections. But it never was. Again, there were pious words. Again, there were some proposals. But, again, when the chips were down, the Republican leaders forbade any change.

	The real nature of a party, the real center of its power, is revealed, not in what is says, but in what it does. The Republican leaders are willing to let President Eisenhower go ahead and deliver speeches. But when they get down to something important, say, like making appointments to the National Labor Relations Board, they take no chances.

	By their fruits ye shall know them.

	But in the Democratic party our actions in government correspond to our words in our campaign. We mean what we say--and the record proves it. The Democratic party has been the party of leadership, alert to the needs and challenges which lie ahead. We Democrats propose to meet the changes of the future as we have met the great changes of the past--with boldness, with imagination, and with the energy, wisdom, and faith of a democratic people.

	And may I say that I endorse most heartily Mr. Meany's statement here yesterday that straight talking is particularly important today in the field of foreign affairs, "that both parties [must] tell the truth to the American people about our world situation and where we stand." He said in blunt language that the statements we have been getting from the Administration "are a fraud." I agree, as I tried to say yesterday at the American Legion Convention in Los Angeles, and I assure you that so far as I am concerned there will be no playing politics with peace in this campaign, no pretending that peace has been won when it has not been, no pretending that winning is going to be easy.

	One final point which President Meany also touched on: our Republican opponents have often charged, between election years, that the Democratic party is too close to labor--that we show a prejudice for the interests and hopes of workers and their families. If this charge were true, it would seem to me no offense. Yet the truth is simply that the Democratic party has stood for what equal treatment demands--a measure of security against the hazards of life, a chance to share in the fruits of abundance, a strong hand in the management of its own destiny, and a brighter hope for tomorrow. Through the years, not only labor, but many other groups of Americans and the Democratic party have found themselves together in the pursuit of these common aims and mutual ideals, having as their object the welfare of all of us.

	In their separate capacity, both labor and the Democratic party stand as the people's advocate. What, then, is more natural than this feeling of kinship between the working people of America and the Democratic party? As a Democrat, I am not ashamed of this association; I am proud of it. I would not exchange it for all the war chests the Republicans have accumulated, because the purpose of democratic government is to serve the people, all the people, and not just the generals of finance and industry. And what is more natural than our common determination to move ahead together along the road to the New America?--a land where all may dwell in self-respect and freedom and all may share in an ever expanding opportunity.

	This is our common hope.

	Estes Kefauver and I mean to put on the hardest campaign that this country has ever seen, because we believe in what we are doing. With your help, we will win in November. And with your help, we will start next January to build the New America.
ELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSSOCIAL SECURITYDISABLED PERSONSORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     x2 D2 >2 :2 22
 %2  2 2 2 2 2 É1 ¿1	 ~ 	 Z  K  ;  # e: