Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1026.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/26STUMPBOSTONMASSACHUSETTSMAVOLUNTEERS FOR STEVENSON BREAKFAST1488 WORDS

	I think perhaps the most gratifying exhibit I have seen in my political adventures in the last few months is right over here. It is a small baby. How can I lose?

	I was amused the other day when I had one of those announcements of the birth of a baby through the mail from people I didn't know--"Mr. and Mrs. So and So announce the birth on October 18th of their son James." And on the reverse side of this little card was printed, "I was only born yesterday, but I am for Stevenson. Jimmy." It excited all sorts of ideas about "time for a change"!

	This is Sunday, and this is a day of rest for candidates. And therefore, I am not even going to worry about Senator Nixon's conscience. What I did want to talk about, and I should like to if you could bear with me for a just a few minutes, is something I have become much more conscious of as my experience developed, and I think is important: That is, the connection and the union, if you please, between our religious beliefs and political aims in a democracy. Some of us worship in churches, some in synagogues, some on golf courses. (I don't know whether there are any Mohammedan Volunteers, who worship in mosques.) Yet we are all children of the same Judaic-Christian civilization, with very much the same religious background basically.

	In the heat of a campaign--and I must say the disciplines of the tongue get looser and looser as these ordeals proceed--some of us forget about the religious sources of democracy. In times like this the brush of politics is dipped pretty deep into vats of paint, black and white, and seldom any other shades. And everything that is put on display is painted in these rather sharp tones. We are told that this man is a man of unsurpassed virtues, and that man is an out-and-out crook, or he is a Communist, or he is subversive, or he is a traitor, or he is possibly just a soft-headed imbecile who didn't want the nomination and won't accept any mortgages to get the election either.

	I remember a remark that comes down to us from earlier American politics when some candidate said, "If my opponent were twice as good as he is, he would still be the most degraded human being in the history of civilization." Someday, perhaps, we may show a bit more charity in the conduct of our public discussions or, rather, I should say that we can never show enough charity. For I am reminded that even in heaven, where there is no need for faith, because it is confirmed, and no need for hope, because it is realized, charity still flows in measurable abundance. I emphasize charity because I feel most strongly that the great body of people who give their loyalties to our two main political parties are really not divided between the forces of light and darkness. You may doubt that from listening to some of them! Both alike consciously seek the good, and consciously try to avoid the evil.

	In the political forum, as in private life, we can and do differ on what is good and what is not so good, and what is simply terrible. We have developed political parties to help to define these differences in public questions. If one political party wins a majority for its point of view and the point happens to be wrongly decided, then all of our society suffers, but there is nothing you can do about it. It pays heavily for it. Yet, it seems to me that even here our great and important differences are not over the ends of social effort, but over the means by which they can be approached.

	I am not unaware that there are men in our midst who love evil just for the sake of evil. And other men believe that the end can justify and purify, somehow, the means. And still others raise a cloud of smoke over truth and then cry that where there is smoke there is fire. This is the most common and garden variety of political technique in our country. Yet, among the great body of our people, if our divisions were of a different sort, if they were over ends instead of means, we could never have a peaceful transfer of power between the vanquished and the victor. And this would be a dreadful thing. If either party had a valid reason to feel that victory or defeat would usher in a planned and radical transformation of our social order, neither one would consent voluntarily to the decision reached by the electorate. Hence you have revolution. We have counterparts of that to the south of us, even in our times. Our politics would swiftly degenerate into endless vendettas, conspiracies, plots and resorts to force.

	The Declaration of Independence--and do not spell it "e-n-t-s"--and the Constitution assert in unmistakable terms that justice, and not oppressive force shall be the essence of our politics. They assert that there must be absolute limits to the awful powers of those who govern. They assert that there is reserved to each man an area of spirit where no secular arm can encroach. And they assert that any decision affecting the community shall be reached through reflection and choice by all who are affected by that decision, and not by the accidental whims of those who wield the instruments of force in a society.

	All of these concepts are now locked in a mortal struggle, of course, challenged basically by Communism and this new imperialism. There is no doubt in my mind that we will win this struggle, that our people will triumph, because of the fact that they express eternal truths and because of the fact that the Communists embrace eternal wrongs in their meanings. It would be improper for me to detail, of course, the measures of a foreign policy that might quicken the victory of our beliefs over those of the wretched men who have been trapped by this new disease. Any such description would of necessity invite a note of partisan controversy, I am afraid, which I have tried to avoid on Sundays. Yet, I believe it would be proper to apply to the international scene that concept of fraternity of which I have been speaking.

	First, we must recognize that not alone for Americans, but for men everywhere, body and spirit are co-principals of the same being. Each needs a special sort of ministry. Let us remember that, while Christ preached the doctrine of eternal salvation, he also did the work that needed to be done in the kingdom of man. He healed the sick, fed the poor, sustained the weak, and sheltered all those who were in want. So must we, I think, as Americans continue prudently to extend to the needy of this earth that material help which we almost alone can give. And we ought to do this not grudgingly, but with a clear recognition that it is far better to give than to receive. In a word, the first answer to Communism is not a lesser, but a fuller application of Judaic- Christian ethics to the neighborhood of nations around us.

	This isn't a giveaway program. This can be--but here I am making a speech!

	Second, I feel that we, the first great federal democracy, can find a major defense against Communism by stimulating the growth of federal organisms like ours all over the world. Some of them are visible already, as they have never been before, in modern history at least, in the form of the Atlantic community that is emerging, in the Schuman Plan and the European army, and even in present discussions about a conference for the United States of Europe that are going on abroad. Others are just beginning to shoot their first slender stalks through the earth in the emergence of a Pacific community. All these must be strengthened and encouraged. They will be born in the great travail, even as everything is born in travail, but they are much more basic and much more fundamental, some of these developments.

	But what we are to talk about in political campaigns and what I should have talked about here is my great sense of indebtedness and gratitude to the Volunteers for Stevenson all over the country for what they have been doing. I am deeply touched and flattered by the presence of so many of you here on such a lovely autumn Sunday morning when I am sure you have more useful things to do than to come and listen to me, and I suppose that the most useful thing you had to do was to come and listen to my old and beloved friend, Archie MacLeish.

CHRISTIANITYCOMMUNISMDEMOCRACYRELIGION AND PHILOSOPHYSEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE     ! Ó  Í  É  Á 
 ´  ¯  ª  ¤  —  •  s  i 	 S 	 G 	 > 	 5 	  e: