Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0925.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/25STUMPSACRAMENTOCALIFORNIACAAFL-CIO CONVENTION6,451 WORDS

	Mr. President--gentlemen, I like to hear that.  And how I wish that I could get elected as easily as Al got re-elected.  Our beloved friend, Tom Pitts, you're the secretary-treasurer, aren't you?  And he got re-elected, and he's got the money.  Tom, it's good to see you.  And also vice president.  How many you have, Al?  I have been doing the work of thirty-five and getting paid for only one.  What's worse, what's worse, I have no seniority clause in my contract.  Not only that, the management folded up.  

	Quite frankly, unless you boys and girls do something about it, I'm apt to be out of work.  Thank you.  From the way you sound tonight, I think we've got lots of work to do, and we're going to do lots of work.  You know what we're going to do.

	Pat isn't going to like this.  By the way, isn't it good to see Governor Pat Brown?  He looks so much at home in Sacramento.  Quite frankly I think we'd all be better off if he were over there right now.  

	And the wonderful mayor of San Francisco--I'll tell you, that's a pair to talk to.  It's really great.  You know, I feel a little bit ashamed of myself, that is, I did, because I thought possibly that in this campaign when I got all through with it, I'd be sending Dick Nixon back home, but I don't  know where he lives.  So I guess I don't need to.  But I don't know what that fellow wants public housing for when he lives in a Fifth Avenue apartment.  You own the White House, you know.  You ought to have a friend in it, somebody who...[missing text].

	I came out here in California for two reasons.  First, to kind of steam up the supporters, get this campaign moving.  And then I had a little quiet talk with Pat Brown.  And I said, "Pat, I was down to see President Truman last week.  And I said to the President, 'Mr. President, just what do you recommend?' he says, 'Tell the public the truth and give the Republicans...', and then Mrs. Truman interrupted."  And you know what--frankly I'd give it to them, but I'm not sure they're worth it.  And I got that advice from Harry Truman.  I have been going like gang busters ever since.  He really filled me with the enthusiasm, gave me that spirit.  But I wanted to be doubly sure.  These days of uncertainty and unpredictability, you can't be sure that even the advice of a man as great as Harry Truman will suffice.  So I said, "I think I'll come out here and really find the man who knows how to do the job and knew how to do the job."  So I called up my friend Pat Brown and I asked him, "Just how did you put the wood to him?  How did you do it?"  And he's been telling me all day long. 

	Ever since Pat Brown finished off Dick Nixon, he's had to be renewed every other year.  There is the new Nixon.  There was one in 1952, there was another one in 1956.  Then they did a renewal job in 1960.  Then Pat took off all the--well, took off all the fine points and all the polish in him in 1962.  There was another renewal job in 1964, and I'll be darned if they're not putting on another coat now in 1968. 

	I just want to warn men and women alike, anybody that has to be renewed that often can't be very new.  And let me tell you this, friends.  Don't worry about the new one and don't even worry about the old one.  The one you got to worry about is the real Nixon.  That's the one you got to worry about. 

	And I've come here tonight to talk to you about men and ideas.  I've come to talk to you tonight about your interest in this election.  I hold an interest, yes, a personal interest, but you have an interest also.  And I come to talk to you about some of the hard realities that this labor movement has faced in the past and some that it faces now and is going to face in the future.  I think we're...[missing text].

	You know, I see what's going on in the campaign, I've read all the bad news.  All I've heard about, that I'm an underdog.  Well, that's quite a compliment to be an underdog in this particular situation, I might add.  But I remember when I was an underdog back in my city of Minneapolis, when I ran for mayor.  They said I couldn't win.  Oh, there's a Minnesota voter.  They said, they said.  Who are they?  The commentators, the political pundits.  They said this young fellow doesn't have a chance.  He can't be elected.  I just sort of disappointed them.  I just went on and won with the biggest vote any Minneapolis mayor won up to that time.  And I think I can tell you why: because I had the total, unqualified support and endorsement of the labor movement of the city of Minneapolis, and I have had the endorsement of the labor movement in every campaign in which I've ever indulged.  

	In 1947 we did it again.  And then I decided that I should run for the United States Senate.  And somebody in the labor movement encouraged me, some of my other friends in other areas of life encouraged me to make that, take that stand.  I was running against a popular senator, a man who had a hand in drafting important legislation, former senator from Minnesota, Joe Hall.  And I remember that they said it can't happen.  He had been a good mayor and a popular mayor--they agreed by then to that.  But he's the underdog and the polls show that he's losing.  The commentators show him to be losing.  They show Truman to be losing, too.  And in 1948 Harry S. Truman and Hubert H. Humphrey carried Minnesota like it's never been carried before or since. 

	And I've played some underdog roles in the Senate, too.  When we introduced legislation, they said it couldn't be passed, but we passed it with your help.  What I'm here to tell you is top dog, underdog, I'm no dog.  I'm out to win this election with your help and to become your president. 

	Now, let's see whether or not you really ought to go to work, because while I'm proud of the fact that our relationship has been one of real friendship over the years, proud of the fact that I carried a union card, helped organize, proud of the fact that I carried on the worker's education program in my state, helped organize the teacher union, hold honorary memberships in so many unions, some of you may wonder.  Proud of all of this--the fact of this is not enough.  The fact of the matter is, what's your stake in this election?  What does it mean to you?  The other day Mr. Nixon said he knew something about the economy.  I'll say he does.  He put the monkey wrench to it a couple of times.  He knows a lot about it, and I think I'm going to talk to you about it tonight, because let me tell you that all of your hopes and ambitions will be for naught if you're without work.  The strength of this American economy is what's going to carry us through.  All of the noble ideals and ambitions that people have today, liberals and progressives, whoever they may be, none of them will be materialized unless we can keep this economy moving forward.  We better start talking some economics.  We better start talking about what our interest is in this in terms of our living, of our income and of our paycheck.

	You know, when the Eisenhower administration was in, the Republican administration, there was a Secretary of the Treasury there by the name of George Humphrey.  Some of you remember him.  He was an illustrious man from Ohio.  He was rather conservative.  He was in the vintage of McKinley, but a delightful gentleman.  And his hero was Mr. Nixon, and Mr. Nixon's hero was George Humphrey.  Well, no, I must say for Mr. Nixon, that George Humphrey was an admirable social fellow.  I used to call him, because they got our names mixed up every so often, I used to call him in order to clarify things, Trickle Down George, because that represented his economic philosophy.  And I said, in order that you may know who I am, I'm Percolating Up Hubert.  There's a lot of difference. 

	Let me say to my friends in this hall tonight, labor and nonlabor, business labor, farm, whoever you are, that the trickle-down theory of economics builds trouble.  In those eight Nixon Republican years you had three recessions.  There was a loss of income of fifty billion dollars a year through idle plant capacity, a loss due to unemployment of a hundred and seventy-five billion dollars.

	The other day Mr. Nixon said, "Why, that fellow Humphrey had ever gotten to be president--ever gets to be president, think of what will happen to you.  From the time he entered the Senate until he became vice president, he introduced legislation, that if it had all passed, would have cost the taxpayers a hundred billion dollars."

	Well, Mr. Nixon, I'm a piker compared to you, because your kind of economics cost this economy a hundred and seventy-five billion dollars of lost income.  My kind of economy helped this country get aid to education and Medicare, and manpower training and Job Corps, aid to our cities, aid to our needy.  That's what my programs went.

	So let's just lay it out.  Let's just say it out.  Like the kids say. Let's tell it like it is.  During those eight Republican years, during those eight Republican years, it cost--the per capita income of the worker in this country, the family of four, went up 9 percent after taxes, after adjustments and the cost of living.  That was what the real take-home pay went up.  In these eight Democratic years in which I have had a hand, the personal income for a family, or the family income for a family of four has gone up 32 percent.  Ladies and gentlemen, you can make your choice. 

	Yes, the choice is there.  You know, somebody once said to me that we have physiological politics.  Empty stomach, full head; full stomach, empty head.  I hope not.  I hope that every man and woman in this audience that has a mortgage knows you can't pay it on unemployment compensation, and you do.  I hope that everyone in this audience knows that eight years of Republicanism that brought you only a 9 percent increase in your income as compared to 32 percent under the Democrats tells you the difference between the two political parties, tells you the difference between Nixon and Humphrey, between Agnew and Muskie, tells you the difference that you have to take into account in this election.

	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look right here in California.  When the Democrats took office in 1961, after that hard fought campaign in which John Kennedy said to this nation, "We must get this country moving again," what did he find when he came in to be president?  He found a rate of unemployment here in the state of California of 8.3 percent of the work force.  And what do you find today, last month, August?  The figure has been cut down to 3 percent.  8.3 is what we inherited after eight years of Republican economics.  Today it's down to the lowest point it's been in fifteen years.  I think that again tells you what your stake is in this election. 

	And to put the facts even closer to you at home, personal income in this state during those eight Republican years rose only sixteen billion.  Compare that to 27.2 billion that has been the increase in this less than eight Democratic years since 1961.

	Now, you may love Republicans, and sometimes you may want to say privately to a friend you are one.  Sometimes it makes you feel a little better.  It just is a little more socially attractive.  But my dear friends, it's not worth eleven billion two million dollars to the state of California just to say you're a Republican so you can feel good.  It isn't worth that much.  

	So we're talking dollars and cents, and we're not only talking c-e-n-t-s, we're talking s-e-n-s-e.  Dollars and sense, and it makes no sense for a working man that carries a union card to have a man sit in the White House that has never been your friend, that has spent a lifetime of public service being your enemy.  And it makes no sense to put in an administration that has trickle-down economics that will rob you of your income, that will permit unemployment to rise as they bicker and argue about what to do about it.  It makes no sense dollar wise or in just common sense, and we'll have none of it. 

	I made that statement.  I want to document it.  I say the Democrats must win this election and you must help us win it, to protect the hard won gains of American workers, and then to move this country forward to a greater prosperity, to greater opportunity, to greater justice for the American people.  We're not a content group.  Hubert Humphrey and Ed Muskie are not taking a sleep.  We're not resting on the laurels of yesterday.  After all, the Nixon-Agnew party, you just take a look at those three initials, N-A-P.  That spells what you're going to get.  The Nixon-Agnew party has no record to come to you with.  So we better think about what we're going to do to protect those hard-won gains.

	Now, I know that people say:  "Well, how do you know but what he's changed."  Well, I think there's only one way that you can really find out, to get any clear evidence, and that is as Al Smith used to say, "Look at the records."

	Mr. Nixon has been a little bit, well, he's been a little bit general in his statements lately.  I would say,  he's floated up more balloons than he has ideas.  Every time I see him, he's going through a parade.  Ladies and gentlemen, if you want a president who knows how to be in parades, I can get you one.  You don't have to put him on the payroll.

	I like parades, too, and I like bands and I like balloons.  But I'll tell you what I like more.  I like a country that's moving ahead, and I like a country that has leadership that is sympathetic with the people and leadership that understands the contributions of this great labor movement to the United States of America.  And you'd better have that kind of a president.

	You know, we hear a lot about--well, before I go into that, I just want to tell you.  You know, Mr. Nixon was out in the midwest recently, and he was, making a speech to the farmers out in Iowa.  Of course, last time the Republicans had anything to do with farmers, the farm income dropped three billion dollars.  That's a fact.  That's gospel fact, it dropped three billion dollars.  Any farmer that votes for a Republican deserves what he gets, just deserves it. 

	We had to spend eight years trying to regain that three billion dollars that they lost, and we had.  Farm income is up.  Net farm income is up 50 percent.  We've done something.  

	But you know something, Mr. Nixon is a great farmer.  He went out there and he made them a speech and he said, "We're going to plow a straight furrow with that corn picker."  I want to tell you, folks, that's something.  I don't know how many of you dear friends have had any farm experience, but whenever you can plow a straight furrow with a corn picker, will you please enter the state fair.  You'll get the prize. 

	Any man who doesn't know anything about that, about agriculture, ought not to be trusted with the agricultural economy. 

	Now, we hear recently a lot about farm workers strike.  Earlier this month Mr. Nixon was asked about the grape strike and the boycott.  But once again Mr. Nixon revealed his amazing fund of information about the labor movement.  Mr. Nixon wasn't very sure of his facts.  He said, and I quote him accurately:  "We have laws on the books to protect workers who wish to organize.  We have a National Labor Relations Board to impartially supervise elections of collective bargaining agents." 

	Now, had Mr. Nixon done his homework, if he had gotten off that corn picker and quit trying to plow a straight furrow with a corn picker, he would have known the real issue involved.  He would have known that the strike and the boycott that he was directing his remarks to arise from the fact that there is no coverage for farm workers under the National Labor Relations Act.  He ought to know that. 

	Since he took that, since he took that firm stand on that issue, you know, he says he's taken a hundred and sixty-seven firm stands on one hundred sixty-seven issues.  I want to tell you, those stands make a bowl of Jell-O look like concrete.  He took that firm stand now, but he never got around to saying very much about it.  Well, let me say something about it.  The National Labor Relations Act does not provide for the protection at all of the farm workers, and that needs to be amended to include farm workers, the protection as they-

	The protections and the legal procedures of the National Labor Relations Act should be available to farm workers like every other worker.  Now, we're not talking about the family farm.  We're talking about the kind of agriculture that's corporate agriculture, big agriculture, where there are many workers.  And I want to go on record here once again, as I have a hundred times, the National Labor Relations Act is in the best interests of order, of an orderly economy.  The National Labor Relations Act should apply to every kind of worker that wants to organize, and they should have those protections.

	My friends, I want all to know, growers and workers, industry and agriculture.  I want you to know that when you elect me your president, that I will send a proposal of legislation to the Congress to amend the National Labor Relations Act to include farm workers where they justly belong.  

	Now, may I say to the growers and the grape industry, I know you have problems and I know that you're affected by this dispute very seriously, that if you would just follow the spirit of collective bargaining, if you'll just sit down with the union and begin negotiations as some of your members have, the boycott would be over tomorrow.  There is no reason for the boycott except that every other recourse is foreclosed to these farm workers.  And the alternatives are very clear;  bargain or boycott.  That is the choice. 

	I call upon Mr. Nixon to join me in urging the growers--he has a few more contacts there than I do--and I'll encourage the workers to settle down, to get into sincere, conscientious, effective collective bargaining negotiations, and then that boycott that everybody seems to be worried about will come to an end.

	Now, such an appeal would not only serve the best interests of the state of California, but I think it would serve the entire nation.  We don't need to choose up sides.  What we need to do is to be right, to be just, and no man today can honestly say that a migrant worker, a farm worker, is being treated justly.  He needs the protection of the law, and when I'm his president, he's going to get the protection of the law. 

	I'm taking the time tonight to document my case, because I keep reading that the labor movement are not yet enthusiastic about this campaign.  I keep reading that somehow or another there's not enough spirit in this campaign.  Let me tell you, I don't believe it one minute, and we're going to get elected.  

	But there's only one way to answer those charges, my friends, and that's to put your organization to work to back your code, to back every political education activity you have, to get these workers out to vote, to carry the message to the workers, and I'll tell you why:  in four years in the House of Representatives, in two years in the Senate and eight years as vice president, Mr. Nixon failed to cast a single vote or to utter a single significant phrase in favor of fair labor-management relations.  That's his record.  He failed to support equitable regulation of welfare and pension funds.  He failed to support the safeguards that we need for the Davis-Bacon Wage provisions.  He failed to support adequate unemployment compensation.  He worked against relief for the chronically depressed areas in this country.  Mr. Nixon helped draft the Taft-Hartley law, and he voted to repass it over Harry Truman's veto.  Mr. Nixon voted to weaken the minimum wage law.  He voted, instead of increasing its coverage, to reduce it.  He voted to weaken the Social Security Act.  He called the Medicare program the cruel hoax.  He has a miserable conservative reactionary record and you know it. 

	All right now, wait a minute.  Listen.  You haven't heard the best part yet.  Hold on.  Listen.  I do not come to you under any false colors.  I'm willing to take my stand.  I know that my stand doesn't please everybody.  I have been going around this country, and in every platform I've said Mr. Nixon, get out of those parades and come on up here and debate.  

	I'll debate him before the A.F. of L.-C.I.O. or the National Manufacturers Association or his Fifth Avenue apartment or out at Lake Waverly, where I live.  Let him take his choice.

	And that is not a gimmick.  I'll tell you why I say this.  These campaigns are terribly costly.  They're very exhausting.  Today we have television, the radio, the press.  We have the most modern communication the world has ever known.  We face also the most difficult problems this nation has ever known.  We live in a dangerous world.  There are many issues that confront us: race relations, management, labor relations, fiscal policy, foreign policy, national security,  You name them, we have difficulties.  We have complex issues.  I don't think we do right by the American people by going around conducting a circus.  I think the American people today are entitled to what Lincoln and Douglas gave the people in their time. Those two statesmen at the time that this nation was on the precipice of a war between the states, those two men stood there and debated the issues, side by side from the same platform, before the same audience.  That sort of an appearance, my fellow Americans, compels you to be at your best, your best in terms of your manners, your conduct, your best in terms of your information and your presentation.  I happen to believe the American people are entitled to the best, and I want to see Mr. Nixon not conduct his kind of a campaign of generous generalities and a plenitude of platitudes with parades and balloons.  I want him to come on up on any platform, any place, at any time, anywhere, and let us discuss the issues on national television. 

	I'm not washing out before this campaign is over.  Somebody said to me the other day, "You'll never get him."  It's hard to hit a moving target.  But he doesn't know me.  I'm a old pheasant hunter and I've flushed out many a bird.  

	There are great issues to discuss, issues of peace and war, and that issue bears down on the heart and the minds of every person in this audience, and that is you--oh, that's right--we'll get to it, we're not going to miss a thing.  Just hang on. 

	Every mother and father, every son and daughter, is deeply concerned about the dangerous and troubled world in which we live.  We thought a month ago that maybe there might be some hope for a better world, at least in Europe, and then the tragic invasion, that incredibly fiendish act, the Soviet Union--

	HECKLER:  Chicago

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  No, this is Sacramento.  You're in the wrong town.  And that act took place.  By the way, if you want some time, come on down.  I'll give you some of my time. 

	Isn't this all part of the program?  He was a little late coming in.  I had him in the first fifteen minutes and he was a little late getting here.  So you'll have to bear with us.  

	I want to talk to you seriously about this matter.  The American people want to be sure that the resources of this nation can be used prudently and wisely, not only for ourselves, but for others that are in trouble.  No one knows for a single minute what the situation in Vietnam will be when the next president takes office, whoever that president is.  Our party platform has laid out what I call a path towards peace.  Listening now to things that need to be done and can be done.  We all pray that the negotiations that are taking place in Paris today, that those negotiations can lead to success.  We all pray that by the time the next president becomes--takes the oath of office, that we shall have reached a cease fire, with the killing ended and with serious negotiations going forward towards a durable peace.

	I have had to be deeply concerned and involved about this, because I'm a member of this government.  All of my life has been devoted to the works of peace, the Peace Corps, the Disarmament Agency, the Food for Peace Program, the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.  Each and every one of these opposed by the Republican nominee, every one of them, bitterly fought by him and roundly condemned by him.  

	Yet today we find ourselves in a tragic war.  We find the Republican nominee unwilling to discuss it in any way, shape or form.  

	The Democratic party battled it out in convention, both within the majority and minority plank, and I believe that the majority plank of that party represents intelligent, prudent, responsible action, and I stand on that plank and support it.  But I want to make it very, very clear--Yes, I support that plank.  I want to make it very clear that if the war still continues, if our president, who likewise wants peace and works ceaselessly for it, is unable to conclude these negotiations successfully, that war still continues on January 20th, 1969, and I am your president, I make you this pledge from this platform, the first priority of the Humphrey-Muskie administration will be to search relentlessly, to use every bit of power and authority within the office of the presidency, to honorably end that war in Vietnam.  That's my commitment to you. 

	My friends, my friends, even if that war were over tomorrow, the dangers in this world would not be over.  John Kennedy reminded us once that peace and freedom do not come cheap, that most of us live out the rest of our lives in a period of peril and danger and challenge, and he was a prophet.  The building blocks of peace come hard, the cathedral of peace is not built overnight.  Peace does not come to the shouters or the talkers or the demonstrators.  Peace, according to the Scriptures, is this:  "Blessed are the peace makers," not the talkers, not the walkers, not the demonstrators.  And we make peace through many things, through the United Nations, through the Peace Corps, through our aid to other peoples, through the example that we set here.  We try to make a step towards peace when we ban the testing of nuclear weapons, which Mr. Nixon opposed bitterly, and which I was one of the authors.  One of the proudest moments in my life--when that treaty was signed.  John Kennedy handed it to me and a pen, and it is a matter of public record, and he said, "Hubert, this is your treaty."  Because I have worked all of my public life in the Senate to bring that about.  Now we are at another phase where there is a treaty resting in the Senate today that will stop the spread of these nuclear weapons, where eight nations have already signed it, a treaty that we've initiated, that we negotiated, a treaty that the Soviet Union itself has been willing to sign.  And that treaty languishes there in the Senate.  Does it in any way injure our national security?  No, it doesn't take a weapon away from us.  It doesn't deny us to make more.  All it says is that there will be no other nations that either have the weapons, give them to them or have the capacity, the technology to make them.  Imagine the danger in this world today, ladies and gentlemen, if nuclear weapons were in the hands of Ho Chi Minh or South Vietnam.  Imagine the danger to this world today if Mr. Nasser had them.  Imagine the danger in this world, if we had to face up to it once, if Mr. Castro had them.  We're trying to stop the spread of these weapons of total destruction.  We're trying to lower the danger level in this world.  It's to our advantage.  It's to our national interest, and that treaty rests there in the Senate.  And what does Mr. Nixon say.  He says he's for the treaty but not now.  

	Ladies and gentlemen, I must speak firmly, strongly, and with all the depth, all the conviction at my command: that treaty must be ratified.  A failure to do so would be a terrible blow to humanity. 

	And that treaty must be ratified now.  And I call upon Mr. Nixon to quit this "yes, but" politics.  What he needs to say is not yes but, "yes sir, get on with the job."  That's what he needs to say.  

	Now, finally, my friends, the final and the most important thing that is before us is our own country and its future.  Are we going to be a divided nation, conflict and animosity and bitterness and violence?  Are we going to be a nation of people that can live together as friends and neighbors, rather than antagonists and enemies?  We have one candidate in this election who is an outright racist, and appeals on racial prejudice, and he is no friend of labor.  Any laboring man who can find a way to support the former governor of Alabama has little or no regard for the union movement.  He has not been your friend and he has not been good for the working man.  But more importantly, he preaches a doctrine of separatism, a dangerous doctrine.  But at least he does it openly.  

	Now, the Republican candidate is not a racist.  I would never make that accusation--indeed anything but.  But that Republican candidate has made a strange arrangement with strange bedfellows.  The man that walked out of the Democratic convention in 1948 and saw the sign that said exit, when I made my speech on civil rights, when the Dixiecrats walked out, they were led by none other than Strom Thurmond from South Carolina.  He is known throughout this country for his racial ideas, for his attitudes on race.  He is known as a segregationist.  He is known as a conservative.  He left the Democratic party and went to the Republican party.  And yet this same man that left us in 1948 to run on the Dixiecrat ticket and later on joined the Republican party, the man that left us because of my presentation of a platform plank on civil rights, that man came in a hall not long ago, a little over two months ago, in Miami Beach, Florida where it said entrance.  When he was with us, he saw the sign that said get out, exit.  When he was with them, his Republican friends, he saw the sign that said come in.  And who did he come in with?  He came in with the nominee of the Republican party.  And it is open knowledge, publicly stated, that he is the Southern leader of the Nixon campaign.  

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of arrangements were made?  The chief justice today is not being confirmed, because for the first time in the history of this land, a filibuster is under way on the matter of the nomination of a chief justice.  Never before has it happened.  I served in that Senate for sixteen years, and ever since the decision of Brown vs. United States in 1954, there's been a bloc of conservatives in that Senate, a bloc of segregationists and Dixiecrats and conservative Republicans that have sought to limit the power of the Supreme Court, that have sought to overrule the decision either by the appointment of new judges that have their point of view or by legislative action.  

	I worked in that Senate with the then Senate Majority Leader Lyndon Johnson, when we killed five bills in one day that were designed to overrule the Supreme Court.  And now at long last it's all coming again.  And there's a new alliance.  Mr. Agnew, the vice presidential nominee, Mr. Nixon, the Republican presidential nominee, Mr. Thurmond, the doctor who put it together.  And I think you have to ask some serious questions for yourself tonight.  Do your want to turn back the clock of time?  That Court has been your friend.  Mr. Nixon talks about law and order and condemns the Supreme Court.  He talks about law and order and condemns the Attorney General.  Is this the way that you rear your children to have respect for the courts and the law?

	I think we need to ask also what kind of judges will be on that Court if Mr. Nixon is a Republican nominee and the Republican nominee elected.  What kind of a Chief Justice will it be?  It won't be an Earl Warren.  No, no.  One Democratic governor said he couldn't support me because I had publicly stated that I thought the fines appointment that President Eisenhower had ever made was Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States.  The next president of the United States is going to appoint many judges.  The judiciary is a separate and equal branch of this government.  The attitude of judges, their knowledge of the law, the spirit of the law as they interpret it is the law of the land, just as much as a presidential order or an act of Congress.  

	My fellow Americans and my friends in the labor movement, you better think and think twice, because that next president, even if he gets a Democratic Congress to try to prod him on, if he's a Republican president, can have a Conservative Court that can set this country back for a decade or longer.  The next president will appoint a Chief Justice undoubtedly and two to three or four associate justices, and that Court can be changed for the next twenty-five years or the next twenty years.  We're dealing with important business.  I have seen these men at work in government.  I know the forces that are there, that are trying to turn back the clock of time.  

	I hear Mr. Nixon say in North Carolina that he's for the Court decision but he thinks the government has implemented it too firmly and too strongly.  I hear him go to Iowa and hear him speak again and say he thinks the government ought to take some action.  You can't have it both ways, Mr. Nixon.  This country cannot be divided.  This country cannot be two nations separate and unequal.  It cannot be a nation of the blacks and the whites.  It must be a nation of Americans, black and white, no matter race, creed or color. 

	So I ask you, so I ask you to join me and stand with me and work with me.  I intend to stump this country as long as the breath of life is in me.  I intend to go around this nation until every American clearly understands what's at stake, clearly understands their choice in this election.  For twenty-five years I have been in the middle of every major battle, every major battle for progressive legislation, every major battle that the Democrats have fought in the cause of human liberty, for twenty-five years.  I remember coming to San Francisco when I was mayor of the city of Minneapolis, when William Green was the head of the A.F. of L., in 1947.  And I remember that he put his arm around me.  He said he surely would like to help me go to Congress, and he did.  We have been together a long time.  And now is the time you need a man in the White House that you know, and I need to have people back me that I know.  We've got some bumps.  We've got a few scars, because we fought the good fight that counts.

	I have a record of public performance, and I lay it before the American people.  I need your help.  We must work together to hold this country together.  We must call upon the goodness of the American people.  We must call upon the greatness of this nation.  Never has there been so much to do and never has there been such a great opportunity to do it.  I ask you to reach up to the stars with me, to lift this country to new horizons.  We don't need to go to the left or to the right.  We don't even need to stand in the middle.  We just need to look up and move this country forward.

	And my fellow Americans, you give me the chance.  If you'll stand with me, I'll stand with you, and we'll move this country to higher ground and we'll do the things that you want done.

	Thank you.  
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCALIFORNIACONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALECONOMY--GENERALNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)ORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTESPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARRACE RELATIONSSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSVIETNAM WARORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     ˆŒ TŒ NŒ JŒ BŒ
 6Œ 1Œ ,Œ "Œ Œ Œ Œ ù‹ ¯	 	 	 þ 	 à 	 Ë 	 » 	 Œ 	 s 	 K 	 = 	 #   e: