Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1030.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/30STUMPPittsburghPENNSYLVANIAPAMarket Square2158 WORDS
	Thank you very much. I love Pittsburgh. I'm so glad to be back.

	I want to say first of all, if I could sing like Vivian Reed I'd never run for office. Wasn't she great? Give her a hand.

	I'm glad to be back here with Mayor Mazlov and Commissioner Flaherty and Commissioner Forrester and with my good friend, your wonderful senator, Harris Wofford. If you give us a chance together, we will finally--finally--control the costs of health care and provide basic health care to all Americans. And I want to ask you from the bottom of my heart, please give Lynn Yeakel a chance to help us change America.

	You know, Mr. Bush had an interesting day yesterday. He said--did you hear what he said? He called Al Gore the Ozone Man. Well, there's a guy back there with a sign who says, "I love the Ozone Man".

	You know, if you look at this election, everybody's now talking about change. When I started talking changing the Democratic party and changing the country and taking us in a new direction, Mr. Perot was in business and Mr. Bush was telling us things were hunky-dory. Well, there's only one candidate in this race who's ever balanced a government budget, ever taken on lobbyists, only one candidate who's ever passed a program to promote jobs, only one candidate who has never been part of the Washington insider establishment, the same one who made the best choice for vice president, Al Gore of Tennessee, and I want you to help me.

	Mr. Bush also said we were "crazy" yesterday. Now, let me tell you something. I'll tell you what --

	AUDIENCE MEMBER. It takes one to know one.

	GOVERNOR CLINTON. It takes one to know one, he says. I'll tell you what I think is crazy. I think "crazy" is unemployment going up and incomes going down. It's a hundred thousand Americans a month losing their health insurance. It's one in ten Americans on food stamps. It's America going from first to thirteenth in the world in wages under trickle-down economics. "Crazy" is "Read my lips" and then signing the second-biggest tax increase in history. "Crazy" is the candidate asking us to trust him with four more years when we now know he said to Mikhail Gorbachev, "Don't pay any attention to what I say trying to get re-elected"; when he's running the government where the FBI is investigating the Justice Department and the Justice Department is investigating the FBI. They don't have any time for crooks any more. They're too busy looking into each other. Now, they do have time to investigate my mother's passport files.

	Talk about crazy. Here we got a $400 billion deficit, and this administration found the money to increase the White House staff by 56 percent. They found the money--listen to this--they asked--they asked, this administration did, asked the Congress to spend even more money than it did. Now, when you outspend Congress, you're a hummin' Jenny. That's what George Bush tried to do.

	And then they sent these three cronies over from the State Department to look into my poor mother's passport files. We're worried about unemployment, incomes, and kids; they're looking into my mother's passport files.

	Can you imagine this? After the government offices closed, these three government employees banging around in a little room, opening files--their eyes getting big, knocking into each other and getting dust on their expensive suits. And then at 10:00 at night they quit. The only good thing about that whole deal is, that's the first time those buzzards worked until 10:00 at night the whole time Bush has been president.

	And then--then he called us "bozos". Well, all I can say is, Bozo makes people laugh, and Bush makes people cry, and America's going to be laughing on Tuesday.

	My fellow Americans, I have worked as hard as I could for a dozen years to create jobs, not to destroy them, to educate children, to solve problems, and to make government work for all people, and that is what we need to do in this country.

	You know, we can have a lot of fun or we can have a lot of misery or we can spend all of our time-[inaudible comment from crowd]--I want to talk about that. Just wait. Or we can spend all of our time talking about things that don't matter. But when it's all said and done, what really matters is how we're going to feel on the day after the election and what we're going to do on the day after the election. All these people spend all their time investigating each other. I've been investigating your problems, your promise, your future, and that's what I ran for president to do something about.

	Let me remind you one more time. I got into this race for some very simple reasons. My people were working harder for less, and I didn't like it. And I knew this country was seeing its middle class destroyed and its industrial base eroded because of trickle-down economics. I got into this race because I did not want my daughter to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than her parents and because I knew we could do better.

	What I want to do is to end trickle-down economics. No more across-the-board breaks, no more something for nothing. Tell the people in this country we want to create more millionaires than Reagan and Bush and Quayle, but we want to do it the old-fashioned way, by giving people tax incentives if they create American jobs, invest in American industry, put American business people back to work.

	I want to say I think both extremes on trade are wrong. I'm against protectionism. We can't grow without more trade. I'm against indiscriminate trade policy that gives breaks to others they don't give to us.

	And I want to say something to the people here holding out the US Air signs. I want to speak to all of them personally because Mr. Perot and I both said that we had problems with that deal. And I want you to know exactly where I'm coming from.

	Number one--now wait a minute. Tell them to quit screaming in the back. I want to talk about this. Here is my position. Here is my position. I believe that the company needs more money and ought to be able to get it. I believe we need more airline companies in America, not less. I am not trying to protect any other company from competition from U.S. Air. The competition is good. My questions are these. Number one, I want to make sure that we don't have a foreign company in indirect control of our companies. Number two, I want to make sure that American companies have the same right to invest over there that we're giving to a company here. Number three, on November the 9th, six days after this election, we resume negotiations with the British on access to their markets. I want to make sure we get the same access to their markets that they get to us. I want to save these jobs.

	That is my total position. I believe that U.S. Air is trying to help America, and I want to help U.S. Air, but I have to make sure, if I am president, that all of America's interests are protected and that we stop laying down and rolling over for people that won't give us the same access to their market.

	And, by the way, I believe when we have a president who says to our trading partners, "We want you to invest in our country. We want you to participate in our economy. But we want to participate in yours," we will all grow. We will have more capital, more investment, and more jobs. That is what I am trying to achieve, and I think that's what you want me to fight for. It'll be good for U.S. Air and we'll save the jobs.

	Let me just make one other point. I have said in every place in America that we didn't get into this mess overnight. We won't get out of it overnight. And I need your help to change America because we all have to change. I want more opportunity, but also more responsibility. And I want us to have a deeper sense of community, of our responsibilities to one another. Because, whether we like it or not, we don't have a person to waste and we're all going up or down together. And I think we're going up together.

	No idea--no idea so clearly captures what the Clinton-Gore ticket stands for than the idea of national service. I'll tell you something, I believe in freedom of speech, and I wish you did, too. I don't mind you having your say. I would die for the right of any American to say whatever he or she wanted, and all I want is respect for my rights to free speech.

	I'll tell you something else, folks. No idea so clearly captures what this campaign stands for than an idea that your Senator Harris Wofford has long championed, the idea of providing a college education to all Americans in return for the concept of national service. Let anybody borrow the money to go to college, then pay it back with two years as a police officer, as a nurse, as a teacher, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities, working to help to lift up Americans. You think about it. We could educate a whole generation of Americans and invest in our economy and grow it.

	My fellow Americans, you have a clear choice. Four more years of trickle-down economics, declining income, rising unemployment. Four more years. Four more years of people who say they represent family values, but they increase the number of working poor, they veto the Family and Medical Leave Act, they veto bills designed to help us fight cancer among women and to help solve the problems of children, like diabetes, all for political purposes. I think the American people are tired of blame, and division, and denial. I think they know we can do better. I think you know we can do better.

	Let me say this. In the closing days of this campaign, our opponents--remember Mr. Bush said, "I will do or say whatever I can to win reelection." They will throw anything up on the television screen, put anything on the radio, but when it's all said and done, your choice is clear. My state ranks first in the country in job growth, has the second-lowest tax burden in the country, has an investment record that is the envy of this country because we didn't follow trickle-down economics. We invested in jobs, educated our people, and pulled our people together because--because we said to people on welfare, "We're going to invest in your education, support your kids, and then move you to work. You ought to take a job when you can, but we're going to help you to do it." Because we have tried to say to people, "We ought to have the toughest possible child support enforcement, we are tired of people crossing the state line and getting out of their obligation to pay for their children." These are the kinds of things that will change America. No more trickle-down, no tax-and-spend, put the American people first, rebuild the manufacturing base, rebuild the middle class, challenge the American people to come together.

	I don't want to spend the next four days calling names and dividing people. Let Mr. Bush talk about clowns and bozos and crazy. I want to do what I've done for the last twelve years. There is only person in this race who really comes from the great American middle class and understands the American Dream. If you vote for me for president, I'll make some mistakes because I get up every day and do something. I won't wait for elections or just fool around.

	Let me say this. I believe this is still a race, as I have always believed, between hope and fear, between change and the status quo, between having the courage to embrace new ideas or staying with the comfort of failed ideas. And I want to ask you--I need Pennsylvania, I need western Pennsylvania--I need Pittsburgh, I can't win without you. I want you to fight! We have worked for too long, too hard to change this country. Fight on for four more days, lift the spirits, lift the vision, lift the hope of our people, and together we will change America beginning on November 3rd.

	Thank you very much, and God bless you all.
AIRLINE INDUSTRYEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVES     ˜/ d/ ^/ Z/ R/
 G/ B/ =/ 3/ '/ %/ / /	 ¤ 	 ” 	 t 	 G 	  e: