Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1031.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/31STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYGARMENT WORKERS DISTRICT1754 WORDS

	We are in the final days of a great campaign--and every day everything looks better and better. A week from today, it will look best of all! 

	I think all of us scent victory in the air. Everywhere I have been this last week--from Los Angeles to Boston, and from Phoenix to Philadelphia--I have seen the rising tide. And when I look our at a crowd like this one today, it looks as though the dikes were about to burst!

	And when I look at the men around me on this platform, I know why we shall win next Tuesday. Gathered here today we have the men who stand for the living liberal tradition of the Democratic party--Senator Herbert Lehman--Governor Averell Harriman--and your great mayor and your next Senator, Bob Wagner.

	And we have the men who lead the great Liberal Party of the state of New York--George C. Counts and Alex Rose.

	And we have the man who has marched arm in arm with us through many hard-fought battles, the man who has built the ILGWU into a model of responsible and creative unionism-- my good friend and your own beloved Dave Dubinsky.

	These men belong to the great modern tradition of our party--the tradition of Al Smith and Senator Robert Wagner and Franklin D. Roosevelt. 

	Our task today is to carry forward that tradition--never to be satisfied with things as they are, always to work for a better life in a greater tomorrow, never to surrender the dream of a New America.

	The Republicans have used an amiable, an honorable, and popular general as the front for the same old-fashioned, single interest rule we had under Hoover, Coolidge, Harding, and Taft. Their deeds are disguised in the most melodious language ever dreamed up by their Madison Avenue advertising agencies. They don't tell us, they sell us, and indeed they have turned salesmanship into a political philosophy.

	Why, they are even making love to labor! As the election approaches, the Republican orators have been proclaiming that they love the workingman better that anyone else--so much so indeed that one of their main goals in life is to save the dear workingman from those wicked union bosses.

	Wonderful things happen at election time; Republicans talk like Democrats; they even adopt Democratic programs--for two months. These Republicans' hands--which in the years since 1952 have struck down public housing, have struck down aid to education, have struck down revision of the Taft-Hartley Act, have struck at a better Social Security program--these same hands that have enacted nothing are now outstretching in eager good fellowship.

	It is a touching sight. But be careful of these endearments after the election--or you may get your hand bitten! The day that the Republican leadership becomes a real friend of labor will be the day that you can set the fox to guarding to chicken coop--or the day that you can entrust the Presidency of the United States to President Eisenhower's hand-picked heir--Richard Nixon.

	But even more remarkable than this passionate but brief quadrennial courtship are the shameless claims of the Republicans. Thus in this election they have claimed credit for the new minimum wage of $1 an hour. But the facts are, as you know, that the President insisted that this great and wealthy nation could not afford more than 90 cents an hour. And I hope you know that the Democratic platform calls for raising the minimum wage to $1.25.

	President Eisenhower even gives the Republicans credit for the recent changes in the Social Security system. Yet forty-three out of forty-five Republican senators voted against the amendment which permits payments to be made to permanently disabled workers at the age of fifty.

	And you all know that there would have been no minimum wage law at all, no Social Security law at all, no employment insurance system at all, if the Republican party had controlled the Congress in those days when Franklin Roosevelt and the Democratic party were hammering out the New Deal.

	It's a wonderful technique these Republicans have. A measure passes in spite of this opposition. And then President Eisenhower claims it as a Republican accomplishment. You might call this the politics of adoption. Or you might call it just plain deceit.

	My opponent has done the same thing with regard to civil rights. You would think the Republican party has been responsible for all of the gains toward the goal of equal opportunity for all our citizens. Although President Truman issued the executive order desegregating the armed forces in spite of the misgivings expressed by the Chief of Staff, General Eisenhower, the Republicans are now taking credit even for that.

	Yet I noticed that when President Eisenhower went South this week he talked more about state's rights than civil rights. He didn't even mention the Supreme Court decision on desegregation, and we still don't know whether he endorses it or not.

	And the politics of misrepresentation has operated constantly in our foreign policy, too. Only a short time ago my opponent assured us that there was a good news from Suez--you wonder if he really didn't know how bad the situation was in the Middle East or if he did know and decided that the American people shouldn't know.

	Unhappily, the vacillations, the uncertainties, appeasements and provocations of United States policy bear heavy responsibility for the crisis in the Middle East. Without reviewing the sorry history of our relations with Israel and its hostile Arab neighbors since Secretary Dulles presented Colonel Nasser's predecessor with President Eisenhower's gift of a revolver, let us just look where we stand today: Egypt is hostile; Israel, disillusioned and evidently desperate; in a few months the Russian Communists have acquired a bridgehead in the Middle East which the Czars sought for centuries; we have split for the first time with our oldest, strongest allies--Britain and France. Worst of all, the fate of mankind hangs in the balance in this seedbed of human civilization.

	In its conduct in the Middle East, the Eisenhower-Dulles administration has been consistent in one respect only--it has not told us the truth. But not only have we in the United States been unable to say from one day to the next what our policy is toward Israel and the Arab states; neither have the leaders of these troubled countries or our allies known what to think of the United States since Harry Truman left the White House on January 20, 1953.

	Let me make it very clear that no American could conceivably take satisfaction from seeing his misgivings come true. For when our foreign policy fails, all of us suffer--Democrats and Republicans alike.

	To dwell on the past is instructive for the future and it is also instructive about the decay of our foreign relations under this administration in Washington, and I don't mean just in Egypt and Israel either--while President Eisenhower blandly assures us that never has our prestige and influence in the world been higher. But more important is the present. The President has called on Israel and Egypt to find peaceful solutions to their differences. Everyone shares that hope and plea, and prays that the United Nations can deal with the situation effectively and promptly.

	Surely the United States can never condone an unprovoked attack by any nation on another. But let us, I pray, not be too quick to judge whether there has been provocation, or what Israel has done or what the British and French are doing.

	We know little, as I say. But we do know that the British and the French have commitments to preserve peace in that area and so have we. We know also their dependence on the Suez Canal. And most of us know, I think, that this country has denied arms to Israel while her hostile neighbors to the south and also the north have been supplied by Russia.

	And by every consideration of law, of moral and spiritual obligation, and faith this nation is bound to support this integrity of Israel. And I'm proud that I had a part in its creation in the United Nations almost a decade ago. And let us all remember that Israel has been obligated to live under this constant reminder that resistance to tyranny is obedience to God.

	When we fail to stand clearly and firmly by our principles, our warnings and admonitions have a hollow ring. Peace is not served by hypocrisy. And we do no service to the Arab countries--or anyone--when we place our support of democracy and of our international obligation in doubt.

	And let us cease to cry "peace," "peace" when there is no peace, and begin, as a people, with help, not hindrance, from our government to understand the realities of the world in which we live.

	Just as the Eisenhower administration at home has tried to disguise its bankruptcy by substituting advertisement for policy, so, as I say, abroad it has misled us and our friends alike--everybody, I guess, but our enemies.

	I say to you that the American people have and must have the plain fare of the truth. And that is why they are going to vote Democratic next week.

	The American people want a New America--a decent America--a clear-sighted America--an America that keeps its faith with the people.

	And that is the America I want.

	I want an America where every man has an equal chance regardless of his race or creed or color.

	I want an America where the slums that breed delinquency are destroyed.

	I want an America that uses its wealth to fight cancer and the other killing diseases--an America where the best medical care is available to all.

	I want an America where the children go to good schools, where older people live out their years in decency, in dignity.

	I want an America where a man can think as he pleases and say what he thinks--where he can speak his mind without looking over his shoulder first.

	And I want an America which can inspire the confidence of other peoples in the world, which will work--and never stop working--for peace.

	I am convinced that you want this America, too. So I hope you will join with Estes Kefauver and me in doing everything you can to assure victory for the New America next Tuesday.
CIVIL RIGHTSCOMMUNISMEGYPTEGYPT--SUEZ CANALISRAELORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     i( 5( /( +( #(
 ( ( ( ( ü' ú' â' Ø'	 I 	 = 	 4 	 / 	  	  e: