Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1103.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)11/03STUMPPHILADELPHIAPENNSYLVANIAPA2,463 WORDS

	You know, this is a very special moment for me because back in 1952, when I was a student at a small co-educational college about nine miles southwest of here--I came to Philadelphia to listen to Harry Truman.

	And he delivered one of the best speeches I've ever heard in my life.  And Harry Truman is somebody who gives us inspiration today, isn't he?  You bet.  And I want to talk about that in a minute.

	But I'm delighted that all of you are here.  I like your spirit.  We're coming on strong all across this country.  We're coming on strong here in Pennsylvania.

	We have five very important days.  Now, I know the Republicans have been trying to do a little celebrating, they're already popping their champagne corks in their penthouses.  I want to tell them something.  We're the ones that are going to be celebrating on the eighth of November.

	And we're going to be celebrating with a bottle of beer and a cheese steak right here in Philadelphia.  I think Mr. Bush is coasting.  And we're fighting, aren't we?

	He's reading the polls.  We're taking our case directly to the American people all over this country.  He thinks he can inherit the White House.  I think you've got to earn the right to be the next president of the United States.

	The Republican Party has conducted one of the most cynical and one of the most distorted campaigns in the history of American politics.

	The latest one is gun control.  Folks, I've always supported the right of hunters and sportsmen to buy and own and use weapons.  I support the right of people to defend themselves in their own homes, subject to state regulation.

	What I'm concerned about, what you're concerned about, what the American people are concerned about, is teenagers and drug dealers with AK-47s and Uzis that are running around killing people, that's what we're concerned about.

	We're concerned about cop-killer bullets.  We think there ought to be at least a seven-day waiting period before somebody who is a convicted felon or somebody with a history of mental illness can walk in and buy a gun, that's what we're concerned about, aren't we?

	This is a law enforcement issue.  Because we're asking our law enforcement officers to take their lives in their hands when they make these busts and make these arrests and fight this war for us, and they deserve support and protection.  That's what I'm for.

	Now, why are the Republicans running this campaign?  I think we know, don't we?  They want us to forget those hundreds of billions of dollars of hot checks that have been underwriting that deficit for the past eight years.

	They want us to forget that this country that was the biggest lending nation in the world is now its biggest borrower, and it's cost us five million jobs.

	They want us to forget their failure in the war against drugs--three times as much cocaine coming into the country today as it was in 1981.  As a matter of fact, cocaine is about the only thing that's cheaper today than it was in 1981.

	They want us to forget what they tried to do to Social Security, the fact that the vice president of the United States in 1985 flew in from the West Coast clear across the country to the Senate to break a tie and deny elderly people in this country a cost-of-living increase.

	That's what they want us to forget.  And yesterday, we got a little taste of what may happen if the wrong people are elected on Tuesday.  You remember Casper Weinberger, don't you?  The Secretary of Defense, remember?  Well, he's one of the presidential appointees in this new national economic commission that's supposed to help the next president solve the deficit problem.

	You know what he did yesterday?  Two days ago he said the Social Security trust fund ought to be used to finance increases in defense spending.  How's that?  And this is a quote, Mr. Weinberger said, "There's no reason why the Social Security payroll tax is so sacred that it should not be used to finance our national defense."

	There's a fundamental difference between us and the Republicans on Social Security, isn't there?  They think Social Security is just another program.  We think it is a covenant between generations, that's what it is and that's what it's going to be.

	They want a new tax break for the wealthy; we want to open up the door of college opportunity to every young person in this country who's qualified to do college work.

	They want to help people who already have it made.  We want to help every American family make it in this country of ours, that's what this campaign's all about.

	They want to help the people on Easy Street.  We want to help the people on Main Street.  Those are the folks we care about.  And, if you believe that we have to turn that Republican trade deficit around and turn it into a surplus, and bring those jobs back home to America, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you believe, as Lloyd Bentsen and I do, that the label "Made in America" has got to be an international symbol of quality and value and durability again, we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you want the minimum wage in this country to be a living wage and not a poverty wage, we're on your side.  That's where we are.

	If you believe, as we do, that hard-working, honest American workers and their families and their communities are entitled to at least sixty days notice before they're thrown out in the street, we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you believe, as we do, that it's time women in this country made more than 65 cents for every dollar a man makes, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	If you believe forty years after Harry Truman first committed himself to the principle that basic health insurance ought to be the birthright of every American citizen, if you believe it's time that every job in this country carried basic health insurance with it, then we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	And if you believe that it's time that we ended the shame of homelessness in America and began building affordable housing for families of low and moderate income, we're on your side.  We're on your side.

	And if you believe, as I do and as Lloyd Bentsen does, that there's nothing more important for our children and to our neighborhoods and to our future than fighting and winning the war against drugs, then we're on your side.  Because that's where we're going to be.

	That's why today I announced a plan to make every school in this nation a drug free school in the 1990s for our kids and for our future.  You're not going to get that kind of leadership from George Bush.

	After all, he's been in charge of this war for eight years, hasn't he?  And we know what's happened.  Let me tell you what he said two days ago.  He said, "You've got to have rehabilitation.  We've got to have law enforcement.  We've got to have education and interdiction.  And we haven't really done that, yet," he said.

	We haven't really done that!  Where's he been for the past eight years?  What's he been doing?  What's he been doing?  And now, who does he want to put in charge of the war against drugs?  J. Danforth Quayle.

	Two days ago, Mr. Bush was asked whether or not he'd cut off U.S. foreign aid to countries that refused to cooperate with us in the war against drugs.

	Ask Joe Biden, ask the members of Congress here they passed legislation; in 1986 that said that if a country was not prepared to cooperate with us that we would have cut off foreign aid.  So Mr. Bush was asked that question two days ago, and what did he say?  He said he wouldn't.  I will.  That's a fundamental difference between George Bush and Mike Dukakis.

	He said he didn't want to disturb our foreign policy relations with some of these countries.  Well, friends, I'm for working with other countries, I want to cooperate with them in the war against drugs.  But if they don't want to work with us, I'll be damned if I let them get away with running those drugs into this country and poisoning our kids.

	We're not going to let them do that.  I am prepared to say to foreign leaders, if you're with us, we'll help, but if you're against us, don't expect a dime of foreign aid from the United States of America.

	If you need protection, we'll provide it.

	If you need aid, we'll give it.

	If you think our armed forces can help you, we'll provide that, too.

	But if you think you can do to Mike Dukakis, what Noriega did to George Bush, if you think we're going to risk the lives of our children and their futures and the futures of our communities, by putting Dan Quayle in charge of the war against drugs, you're going to be in for a very big surprise on January 20th of 1989.

	You see, the difference between George Bush and me is this:  I made that statement in Kalamazoo and some woman jumped up and said, "You're real and he isn't."  I hope so.

	The difference between Mr. Bush and me is this, this Administration has cut deals with foreign drug runners, I'm going to cut aid to foreign drug runners, that's what we're going to do.  I'm on your side, I'm on your children's side, I'm on America's side, and I'm going to lead our side in a victory in a war against drugs.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I are going to work with you to take our streets back from the crack gangs and the drug dealers.

	We're going to take our government back from the influence peddlers and the sleaze merchants.

	We're going to take America back from the dishonest contractors and the polluters.

	We're going to have an Administration in Washington beginning in January of 1989 that stands for clean air, and clean water, and a clean environment, and a clean government in Washington, D.C.

	I talked a few minutes ago about coming to this great city and listening to a great American President named Harry Truman--and Kitty and I last week were in Independence, Missouri having one of my town meetings and we were there, and there was a great sign on the County Courthouse saying "Give 'em Hell, Mike."

	And I'll tell you, it inspired me, no question about it, because that man inspired people all over this country.  And, if you can believe it there were Republicans in Missouri who were seriously suggesting that if Harry Truman were alive today, he'd be voting for Bush and Quayle, can you believe that?

	Voting for a ticket that called basic health insurance for America socialized medicine?  You know what I think has happened?  The Republicans don't have any heroes.  Now they're trying to take ours.  We're not going to let them do it.

	And you know back in 1948 when nobody gave Harry Truman a chance in the world of winning.  He went out there across this country, campaigned up and down and across this land, and he said this--and it's just as good today as it was in 1948--he said, "The smart boys say we can't win, they tried to bluff us, with a propaganda blitz."

	But we called that bluff, and we have, haven't we?  "We told people the truth!"  Harry Truman said, and that's what we've been doing, all across this country.  And he said, "The people are with us, the tide is rolling, all over this country, I've seen it in people's faces.  The people," Harry Truman said, "are going to win this election."

	I see it in your faces, and I've been seeing it all over this country in the past two or three weeks.  Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen are going to win this election.  The challenges are new, the times are different, but the fundamental issue is the same.

	Do we want a president and a vice president who will stand up for the average American family?  That's the issue and was in 1948, it was in 1960, and it is today.  That's what we're fighting for.  That's why we're going to win.

	I want to thank all of you for being here today in such great numbers.  I want to thank all of you for the work you're doing.  We're coming on strong in Pennsylvania, you know that, and we're going to win.

	But I want to remind you of 1960, when another son of Massachusetts and another son of Texas were our nominees for president and vice president of the United States.  They were a great ticket, weren't they?  One of the best.  They won that election by a margin of 112,000 votes out of nearly 70 million cast.  Less than one vote per precinct.

	So when I tell you that the work you're doing on those phone banks, in your neighborhoods, with your fellow workers, with your friends, with your neighbors, when I tell you that that work is important, I'm not kidding.

	It can make all the difference, as it did in 1960, as it did in 1948.  And if you go out there and give us those twenty-five electoral votes, if you work as hard as I know you can, and we win in Pennsylvania, we're going to win all across this country.

	And then, Kitty and I are going to invite you to a party.  A party in Washington, D.C. on January 20, 1989, and we want you all there.

	This race, my friends, is about the future.  About our children; it's about our grandchildren.  It's about creating opportunity for every single citizen in this country.  No matter who they are or where they come from or where they live or what the color of their skin.

	That's what this election is all about.  That's what our future is all about.  That's why we run and that's why we're going to win.

	And as you go back to your precincts, as you go out and do that hard work that we're going to need in the next five days.

	Just remember.  The best America is not behind us; the best America is yet to come.  Thank you all very, very much.

DRUG ABUSE--GENERALDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESFOREIGN AID--GENERALGUN CONTROLHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PREVIOUS ELECTIONSPANAMA--NORIEGA AFFAIRSOCIAL SECURITYWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     %6 ñ5 ë5 ç5 ß5
 Ô5 Ï5 Ê5 ¾5 ²5 °5 °5 ¥5	 Á 	 ® 	 ‘ 	 } 	 r 	 H 	 2 	 # e: