Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1025.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/25STUMPSAN JOSECALIFORNIACASAN JOSE COLLEGE4,735 WORDS

	Thank you very much. 

	Thank you very much, Dick Miner.  I guess I should say thank you. 

	Dr. Clark, fellow students, Congressman Don Edwards, and the gentlemen that I hope will be your congressman from the Tenth District, Grayson Makato, and all the supporters here of Alan Cranson who will be your next United States senator.

	Mayor Alioto, my very good friend, I am grateful for your presence.  And may I thank Mark Fauchet and Senator Ahlguist for their willingness to fill in here while we were trying to find our way from Los Angeles here to lovely San Jose.

	Now, after hearing Dick Miner's introduction, I don't know whether to fight or switch.  But I think maybe what I am going to do is to talk very bluntly and very plainly--because this gentleman has issued a challenge to me that I readily accept, and I am going to reply in kind.

	Before I do so, if you will just permit this one observation.  I am very delighted to be here at the home school of those Olympic medal winners, Lee Evans, Tom Smith, John Carlos, and Preston Clark.

	If you will permit me, I would like to join with many, I am sure, in commending you on your splendid editorial which was brought to my attention about these fine athletes.

	Now, Dick Miner has given me a rare opportunity, and this audience does the same, and I appreciate both the candor and the courtesy that is here today.  And I don't intend to talk the old litany about the depression, and I don't intend to tell you about how my wife made sandwiches--you have heard all of that stuff.  Frankly, they weren't as good as we said they were, anyway. 

	And I don't intend to tell you how tough it was in the old days.  You could care less, and frankly, I would like to forget it.

	And I don't intend to tell you about the civil rights battle of 1948, that was twenty years ago.  It bores you; and frankly, it has bored the living daylights out of me.

	But I do think  I do think that my generation, and your generation, need to do some talking, and I think we have much more in common, if we will talk it out, than any of us would even suspect.

	What we have most in common, Dick, is that we do care.  You care, I care, and this student body cares.  We care--care about a lot of things.

	We care because we both see, and I have seen plenty of it, a lot that is wrong  and we want to change it.  And no one wants to change it any sooner, any faster, any more dramatically or definitely than the man that is talking to you right now. 

	Now, you talked to me a moment ago about bombs falling in Vietnam.  You talked about rat-infested ghettos.  You talked about suppression of black people.  You talked about draft laws that are unjust--and they are, and I know it.  And you want to change all of these things.

	Well, let me tell you  so do I.  And I am prepared to do it, if you give me a chance, to change all of those things. 

	You have rightly asked--and I wish everybody were as candid  I wish everybody were as frank and courteous about it--you ask, where am I?  You ask am I for getting it done?  Well, I am for getting it done, and I am here to tell you how I think that we can get it done.

	First:  peace.  On this platform is a gentleman that I didn't ask to come, that asked to join me  but he happens to be an old friend.  He was the right-hand man to the late President John Fitzgerald Kennedy.  And his name is Kenny O'Donnell, and he is here.

	Kenny O'Donnell was the author of the so-called peace plank, the minority plank, at the Democratic convention.  He is here because he believes in peace, and he is here because I believe in it.

	Now, you may not agree with all that I say.  But you must agree that I have said it, at least, and others have not.  I have at least been willing to talk up. 

	I made a speech not long ago in Salt Lake City, and in that speech  and I presume that you are attentive enough in matters of politics to know about it  I said exactly what I would do about the war in Vietnam, if that war lingers on, when I become the president.  And I said that I would place peace in Vietnam as the highest priority of the Humphrey-Muskie administration, and I didn't make any bones about it.  

	And I talked about the bombing.  And I told how I would de-Americanize that war.  And I went into detail of the whys and the hows, of free elections.  And I tried to draw some lessons for the future from what has happened out there.  

	I want to get this war over just as much as you do.  And we don't have any argument there.  And no one has a monopoly upon the desire for peace  at least I feel that I can be included in it, having worked a lifetime for peace, disarmament, Peace Corps, nuclear test ban treaty, and a dozen other measures.

	And you can be sure of one thing  that I will do it my way.  And with a willingness to take some risks for peace in doing it my way.

	I am running for president.  The man who is president is retiring.  I will be the next president of the United States. 

	I know how much this issue means to you, this issue of Vietnam.  But I would respectfully point out to a highly articulate, concerned, intelligent audience, that there is yet another issue about peace that carries with it even more danger, and it needs your thoughtful consideration and concern, and I refer to the spiraling arms race which will soon be let loose upon this globe unless fundamental decisions are made to stop it.

	Now, I fought for many years to get a nuclear test ban treaty, a treaty to prevent nuclear fallout, strontium 90, radioactivity, to prevent it from infecting the lives of our people and children yet unborn.

	Strontium may not be a subject of great concern today, primarily because we stopped the testing in the atmosphere.  But I fought for it.  And, I might add over the feverish opposition of one Richard Nixon and his bombing generals.  They were opposed to it. 

	But it was a critical issue for human survival.  And thank goodness President Kennedy didn't listen to the sorry advice that came from Mr. Nixon.

	It was a fight that we almost lost, but we did get it.  It took seven years.  John Kennedy negotiated it, I fought for it in the Senate.  And when that treaty was signed, the late, beloved president handed me the pen with which he signed that treaty, and it is in the official records of this government that John Kennedy said "Hubert, this is your treaty".  And I want to say it was one of the high moments of my public life.    

	Now there is another treaty, my friends, that may be even more important, and that is the treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons technology and spread the nuclear weapons themselves  and Mr. Nixon is playing games with this one, too  and General Curtis LeMay is just plain opposed to it.  And I think this one deserves some placards of its own, because, let me tell you, a dozen or more nations of the world today have the capacity to build their own nuclear bombs.  And if you don't want a Mr. Nasser or a Mr. Castro, among others, to have those weapons, I suggest that you do something about this issue, too, and let your voice be heard all across this land.

	And why?  Because twenty-five minutes after the pressing of buttons in Omaha and Offut Air Base and at Moscow, some 250 million dead Russians and Americans would be the result.

	Therefore, I think we have got to face up to it, we have to stop that danger and stop the danger of that happening.

	That is the first requirement of a civilized society, and surely of this generation. 

	And that nuclear non-proliferation treaty, as it is called, is the next step towards stopping it.

	Now, I have got some other ideas about the arms race--and I have been talking about them, and I have been speaking on radio and television specifically until my throat is sore from it.

	But let me say this.  We either halt the arms race or you are going to halt humanity.  And you had better make up your mind that we are going to make that decision in the next four years, because that is the time of decision on the spiraling arms race danger.

	Now, for a little work here at home because it gets a little closer when we start talking about home base.

	I have been asked about the stakes in this election.  Well, let me tell you what I think they are.

	If we make the wrong decisions, if we make the wrong choices, some child  yes, millions of them  will have to live four more years in poverty, in hopelessness, and in despair.  And some  yes, thousands of them, millions  black Americans will suffer more degradation and injustice.

	Yes, some Mexican-Americans, thousands, millions of them, will stand to be denied the basic human dignity that is everyone's right.  And our cities will be seething with anger and with despair.

	And, my fellow students, these issues are not new to me.  I have been in this struggle all of my life, and I am not afraid of it.  I welcome the challenge.

	How are we going to stop all of this?

	Well, there is a man who has been at it, and I will tell you one thing that it takes  it takes guts, and it takes commitment, and it takes a willingness to stick to it, and not merely to have a momentary sort of expression about it, but to stay at the nitty-gritty of the hard job, hard, grinding work.  And I think that I am talking to people here today who have that commitment, and I hope I am talking to people who have the willingness to go to work at it and to speak out your conscience about the things that affect millions of our people in this land, millions that have never had a chance, that deserve a chance.  And they are going to get the chance if you give me the chance to let them have a chance. 

	Yes, I have read all about the polls.  I know what they say.  And I realize that we are going against the tide.  And I know also that those same polls tell me and tell others not to speak out on issues such as racial prejudice, they tell me about the backlash.  They tell me all those things.  And I throw them in the waste paper basket, because I had made up my mind a long time ago that if the rice of seeking the presidency was a compact with extremism or racism, then I don't want to be president of the United States. 

	The experts say  the experts tell us that the tide is moving to the right, and that the real American, he is home watching the television, behind closed window shades, and he worries about who might move in next door.

	Well, take a look at your home state.  You have got a little work to do here.

	Who is the governor? 

	Yes, I know we would all like to save the world.  But might I suggest that you start in your own precinct.  You might also start in your own dorm.  It works pretty well right there  right where we are.

	Who is the governor?  It is the man who has placed the integrity of this state's independent university system in question.  And who is that Republican candidate around here for the Senate?  He is the man who has a mysterious list of faculty members that he is going to fire.

	And who has accused his opponent of disloyalty?  Well, I want to tell Mr. Max Rafferty something.

	Senators don't fire faculty members or even hire them.  He ought to know that. 

	Who is the Republican candidate for the presidency?  Well, he is the man who says, "I need Max".  That is what he said.  But he didn't say he needs Tom Kuchel, when the chips were down in this state. Oh, no.  He says he now needs Max to put forward his forward-looking program.

	Ladies and gentlemen, if the forward-looking program of the Republican administration depends on the Republican candidate for Senate in this state, we will return, may I say, to the primitive man.  No doubt about it. 

	But if this isn't bad enough, something to worry about, I think we have further on the outside a man whose appeal is shocking, tragic.  It is outright racism.

	Yet, my fellow Americans, the public opinion polls tell us that 18 to 20 percent of our fellow citizens think that that man ought to be president.

	I submit to you that that is a danger sign in this society, and I submit to you that I am the only man that is out campaigning against him.  Mr. Nixon is not doing it.  But Hubert Humphrey is, and he is speaking up against him, even if it costs votes.    

	That, my young friends, is the reality of what you and I face.  How do we overcome this?

	Well, we don't do it by going around putting our political finger up in the air and getting the so-called public opinion breezes and then following them.  But we do it by changing public opinion and a good place to start changing public opinion is right here on the college campus; that is where public opinion ought to have its best seedbed.  And you say state students ought to have more voice in the affairs of their own university.  You say they ought to be treated as adults until proven otherwise.  Well, might I say so too, and I have been saying so for a long, long time. 

	And I know I have come to campuses where they say  well, now, where do you stand on lowering the voting age to age eighteen?  I say I stood for it eighteen years ago, in 1950, and I haven't changed my mind. 

	This is not a new thing.

	And you say our colleges ought to offer more experimental courses, opportunities for tutoring, tuition-free programs, and play a more active role in the community.  Well, I have been saying that for a long time.

	I don't think a campus ought to be a meadow of  just a meadow of meditation  and I don't think it ought to be an island of just retreat.  I think it ought to be a place of action, and I think the best place for social experimentation as to how we can improve American society ought to start on a college campus, and a university and a college ought to team up with the cities and the states, to see if we can't do something to improve the quality of life.

	That is what I mean by experimental participating courses for which you get credit just like you would your regular courses.    

	Now, you say this country is unpardonably slow in practicing what it preaches.

	Yes, it is  and might I add it takes a lot of stick-to-it-iveness.  Some of us fought for some of these things that we have taken for granted for ten years.  It takes time, and it is slow, I agree.

	You say you are in a hurry.  Well, let me tell you  I have been in a hurry all of my life, and I am in a greater hurry now because there isn't that much life left.  I want to get them done.

	And here comes my commercial.

	I have been out on the political stump for months.  And to be absolutely frank with you, it seems to me I have seen you before; and frankly, as was said here by your college leader, you were carrying some signs that I wasn't so sure that I always liked.

	But I liked the fellows that you were talking about.

	Might I add that I have known these men much longer than most have.  I spent a lifetime of public life with my college from Minnesota.  We built a political party together.  And I was in the forefront of that battle, getting the battle scars.  And I stood alongside of the late Robert Kennedy and fought with him for every major issue in that Congress, and was with him in 1964 when he fought to go to that Congress.

	But, you know, you have got a lot done in this work that you have been doing, and I don't think you ought to sell yourselves short in helping to bring this war to an end.  And make no mistake about it, the voices of students across America have had an impact on public policy  a great impact upon it  and you are helping reform a political party, and you have helped awaken the conscience of the nation.

	Now the question is:  Are you going to keep at it or are you going to pack up and opt out?  That is what the question is.  And I think I have to put it right to you.

	I want your generation to work within the Democratic party and not outside of it.  You can remake this party and you can remake it in your own image if you really want to do it.  It has been done before, it can be done again.    

	I want to keep our two-party system alive, and I want it responsive, and I want it refreshed with dissent, and I want it refreshed with young idealism.  And I don't want it sterile, and I don't want it removed from the realities of our society.

	I helped build a party like that, and I want to avoid a situation where the young progressive people decide to bypass the democratic process and lose themselves in a series of self-frustrating, what they call, movements.

	Now, if our parties are truly responsive, movements will be unnecessary.  The movement can be within the party, to get the job done, to make the decisions, to change the laws, to change whatever needs to be changed in America, to right the old wrongs.  It can be done.  It has been done before.

	Opting out won't help.

	And I want a party where people like you will be the chairmen, the captains, the candidates  and a party that is built on issues and moral concern.  And that is the kind of a party that I am going to help build.  That is the kind of a party I want to lead.  And if I am your president, that is the kind of a party we will build, and that is the kind of a party that you will have your share in and your right to lead. 

	Now, friends, passing among you I hope will be some members of our new student coalition.  We always ought to do something spiritual at these occasions.  And I hope they will pass amongst you with collection plates.

	Now, they have decided not to opt out.  Many of them were for somebody else.

	In 1960 I fought John Kennedy in the primaries, but when it came down to the election, the state of Minnesota was one of two Midwestern states, from the Appalachians to California, that carried for John Kennedy, and I helped carry it for him.  I didn't opt out.

	And in 1961 when he became president, and he needed a floor leader for his programs of the New Frontier, he didn't have to ask me twice.  I was there, because I knew that we had a great president, and I knew that working together we could do much more than working separately.  We didn't opt out.

	What I am saying, in other words, is simply this--is that I am in the home stretch of the desperate fight, and you know it.

	Maybe the alternatives are not all you want.  But let me tell you something, my friends.  We dare not  we dare not stop the process that has been under way.

	There are three choices.  One that says go backward; one that says stand still; and one that says move steadily forward.  And the Humphrey-Muskie team represents the forward-moving operation in this campaign.    

	Now, the next president is going to end the war in Vietnam, or not end it.  And the next president is going to appoint three or more justices of the Supreme Court, including the Chief Justice.  The next president is either going to bring full measure of justice to the black man, the Mexican-American, the left-out white, or he is going to let their resentments build up into dynamite and explosion.  And I intend to be that next president.  And I intend to end that war if it is not done by that time.  And I intend to achieve the peace.  And I intend to appoint forward-looking, progressive-minded judges.  And I intend, as I have all of my life, to bring a full measure of justice to the black man, to the Mexican-American and to the left-outs, because that is the life story of the man that is talking to you here today.  And I intend to get it done.    

	I know that this country  is rich and powerful.  The question is, is it just and decent.  I want America to be all of this, and more.  I want it to have the strength that comes from a people that participate in their country, that love it through participation.  I want it to have compassion that comes from a concern for the needs of humanity.  Compassion is not weakness; it is the real strength of character.  And I want America to have genuine justice that comes based from a sincere belief in human dignity and the work of a human being.  And I want Americans to trust one another, a trust that comes from the respect for one another.

	I want an America that will be characterized by the words "strength" and "compassion" and "justice" and "trust".  

	My friends, that is what the issue is in this campaign.  Will we have leadership that can bind us together?  Will we be able to build the trust that we should have in each other?  I think that we can.

	But what I say is, if we lose this election, we may lose the chance to change the things that you dislike and that you cannot tolerate.

	If we win this election, we can change it together, and starting at high noon, January 20, 1968.

	I found a few lines of poetry that told my whole story, and I think tells yours, from the black poet, Langston Hughes.  Listen to these words that cry out and yet tell us a message, not only of despair, but of faith.

	"Oh, that my land be a land where liberty is crowned,
	With no false patriotic wreath,
	But opportunity is real, life is free, equality is in the air we breathe.
	There has never been equality for me nor freedom in this homeland of 
	the free.
	I am the poor white, cold and pushed apart.
	I am the Negro bearing the slavery scars.
	I am the red man driven from the land.
	I am the immigrant clutching the hope I seek and finding only the same old 	stupid plan of dog eat dog, of the mighty crush the weak.
	Oh, yes, I say the plan never was America to me  and yet I swear this 	oath, America will be."

	Ladies and gentlemen, the poet has said it.  He has told us all of the inequities, all of the inhumanities, all of the injustices.  He has borne his heart in open to us, and yet he has a faith that it can be changed.

	Now, my friends, I lived all of my life in this period of change, as you have.  Some people talk change; other people cause it.  And I happen to believe that this generation can cause the changes that are needed if you stay within the democratic process of changing things the way it ought to be done.  And I want the chance to work with you, and I pledge that as your president, the White House will not be a historical monument, but it will be a house of welcome.  It will be a place where there is a man that will seek to understand the voices of those who have been unheard and listen to those that have never been listened to.  And it will be a place where there is a president that will listen to the voice of young men and women, not always agreeing with it, not always saying that it is right, but being willing to learn and to listen.

	The White House belongs to the people, and the president is the only national officer that is the lobbyist for the people.

	I seek not to serve just some people; I seek not to serve just the black or the white or the rich or the poor.  I seek to serve those whom I have served all of my life.

	And now the moment comes when I can do great service to serve all of our people, and in serving them, if you please, all of humanity, because, make no mistake about it, the foreign policy of this country will be no better than its domestic morality.

	The foreign policy of this nation will be determined by the way we treat each other.  And if this country is to be torn and divided by doubt and fear and suspicion; if our cities are to be communities of animosity and enemies rather than friends and neighbors, there is no hope, then the last best hope is gone.

	But if we work together, if we try to be tolerant of one another for dialogue, for talk, to listen, to dissent with reason and with respect, there is nothing that we cannot do.

	I am convinced that the unfinished business of America is our business, and I am convinced that the best days of this country are yet to be lived.  And I am convinced that there are voices in America that if listened to can help us.  And I am convinced that the human resources of America are yet to be touched.  The great potential of the poor, the great possibilities of the children of the slums and of rural poverty--that great potential can be brought forth, and I want to be a man that helps his country call forth its goodness, not its evil; to call forth its greatness, not its problems; and I would like to have young Americans stand up now and give us a chance to do what this nation needs to be done, to bind up the wounds, to bring justice to our laws, to help people make something out of their lives, to give them the chance that you have and need to have had--and there are millions that don't have it--to reach out, not to help somebody by relief, not to give them a handout, but rather to stretch the hand of fellowship in assistance, to help somebody stand on his own feet.

	America will be no better abroad than it is at home, and the way that you bring peace to this world is to bring harmony and peace to our own country.  And if we do it here, then maybe we have a moral right to talk about it elsewhere.

	If we cannot do it here, God only knows, we will be an utter failure anyplace else.

	Thank you very much.  
CIVIL RIGHTSEDUCATION, HIGHERNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--YOUTHPUBLIC OPINION/POLLSRACE RELATIONSSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSVIETNAM WARWEAPONS PROLIFERATION     #c ïb éb åb Ýb
 Ñb Ìb Çb ¿b µb ³b £b ˜b	 Ú 	 Î 	 ½ 	 Ž 	 z 	 \ 	 H 	 : 	   	  e: