Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0913.001SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/13STUMPTUPELOMICHIGANMI1,629 WORDS

	Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for that kind introduction.  When Mayor Calder came to Minnesota the other day to meet with other mayors, I said, "What kind of welcome will I get if I come to Tupelo?"  He said, "You'll get a very warm welcome."  And he wasn't kidding.  I got a warm welcome today, and I thank Jimmy for that.

	The way I look at it, if anybody wants to be president of the United States, they ought to come to Tupelo and answer the questions of the people of this region of Mississippi.

	And that's the kind of campaign that I'm conducting.  I'm not asking you to just listen to what I say; I'm listening to you.  I'm taking your questions and I'm answering them now, before the election and not afterwards.  I'm coming before the American people and specifically telling you how I propose to lead this nation into our future and what I intend to do, so you can decide now who you want to lead this nation.

	Today is what's called Seniors Health Action Day across this nation.  All across this nation, senior citizens--who represent some 35 million of our fellow Americans--are meeting together to talk about Social Security, to talk about Medicare, and to talk about other things that are essential for a decent life for our fathers and our mothers.

	I am here today to tell you my position.  I am a supporter of Medicare.  I've supported it all my life, and I think it is essential to the decency and the security of our senior citizens in this country.

	I've supported Social Security.  I don't think it's just some program.  I think Social Security is a contract; a sacred contract between the generations which permits each generation during their working years to contribute to that fund and then, as a matter of right--not political agreement--have that Social Security, adjusted for inflation, honored in their retirement years.

	I'm spending this week talking about the most serious crisis facing our economy and the economy of Mississippi and everything we care about, and that is the appalling Reagan deficits of $200 billion a year, as far as the eye can see.

	On Monday, I spelled out my plan before the American people to deal with it.  

	First of all, it works.  It reduces the deficit by two-thirds.  It means that interest rates will come down.  It means that our economy can grow; jobs will be added; exports will be coming from the United States and not growing imports in the United States.  It means that rural Mississippi and rural America and our farmers will have a chance for decent income and for prosperity in rural America.

	It is a plan that is fair.  It protects those things that are basic to American decency, like Social Security and Medicare and education for our children.

	It is funded fairly.  People earning $25,000 a year or less will have no increase in taxes, and persons making $70,000 a year or less will pay less taxes under Walter Mondale than they will under Ronald Reagan.

	The fact of it is that people of average income are having a hard time making ends meet.  People of enormous wealth got fantastic tax relief under this administration.  And as president of the United States, I'm not going to ask people of moderate and middle income to pay more so that the wealthy can pay less.  I'm going to ask the wealthy to join the rest of us.

	I challenge Mr. Reagan to tell us now, before the election, what you're going to do.  Tell us how you're going to get those deficits down.  Tell us now who's going to pay, what programs are going to be cut.  And let us measure the Mondale plan against your plan.

	Yesterday, in the White House, journalists challenged Mr. Reagan this way:  They said, "Isn't it fair to spell out to the American people what cuts you have in mind?"  Mr. Reagan said, "No."  He said, "Later."  And then finally he said, "Take a look at the budgets that I've already submitted and look at the cuts I've asked for and that were not given."  All right, let's do that.

	And let's do it on this Seniors Health Action Day to see what cuts he's got in mind for you.

	Let's start with Medicare.  Well, he cut Medicare by $15 billion already.  That's bad enough.  He made seniors pay 50 percent more for medical care--as if they had cash lying around.  That's bad enough.  But he didn't get all the cuts he wanted--because the Congress wouldn't go along.  He wanted to cut $30 billion out of Medicare.  He wanted senior citizens to pay up to $1,500 for a hospital stay.  He wanted the seniors to pay more to doctors.  He wouldn't freeze doctors' bills.  He wanted to weaken Medicare until millions of Americans were excluded from the program, and he was out to almost destroy the Medicare program entirely.

	Now, my fellow Americans, what kind of people are we?  Do you want to do that to our senior citizens?  Of all the mean-spirited ways, of all the shameful ways to cut money out of that budget, is to go to a senior citizen who's retired and who is now sick and in a hospital and say, "We figured out a way to save money--we're going to raise your hospital and your medical bills while you're on that hospital bedsick."

	I will not do it.  I will stand behind that program.  I want to preserve Medicare by controlling costs throughout American medicine.  My plan of health cost containment will cut costs by $12 million by reducing those costs--not by reducing benefits.

	Mr. Reagan's plan on Medicare is nothing short of official cruelty.  My plan is simple decency, and there is a big difference between the two of us.

	Second, look at Social Security.  Two decades ago, or twenty years, he's been fighting Social Security.  Ever since, he hasn't been able to keep his hands off of Social Security.  First he tried to cut off the minimum benefit for people at the bottom.  Then he eliminated student dependents for the survivors of a lost parent.  Then, for people at age sixty-two he tried to cut the benefits below the poverty level.  That's what he tried to do, but he couldn't get away with it because the Congress wouldn't let him do it.

	He tried to cut $80 billion from Social Security.  He would have destroyed Social Security for millions of Americans.  Now he wants to do it again.  We stopped him the first time.  Let's make sure he doesn't have a second chance to go after Social Security.

	And then he said he's going to propose some of the cuts in the Grace Commission.  Well, what are those cuts?  Social Security, military pensions, student loans, small business and farmers assistance--the things that people need.  No wonder he didn't get his cuts.

	Mr. Reagan, you've been there for four years.  You proposed those deep cuts, why didn't you get them?  I'll tell you why it didn't get those cuts:  Not even the Republicans would vote for it.  They were too cruel, too uncaring.  They hurt decent people too much and they wouldn't stand for it.

	When people retire in America, they're entitled to the dignity of Social Security.  They're entitled to the coverage and the care of Medicare.  When our kids need education, they're entitled to a good education.  When our young people want to go on to college, they're entitled to have a chance to grow and build their minds and be a part of an ever more competitive nation.

	When people are handicapped--when they grow up with bodies and minds that create disadvantages--they're children of God too.  And they're entitled to a chance to grow up and being reared with a fullness of opportunity in American life.

	When you're a minority, you're entitled to have those civil rights laws enforced.  No one should be discriminated against because of race, or color, or sex.  Mr. Reagan is trying to turn the clock back on civil rights enforcement.  That's not the kind of people we are. 

	All right, we have about fifty days left before this election.  Who do you believe?  We're going to have a little quiz right now.  In 1980, I went to Florida and I said, "My fellow Americans, if you elect Mr. Reagan, he's going to cut Social Security; he's going to cut Medicare."  Mr. Reagan went to Florida right after me and said, "Oh, no, if you elect Ronald Reagan I will protect Social Security, adjust it for inflation for everybody on it and for everybody who's going to go on it.  And I will protect Medicare and the safety net from any impairment."

	Right after the election, what did he do?  He broke that promise and took a hatchet out and went after Social Security and after Medicare.  Well, here he goes again.  If you elect Mr. Reagan in 1984, he's going to savage Social Security and Medicare and destroy it for millions.  And that's why he won't answer your questions.  If he answers your questions before the election, you won't vote for him.  And he's hoping to get by the election and add the bad news later.

	I'm telling you my position now.  He won't level with you; I just did.  I won't cut Social Security and Medicare.  He did and he will.  And it comes down to this, for anybody who's a senior citizen or anybody who's planning someday to become a senior citizen:  Vote for Walter Mondale and protect decency in America.

	Thank you very, very much.

BUDGET DEFICITSENIOR CITIZENSMEDICARESOCIAL SECURITY     T$  $ $ $ $
 $ þ# ù# ó# ë# é# é# Þ#	 4 	 &     e: