Speeches\1972\dem\S72d0904.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/04STUMPCHIPPEWA LAKEOHIOOHEXCERPTS FROM LABOR DAY PICNIC SPEECH2085 WORDS

	We are here to celebrate the holiday of those who earn their living the hard way--with sweat and strength, with the skill of their hands and the pride of honest labor.

	We are also here because we are determined to end another holiday--the long, involuntary holiday of five million workers who have been unemployed under Richard Nixon.

	We are here to say that this nation belongs to the people who build and support it, not to a handful of executives in the boardrooms of corporate power and the backrooms of the White House.

	We are here because we believe that workers are not robots, to be run at the flick of a management switch, but free human beings with an inalienable right to dignity, safety, and security.

	In the last eighteen months, I have walked through countless factories, and I have seen monotony and danger on too many assembly lines.

	I have seen assembly lines where men are treated as machines whose only purpose is to supply a weld, a rivet, or a stitch. I have seen assembly lines which mean not only products for consumers, but endless, grinding boredom for workers.

	I have spoken to workers who can barely hear, because their ears have been deadened by the pounding of metal.

	I have talked with workers who gasp as they breathe, because management put a lid on their factory and locked the pollution inside.

	I have met workers who will never work again, because big business cut corners on job safety.

	Now I would like Richard Nixon to come out of the White House--not to listen to the push-button praises of a stage-managed convention--but to listen to grievances at a plant gate.

	Then let him tell us that we cannot afford enough safety inspectors to stop the slaughter in industry and mining.

	Then let him tell us that the country cannot work for you, as you have worked for the country.

	And we will reply with a campaign that will add two more names to the unemployment rolls in November--Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew.

	I am here because this is the time and place to begin that campaign--among working men and women on Labor Day.

	No political party can serve two masters--the people and the privileged. By heritage and by choice, this is the fundamental difference between the Democratic party and the Republican party.

	The Democratic party is the party of the people. The Republican party is the party of the privileged. And this election is the renewal of a struggle as old as the Great Depression, and as recent as the economic black magic invented by Richard Nixon when he gave us recession and inflation at the same time.

	Last month, Mr. Nixon announced that our party had deserted its principles, and he called on Democrats to join him in a "new majority." The slogan is new, but the strategy is exactly the same as the Nixon attack on John Kennedy. Listen to Mr. Nixon's words in 1960:

		"I say that those who adopted the Democratic platform in Los Angeles have forfeited the right to ask millions of Democrats to be loyal to their party and to vote the Democratic ticket."

	This was pompous nonsense in 1960--and it is pompous nonsense now.

	Most Democrats refused to desert John Kennedy--and they will not desert the McGovern-Shriver ticket.

	Of course, there is a group called Democrats for Nixon, run by John Connolly, who recently said that today's tax loopholes are fair and that full employment is a myth.

	The Republicans are welcome to Mr. Connolly and his exclusive club of oil millionaires. I want the oil workers, the steelworkers, the machinists, the teachers, and millions of other Americans who live on the wages of their work instead of tax loopholes.

	The only way the president can achieve a new majority in this election is to trick the vast majority of the voters. So just as he tried to do when John Kennedy was the Democratic nominee, Richard Nixon is now trying to make the nation fear the Democrats.

	He is trying to make people afraid that Democrats are extremists who want to tax too much and spend more than we have. But that is the oldest lie in the reactionary Republican book of partisan smears. And just because the election comes a week after Halloween is no excuse to use the campaign as a time to scare the country.

	So let us separate fact from fear and look at the real choice before the country.

	The real choice is four more years of secret plans to end the war, or an open plan to bring our sons home from the jungles and the jails of Indochina.

	The real choice is four more years of unemployment, or four years of peacetime prosperity.

	And when that choice becomes clear, it will not be the American people, but Richard Nixon, who has something to fear in 1972.

	John Connolly may think full employment is a myth; I think it is a necessity. Our highest economic priority is the lowest possible unemployment.

	Richard Nixon has vetoed four bills to create jobs. As president, I will sign those bills. Whatever it takes, we will guarantee a job opportunity to every man and woman in America who is able to work.

	That is the McGovern position. The Nixon policy calls for joblessness instead of jobs.

	And once this difference becomes clear, it will not be the American people, but Richard Nixon, who has something to fear.

	The real choice in this election is also between four more years of inflation and four years of stable prices.

	Whenever you shop at the local grocery store, you find out that Richard Nixon costs more. He says he stands for the value of the dollar--but consumer prices have risen eighteen points while he has been in power. The Nixon inflation is ground into every pound of hamburger you buy.

	The president says inflation is under control. I say let him try to feed his family for a week on an average paycheck.

	The Nixon policy puts no controls on the dividends and profits of the special interests, because they have a friend in the White House. As president, I will adopt an evenhanded policy to stop inflation--and the corporations and the rich will bear the burden too.

	Then as the difference becomes clear, it will not be the American people, but Richard Nixon, who has something to fear in 1972.

	And perhaps the most important choice in this election is the choice between tax favoritism and tax justice.

	Last week I went to Wall Street and told the truth about our tax system.

	I said it was wrong to impose taxes in bold print and then to give them back in the fine print to a favored few.

	I said that it was wrong to allow an American with an income of $2,300,000 to pay taxes at less than half the rate you pay on the first $1,000 of your taxable earnings.

	It is wrong that ITT pays taxes at a rate of 5 percent, and Texaco pays at a rate of 3 percent, while you pay what the tax tables say.

	And it is wrong that some wealthy Americans escape taxes by spending more to hire a tax lawyer than most Americans make in an entire year.

	The Republicans say I want to soak the rich. I want the rich and the corporations to pay their fair share and no more. And what I really want is to stop soaking rank-and-file taxpayers.

	You pay for every tax loophole. You pay for every martini lunch that a businessman deducts while you eat a bologna sandwich. You pay every dime the oil companies don't pay. You pay half the tax on the increased value of a corporate executive's stocks and bonds.

	Money made by money should be taxed at the same rate as money made by men. Tax justice demands equal treatment for Americans who earn their living at a lathe and Americans who collect their dividends in the mail.

	I have demanded a program to close $22 billion in tax loopholes. It will not take one extra cent from any American whose income comes from wages or salaries, or from investments that are already fairly taxed. None of you will pay more--but corporations and the wealthy will finally pay what they owe to their country.

	With the money we raise from tax reform, we can afford $15 billion for aid to local schools and for substantial property tax reduction. Then we can assure a good education for our children without the insecurity of higher property taxes for their parents.

	Richard Nixon also has a plan for your taxes. It is a secret plan--the same kind of plan he promised for peace in Vietnam four years ago. And I think this time the secret plan is not to reduce your taxes but to raise them.

	If Mr. Nixon is re-elected--a prospect I seldom dwell upon--I predict that he will call for higher taxes in the form of a national sales tax. This Nixon sales tax would leave the loopholes wide open, but it would hit hardest at the working class, the poor, older people, and middle income families.

	To take the sting out, the President will call it a value added tax. But a sales tax by any other name smells the same.

	The McGovern answer is $22 billion in tax reform, and $15 billion for quality education and property tax relief, so that you will pay less.

	And when this difference becomes clear, it will not be the American people, but Richard Nixon, who has something to fear in 1972.

	These are the choices I will take to the American people. I ask your help in that effort.

	I have no secret $10 million fund from those who want special favors for themselves. I have no secret fund at all, for we have disclosed every single dime raised and spent in this campaign. But what I am looking for is a million Americans who will contribute $25 each, or whatever they can afford, because they want a better land for us all.

	That is how we will run a people's campaign. We will operate differently from the Committee to Reelect the President.

	The Committee to Reelect the President has become the Committee to Protect the Special Interests. And their only defense is to cover up their failures by shouting that the Democrats are radical.

	But what is right has always been called radical by those with a stake in things that are wrong.

	The robber barons called unions radical when they organized the docks of San Francisco, the factories of Cleveland, and the coal mines of Pennsylvania. But justice on the job wasn't radical then and it isn't radical now.

	The Republicans called Franklin Roosevelt radical in 1932, because he thought human beings should have enough to eat--but Franklin Roosevelt won the election.

	The Republicans called Harry Truman radical in 1948 because he stood up for the rights of labor--but Harry Truman won the election.

	The Republicans called Lyndon Johnson radical because he fought for full employment and quality schools--but Lyndon Johnson won the election.

	Now, in 1972, the Republicans use scare tactics that we are radical--and we will win the election.

	For what is really radical is an administration that has turned your government into the White House-Wall Street connection. In the words of Franklin Roosevelt, "The economic royalists complain that we seek to overthrow the institutions of America. What they really complain of is that we seek to take away their power."

	I was a bomber pilot in World War II. And I still remember the day when our plane was hit so hard that we were already to bail out over Germany. I want to tell you I was scared, but I thought we could make it back. So I gave this order to the crew: "Resume your stations, we're going to bring her home."

	We have had a difficult and trying month. But on this Labor Day, I say to you and to workers across America, to Democrats who are fainthearted and to those who are anxious to fight on, and to people everywhere who share our cause: "Resume your stations, we're going to bring America home."
??



 

 





BUSINESS, CORPORATE--TAXATIONCAMPAIGN FINANCECONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESINFLATIONJOB GROWTH/CREATIONOCCUPATIONAL SAFETYPARTY AFFILIATIONSALES TAXUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITSTAX REFORM     / è. â. Þ. Ö.
 Ê. Å. À. ³. ¯. ­. ˆ. ~.	 	 ö 	 æ 	 Å 	 £ 	 ‹ 	 ‚ 	 o 	 \ 	 K 	 B 	 -  
 e: