Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1023.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/23STUMPBATAVIANEW YORKNY1485 WORDS

	Folks, this is wonderful.  First, let me thank each of you for being here today, and allowing me to look into your faces and bring a word of friendly greeting and express a few of the thoughts in my heart and on my mind as we go through this campaign.  Will you indulge me for one moment while I pay my respects here to the members of the color guard.  When men put on their uniforms and bring out the colors, you can imagine what it does to the feelings of an old soldier, and I am grateful.

	Ladies and gentlemen, we are engaged in a real crusade.  These men in uniform were with me on a crusade, and there are many of you here in this audience who wear the uniform of your country in camps on duty here in the homeland, in the Pacific or Europe--and took part in the defeat of Hitlerism and for the preservation of freedom and liberty and opportunity here at home.  This crusade, in a very different way--using ballots instead of bullets, using persuasion instead of force--is trying to bring to the minds of every American the kind of danger, the kind of threat now facing us, and what we can do about it, what we should do about it.

	Manifestly, in a great area and a great region such as ours--stretching from ocean to ocean, from Canada to the Gulf, 155 million souls--this is no one- man job.  A man could have the wisdom of Solomon and the tolerance of Lincoln and the courage of Washington, and still he would be helpless to do this job by himself.  It is a team job, and it starts right down at the grass roots with the people who go into the booths and every four years register their irrevocable decision.  It goes on up and finally we get to our political leaders in the states and the representatives of the states in the national government.

	I consider you people here in New York particularly fortunate in having as the governor of your state, Governor Dewey, your Senator Ives, and your Congressman Ostertag.  These people are essential parts of this team and this job of helping to bring good government to replace bad government.  I say it is bad government, but I am not going to give you the full bill of particulars.  I am going to call your attention to a few of its failures and ask you what you intend to do about it.

	First, let's take this business of peace.  For seven long years we have had a spectacle of fumbling and stumbling and sometimes falling around the globe.  We, the strongest nation on earth, who qualify in every respect except in the wisdom of our administration to lead the free world to a solid system of collective security, have not been able to do so.  We still have Korea.  There seems to be forthcoming from this administration no real ray of hope.  There are many things that could not have been avoided in the way of sacrifices on our part when we are facing the kind of dictatorship that has its center and headquarters in the Kremlin.  However, there are many things that could have been done; and as we look back over the record, we wonder:  Did we have to get into that mess?  In any event, there is the record.  All of China gone, our traditional friend, four-hundred million souls to use as the Kremlin dictatorship determines.  Then we have this war in Korea in which we still, after two and one-half years, have these great casualties in defending a distant corner of the land, when we know that those people themselves out of their own national pride want to defend their own country; when their own ambassador to our country says, "But give us guns and save your sons."  We have had all the time since 1945 to do it.  This is not a very good record.

	Then we have these tremendous expenditure programs, and they include waste and extravagance.  Not long ago in a report of a Congressional Committee I saw a little item that would not mean much to a Washington bureaucrat because $22,000 to them is chicken feed.  But this is what the $22,000 expenditure was for:  a lemonade machine for Indo China.  It sort of struck me that that might be lemonade for Indo China, but the kind of thing that it exemplifies and typifies in our government is a headache for us, and it is high time we were ending that sort of thing.

	We get two airfields in Africa for the price of five.  There was an item on this same report.  We got 20,000 chairs in one of the services and we only paid ten dollars more than the standard market price for each one of them.  What I am saying--and these items in themselves have not broken us, even these tax chiselers who have lined their own pockets with your tax money--that hasn't broken us either.  That hasn't busted us, but what has it done to you?  It has robbed you of pride in your government.  What does pride in your government mean to you?  A very great deal, my friends, if we are talking about peace, resolving the Korean war and that sort of thing.  Because of these reasons, the one essential, the absolutely indispensable factor in a peace structure in a world, is a strong United States--a strong United States in terms of its spiritual strength, intellectual and scientific strength, and finally, the necessary amount of military strength, but only finally.  Of all things we need is our economic and productive strength, and we are not going to have that unless we are united.

	We are a diverse people, 155 million of us stretching from coast to coast.  We have to be united behind basic principles and behind leadership--leadership we trust, we believe in, we have faith in.  Are you going to have faith in it if it shows that it has forgotten the meaning of the words frugality, thrift, efficiency in government?  It doesn't want the businessmen of the United States to come and show them where they are wasting our dollars.  We must have a government behind which we want to unite, a government in which we will take pride--then we will develop our full strength for peace in the world.

	Now, because the opposition has this terrible record of failure in so many different lines of inflation, which means higher prices for every one of us, they have this terrible record to defend, they spread a campaign of fear.  Among other things, they say:  "These people in this crusade, these Republicans with their independent friends and their enlightened Democrats, they want to bring a depression."  Now, I have just explained it to you, if we are going to pursue peace, we must have a prosperous America, a fully employed America, and remember this, an America that is being paid in dollars that don't run out your pockets through the inflation hole.  As of this moment, your savings are being gradually eroded away, your bonds are going, your insurance policies and every bit of money represented in your social security policies is going down the drain because of this constant cheapening and cheapening of money, meaning higher and higher prices.

	This crusade is dedicated to full employment, to using the full power of the government to see that we never again have breadlines, but more than that, to assure you that this thief in the night, inflation, does not take your savings and your provisions for your own comfort, take them away from you.  And they do not rob you of the value of the money that is guaranteed by private industry and by local, state and federal authorities.  That is what this crusade is about--to give you a government made up of the finest men and women this country affords, by bringing into Washington your neighbors, the men and women you know to be those of prestige and character, who by their incorruptibility assure you, give you the promise, the assurance that there will not be a corruptible government--not one that would stoop as one St. Louis judge put it, to selling their birthright for a dirty mess of dollars:  To work for people and with people and not merely to work people is the slogan that we have.

	That is the kind of pledge that this crusade makes to you, my friends.  I thank you again, every one of you, for coming out.  You have done me a great honor.

	Before this train pulls upon its way, I have one moment, and if you will allow me to use it to bring out my Mamie, I would be very gratified. 

GOVERNMENT WASTEINFLATIONKOREAN WARSAVINGS, PERSONAL     ˜  d  ^  Z  P 
 B  =  8  1  )  '  '   	 4 	 $ 	  	  e: