Speeches\1988\rep\S88R0915.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)09/15STUMPSAN FRANCISCOCALIFORNIACA2146 WORDS

	When we came to Washington eight years ago, we brought with us an economic philosophy that, in the context of the time, seemed new, even revolutionary, but was in fact deeply rooted in the American experience. It was a philosophy that saw the individual as the center of the economy, the source of economic growth and the creator of the wealth of nations. It was the individual's hard work, imagination and creativity--and the freedom to pursue a private vision--these were the foundation of what we have come to call the American Dream.

	This new philosophy implied a dramatic shift in perspective from the policies of the late-seventies--from big government and big business to the small businessman and entrepreneur, from "aggregate demand" to personal initiative and inspiration. From the experts with management, to the inventor with a new idea, to completely upend the established order.

	That is why we focused on incentives, or more accurately, freeing the individual from the disincentives imposed by an overbearing federal government--disincentives like high taxes, over-regulation and escalating inflation--and interest rates. That is why one of our first acts was to cut personal income taxes by 25 percent across the board. That was the philosophy behind our historic tax reform legislation, which closed corporate loopholes, dropped millions of the working poor off the tax rolls, and lowered personal income tax rates to their lowest level in half a century.

	It's instructive to remember the "accepted wisdom" that we were fighting against back then, some of the economic "truths" that policy-makers used to take for granted. Such as: A little bit of inflation is good for the economy. Or the Phillips' Curve, which claimed that you couldn't lower unemployment without increasing inflation. And it was believed, almost as a matter of dogma, that high taxes did not discourage work or investment.

	The experts ridiculed our simple formulation--that if you get government out of the way, you'll unleash the mightiest economic force the world has ever seen: a free people.

	Who was right? Well, the test is completed and the scores are in. Their policies culminated in the late-seventies in runaway inflation, declining personal income, and a crumbling economic base that was losing technology and economic initiative to our overseas competitors. In 1980, the American people realized a change was needed, and we are that change. Our policies have created record employment gains--almost 18 million new jobs in the longest peacetime expansion in American history. After six years our expansion is still youthful, growing strongly with low inflation. Our economy is the engine of growth that has pulled the world out of recession, and our entrepreneurs are on the cutting edge of technological invention, leading the world into the new information age of the 21st century.

	Just this last Tuesday, I spelled out in detail my economic agenda before the Executive Club in Chicago. A campaign, after all, is about issues and how candidates differ. I described the four principles of growth I would follow to build on this historic expansion and keep it going through the next eight years. The first, and one could say most important: no new taxes. The second: expanding hope and opportunity to those who have so far been left out--and that means jobs and more jobs. Third: economic empowerment for the people, because they are the true source of growth. And fourth: American international leadership that keeps our country in the forefront of the world economic competition.

	Today, I'm here to talk about contrasts--about the differences between my approach, my economic philosophy and the policies I would pursue as president and those of my opponent. This election is truly about our fundamental differences. I believe that although my opponent talks about growth, he still clings to the discredited big government policies of the past.

	It is my belief that my opponent's policies would drive our economy into a decline. They'd bring back inflation, skyrocketing interest rates and falling incomes--and at a time when foreign competition is becoming ever stronger, they would knock the foundations out from under the expansion and lose America its place as economic leader of the world.

	Am I being too harsh? Let's be fair, but let's closely examine his record as governor of Massachusetts.

	All during the primaries we heard about the Massachusetts Miracle; but when you look at the facts and his record something else emerges. I was surprised by three simple facts:

	One: Under my opponent, taxing and spending has increased more than in any other state.

	Two: Under my opponent, Massachusetts has piled up a $7.4 billion debt.

	Three: Under my opponent, Massachusetts has lost 26,000 manufacturing jobs since 1983. More than any other state in the country. He is one of the biggest manufacturing job losers in America--quite different from the claim of a "miracle."

	Let's look at the facts--just the facts.

	My opponent suggests he would only raise taxes as a last resort. But his record in Massachusetts shows just the opposite.

	Just this summer, he pushed through a $180 million tax hike to cover the growing deficit caused by his administration's spending spree. That tax hike, raising business taxes, sales taxes and personal income taxes, wasn't a unique event. He has tried to raise taxes five times as governor.

	Perhaps the most instructive example is the story of what came to be known as the "Dukakis Surtax." During his first campaign for governor, he gave the people of his state a lead pipe guarantee that he would not raise their taxes--but in his first year, he pushed through a surtax on personal income and a host of other taxes that added up to the largest tax increase in Massachusetts history.

	The people of Massachusetts organized a grass-roots effort to repeal the surtax. The governor strongly resisted, but was finally pressured into signing the repeal.

	This, by the way, is one of the "five tax cuts" my opponent boasts about in his campaign advertising. The other four were inconsequential, easily swamped by those five tax increases.

	I've made it clear--I'm opposed to raising taxes. Tax increases, in my view, would kill off the longest recovery in peacetime history. My opponent, under his administration, Massachusetts had the second fastest increase in state taxes per capita of all 50 states. He says he wants to do for America what he did for Massachusetts--well, if the federal government had increased taxes at the same rate, the average American family would be paying $2,300 more this year in personal income taxes alone.

	Let's look at spending, and once again contrast my opponent's rhetoric with his record. He said, quote: "No one is going to hang the tax-and-spend label on me." But the figures show that when it comes to increasing state spending--per capita--my opponent is at the top of the list, leading all the other 50 states.

	The scores are tallied. The judges have made their final decision. My opponent ranks first in spending increases. Second in tax hikes. If this were the Olympics, his composite score would make him the gold medal winner in the tax-and-spend competition.

	I am not satisfied with the last eight years in Washington in terms of the deficit. Deficits do matter. We must do better.

	Let's look at job creation--one of the key tests of successful economic policies. My opponent says he wants to "create good jobs at good wages for every citizen in the land," and he calls on us to "get serious again about manufacturing in this country."

	But during his administration, Massachusetts ranked 40th out of 50 states in job growth, 45th in manufacturing job growth. If the United States had created jobs at the same rate Massachusetts did under my opponent, three million Americans who are working today would be unemployed.

	No question, Massachusetts did benefit dramatically from the national recovery--but there is no Massachusetts "Miracle." If there's any miracle, it's that Massachusetts did so poorly in an era of unprecedented nationwide growth, while huge defense dollars were being pumped into that state.

	In fact, Massachusetts, the 13th biggest state got the fifth largest amount of DOD dollars.

	The fact is, the so-called Massachusetts Miracle is really the Massachusetts Mirage. In the last two years, Massachusetts has turned a surplus into a growing budget deficit that according to Massachusetts legislators appears to be approaching $500 to $700 million for fiscal 1989--even after the roughly $200 million in new taxes my opponent imposed in July.

	Since June, the state has been borrowing $200 million every month in short-term notes just to pay for daily expenses--exactly the kind of last-ditch borrowing that got New York City into such trouble before it had to be bailed out by the federal government.

	Meanwhile, the state pension fund is dangerously underfunded--35 percent compared to an average of more than 80 percent for other states--the state government can't pay its outstanding bills.

	These budget matters are of so much concern to the people of Massachusetts that over 40 percent in a recent poll said they wanted the governor to resign and let someone else deal with the mounting financial crisis.

	My opponent still says he wants to "do for the nation what he has done for Massachusetts." That slogan is beginning to sound more and more like a threat.

	I am a great believer in small businesses. Small business has led our national recovery. Two-thirds of the 17.8 million new jobs are all in small business. My policy of lower regulations, holding the line on income taxes, and opening markets abroad will see that small business continues to lead the way. But my opponent increased the tax on small businesses in his state.

	I oppose the federal government's picking winners and losers in the private sector--that's known as "industrial policy." My opponent favors industrial policy as he advocates "economic patriotism."

	Take competitiveness. We impose high capital gains tax rates, while most of our major trading partners don't even have a capital gains tax. Germany doesn't. Japan doesn't. Neither does Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, or Taiwan. The capital gains tax is a tax on investment, on innovation, on new technology. My opponent talks about high technology and says he wants to make America more competitive, but he opposes lowering the capital gains tax.

	Let me be clear. I favor a capital gains cut. It will raise revenues and create jobs. It's estimated that a reduction to 15 percent will raise as much as $4 billion in new revenues for the government. Why? More people take risks, more businesses start, more tax money flows into the Treasury.

	And I have one final difference with my opponent. He called the Reagan-Bush '81 tax cuts which set the stage for our economic expansion, "One of the worst bills Congress could ever have passed." If he thinks they were such a bad idea, does he plan to repeal the 25 percent tax cuts which I supported for the American people? I think the American people have a right to know.

	Footnote--with taxes cut the revenues of the federal government have increased by 24 percent in the last three years.

	Lately, the governor's campaign has taken on an increasingly protectionist ring and an appeal to antagonism between different economic groups. I oppose protectionism. It's loser economics. America can't stay competitive if we don't compete. And we can't compete in the world marketplace if we treat our businessmen and entrepreneurs like enemies and sow antagonism between Americans.

	Our economic policies have worked. Never before have the possibilities been greater. America in 1988 is the most innovative, the most technologically advanced in the world. I look at six years of economic expansion, and I see not an end, but a beginning--a firm foundation on which to build continuing economic growth and solid security for America's families.

	I see a chance to spread opportunity to every corner of this great land, to bring help to the disadvantaged and hope to all. I see an era of rising expectations met by rising living standards and an improving quality of life. I see a strong America getting stronger, leading the world into a new age of economic liberty, where free markets flourish around the globe, laying low the age-old enemies of poverty, want and oppression.

I see, in other words, America fulfilling her destiny as the light of the world, the hope of mankind. That is why I am running in this campaign, why I am asking for your vote. That is why I want to be president.

	Thank you all very much and God bless you. 
CAPITAL GAINS TAXECONOMY--GENERALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMINCOME TAXMASSACHUSETTSTAXATION--GENERAL     Ú2 ¦2  2 œ2 ’2
 Š2 …2 €2 s2 i2 g2 g2 ]2	 v 	 e 	 U 	 (     e: