Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1020.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/20STUMPNEW HAVENCONNECTICUTCTA CHOICE OF VALUES--STANDING UP FOR AMERICA'S WORKING FAMILIES1,437 WORDS

	In just nineteen days, we'll elect a new president and vice president of the United States of America.

	I began this campaign as the underdog; I'm the underdog today.

	The Republicans want to put you to sleep.  They're already celebrating; they're popping champagne corks in their penthouses.  But I've got news for those Republicans; we're going to be the ones celebrating on Election Night.

	Because we're in a fight for America's future, and you'd better believe I'm not going to walk away from that fight.

	If anyone asks you what's at stake in this election, tell them about George Bush's one new idea.

	George Bush wants to give the wealthiest one percent of the people in the country a new tax break worth $30,000 a year.  I want to collect the taxes they aren't paying.

	George Bush wants to help the wealthy make a down payment on a second or third home.  I want to help our young families make a down payment on their first home.

	George Bush thinks you can put your kids through college with a new savings plan worth twenty bucks a year.  I want to open the door of college opportunity for every young man and woman who's qualified to do college work--not just the children of the wealthy but all our young people.

	George Bush doesn't care that working women earn only 64 cents for every dollar that men earn.  I want to put equality where it belongs--in your paychecks.

	George Bush doesn't even know that almost 40 million Americans--mostly working people and their families--don't have a dime's worth of health insurance.  I'm going to make sure that every job in America comes with basic health insurance.

	George Bush wants to help the people who already have it made.  I want to help every American family make it.

	He's on their side.  I'm on your side.

	And that's why I'm here today.

	I want to be the president who stands up and fights for America's working families; parents who are being forced to choose between the jobs they need and the children they love; people who work from dawn to dusk and are trying to make ends meet; who don't have any special friends at the bank or any special interest lobbyists in Washington.

	Because your struggles, your dreams, and your ideals are what America's all about--and I'm never going to forget that.

	I'm never going to forget the people I've met during this campaign; people who need a helping hand, not a cold shoulder.

	The Telano family in Levittown, whose son has grown up and started a family, but can't afford to buy a home in the community where he grew up.

	That Scantlin family in Texas who can't afford to send their daughter to college so she can fulfill her dream of becoming an engineer.

	And the woman I met in Sioux City, Iowa, with a seven-year-old son and without a dime of health insurance.  Her son had had pneumonia, thirteen times in seven years.  And I asked her what she did when he got sick.  And she said, "I hope a lot.  And I pray a lot."

	I believe in the values of work and family.

	My family is more precious to me than anything in the world.  And no matter what else one has in life there's nothing more important than that.

	George Bush likes to talk about family values.  He talks about "a thousand points of light"; he talks about "a kinder gentler nation"; he even talks about being "haunted" by the lives of children in the inner city.

	But his record sends a different message.

	His record tells people in our inner cities:  "We can't see you; we can't hear you; stay where you are."

	His record tells middle class families:  "The glory days are over.  Your kids may not do as well as you did."

	And his record tells working women:  "I don't care if you're forced to choose between the jobs you need and the children you love."

	And if anyone asks you what's at stake in this election, ask them if George Bush has ever stood up for America's working families.

	Was he on your side when those Republicans in Congress said no to making the minimum wage a living wage?

	Was he on your side when those Republicans in Congress said no to letting working people take time off to care for a sick child--or a sick parent or grandparent--without living in fear of losing their jobs?

	Was he on your side when those Republicans in Congress said no to American parents who want day care for their children; day care they can afford; day care they can trust?

	When Mr. Bush was asked about childcare, he said: "I've had no responsibility for that in this administration.  That's not been one of my assigned roles."

	Mr. Bush, how can you say our children are not your responsibility?  Our children are everybody's responsibility.

	Ask Mr. Bush if he can look a woman in the eye who had to quit her job because she couldn't find day care for her children.  Ask him what he'd tell a woman who scrubs floors for a living to support her family on $3.35 an hour.  Ask him what he'd tell a woman who lost her job because she wanted to stay home with her newborn child for the first few months of her life.  Ask him if that's what he means by a "kinder, gentler nation."

	The stakes in this election are very, very high.  And no higher than when it comes to picking the people who will be the future justices of the Supreme Court of the United States.

	During the debate last week, Mr. Bush said Robert Bork would make an "outstanding" Supreme Court Justice.  He wants a court full of Borks.  And, if he says Robert Bork is a symbol of why you should vote for him, I say he's a symbol of why you should vote for me.

	Just one year ago this Monday, the Senate rejected Robert Bork because he had opposed civil rights; because he doesn't believe Americans have the right to privacy; and because he thinks its okay for a chemical company to force its women employees to chose between being surgically sterilized or losing their jobs.  No woman should ever be asked to make that choice.  And anyone who says that he'll appoint people like Robert Bork to the Court doesn't deserve to be president of the United States.

	George Bush wants the government to make one of the most personal choices a woman will ever make.

	And just a few weeks ago, he was asked whether women should be punished as criminals for exercising that choice.  And all he could say--after three decades of public life--was "I haven't sorted it out."  I believe a choice that personal must be made by the woman herself in the exercise of her own conscience and religious beliefs.

	I'm going to set the highest standards in my Administration.  And I'm going to slam shut the revolving door between the White House and those lobbying firms that represent special interests and foreign interests.

	I believe in America's future.

	And, if I become president, America will be a different country than if Mr. Bush becomes president.

	I want to be president not because it's the next rung on the ladder but because it's the way to act on my values and build the best America.

	Kitty and I have two daughters and one son.  And we want just as bright a future for our daughters as for our son; a future of responsibility and respect and limitless horizons.

	That's the kind of America I want for my children; that's the kind of America you want for your children; and that's the kind of America we can build together.

	An America where the values that we learned from our parents and teach our children are respected not only at home but in our schools and our workplaces and in the White House; because I'm not just going to preach the values of fairness and compassion and responsibility--I'm going to practice them.

	That's the America I'm fighting for.

	And, with your help, we're going to win this fight; with your help, we're going to win this election; with your help, we're going to conquer the next American frontier.

	Because the best America is not behind us.  The best America is yet to come.

ABORTIONCHILD CAREEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFAMILY LEAVE POLICYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMINIMUM WAGESUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     G      	   
 ˆ Ò Ï „ ÿ ÷ ò ç	 ± 	 © 	 ü 	  	 l 	 Q 	 9 	 - 	  e: