Speeches\1996\rep\S96r0914.002SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)09/14STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCCHRISTIAN COALITION ANNUAL MEETING1,806 WORDS

	Thank you. Thank you. We're going to go. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you.

	I was just riding by and saw all the cars and just happened to be in the neighborhood. I think there are more people here than there are in my hometown of Russell, Kansas. Pat tells me there are 48,000 people here.

	I want to welcome you to Bill Clinton's retirement party--this is one of them. Thank you. I've had the privilege of speaking here many times before, and my obligation in a moment will be to introduce another friend of yours.

	I'm sorry Elizabeth could not be here today, but I want--you know, she does a great job. She is so talented, Eleanor Roosevelt is trying to reach her. That's how talented she is.

	As I said, we have spoken here many times, and we've been inspired by what we see in the spirit of hope and fellowship and deep commitment to the future of this country, and that's really what this election is all about.

	I know as Jack and Joanne and Elizabeth and I travel the country, I can't tell you how much your support and encouragement and prayers mean to all of us. We understand your commitment. We understand your strength. We understand your potential. And I would ask you for your full and complete support every day--every day between now and November 5th, 1996, when we will have a new president-elect of the United States of America.

	And we certainly need strength beyond our own. And there is a strength that has carried probably all of us and myself through many of life's challenges. It's a strength that always reminds me daily as best expressed in Proverbs 3, verses 5 and 6: "Trust in the Lord with all thy heart, and lean not on thy own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy path." And that's the way we're going.

	So we are very excited about the election. I'm very excited about my running mate. Don't you think I made a good choice in Jack Kemp?

	And I'm not going to make--Jack is going to make a great speech--I'm not going to make his speech for him, but I did want to touch on just two or three things that I know you have a particular interest, and that I have a particular interest in.

	As I've said many times that this election is not about personalities. I consider President Clinton to be my opponent, not my enemy. I have a pretty good personal relationship with President Clinton. And I understand some of the things that he is for. I know he's flexible, adaptable--and if we have a good idea, he doesn't mind taking it from us. So, and in the Christian Coalition spirit we're happy that he takes the good things. But I have a big sign made up. It just says, "me too," and I put it over there, on my left, of course. And every time he takes another idea, we hold up our sign, "me too."

	And it just occurred to me after all these things, we have a big long list of all the things he's adopted from the "Contract with America." And he was out in Denver, Colorado two or three days ago, and he said, "I think we ought to test criminals and parolees for drugs." I had said that about four months earlier in Aurora, Colorado, and apparently he picked up the Aurora paper on the way out. But in any event, we appreciate that he can recognize a good idea. But I want to say a word or two about things he has failed to recognize so far, and where Jack and I differ.

	Just a word about the economy: I am convinced that we can cut taxes and balance the budget at the same time, and we are going to do it in a Dole-Kemp administration. And we are going to give that 15 percent across-the-board tax cut to every taxpayer in America. And former President Clinton will be eligible next year for it. We hope to pass it by April 15th, 1997.

	We are going to take that $500 tax credit that you've supported--strenuously, strongly, correctly--it's going to be part of our package. Every child under eighteen, a $500 tax credit. Simply have added one new wrinkle: if you have a newborn child after it takes effect, you can keep putting that $500 in the bank every year and earning interest tax-free. And then when they're old enough for college, you're going to have $17,000, $18,000, $20,000 which should pay about any tuition in America.

	And we're going to tell the families who work hard and have a small business or a small farm or a small ranch, if you work every day, if your family works with you every day, you shouldn't have to sell off part of the property to pay the state taxes. We're going to start giving estate-tax relief for the American people. And for those who want to create jobs and more opportunity for more people, we are going to cut the capital gains right in half--we are going to cut it in half. And that's only phase one. That is only phase one. Phase two, we'll have a flatter, fairer, simpler tax, and we'll end the IRS as we know it--make no mistake about it.

	Drugs. I remember when Nancy Reagan used to talk about drugs and used to tell parents and children and all those who would listen. You know the slogan: "Just say no." A lot of people ridiculed it. The liberal media ridiculed--the liberal [missing text] generally ridiculed it. You know what happened? Drug use went down. And it went down and down and down in the Reagan and Bush years. And now it's doubled in the first forty-four months of the Clinton administration. And on day one, when Bob Dole and Jack Kemp take office, we are going to declare war on drugs, and we are going to win the war on drugs this time, and we are going to cut it by 50 percent. And if necessary, we'll work with the governors to use the National Guard to stop this junk from coming across our borders in the first place, to stop the poison that is coming across in the first place.

	If we are going to get a handle on crime, teen pregnancy, drugs--all these things that threaten young people, we better take a look at education. We better break this hammerlock the unions and the bureaucrats have on education, and give the schools--and give the schools--we are going to give the schools back to the teachers and back to the parents. That's where they ought to be: back to the teachers and back to the parents.

	And we are going to have a five-year, fifteen-state, $15 billion demonstration program called Opportunity Scholarships, and it's going to be directed not towards rich parents or parents with power and prestige, but low-income parents and middle-income parents, so that they can have the same choice of school for their child or children as President Clinton has or Vice President Gore has or anybody else has. And I don't fault them for making that choice, but every American ought to have that choice for a better education.

	Many of us--myself included--probably stand here today because after our service in the armed forces we had an education, called the GI Bill of Rights--and they didn't tell us where to go to school, they gave us the money, and we decided where to go to school. We could go to public school or private school, a religious school--whatever. And it ought to be that way with Opportunity Scholarships.

	I'm a product of public schools; I'm not trying to threaten public schools. I want competition. I want choice--then all the schools are going to be better. And I can tell you a lot of public school teachers feel the same way. They feel the same way.

	And finally let me say--because I don't want to keep Jack waiting. He's on the five yard line now, and it's fourth down. We're on their five yard line, not ours--their five.

	When I get the partial-birth abortion bill, I'll sign it. I won't veto it. I'll sign it. Make no mistake about it. And I still believe if you continue to work you may yet persuade enough senators so we can override this terrible veto. This was a mistaken veto.

	And so I would thank you again for coming to Washington. I know some don't appreciate you, but we do. You do a great job for America--for America--that's what it's about--it's about America--not about Democrats, Republicans, Independents--about America.

	And I've never been involved in a more negative campaign. If you've watched the TV ads--you can't really avoid them, because they've got millions and millions of dollars--they've been spending millions and millions of dollars over the last several months--you would think Jack Kemp and Bob Dole are a couple of monsters against everything. We're against Medicare, we're against Social Security, we're against Medicaid, we're against veterans benefits, we're against children. We're for dirty air, dirty water, dirty meat. We have a hard time finding a crowd. Except the American people don't scare that easily--don't scare that easily.

	So there are two words to keep in mind in the next fifty-one days: trust and fear. You can trust us, and they're going to frighten you with fear. That's the only campaign--they don't have an agenda, they don't have an idea. They're going to try to frighten people--frighten senior citizens, frighten vulnerable groups, frighten farmers, veterans, whoever. I don't believe it will work. With your help I know it will not work. So we ask again for your support.

	And let me now introduce a man that I've known for a long time. And somebody said, "Well, Bob Dole will never pick Jack Kemp, because several years ago they disagreed on something." I couldn't remember what it was, so I picked him anyway.

	Jack Kemp has an outstanding record, a pro-family record, as you know, an outstanding record, a pro-growth record--grow the economy, create more jobs and more opportunities.

	I keep kidding Jack--say, "Jack, you need a little more enthusiasm." He's got more enthusiasm than anybody I've ever known. And he's doing a great job in this campaign.

	Dole-Kemp--two four-letter words you can teach your kids. D-O-L-E, K-E-M-P. Let me introduce the next vice president of the United States, Jack Kemp.
ABORTIONCAPITAL GAINS TAXDRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG TRADE--INTERDICTIONEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDPROPERTY TAXTAX REFORM     0( ü' ö' ò' è'
 à' Û' Ö' Ì' ¸' ¶' ”' ‰'	 à 	 Ø 	 Ç 	 £ 	 ‹ 	 Q 	 3 	  	 
 e: