Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0922.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/22STUMPROCHESTERNEW YORKNYPOST-CONVENTION DOWNTOWN RALLY SPEECH2024 WORDS

	Thank you very much Chairman Joe Crangell, County Chairman Larry Kirwin, Abe Chapman, Jim Colombo, Midge Castanza, who just led us in a great cheer, Frank Lamb, Sam Slotnik, and my fellow Americans: Now I come here to Rochester this afternoon with some very good news. It may be that the Gallup Poll shows us behind, but the Liberty Poll here in Rochester shows that we are going to win this election. For the past three weeks, while Mr. Nixon has been sitting smugly on his Gallup Poll behind the White House, I have been out across this country talking to the people of America--to the old people, the young people and to those in between, and everywhere I have gone all across this land, what I have thought is an almost desperate hunger on the part of the people of this land to make America once again the kind of a great and good and peaceful and just land that it ought to be.

	And when I hear the Republicans saying "four more years" my answer to that is that this great but very deeply troubled country simply cannot afford another four more years of Mr. Nixon and Mr. Agnew. We can't afford another four more years of unemployment and suppressed wages at the very time that the price of everything we buy is skyrocketing right through the ceiling--that we can't afford; and we can't afford the kind of an unfair tax structure that permits a $200,000-a-year corporate executive to deduct his $20 martini lunch from his taxes and the working men and women can't even deduct the price of a baloney sandwich; and there is something else we ought to remember in this very crucial election year. On October 9th, 1968, the man who now sits in the White House was campaigning for the presidency and he said to the American people those who could not bring peace in four years don't deserve another chance. And on October 9th, I am going to make a major address on the subject of peace marking the fourth anniversary of Mr. Nixon's promises in the '68 campaign and we are going to underscore that our only hope for returning this country to peace and to ending the destruction and the killing and the dying that is now going on--the only hope to return our prisoners of war to their homes is to replace the man who is now in the White House who has given us four more years of needless war.

	Now the Nixon administration has also given us a new lesson on the condition of the Republican Party in America. There has been somehow a notion around this country that if the Republicans had any special virtue it was that they were good and efficient managers. Perhaps that notion was based on the knowledge that they always bring so many big businessmen and bankers into the government. But the facts are that they never have adequately managed the economy of this country in the interest of the big majority of the people in this country. Those here in this audience who are older know all about the tragic depression of the Thirties, they know about the recession of the 1950s and the history books will devote another chapter to the new Republican invention of the last four years, which is an incredible combination of inflation and disastrous unemployment and the worst federal deficits that we have had in any four year period in the life of our country. And I think that disastrous combination of rising inflation, rising unemployment, increasing federal deficits, increasing welfare rolls that have gone up by six million people under Mr. Nixon--all of this demonstrates that on the great issues of the economy this administration has struck out these past four years.

	What this record confirms again is that we can really get along without government reports on jobs. All you would have to ask is who holds the White House and you would know that employment is going up when the Republicans are in power. That unemployment rate has been running between five and a half and six percent for the last three years--but those are questions of policies and priorities and I have always felt that under Republican leadership we could at least assume that if the government was run in the wrong direction that nevertheless it might be run efficiently. But this administration has disproved even that assumption. In the last couple of weeks we have seen Henry Kissinger, Secretary of State Rogers and the Justice Department in total disarray over whether or not Jimmy Hoffa was going to Hanoi on behalf of the prisoners. We have seen the Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Butz, and his subordinates disagreeing over whether in fact they tipped off the big grain traders at the expense of the farmers and the taxpayers of this country. We've seen the former Secretary of Commerce, now the Finance Director of the Republicans disagreeing with himself over whether he knew anything about the $114,000 that ended up in the Florida bank account of one of the men who invaded and wiretapped the Democratic National Committee. And I want to say on that score--do not take that incident lightly, because the political outfit that will wiretap and invade the headquarters of a major political party will not hesitate to wiretap your law office, your bank, your union office, or even your home and this is the real significance of the matter.

	We have also seen the President in recent months talking about the property tax relief and yet he says in the next breath there will be no changes in the federal income tax situation which prompted a leading Republican Senator, Senator Saxbe of Ohio, to say that this combination is less than honest. At the same time we have seen this administration in the past four years pile up an $80 billion federal deficit which represents one-fifth of the entire national debt accumulated ever since the days of George Washington and that, I submit, is not a very good record of fiscal management for the people of this land.

	Just yesterday we learned that Vice President Agnew got confused and announced an FBI investigation into the Russian Wheat sale at exactly the same time that Secretary Butz was saying "there is nothing wrong with the deal and no investigation is needed." Now it so happens that the Vice President outranks the Secretary of Agriculture, so the White House covered Mr. Agnew and ordered the FBI into action and I assume that it may be sometime after November 7th before we learn the facts on what really happened on this deal with wheat with the Soviet Union.

	And, finally, we saw last night on television another case in which Mr. Agnew was poorly briefed and I personally see no humor in that situation at all. He expressed publicly before a large audience and before the television audiences of this nation questions about why I have compassion for civilians who have been killed in the war in Vietnam. He talks about the outrage of feeling compassion for men, women and children who have been killed by American bombs in North Vietnam. But what he apparently did not see was the picture that I suspect most Americans remember of a little nine-year-old girl by the name of Kim running naked, her clothes aflame, from a school that had been bombed, not in North Vietnam but in South Vietnam, and the picture of that little child running in flames and terror and pain right into the lens of the camera I submit is a picture that would touch the heart of any thoughtful American any place in this land. Mr. Agnew apparently has not heard the grim statistics that come to us from some of our Congressional committees which tell us of 400,000 civilians dead or 900,000 civilian dead and those are in South Vietnam. He apparently does not know that there are six million refugees from the war living in hovels or miserable refugee centers and dying from hunger and disease--all of them in South Vietnam. He does not know that the bombs have fallen the heaviest--not on North Vietnam, but on the countries we supposedly went in to save--South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. He apparently does not know that more civilians, more old men and women, boys and girls have died from our actions in those countries than any other cause. Now I say to the Vice President I do not apologize for my compassion toward any human being and we are all human and we all live or die on the same planet.

	And I say to the Vice President that he has a lot to learn about the character of this spectacle. And then let me put it straight to you, Mr. Agnew, don't you dare question my patriotism. I have carried the ache of this war on my mind for almost ten years and I mourn for the young Americans who have given their lives in this struggle and for those hundreds of other young Americans who still sit in their prison cells in Hanoi and I mourn too for the children of Asia who have died for they, too, feel pain and their mothers weep for their fallen sons. Now we Democrats have had our problems these past weeks but none of our spokesmen have turned their backs on the terror and the tragedy of this war; none of our officials have been indicted for wrongdoing; we have not offered any lies about our plans and our programs and our hopes for this country, and we haven't cost the taxpayers a single dime or left any rich person richer at the expense of ordinary people.

	Now these are the things we ask the American people to consider when they make their judgment next fall. We ask you to remember that our party--the Democratic Party--is committed in its platform and committed with all of the force and conviction that I can bring to bear in this campaign, that if we win this election we are going to take whatever steps are necessary to see to it that there is a decent job for every man and woman in America who is able to work. We are going to see to it that every old person in this country, living now, many of them, in loneliness and poverty and neglect--we are going to see that those older years are not times of heartache and loneliness, but that this great country at long last provides a decent and dignified assistance to every old person in this country.

	And we are going to see to it that instead of a leadership that divides and confuses and appeals to what is mean and base in our natures that we have a leadership that calls on what is good and decent and honorable in the American people. This is not radicalism; it is, in fact, a plea to the people of our country to live by the great principles with which we began some two centuries ago. In World War II, some twenty-seven years ago, I served as the pilot of a B-24 bomber. We were hit one day by a heavy anti-aircraft barrage over a very dangerous target in central Europe, and it appeared for a while that we would not be able to make it back, and the crew was on the verge of bailing out. But we assessed the damage and decided that we could make it back to our base and so I gave this order: "Resume your stations, we are going to bring this plane home." Now here this afternoon I would like to say to everyone in this marvelous audience that has gathered here and to all others who share our love for America and our passion for peace and justice: resume your stations, we are going to bring America home.
AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONBUDGET DEFICITCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECONDUCT OF LIFE--PATRIOTISMELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCEINFLATIONPROPERTY TAXUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVIETNAM WARWATERGATE     Ù, ¥, Ÿ, ›, “,
 ‡, ‚, }, t, l, j, E, ;,	 É 	 Ÿ 	 ‘ 	 p 	 U 	 > 	 5 	 ) 	  	 	 e: