Speeches\1988\rep\S88R0913.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)09/13STUMPCHICAGOILLINOISILEXECUTIVE'S CLUB3443 WORDS

	I am dedicated to a new vision of a better America. It's a vision of hope for a safer and more peaceful world, a world already in the making. It's a vision of a gentler America, our values strong, a country richer for diversity. And it is a vision of more economic growth for America, built on the achievements of the past eight years and expanded to those who have not yet enjoyed it.

	I want to talk today about that economic growth. About the challenges we face in a fast-changing world as we near--not just a new decade, but a new century. About our economy and how to keep it strong.

	Let me begin with my personal perspective. A few years after World War II, I started my own business. It was a small business but not too small to learn the facts of economic life, in the real American economy. I got my start by taking a risk; and I got my education by making that company grow.

	Our company, Zapata Offshore, did take risks. There was a new technology, unproven, full of half-starts and failures, for offshore drilling. We took a gamble; we invested in that technology and we succeeded in pioneering a new way to find America's energy. In 12 years, Zapata grew from a few employees to 425, from assets of $1.5 million to $15.8 million. It wasn't always easy, even in the years we did well. I recall the sense of despair when things went wrong. A hurricane hit our brand new rig on its first location--it had totally disappeared.

	But I learned some very important things. I learned the value of creating jobs. And I learned firsthand what risk-taking means. When that rig went down, people lost their jobs. When we rebuilt, people went back to work. I saw the strain on families and I saw the joy. A job is more than a source of income. It is a source of pride. A source of meaning in one's life. We often seem to debate statistics in this country; but I don't take lightly the creation of jobs as the central goal for a government and the central issue in this campaign. Because every job means something, frankly, that's why I am so proud of the record of the past eight years. 

	I also learned something else: what it takes to compete in business. Because when it came to competitiveness we took a back seat to no one. Nobody.

	I feel that starting a new business, meeting a payroll, taking risks, and creating jobs in the private sector are good criteria for being president.

	Entrepreneurs, risk takers, and job builders are optimists. I am an optimist about America's future.

	It was in this spirit of optimism that eight years ago President Reagan and I set out to take an economy flat on its back, give it the right tonic--a good dose of lower taxes and deregulation--and get it back on its feet.

	But the pessimists said it couldn't be done.

	Now, eight years later, let's do a little arithmetic.

	The pessimists said in 1981 that you couldn't cut interest rates from 21.5 percent. We cut them in half. Pessimists--zero. The American people--one.

	The pessimists said inflation could not be beaten. It was 13.5 percent in 1980, now it's down to 4.5 percent. Pessimists--zero. The American people--two.

	The pessimists said unemployment would rise, that the economy couldn't create enough good jobs--and we've created almost 18 million in six years. This year, unemployment reached a fourteen-year low. Pessimists--zero. The American people--three.

	I don't have to tell you which side our opponents were on in those years. That's why the Democrats struck out in 1980, that's why they struck out in 1984 and that's why they're going to strike out again in 1988.

	Let's remember that today, when the prophets of pessimism are again heard in the land. The jobs, say the pessimists, they're not good enough. The trends, say the pessimists, they're worrisome. The international competition, say the pessimists, it's too tough.

	They are saying this about the country with the world's largest GNP, where the majority of new jobs are in occupations averaging over $22,000, where our manufacturing sector is performing near capacity with its productivity way up, where we export more goods and services than any other country in the world. We're the biggest producers of computers and aircraft. We're the technological leader in many areas--including scientific instruments, telecommunications equipment, computers and genetics. We are literally the engine that has driven world economic growth for the past six years.

	These aren't just statistics. Americans can feel and touch and bank upon the prosperity brought by the longest running peacetime economic expansion in our history. And the average personal income after taxes is at an all time high.

	Americans at every income level are certifiably better off than they were in 1981. Real family incomes for each income group of the population fell under Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. They have grown under Ronald Reagan and George Bush. It's that simple.

	So the next time somebody tells you that America is declining, tell 'em to put away the 1980 calendar. This is 1988. America is a rising nation again.

	But what of the future? Will our children and our grandchildren be able to do better? Will a good education and their own homes and good communities be part of their lives? Will America's economy keep growing? The answer to these questions is "yes." Yes, if we understand the new forces affecting our economy and the world. And yes, if our policies are guided by principles that work--the principles which have brought us success in these past eight years. Expansions don't die from old age; they die from bad policies.

	Our economy is being shaped today by five forces, each of which poses both opportunities and risks for our country.

	First, free market ideas are taking hold around the world. Wherever you look--south of our border, Europe, Africa, the Pacific Rim--socialism and other forms of intrusive government are discredited. Even the Communist nations are changing their ways. China is in transition. We're seeing the beginning of it now in the Soviet Union.

	The driving force for the spread of market-driven ideas is none other than the United States of America. We are seen as the model that works--which makes it all the more imperative to stick with our successful program. Now that the whole world is experimenting with more economic freedom and lower tax rates, it would be ludicrous for us to go the other way. Yet that is exactly what many in the other party propose. Industrial policy. More government planning. Have the government pick winners and losers. And always higher taxes.

	Second, America is part of a highly competitive global economy. It wasn't so long ago that Americans didn't worry too much about foreign competition or about foreign markets. All of that has changed. Look around. The results are more goods, more variety at lower prices. These are good for consumers.

	Still, we've got to recognize that competition can breed friction, hostilities, and fears. A new economic isolationism is in the air--the wrongheaded and incorrect idea that nations can limit each other's trade without inviting harm to everyone. Again, there are voices in the other party calling for this kind of protectionism; and the newspapers now report that my opponent is headed in this direction--the wrong direction.

	Third, we're in the midst of a major technological revolution. It's been called another industrial revolution, this explosion of communications and information, of changes in materials and genetics and other fields we barely knew about a few years ago. It's the age of portable technology and fast-flowing capital. Factories and financing can be moved around the globe and no nation has a monopoly on innovation.

	These changes put a premium on flexibility, ingenuity, and openness to change--historic American strengths. They also put a premium on the preparedness of the workforce--and we must make sure that that remains an American strength.

	That brings me to my fourth point: The work we do is changing and the skills we need are changing with it. The fastest growing part of our economy is the so-called services sector. Our opponents criticize these jobs as menial, as lacking dignity. Not true! Most of those are skilled jobs--computer operators, engineering, financial services. That calls for a better educated, better trained work force.

	But that's not all. We've seen in industry after industry that management and the workers are forging a new relationship--where both sides play a more productive role in product development and quality. Education doesn't stop with the diploma. It goes on continuously.

	And we've seen that productivity is enhanced when workers share in the success of the company. Profit sharing and employee stock ownership plans work.

	Fifth, international economic institutions are adapting to new circumstances. As the new global economy has developed, the institutions created in an earlier era--such as the International Monetary Fund, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and the World Bank--have had to change, too. It's a new international economic system out there, one where leadership will make a difference. We continue to be looked to for leadership and we have continued to lead. The United States has an obligation to lead--both to itself and to the world.

	That's the world we face. Tremendous opportunities for greater economic growth are coming our way, and tremendous risks if our policies are wrong. The United States--with the largest and freest market, the greatest concentration of talent and capital--can and must seize the future. We will determine our own economic destiny, through action or inaction. My bias is toward action.

	I intend to discuss economic issues throughout this campaign. But my economic plans share this in common: They will be guided by four principles that will put our economy on the road to greater economic growth for all Americans.

	The first principle is the most important: no tax increases. We cut taxes in 1981, and it worked. 17.8 million new jobs in this recovery. Productivity up. Factories at near capacity. Give people the incentive to work and they will. This summer, help wanted signs hung all over this country. When the other party was in power, black teenagers had a hard time getting a summer job--now employers have trouble finding kids for summer work.

	The surest way to kill the recovery is to raise taxes. That will stifle everything from investment and personal savings to consumer spending. It will clamp down on growth. It will invite a recession.

	Yet that's exactly what many in the other party want to do--raise taxes.

	My opponent called our tax cuts "one of the worst bills Congress could ever have passed." He said they "virtually destroyed our position in the world." I don't know where he's been while America's economy was booming, but he clearly missed the point.

	There is no reason why the government has to take an ever-increasing share of our resources. Americans are not undertaxed. Taxes are about 19.4 percent of GNP, close to the record for the past forty years and still higher than the 18.3 percent they were in the 1970s. But spending is 23 percent of GNP, also near the record high.

	So let's not fool ourselves. We've got to work that deficit down the old-fashioned way, by controlling government spending.

	I've proposed a flexible freeze, under which total government spending can increase, but only at the rate of inflation. Social security, which is a solemn bond between the generations, and interest payments would be exempt. Put on that freeze and the deficit will come down.

	It can be done, as shown by the fact that, with the help of Gramm-Rudman, the increase in all government spending has been held to an annual average of about 4 percent from 1986 to 1988--and the deficit has come down.

	Principle number two: spread economic growth. That means jobs and more jobs--productive, well-paying jobs.

	I want to spread economic growth. That's why I proposed an energy plan to take our key energy sector out of the doldrums and assure us the abundant domestic supplies we need. That's why I'm talking about rural enterprise zones and greater agricultural exports for our farmers--and urban enterprise zones to revitalize cities from Newark to the South Side of Chicago to Watts.

	And I want to prepare the way for future growth. I want to keep America in the forefront of innovation. That's why I want a permanent extension of the R&D tax credit.

	Most of all, I want to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit that is the source of so many new jobs in America. Small business was the source of two-thirds of the new jobs created during this expansion. When Congress cut the maximum tax rate on capital gains in 1978, the result was an explosion of new companies. Senator Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts--who voted against the cut--later told the Senate that that bill "did more for the economy of my state than anything I did as a Congressman." With a capital gains differential, new businesses started and more, not less, but more money flowed into the US Treasury.

	So I believe we should cut the capital gains tax again--not to help the rich, as my opponent speciously claims--but to create jobs for everyone.

	The third principle is economic empowerment. The strength of our economy comes from the people, not from the Government, from the creativity and initiative of the individual, not from official directives, five-year plans and so-called "industrial policies."

	The fact is that every experiment with more government management of the economy results only in more bureaucracy, more paperwork, less competitive industry and an America shackled to the mistakes of the past.

	Yet some people manage to forget these truths. My opponent is one of them. He tells each stop on this Magical Mystery Tour that he will help them by creating what he calls a "Fund to Rebuild America." All you need to do is to make a small down payment--$500 million dollars--to get those industrial planning technocrats to work in Washington.

	My opponent calls this kind of government, the "helping hand."

	Well, where is the helping hand reaching? Right for your wallet. What will pay for that helping hand? Your money. And who is being helped? Not you. It's government in Washington picking the "winners and losers." And what kind of lasting jobs are going to be produced by this partnership? Only the kind that endure on the public payroll.

	This isn't a helping hand; it's the same old heavy hand of government. And just wait until Congress gets its hands on this pork barrel. The hand will get heavier and heavier.

	We've spent eight years lightening government's touch. The last thing we need now is a government slap in the face to slow down our economy.

	I'll tell you the kind of government that really helps. A government that makes sure that equal opportunities are available to all Americans who want to work for them. A government that understands that the real job-creating machines are the small and medium size businesses.

	I must say I was a little surprised by one of the many tax increases my opponent recently enacted in Massachusetts. He raised taxes on small business.

	One small businessman, a former supporter of his, wrote in a business journal that "it is an action that speaks louder than the words used on the campaign trail... What a shame that [he] would snuff out innovation and hard work and creativity by snuffing out the rewards by doubling taxation"--a sad lament indeed, direct from a small businessman in Taxachusetts.

	I believe in a government that sees the economic empowerment of individual Americans as the key to our prosperity in the future. And let me just say: 60 percent of the new jobs we've created were filled by women.

	Education and childcare are so important. Underprivileged kids need Head Start--and I've proposed to expand that program. Yes, economic empowerment of individual Americans is the key to our bright future. That's why all kids need higher academic standards and stronger values. That's why I believe we should have a College Savings Bond plan to help families save for college.

	That's why we need economic empowerment for those working in industries in transition, for the unemployed, and for single parent households. Proven job programs like Dan Quayle's JTPA are the way to do it.

	Education. Skills. Work. Opportunity. That's what built this country. That's what will build it in the future.

	Now, principle number four: American international leadership. In the real world, not the world of the pessimists, we are now positioned for the greatest expansion of free trade yet. The major imbalances of the past decade, including our trade gap, are changing. America's exports are booming. The trade gap has dropped at a rate of $40 billion over the last year.

	We've reached a new agreement with Canada that liberalizes trade and investment between our two nations--the world's largest trading partners. We've forged a new system of policy coordination with six other major industrialized nations that has helped sustain economic growth--with low inflation--while reducing trade imbalances. With debtor nations, we've worked on the only realistic way out of the problem--economic reforms that will help them grow. Finally, in the GATT negotiations, we are working to adjust international rules of free trade to reflect changes in the global economy--the growth of services, protecting intellectual property, expanding agricultural trade, opening up investment.

	Now is not the time for Americans or for our trading partners to take refuge in "economic patriotism"--that's the stealth candidate's term for protectionism. Don't we remember what happened the last time this was tried in the 1930s--policies which wrecked the world economy? History and our own experience teach us that protectionism hurts us as much as it hurts others. We need to compete, not retreat.

	We need to build on our agreement with Canada by developing a new, special economic relationship with Mexico. We need to develop new ties--based on open markets--with the booming nations of the Pacific Rim.

	We need to make sure that the 1992 integration of the European Community lives up to its great growth potential for the world, not just Europe.

	No trading partner of the United States will succeed with the attitude that I'll compete in your market but you can't compete in mine. It's free and fair trade for us all. Everybody. As president, I'll see to that.

	A Bush administration will work to knock down barriers that keep American goods and services out. No exceptions. No excuses.

	Those are my principles: no tax increases; solid, far reaching growth; individual empowerment; and international economic leadership. And here is my vision: America's low-tax, high-opportunity policies leading the world into a new era of economic growth.

	One hundred and fifty years ago, a young Frenchman was sent by his government to scout out commercial possibilities in the United States. His name was Alexis de Tocqueville. He didn't turn up much in the way of business, but he left us a work of genius called "Democracy in America." Those early Americans, he observed, were eager for change, self-confident in their ability to master the future.

	They were economic activists and they looked to themselves for success. That spirit of self-confidence, of adventure--not only our resources--brought us to world leadership. Everywhere, whether in the schools, the boardroom, the factory floor, the thousands of small and big places throughout this land, you will find the same spirit today. We're all engaged in the great adventure of the new global economy, which we did so much to create and from which we can benefit greatly.

	That's the spirit I will invoke as president. The spirit of economic activism, of looking to the future. The American spirit expanding our economic horizons for the next century beyond anything we've imagined. That's our competitive advantage, and I won't let anyone take it away from us.

	Thank you. 

BUSINESS, SMALL--TAXATIONCONDUCT OF LIFE--BUSINESS EXPERIENCEENTREPRENEURSHIPFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE AGREEMENTSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINVENTION/INNOVATIONJOB GROWTH/CREATIONPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYTAXATION--GENERALECONOMY--GENERALFREE MARKET ECONOMIESGLOBAL ECONOMY     ›P gP aP ]P SP
 KP FP AP :P 2P 0P  P P	 ?	 &	 	 ò 	 Å 	 ­ 	 ˜ 	 „ 	 q 	 Z 	 D  3  #   e: