Speeches\1984\dem\S84d0917.003SPEECH1984DemocratMONDALE (D)09/17STUMPCLEVELANDOHIOOHLTV STEEL2,460 WORDS

	Today, I wanted to come here within the view of a steel plant to talk about steel, to talk about jobs, and to talk about the industrial base of this country.

	Mr. Reagan doesn't want to talk about it and I don't blame him, because his policies are turning our great industrial Midwest and the industrial base of this good country of ours into a Rust Bowl.  I'm not going to let it happen.  And I'm here today to say:  "We're going to turn this around."

	I came here today to talk about our future, a future that includes all Americans.  For our communities, economic growth means steady, long-term prosperity.  For workers, it means decent jobs.  For young couples just starting out, it means a chance to raise their families.  For children, it means the promise of a better future.  For our seniors, it means a secure and dignified retirement.

	Steady economic growth doesn't just happen.  It requires leadership.  It requires a plan.  That's the difference between Mr. Reagan and myself.  I have stood up; I've looked you in the eye; and I've told you what I'm going to do.  I've told it specifically because I trust the American people to take ideas, pass their own judgment and do what's best for this country.  I've told you how I'm going to get these deficits down.  And I will.  It is a plan that is fair to working Americans.  It is a plan that builds our future.  It's a plan that protects our senior citizens and our children.  It is a plan that is American because it is fair, it is practical, it builds our future and it's based on a leader who will come to you and tell you the truth before the election and not after the election.

	Mr. Reagan won't tell you what he's going to do.  This is a campaign of cameo appearances.  This is a Hollywood celluloid campaign that's running away from the facts.  I meet with discouraged farmers in Jackson, Tennessee, and work a plan up to put them back on their feet.  He goes to Nashville and meets with Minnie Pearl.  I go to senior citizens in Tupelo, Mississippi, and talk about Social Security and Medicare that they're going to go after.  He goes to Buffalo, New York, and dedicates a senior citizens' high-rise that wouldn't have been built if he had his way.

	Mr. President, the Americans know what you're doing.  You can run, but you can't hide.

	We must invest in our future--to have the best education, the best science; to make certain that this next generation of children is the best educated in our history.  I have laid out my plans to see that that happens.  Mr. Reagan won't tell you a thing.  To secure our future, we must have the most efficient, modern basic industry in the world.  I have a plan to do that.  Mr. Reagan won't talk about it.  In fact, he's presided over the virtual dismantling of the basic industrial base of our country.

	Just this last week, I met with the leaders of the machine-tool industry in Chicago.  Ohio's a great machine-tool state.  And they told me that in four years the machine-tool industry in the United States has gone from number one to number four--now behind the Soviet Union.  And basic names in the machine tool industry that we've relied on for one-hundred years told me that the name will still be on the product, but the result of Reaganomics is that more and more of those jobs in the future are going to go overseas.

	We cannot continue this way if we're going to defend ourselves.  We cannot continue this way if we're going to have a healthy economy.  There will not be a future for our children unless the jobs are here; the future is here; the ideas, the growth, the industrial development is here.  And that's the difference between a Reagan administration and a Mondale administration.  I'm going to build our country.

	Just look at the steel industry.  No industry is more important to our defense or to our economy.  Somebody just told me about the products that the steel produced here goes into.  All across our nation's defense, products produced in this plant, strengthened America.  It is a part of our nation's defense.  It is essential to construction, to appliances, to automobiles.

	Well, in 1980, Mr. Reagan--when he was on his last cameo tour--went to Youngstown.  And he said this to a group of steelworkers:  "I won't forget you."  Well, first time, his fault; second time, your fault--right?  And he didn't forget them until the election was over.  Under Mr. Reagan, the steel industry hasn't just gone into decline; it's plunged into a crisis.  He says he's got a perception problem--and he does.  He can't see you at all, and you can see right through him.

	Well, he forgot you, and it's now your turn to forget him on November 6.  Under Mr. Reagan, employment in steel has dropped nearly half.  The industry has lost $6 billion.  The industry has operated at only 50 percent of capacity during much of his administration, and imports have flooded from 15 to 34 percent of the total national market.

	Mr. Reagan's do-nothing record on American steel during the last four years can be summed up in three words:  Let it rust.  Well, we're not going to accept that.  Mr. Reagan's budget deficits distorted our dollar, and swamped us with foreign imports.  Mr. Reagan's deficits put a 30 percent tax on everything produced by an American and a 30 percent subsidy on everything produced by our foreign competition--and started destroying the industrial base.  And it's giving farmers the worst year in their history.  When imports made us the world's dumping ground for excess steel, he did nothing.  Now, they should just listen to Walter Mondale.  There's been study after study by his own government, by independent experts and they care about what's happening here.  More and more, American business is not competing with foreign business.  You've been there.  You are competing with foreign governments and foreign treasuries.  That's what's going on increasingly.

	In my state, nearly all of the iron miners are unemployed.  You've got some plants up there--modern iron oxidizing plants--half empty or not being used at all.  What was the answer of this administration?  They took $400 million of taxpayers' money to open up a massive new iron-ore plant in Brazil.

	At four consecutive international economic conferences, Mr. Reagan did not bring up the steel problem once, even with our industrial friends around the world.  He offered no proposals--only photo-opportunities.  And when families, communities, and entire regions that depend upon steel were in agony, his response amounted to official cruelty.  Why do I use words like "official cruelty"?  Because I grew up with steelworkers.  I've been on that iron range.  Elden Kirsch is here from Twin Cities.  And I know what it's like to love a community, to have your church, your schools and your friends, everything you want to do, everything your life stands for is in that community.   And when that plant closes down, they close down your life right along with it.  And I know the difference.

	The issue here is not just economics.  It's a human issue.  An issue of decency--of fairness--of caring--of knowing what's going on.  They destroyed the Trade Adjustment Assistance Program, slashed help for unemployment and training, reduced unemployment benefits, and for those who didn't like it, they said:  "Vote with your feet."

	Well, we're going to vote all right, and then you can use your feet and take yourself right back to Los Angeles.

	All my life I've worked with you.  We're fellow Midwesterners.  We know what's happening to our future and the industrial base.

	Mr. Reagan may let other countries take advantage of our open markets, violate our trade laws, and export our jobs overseas, but I will not let that happen.  I'm going to stand up for America.

	Mr. Reagan may let our steel industry decline, but I will not.  I say we must have a world-class steel industry, not one on a life-support system.  We must rebuild and modernize, not prop up and bail out.  Mr. Reagan says,  "We can't do that."  I say, "We must."  And I know what I'm talking about.  Remember the Chrysler situation a few years ago.  Half a million jobs, communities all over the country, and that basic part of the auto industry was about to go under.  Mr. Reagan said, "Let it go."  I said, We've got to give these people a chance".  And we passed the Chrysler package.  And we got labor and management and government together--and look what happened in just a couple of years.  The loan was not only repaid; we made billions of dollars of profits directly and indirectly as a people.  A half a million jobs were saved.  Chrysler is now profitable--paying taxes.  We've got a more competitive industrial base.  Reagan said no.  I said yes.  There's a big difference, and it symbolizes the future of this country.  What we did with the Wheeling-Pittsburgh plant is an example.  A few months ago we were out at a Wheeling-Pitt plant in Pennsylvania.  That plant was going under.  Now it's the most modern in the world.

	The time has come to rebuild the United States.  We rebuilt Western Europe.  We rebuilt Japan.  Now is the time to rebuild the United States of America.  As a president, I will take the American Steel industry and help make it competitive and modern again.  Here's my plan.

	Number one, we will convene a steel committee, that we once had representing business, labor and government.  And as president, I'll send our best person to sit at that table.  We will hammer out a plan that will give us a modern competitive steel industry that we must have.  And I will tell the committee everyone must contribute.  We will do what's necessary to build the American steel industry.  And management and labor must do their fair share, too.

	Second, as part of my plan, I will restrict imports for five years to give the industry a chance to raise capital, modernize, and invest.  Last month, imports hit 34 percent of the U.S. steel market.  I will cut that in half, and even there, we will still be the most open steel market in the world.

	Under Mr. Reagan, imports have doubled.  I will return it to where it was before he took office and get on with the future of our country.  I will ensure that our plants boost competitiveness.  I will support import restrictions in exchange for specific commitments for price restraint by management and labor.

	Third, I will insist that management commit itself to reinvest every added dollar it gets in modern plants and equipment in the steel industry.  What you mention here is the future of our country.  We're not going to compete with these other more competitive countries unless we get modern and get with it--with continuing casting, basic oxygen furnaces.  Most of those ideas are ours anyway.

	A few years ago I went through a steel plant in Japan that makes enormous oil and gas pipes.  And they had a huge press there for the used and old pipes.  In about two minutes a piece of sheet plate would come out as a modern pipe.  And I asked them, I said:  "Boy," I said, "you're sure ahead of the curve.  Where'd you get that idea?"  They said, "Chicago."  That's it.  American ideas producing jobs somewhere else.  I want American ideas--the best, the most modern--producing jobs right here in the United States for citizens of our great country.

	My plan would be comprehensive.  Changes in antitrust laws, research and development, job security, retraining funds, targeted aid for hard-hit communities--all of this must be part of the plan that's fair to workers, beneficial to the industry, and good for America.  I will lead this country in a plan that reduces the federal deficit by two-thirds.  That will reduce the appeal of cheap imports, and that will make American exports soar.  Don't forget the steel that you produced.  We want it in Caterpillar; we want it in our machine tools--and we want American exports around the world back up again where we're number one in the world.  And we want a plan where we make ourselves competitive.  And that means getting that deficit down and doing it fairly and responsibly, and that's what I will do as president of the United States.

	Now this week, under law, Mr. Reagan is required to speak to this issue, and I predict that he'll give you a plan to get himself by the election.  I've given you a plan to build America's future.  I am providing leadership.  He's providing salesmanship.  And the American people know the difference, and they know what we need to build our future.

	This is a close election.  We're behind now.  And we gotta win by telling the facts--by telling the difference between the future the two of us propose for America.

	We need a president who keeps us strong but uses that strength to keep the peace and to control those god-awful weapons before they destroy us all.

	We need a president who means to get these shameful deficits down, to restore our industrial base, to invest again in our future with education, and learning and science and training.  And we need a president who will lead us there.  We need a president who does it fairly.  Mark my words--and the senators and the members of Congress will stand with me and agree with this.

	In 1980, Mr. Reagan promised the American people that if he was elected, he would protect Social Security, adjust inflation, and he would protect Medicare.  You remember that?  And right after the election he took a big meat ax out.  He tried to cut $80 billion out of Social Security.  And right now he's trying to virtually repeal Medicare.  Of all the insensitive, uncaring and cruel ways to try to save money, it is to charge more for senior citizens when they're in the hospital and they're sick.  I will not permit that kind of upside down, unfair policy in America.

	In 1980, he promised to be with you.  In 1981, he was against you.  As I said, "First time, his fault; second time, your fault."  This time it's the second time.  We know the difference.  Let's carry Ohio, carry the Midwest, and carry the White House to the people of this country again.

	Thank you very much.

FOREIGN TRADE--GENERALMANUFACTURING--PLANT MODERNIZATIONMANUFACTURINGSTEEL INDUSTRY     ç7 ³7 ­7 ©7 ¡7
 –7 ‘7 Œ7 ƒ7 7 }7 t7 i7	 S 	 =     e: