Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1002.004SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/02STUMPPEORIAILLINOISIL2827 WORDS

	I'm going to talk with you about a single subject tonight.  This subject is the shouted assertion that seems to be the administration answer to every question raised in this campaign.  That assertion is--"You never had it so good!"  That is their over-ready excuse.  And it is false.

	When confronted with the mess in Washington--administration, spokesmen say, "What if it is a little messy?  You never had it so good!"

	And when confronted with what their policy of high taxes and high prices for things you buy is doing to the family budget, they say, "What if taxes and prices are high--you still never had it so good."

	And so it goes.  To its endless record of failure, the answer is always the same.

	But let us suppose that we are foolish to worry about lack of progress towards peace, about stupendous expenditure programs, about high taxes, about a cheapening dollar, about corruption in high and low places in government.  Let us suppose that all these matters are not as serious as we think.  Suppose they don't bother us.

	Tonight I want to ask you another question.  Why shouldn't we have it better?

	Has it ever occurred to you, for example, that you might be earning the money you are making today--and more--but that your earnings could go farther when you spend them?

	Has it ever occurred to you that you might be earning the same pay that you are today--and more--and that your take-home pay--after taxes--might be larger than it is today?

	Tonight I shall not take time to expose the falsity of the cry, "You never had it so good," but I do want to put this question up to you--"How would you like to have it better?"

	In the American scheme of things, it's never been our goal simply to keep things as they are.  We have always looked ahead to something better.  We began striving a couple of hundred years ago for a better way of life, and unless we've lost that basic American virtue, we'll keep right on striving for something better.


	Some of the government figures sound impressive when we hear the Washington bureaucrats argue that we live in a paradise of their making.  But what's happening to your bills and to your savings is another story.  Everyone who works for a living today knows that he's on a treadmill--no matter how hard he runs, he has a hard time standing still.

	Here's a part of a letter I received just a day or so ago from a bus driver in Maryland.  He was telling me how he was getting along with the Fair Deal and this is what he wrote:

	"For a while it looked like everything was working fine.  The cost of living would go up a little, but wages would go up a little bit more.  Taxes would clip the pay check a little, but not too much.  But then the cost of living caught up with and passed the wage raises and the tax bite got deeper and deeper.  And this rat race keeps going on and on.  Unless there is a change we will all be plowed under along with the pigs and potatoes."

	The administration spokesmen aren't fooling that Maryland bus driver.  And I don't believe they're going to fool you.

	If it is true you never had it so good, one thing is certain:  Under this administration or its heirs, you'll never have it any better.  You'll never get out of the squeeze you're in today.

	The administration economists are victims of a Maginot line mentality.  Their thinking is depression thinking.  They can talk only of how badly off people were 20 years ago.  They cannot shake off the fears those memories inspire.  In their minds, today can be measured only against the day before yesterday.

	I do not propose to talk tonight as if the American people had not lived through a great depression.  Its causes were many, and its costs in human distress were terrible.

	It is our pledge that the full power of government and every national resource will be devoted to seeing that it shall never again happen in America.

	I propose to show you tonight that whatever economic gains have been made since 1932 have been due, not to administration ingenuity, but to war or threat of war.  And I also propose to show you that a future under a completely changed administration is actually the only way to get off the national treadmill that keeps the people of this nation standing still while giving them the illusion of moving forward.

	To begin with, America today represents the most startling economic fact in the whole world--7 percent of the people of the world, 8 percent of the world's land area, almost 50 percent of the world's industrial production.

	This tremendous productivity has given us by long odds the highest standard of living in the world.

	The party in power during the last 20 years blandly assures us that they planned it that way.

	I think we ought to seek a more informed explanation.  We should examine the real basis of prosperity, and not accept at face value the stories ground out by the propaganda mills in Washington.

	The American economy, ever since the founding of the nation, has produced decade after decade a steady improvement in the living standards of its people under peacetime conditions.

	Today the party in power is attempting to take credit for all improvement in living standards during its twenty-year regime.  The blunt fact is that the only improvement achieved in these twenty Democrat years was during the five-year period of World War II.

	It would be grossly unfair to try to put all blame for World War II on the party in power.  It is equally unfair, and grossly inaccurate, for the party in power to take political credit for war-created economic gains.

	When the early settlers came to this land, the natural resources were already here.  The timber, the coal, the iron, the oil, the rich soil, were all here before the Americans came--and long before the present administration came.

	Other lands were blessed with natural resources as great as ours.

	What was it, then, that enabled us to take these abundant resources and create from them wealth surpassing anything the world has ever seen?

	It was an idea, an idea which the early Americans dared to put to work.  The idea was that man can be trusted with his own freedom to seek his own happiness.

In pursuit of this idea, we set up the first government in history that was not the final judge of its own powers.  That judge was the people themselves.  We set up a government empowered to represent the people, but not to take charge of them.  The formula was for the government to help the people to help themselves.

I have spoken of the steady growth of America and of the steady gain in living standards.  Since 1880, when the railroads first made America into a single economic unit, our economic expansion has meant an average gain of nearly 2 percent a year in terms of what economists call "real output per person."  In other words, our production has increased faster than our population.  As a result, our standard of living has been gaining at a rate that doubles itself every 40 years.

This growth has represented the material side of our American heritage.  In view of our nation's resources and the ingenuity and skills of our people, we are entitled to continue to grow.  But under the party now in power this expansion, except for the spurt during World War II, has stopped.

If we look closely at the last twenty Democrat years we find a startling thing.  1929 was the last year in which we enjoyed prosperity in a time of peace.  From then until 1939, when World War II began, our economy showed no growth whatsoever in real output per person.

The New Deal never actually solved the unemployment problem.  In 1939, after seven years of New Deal doctoring, 9-1/2 million Americans were still out of work.  This is the figure that the administration ever since has tried to fuzz over.  They would like to have you believe that they solved the unemployment problem prior to World War II.

While our government was failing to get people back to work, the nations of Western Europe were doing a better job.  Yet the depression originally bore more heavily on them than on us and their unemployed made up an even greater percentage of their working population.

Then came World War II.  Under its stimulus, America's production soared and unemployment disappeared.

World War II did what the New Deal was unable to do.  War not only "solved" the unemployment problem.  Our country's danger quickly mobilized the incentives of all the American people--something the administration program had never been able to do.  As a result, output per person went up more than 50 percent during the war years.  This phenomenal growth was inspired by the patriotism of our people and was directed by a bipartisan effort in Washington.

Now let us look at what happened in the post-war period, under the Fair Deal.

In spite of the illusion of improvement created by larger dollar signs on payrolls and prices, there has been since the war no economic growth and no rise in living standards.

Put in terms of figures, the average family of 1945 had an income of $3,561.  After six years of the Fair Deal, that same family was handling a lot more dollars--$4,773, about a third more--but the double toll of high prices and high taxes wiped away all the gain.  That average family's 1951 income was worth less to it than was its 1945 income.  And the same is true, whether we are talking in terms of wage earners or farm families.

That is the treadmill on which we find ourselves.  Instead of growth and rising living standards, Fair Deal management has so organized things that you have to run harder and faster to get enough more Fair Deal dollars to keep you where you were.

The source of these figures, I might add, is not the Republican National Committee.  It is the government of the United States.  These facts conclusively prove that the net economic result of Fair Deal policies has been inflation as a substitute for growth.

It is hard for us to believe these facts.

One of the reasons for disbelief is the seven-year barrage of propaganda claims put out by the Fair Deal.

Another reason is that this inflation has put more and more dollars in your pocket.  Handling more money tends to make you feel more prosperous.  Very few people are willing to go through the arithmetic of finding out the real worth of the money in their pockets.

War, not the Fair Deal, brought about the end to unemployment.  The legacy of war, not the Fair Deal, helped to sustain a high level of economic activity.  Nearly one-third of the high-level production of the first five years after the war was due to making up the shortages created during the war--in automobiles, refrigerators, houses.  Those things were largely paid for out of the $140-billion dollar savings which Americans had accumulated by the end of the war.

Just as these war-bred shortages began to disappear, and the economy was beginning to weaken, along came Korea.  Defense production again propped up the economy.  If it had not been for the post-Korea rearmament program, Fair Deal policies might well have headed us right into the middle of a serious business recession.

That brings the picture up to date.  And what does the picture show?--
1939 standards of living at the same level as 1929--1952 standards of living slightly below the level of 1945.  And, in between, the gains born out of World War II.

If the economic facts of the past twenty years mean anything, they mean this:  the slogan, "You never had it so good," is a slick Fair Deal paraphrase for, "You'll never have it any better under us--unless military expenditures keep the economy steamed up."

There is no future for America in economic policies that depend upon the stimulus of war and threat of war to create and maintain prosperity.  America's goal is peace.  The Republican Party's goal is peace.

Economic policies must be designed to give this country and its people prosperity and economic growth under the opportunities of peace rather than under the stimulus of war.

Recently a new member joined the President's Council of Economic Advisors.  Upon being sworn in, he said, that the time when defense expenditures were rising month after month has come to an end.  This means, he said, that it will be "a difficult and delicate job to maintain our present prosperity."

Here is an amazing confession:  still larger war expenditures are needed to bolster the vaunted Fair Deal prosperity.

Will you give such an administration four more years in power?

To revive in the American economy its inherent power to grow, a Republican administration will:

First, provide a sound dollar.  This is government's primary economic responsibility.  A first and vital step is to eliminate the deficit from our national budget.

Second, restore the incentive to expand production.  A major step toward this end is to reduce government spending and thereby permit lower taxation.  Federal spending can be cut from the present rate of $81-billion a year.  My goal, assuming that the Cold War gets no worse, is to cut federal spending to something like $60-billion within four years.  Such a cut would eliminate the deficit in the budget, and would make way for a substantial tax reduction.

	Coupled with future tax cuts, another powerful incentive to expand production can come from sound governmental policies affecting labor, agriculture, finance, and other domestic and foreign economic matters.  Instead of high-handed interference and regulation, which hamper production, these government policies must give free play to the individual and curb the unjustified expansion of government.

	Moreover, fair play in governmental dealings with the various groups of our people will bring about confidence and greater production.  If you are in doubt as to what I mean, I suggest that you get in touch with the soybean farmers of your own state.

Our policies must be geared to increasing production.  Only a stable expanding economy can provide a rising standard of living and full protection to its citizens against the hazards of modern life, unemployment, old age and disability.

Third, we will give positive support and encouragement, that has been lacking for 20 years, to new industry development.  Before us are new frontiers of expanding opportunity, far greater than the geographical frontier of free land.  New vistas for America can be opened that will dwarf all past achievements.  We will do this by simulating basic and applied research and by use of new methods of marketing.  We shall encourage venture capital investment at home and abroad.  We shall support a foreign economic policy that encourages growth throughout the free world.  Huge new industrial expansion out of scientific developments in chemistry, aviation, and electronics by peacetime application of atomic energy, by stepped-up medical and pharmaceutical research, and by the use of new metals--all these and other factors have scarcely begun to contribute to human well-being.

The administration, in its fear, in its exhaustion, has tried to label our party as the party of reaction, the party that looks backward.  But the plain truth is that the Fair Deal's economic treadmill is the philosophy of those who "look backward."  It is they who are living in a past which they can scarcely hope to maintain.  It is these Americans marching under our banner who are looking forward.

We are looking forward to an equal justice and an equal fairness for all our citizens.  We are looking forward to a government that will not divide our people into special groups, but will seek as a friend to bring together farmers, laboring men and women and those who work in business and the professions.  We are looking forward to bringing about a common understanding and a common strength.  We are looking forward to a morality in that government which will apply one test to every problem:  the test of what is best for America.

There is a deep difference between the slogan, "You never had it so good," and the pledge that you can and will have it better.  It is the difference between a man who is satisfied to stand still, and a man who is dissatisfied unless he is moving forward.  It is the difference between fear and confidence.

It is a difference which you people alone can decide upon, and which you must decide upon, in November. 
COST OF LIVINGECONOMY--GENERALPRODUCTIVITYRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--ECONOMICSSTANDARD OF LIVING     „@ Ø@ ©@ •@ õ@
 ç@ à@ É@ }@ u@ s@ s@ i@	 ä 	 | 	 l 	 ` 	 H  3   e: