Speeches\1992\dem\S92D0923.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)09/23STUMPColumbusGEORGIAGAColumbus Ironworks and Convention and Trade Center2198 WORDS
	Thank you very much. Do you think old George Bush would like to have that small southern state comment back?

	I want to say a special word of thanks to all the people who have come here to be with Hillary and Tipper and Al and me today. I'm glad to see Mayor Frank Martin and Cathy Martin here. They were early supporters of ours, and we treasure their friendship and their leadership here.

	My friend, Governor Zel Miller, who stuck his neck out for me early, and almost but not quite got it chopped off. Every time I hear Zel Miller talk, I think he has a redneck holding up a big brain.

	I want to thank Lieutenant Governor Howard, and my long-time friend, your secretary of state, Max Cleland; Sanford Bishop and Calvin Smyrie who are here.

	I want to say a special word of thanks to Zel Miller, and to Sam Nunn. I have known Sam Nunn for many years. We started out, Al Gore was involved in this many years ago, in a group called the Democratic Leadership Council, when in the aftermath of the Democratic party's defeat in 1984 we tried to find a way to revitalize the national Democratic party in a way that would bring the American people together and push this country forward.

	And for the better part of a decade, we have honestly searched for answers to economic and educational and social and national security questions that would make our nation stronger; that would go beyond a paralyzing debate in Washington, and that would get us back to the common sense grass roots that you find in places like South Georgia. I am glad to be in a place where I don't have an accent today.

	A place where a moon pie is something you eat. A mud cat is something that plays baseball. A promise is something you keep. And a president is someone who cares about ordinary working people, like the pride of South Georgia, Jimmy Carter.

	We're going to have a sendoff rally here in a few minutes outside this building. And I can talk about some other issues. But I wanted to thank all of you for coming here today, and thank Senator Nunn for his thoughtful comments, because I wanted to highlight the extent to which I would rely on Senator Sam Nunn and other highly respected experts on national security and defense policy if, six weeks from yesterday, I am elected president of the United States.

	Sam Nunn is in the great Georgia tradition of Richard Russell and his uncle, Carl Vinson, in the great Democratic tradition that includes Senator Henry Jackson and others who have stood for the proposition that we can be strong at home and strong abroad; that we do have obligations around the world; and the first duty to keep our country free and safe; but that those obligations can only be met if we are so strong at home and within ourselves as an American community.

	President Kennedy said in 1960s that we could only be accepted as the leader of the world if people could see that we were living up to our values here at home; that our very ability to pay for a national defense was contingent upon our ability to see that all of our people live up to the fullest of their God-given potential.

	And so, we are confronted today in this election, with some serious choices that can easily be trivialized and emotionalized, but which instead should be faced with the clear, cold, pragmatic eye that Americans have always turned to their thorniest difficulties.

	We know the Cold War is over. We know that freedom and democracy, independence and human rights, prevailed in the communist world over totalitarianism, over dictatorship, over the notion that a few people in government could plan the lives of hundreds of millions of others.

	So in the course of a few years, after almost five decades of effort, we have seen the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe; the demise of the Soviet Union itself; and a weakening of communism even in China, where freedom is trying to rear its head again.

	The question is not in the face of this how much can we cut defense; the question is, what kind of national security threats are there now, and what kind of defense do we need?

	And if we don't need as much money as we used to, and we don't need as many people as we used to, what are we going to do with the money and the people, to make America stronger at home, not weaker?

	I have worked for a good while, as Senator Nunn said, to try to answer those questions. I have concluded, as I'm sure all of you have, that a world free of the gridlock of contests between the United States and the Soviet Union is still not a world free of danger.

	It is a dangerous and uncertain world in which our threats are different. We are likely to face threats for the foreseeable future from dictators like Saddam Hussein; from terrorists who would murder our people in airplanes and on the land; from the possibility that vicious ethnic rivalries could slaughter innocent people, whether in Bosnia or in Somalia; and that they might spread beyond their national borders.

And from the very real threat that is likely to increase of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction--nuclear potential, biological and chemical warfare--getting them into the hands of people who do not care about their own people, and therefore, would be perfectly willing to use those weapons without fear of consequence.

	One of the little-known facts about the Gulf War that I think should be emphasized to show how serious this proliferation problem is, that Saddam Hussein willingly took casualties in that war at a ratio of a thousand to one; a thousand of his people died for every allied soldier, every allied man and woman who died.

	That is a ratio unprecedented in the history of warfare. It happened because he literally did not care about his own people as long as he could maintain power.

	There are people like that all over the world who are struggling to develop the capacity to have nuclear technology; to be able to drop chemical weapons; to be able to drop biological weapons on their people, on other people.

	We cannot risk that happening. So there are significant challenges to us in the world we are living in.

	What does that mean? I conclude that it means we need not so many people in uniform as we used to have. We need not so many people in Europe as we used to have, because the Europeans don't face the imminent threat of a large Soviet Army marching across Eastern Europe into Western Europe. We need not so much money spent on the space-based portion of Star Wars, but we do need to focus on greater training and mobility of our forces, on land, in the air, and on the sea; and on maintaining the enormous technological lead we have in the development of both tactical defenses and defensive weapons.

	Which means we have to maintain a strong infrastructure of technology in this country. And we have to continue to train, equip, and work with our military forces at a small level to make sure they are still the strongest, the best, and now the most mobile in the world, hopefully being able always to be used for cooperation with our allies.

	That is the defense plan I have put forward to the American people in this election. It will require us to spend less money than we are now spending. But I think it will give us a stronger national defense than Mr. Bush's proposed budget.

	Under my budget, we would spend somewhat less money--about 95 percent as much as he proposes to spend over the next five years--but we would spend it differently. We would spend more of it on forces here at home, keeping the Guard and Reserves combat-ready; we would spend more of it on weapons systems and on greater mobility, airlift and sea-lift; we would spend less in Europe, and less on the space-based portion of Star Wars.

	Now, if we do that, it is perfectly clear that no matter which budget is adopted, or if a third budget is adopted, there will be reductions in defense spending, just as there have been since 1988.

	So the question then becomes, what do you do with the people who are affected by the reductions in defense spending, and what do you do with the money?

	If you look at what we have done, I would argue that we haven't done a very good job. Most of the money from defense cuts has been lost to a ballooning budget deficit to pay for the S&L bailout and exploding heath care costs.

	Not surprisingly, therefore, there have been massive job losses among the people who won the Cold War, from the scientists and engineers to the technicians and the factory workers.

	The question is, what are we going to do with them? We need those people.

	We know there are all kinds of challenges we still face to make America strong.

	So I have recommended taking every dollar by which we reduce defense and reinvest it in rebuilding the American economy and in finding something for the people to do who won the Cold War to make us strong in its aftermath.

	Take the money and use it to rebuild our transportation systems, our communication systems, or environmental cleanup, to develop new technologies that will help us to deal with the problems here at home.

	Take the money and use it to increase our investment in governmental labs doing research with private companies to find new technologies that can be used for dual purposes--for defense and for domestic needs. Take the money and use it to retrain defense workers and people who used to be in the service, and to retool industries, and to rebuild communities.

	And finally, do what Senator Nunn has recommended. I basically have just adopted his ideas whole cloth on what should be done with people who are mustered out of the service. Senator Nunn has suggested that we ought to provide certification procedures whereby people who served well in the armed forces and may have ten or fifteen years built up, haven't had their twenty years of retirement in, be able to be retrained and then recertified as teachers or police officers, or do other important work, to be role models to our young people.

	Let them do that work, and earn military retirement here at home. And I think that is a very, very good suggestion.

	And finally, just to reiterate something Senator Nunn has already said, I favor the establishment of an economic security council in the national government to go along with the National Security Council so that we can remind ourselves that we have to organize our thoughts, our policies, and our government, at home and abroad, in ways that make us focus on the economic consequences of every decision we make, because that is the national security issue of the 1990s.

	Again, let me say that no state outside my own has done any more for me than Georgia. When I was in need, you were there. But the most important thing is not to win this election. The most important thing is to change the country.

	So when I think back--when I think back on the contributions that have been made to this campaign by Sam Nunn and Zel Miller, by Mayor Martin and Congressman Ben Jones, by Calvin Smyrie and countless others, I want you all to understand very clearly that what I really want most from Georgia is the best minds and the best judgment about what kind of America we want to build, beginning with Sam Nunn, but including all of you.

	This is not an election that will just permit Hillary and Bill Clinton to change their address and go to Camp David on the weekend. I must tell you, I would rather be a governor of a small southern state if that were all that was at stake.

	This is an election in which we in our time are called upon to fulfill the eternal obligations of Americans to keep our country forever changing, forever young, forever ahead of history's curve. And we must do that when it comes to national defense, national security, to converting the energies and the abilities of our people to the rebuilding of America's economic engine, so that we can continue to keep alive the American dream that in this country, whatever your race, your income, your region, your walk of life, if you work hard, you will be able to live up to the fullest of your potential.

	We are not there today. This election is one that will determine whether we will be there tomorrow.

	Thank you very much.

ECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMILITARY--CONVENTIONAL FORCESMILITARY CUTBACKSMILITARY PERSONNELWEAPONS PROLIFERATIONMILITARY PREPAREDNESS     1 œ0 …0 ≈0 Ω0
 ≤0 ≠0 ®0 †0 ô0 ó0 e0 [0	 û 	 Å 	 j 	 M 	 < 	 *   e: