Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1015.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/15STUMPFORT WORTHTEXASTX1951 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen:  It was a very great special privilege for me to come back yesterday to the state of my birth, where I was born sixty-two years ago yesterday.  This visit has been remarkable in a number of ways.  I have met thousands of Texans in groups all over the state.  Yesterday morning, I was introduced to a Houston throng by Price Daniel.

	During the day I stopped at Lubbock and at Waco, and last night your young and dynamic governor introduced me in San Antonio.  Yesterday morning I tried to correct and clear up some of the confusion that I hear is in the minds of some of the opposition.  They said they did not know where I stood on the tidelands issue.  If I failed to make it clear yesterday, then they simply refused to understand the English language.

	As I stated in 1948, at a dinner in this city, I still believe in the sanctity of contracts and agreements, and I still believe Texas owns her own property.  During the course of those visits I have tried to deal with certain other alleged misunderstandings.  This morning, I come here to review briefly what I have been saying across the state.

	First, let me express my special satisfaction in being introduced to this vast gathering by Mrs. Tarlton.  I have the very definite belief that women are more concerned--maybe they have more time to be concerned; I don't know--with the spiritual basis of our civilization than men are.  I think the real reason is because they are the guardians of our home; they are the home-keepers.  They instinctively recognize the need for instilling in our young, at the tenderest age, the realization that unless there is an understanding that free government is based solidly on a deeply felt religious faith, then free government makes no sense.

	So, since this crusade, in which so many millions of Americans and I are associated together--has as its basic purpose the restoration of moral and spiritual values to government, you can understand why I am so pleased to be introduced here by one of Texas' outstanding women.  Before going further, let me make my salute to Texas Christian and Texas Western in this city.  It has been my good fortune, throughout my life, to spend it with young people.  You know, the armed services are made up largely of America's young.  And I have derived throughout those forty years that I have served with them, inspiration from their courage, their idealism, their energy and their forward-looking propensities.

	I should like to point out just one special thing to those younger people this morning.  If I am lucky, I have about a fifteen or twenty year stake in this country; if you are lucky you, have sixty.  Now, my young friends, that represents really the comparative importance to you and to me of getting things in this country on the right track today.

	If there is one person who must look ahead and see where we are going and what we are doing about it, it is the youngster, because he or she is going to have to live with it a long, long time.  Now, what my generation can do is a very simple thing:  We can review our own record--and in many instances it is a sorry one.  There are men in this audience who have been in the service with me in World War I and World War II--others in one or the other.  They know what those world wars were.  They know the stupidity, futility, cruelty and desolation of war.  We have had two of those and now at times we often seem to be trembling on the brink of another.  At least we know we are in this Korean mess.

	Now that is a sorry record to talk to you youngsters about and to pretend to have much more wisdom than you do, but if we are honest with ourselves, we can derive lessons from errors as well as from experience.  It is our function then to try to point out what has happened and what is happening, to help you and to encourage you and to take over and do things better.

	The last time I was in Fort Worth, ladies and gentlemen, I was invited to make a surprise visit to a great convention of Baptists.  As I remember, it was in the Will Rogers Memorial Stadium.  I went out there completely puzzled.  What could I, an old soldier, say to that great religious group?  When I got there, I suddenly found the whole question solved.

	My life has been spent doing one thing:  trying to defend freedom--not merely defending territory, even our homes or even our lives, but freedom, a way of life--and all that free government is an attempt by man to translate into the political world a deeply felt religious faith.  Before I left that convention I felt, I think, a closer kinship with leaders of our religious and spiritual thought than I had ever before felt in my life.  And I distinctly remember, as I walked out with them singing "Onward Christian Soldiers," that I felt very humble but very proud.

	We are still engaged in that same kind of crusade:  to restore that kind of thinking to our lives.  It is, when you come down to it, a crusade for good government--the kind of government that American citizens deserve and can have.  Now what is the program of the opposition?  Long ago, it seems, they have given up trying to present to you a program of what they propose to do about good government, because their own record defeats them in any such attempt.

	So they go around this whole countryside, big guns and little guns, and their purpose is to sell fear.  They try to make you fear that this crusade would wreck the farm program in many places, including at least two yesterday.  I have shown exactly what this crusade is trying to do to put the proper guarantees in back of the farming sections of this country, in the sure knowledge that there can be no good government, there cannot be a prosperous economy, unless there is a prosperous agriculture.  I have spelled-out in detail exactly what the Republican Party--and all of its associates, including the Independents and enlightened Democrats and everybody else connected with this crusade--intends to do about the job.

	Then they try to sell the fear that social security will be eliminated, that the leaders of this crusade are so cruel, so indifferent to the fate of the old and the unfortunate--that they would rip those supports out from under those unfortunates and the older people, that they would take out the floor of security that these laws and these programs give them and allow them to fall into the pit of disaster.

	How can any group who are dedicated, first of all, to the great moral purposes of government--the welfare of 155 million people--think such a thing.  Just plain bunk!  On the contrary, the crusade intends to make all of those social security programs worthwhile, because we are going to save the value of the dollar instead of seeing your bonds, your savings accounts, your insurance policies and your pensions go down the drain of inflation; we will stop that.

	Then they say, "But if you put in this crusade, they will bring about another depression"  Time and again, on behalf of my associates--and I am proud to say there are numbered among them the brainiest, finest businessmen; men in all walks of life:  in agriculture, in labor, and everywhere else--I have pledged the full power of government, of business, of our economy, always, to prevent a depression.  We are not again going to see the breadlines that unfortunately were a characteristic of our civilization some years ago.

	And then, ladies and gentlemen, they bring on another fear--and this one makes me especially angry.  They say I want to cut soldiers' pay and I want to fire half of the civil employees of the federal government.  No man has spent a longer or more satisfactory time with our soldiers and with our great mass of loyal, effective and efficient civil servants than I have.  Why, after forty years, would I want to turn on these people and tell them I didn't think they had done a good job all these many years.  I am glad that there are among you this morning representatives of Carswell Field--both civil and military--and you can go back there and say that such things as that are just plain lies.

	This, ladies and gentlemen, is the one hope I have:  that my old friends and associates in these services--civil and military--will have more faith in me and the record behind me for forty years than to believe such fantastic falsehoods.

	Then they come up with another one:  that I would eliminate all the military facilities around our country.  As a man who has spent his life begging, preaching, talking about national security as one of the paths, one of the sure supports for a peaceful program in our lives, why would I want to eliminate any necessary military facility, wherever it is?

	Some people wonder how I can take these things.  Once in a while, one of them makes me a little angry--for example, the one I just told you about--but I think I can't better illustrate how I take it than to recall to your mind that famous message of Colonel Travis who sent it out of the Alamo in the early days of the siege.  He said, "So far two-hundred enemy shells have fallen within our walls, and not a man has been touched."

	Ladies and gentlemen, these people really fear just one thing:  They fear they will lose their jobs.  The purpose of this crusade, as I said, is good government.  You will know it is a good government when you see it is a government of which you are proud--a government which you see is organized of men and women whom you know are men and women of prestige in their community--men and women who are incorruptible, who will not allow disloyalty, Communism and thievery to crawl into the federal government.  If it is composed of that kind of men and women--successful people in their communities--you will know that, by putting their brains together, they will lead this country on the surest, most stable paths toward peace in this world.  They will, first of all, establish that strength that comes from a unified country, and with a unified America, we will have a sound basis for a just and lasting peace.

	Ladies and gentlemen, to each of you who has come out this morning, let me express my special thanks for giving me this opportunity to exchange greetings with you, and above all, to bring you two or three of the thoughts that are on my mind as we go through this political campaign.

	I hope each of you will make your decision as to the things you must do on November 4, within your own conscience.  Your Governor said a wonderful thing when he said, "Now is the time for every Texan to caucus with his own conscience."  If you will take these problems and study them--study them as you know they should be examined--then I, for one, in advance, gladly, fully and completely accept your decision and I abide by it happily.

	Good-bye.
AGRICULTURE--GENERALCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEECONOMY--DEPRESSIONMILITARY PERSONNELMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENSOCIAL SECURITY     3+ ÿ* ù* õ* ë*
 Ý* Ø* Ó* É* Ä* Â* Â* ¸*	 † 	 r 	 Q 	 > 	 , 	  e: