Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1023.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/23STUMPCLEVELANDOHIOOHCLEVELAND ARENA2700 WORDS

	The hour is growing late in this autumn of our political decision. But I find it necessary to talk here tonight of things which are more fundamental than the immediate political questions before us. 

	For three months now I have done my best to talk sensibly. 

	I believed with many of you that General Eisenhower's hard-won victory in the Chicago Convention was a victory of the constructive and progressive men in the Republican party over its bitter and reactionary elements. 

	I believed that an educational and elevating national discussion would result. But, instead, in the past two months the General has, one by one, embraced the men who were so savagely against him at Chicago. He has lost the support of men like Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon and has won the support of men like Colonel McCormick of the Chicago Tribune. 

	Meanwhile, his vice presidential candidate and other principal speakers on his behalf have given the Republican campaign its distinct shape and pattern. 

	It is not a campaign by debate. It has become a systematic program of innuendo and accusation aimed at sowing the seeds of doubt and mistrust. 

	The Republican candidate for vice president has himself set the pace. This week and next--in these last days before the election--the Republican high command is counting heavily on this kind of campaign. 

	Next Monday, I'm informed, the junior senator from Wisconsin is going to make a highly advertised speech--the man who said last week that, if he were put aboard my campaign train with a club, he might be able to make a good American out of me. 

	Now plainly I have no concern about what the junior senator from Wisconsin has to say about me. As an isolated voice he would be unimportant. But he has become more than the voice of a single individual who thinks the way to teach his brand of Americanism is with a club. This man will appear on nationwide radio and television as the planned climax of the Republican campaign--as the voice of the wing of the Republican party that lost the nomination but won the nominee. You will hear from the senator from Wisconsin, with the permission and the approval of General Eisenhower. 

	Only last week, stung by charges that he had surrendered to the Old Guard, the General said that the decisions in this campaign "have been and will be mine alone." He added: "This crusade which I have taken to the American people represents what I, myself, believe." Crusade indeed! 

	In 1950 a group of Republican senators, headed by Senator Smith of Maine, issued a Declaration of Conscience denouncing the tactics of smear and slander. The General might have endorsed that Declaration of Conscience. He might have made it the testament of a real Crusade. Instead, by ignorance or choice, he has turned not to the Republican signers of that declaration, but to the Republican senator who called Senator Smith a thief and defender of Communists. 

	I had not expected that the General would ever countenance such a campaign by his "crusaders." But this was before the General gave his hand to Senator Jenner of Indiana who had called General George C. Marshall a "living lie" and "a front man for traitors"--Marshall, the architect of victory and General Eisenhower's greatest benefactor. It was before General Eisenhower struck from the speech that he was to give in Wisconsin words of praise for General Marshall at the request of the junior senator from Wisconsin who had termed Marshall "so steeped in falsehood" that he "has recourse to the lie whenever it suits his convenience." And it was before General Eisenhower last week quietly reinserted the words of praise for General Marshal, in New Jersey once he was safely out of McCarthy and Jenner territory. 

	If the General would publicly embrace those who slandered George Marshall, there is certainly no reason to expect that he would restrain those who would slander me. 

	The Republican vice presidential candidate--who asks you to place him a heartbeat from the presidency--has attacked me for saying in a court deposition that the reputation of Alger Hiss was good. And let us always be clear where the responsibility lies. As the Republican vice presidential candidate put it last Monday, General Eisenhower "is the captain of the team." Senator Nixon added significantly "With due regard for his team members and their abilities, he is calling the plays." 

	Now what are the facts? In the words of Al Smith, "Let's look at the record." I had known Hiss briefly in 1933 when I worked about five months for the Agricultural Adjustment Administration in Washington, where he was also employed. I did not encounter him again until twelve years later, in March of 1945 in the State Department. I saw him intermittently from March of 1945 to March of 1946 in the course of our official duties. Half that time I was in London for the government. He never entered my house and I never entered his. I saw him twice in the fall of 1947 at the UN General Assembly in New York. I have not seen him since. 

	In the spring of 1949 I was requested by the lawyers for Alger Hiss to appear at his first trial and testify as to his reputation. I refused to do so because of the burden of my official duties as governor of Illinois. I was then requested to answer questions submitted under order of the court with regard to his reputation, as I had learned about it from others. 

	I said his reputation was "good"--and it was. I didn't say it was "very good"; I didn't say he was a "great patriot"; I didn't say any of the things the Wisconsin senator, whose best weapon is carelessness with facts, says I said. I said his reputation was "good" so far as I had heard from others, and that was the simple, exact, whole truth, and all I could say on the basis of what I knew. 

	This was his reputation as the General, himself, has good reason to know. 

	These same spokesmen have challenged my sworn statement that I didn't believe that I had seen Hiss between March, 1946, and the fall of 1947. They say I introduced him at a speech in Chicago on November 12, 1946. All of the records make clear that my recollection was accurate. For on November 12, 1946, I was in official attendance as a U.S. delegate to the United Nations in New York, and was not in Chicago. 

	I am a lawyer. I think that one of the fundamental responsibilities not only of every citizen but particularly of lawyers is to give testimony in a court of law and to give it honestly and willingly. It will be a sorry day for American justice when a man, particularly one in public life, is too timid to state what he knows or what he has heard about a defendant in a criminal trial, for fear that the defendant might be later convicted. 

	And I might add that here in your own state of Ohio a Republican congressman was recently convicted for unlawful acts. Before his conviction, your own Senator Taft appeared and testified that this man's reputation was "excellent without question." Senator Bricker and Congressman Joseph W. Martin, Jr., Republican minority leader, gave the same testimony. 

	My testimony in the Hiss case no more shows softness toward Communism than the testimony of these Republican leaders shows softness toward corruption. 

	At no time did I testify on the issue of the guilt or innocence of Alger Hiss as a perjurer or a traitor. As I have repeatedly said, I have never doubted the verdict of the jury which convicted him. 

	I testified only as to his reputation at the time I knew him. His reputation was good. If I had said it was bad, I would have been a liar. If I had refused to testify at all, I would have been a coward. 

	But while the brash and patronizing young man who aspires to the vice presidency does not charge me with being a Communist, he does say that I exercised bad judgment in stating honestly what I had heard from others about Hiss' reputation. "Thou shalt not bear false witness," is one of the Ten Commandments, in case Senator Nixon has not read them lately. And if he would not tell and tell honestly what he knew of a defendant's reputation, he would be a coward and unfit for any office. 

	The responsibility of lawyers to cooperate with courts is greatest of all because they are officers of the court. And Senator Nixon is a lawyer. 

	He has criticized my judgment. I hope and pray that his standards of "judgment" never prevail in our courts, or our public life at any level, let alone in exalted positions of respect and responsibility. 

	These are the plain and simple facts. I would suggest to the Republican "crusaders" that if they were to apply the same methods to their own candidate, General Eisenhower, and to his foreign affairs adviser, Mr. Dulles, they would find that both these men were of the same opinion about Alger Hiss, and more so. And more important, I would suggest that these methods are dangerous, not just to the Republican candidate, but to the very processes of our democracy. 

	In December 1946, Hiss was chosen to be president of the Carnegie Endowment by the Board of Trustees, of which John Foster Dulles was chairman and several leading Republican businessmen were members. After Hiss was elected, but before he took office, a Detroit lawyer offered to provide Mr. Dulles with evidence that Hiss had a provable Communist record. No such report or warning ever came to me. Under date of December 26th, Mr. Dulles responded. Listen to what he said: 

	"I have heard the report which you refer to, but I have confidence that there is no reason to doubt Mr. Hiss' complete loyalty to our American institutions. I have been thrown into intimate contact with him at San Francisco, London and Washington. Under these circumstances I feel a little skeptical about information which seems inconsistent with all that I personally know and what is the judgment of reliable friends and associates in Washington." 

	That, my friends is what John Foster Dulles, the General's adviser on foreign policy, thought. 

	In May 1948, General Eisenhower was elected to the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Endowment at the same meeting at which Hiss was re-elected president and Dulles chairman of the board. This was months after I had seen Hiss for the last time. I am sure the General would never have joined the Board of Trustees if he had any doubt about Hiss' loyalty. 

	After he had been indicted by the grand jury, Hiss tendered his resignation as president and trustee of the Carnegie Endowment. The Board of Trustees, of which General Eisenhower was a member, declined to accept his resignation and granted him three months' leave of absence with full pay so that he might defend himself. The General was not present at the meeting, but I do not find that he ever voiced disapproval of this concrete expression of trust and confidence. In May of 1949, the month in which I gave my deposition, and again in December 1949, after the first trial of Alger Hiss, the Board of Trustees, of which General Eisenhower was still a member, again voted to reject Hiss' resignation. 

	Alger Hiss, General Eisenhower and Dulles continued as fellow members of the Board of Trustees until after the conviction of Hiss. 

	I bring these facts to the American people not to suggest that either General Eisenhower or John Foster Dulles is soft toward Communists or even guilty of the bad judgment with which the General's running mate charges me. I bring them out only to make the point that the mistrust, the innuendoes, the accusations which this "crusade" is employing, threatens not merely themselves, but the integrity of our institutions and our respect for fair play. 

	I would remind General Eisenhower of the wisdom of yet another General. One day, after inspecting his troops, the Duke of Wellington said: "They may not frighten the enemy, but gad sir, they frighten me." 

	I might observe to the General that although his troops do not frighten us they ought to frighten him. 

	I do not suppose that the Hiss case exhausts the arsenal of accusation with which the General's high command hopes to obtain victory. But these things I can tell you about myself and they are on the record. In 1943, during the war, after leading an economic mission to Italy, I warned against the spread of Soviet influence in the Mediterranean. In 1945 and 1946, just after the war, I engaged in constant and heated debate with Soviet representatives in the United Nations in support of the interests of the United States. I repeatedly pointed out that appeasement doesn't work. In March 1946, I said to an audience in Chicago that: "Russia and Communism are on the march... We must forsake any hope that she is going to lie still and lick her awful wounds." 

	This was not long after General Eisenhower had told a House Committee: "Nothing guides Russian policy so much as a desire for friendship with the United States." As late as June of this year he said, "There is no more reason to fear the 190 million backward people living on the Eurasian continent than there is to fear pollywogs swimming down a muddy creek." 

	I would never have believed that a presidential contest with General Eisenhower would have made this speech necessary. 

	It may well be that the General has been misled by his lack of experience in civil life. This is not a war; it is a political contest in a free democracy, and the rules are different. We who believe in our system have always considered it to be the responsibility of candidates to promote wider understanding of the true issues--and not to stir up fear and to spread suspicion. 

	I resent--and I resent bitterly--the sly and ugly campaign that is being waged in behalf of the General, and I am deeply shocked that he would lead a so-called "crusade" which accepts calumny and the big doubt as its instruments. 

	Because I believe in freedom I am opposed to Communism. And I think I know more about it and more about the Soviet Union than most of these self-appointed Republican custodians of patriotism. I even went to Russia more than twenty-five years ago to see for myself, before, I dare say, some of these crusaders even knew what was going on in the world, and I have negotiated face to face with the Russians and their satellites in San Francisco, London and New York. 

	We are opposing Communism abroad, where its relentless pressure seeks further to narrow the area of freedom. We are opposing it at home where its agents and converts seek to undermine our society and corrupt our government. As I have repeatedly said, the federal government must use all its resources to expose and identify Communistic activity, to keep Communists out of places of responsibility in our society, and to protect our institutions from Communist espionage, sabotage and subversion. 

	But I know and you know that we do not strengthen freedom by diminishing it. We do not weaken Communism abroad or at home by false or misleading charges carefully timed by unscrupulous men for election purposes. For I believe with all my heart that those who would beguile the voters by lies or half-truths, or corrupt them by fear and falsehood, are committing spiritual treason against our institutions. They are doing the work of our enemies. 

	In the end such tactics serve directly the interests of the Communists and of all other foes of freedom. 

	Even worse, they undermine our basic spiritual values. 

	For in the final accounting, "What shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?"
COMMUNISMELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTY     ¢= n= h= d= \=
 O= J= E= <= 8= 6= '= =	 v 	 m 	 P 	 2 	  e: