Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1029.004SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/29STUMPPHILADELPHIAPENNSYLVANIAPACIVIC CENTER4,855 WORDS

	Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much, friends.  Thank you, my fellow democrats--thank you.   Oh, my, my, my.  Thank you very much.

	First, my respects to the distinguished members of the clergy--and to you, this wonderful friend, this great mayor of a great city, and a great Democrat--Jim Tate. 

	And the next United States senator, and the United States senator, and a wonderful United States senator, Joe Clark.  Good to be with you, Joe. 

	All of these congressmen that are here, that have been mentioned.  But I don't want--I don't want to fail to mention them once again.

	This fine young man that is to my right and your left, that is one of the truly gifted, talented leaders in this party, Congressman Green.  Isn't he a wonderful man for you?  And Bill Barrett is here with us tonight, another one of our stalwarts. Bob Nix, who has been with me today.  And Jimmy Byrnes is here with us tonight, also.  Joshua Eilberg, that you have got to reelect.

	And as long as we are in the spirit, don't forget our good friend, Judge Cercone that is here with us tonight.  And the darling of them all--Grace Sloane--she is here with us.  And a man that I predict has an unlimited future in this state--Bob Casey, your auditor general.  And we also welcome the mayor of Pittsburgh, Joe Barr.   And we surely do welcome a great governor of this state, in my book still governor, governor leader of the state of Pennsylvania. 

	There are a thousand people that I would like to just say hello to privately here tonight.  But time forbids.

	You know, I remember being in this hall in 1948.  And I remember that we went on to victory from this hall in 1948. 

	And I remember that on that platform, or somewhere in this hall, stood a man that had been back in the curtains for a long time.  They said he didn't have a chance to win.  But he had the spirit of a giant, and he came out here, and he talked to us with fire, and he talked to us with determination, and he went on to become president of the United States again--and he is my idol in politics--Harry Truman. 

	I made up my mind when I entered this campaign that I was not going to let down the man that became my honorary chairman.  And I am the first candidate for the office of president that ever had a former president as chairman.  And I want Harry Truman to listen to me tonight out in Independence, Missouri.
Mr. President, you are going to have another Democrat in the White House come January 20th. 

	And we are going to depend on the great city of Philadelphia, all this great metropolitan area to produce that majority that will withstand any onslaught in this state. So you folks get down to business now, and let's win this election for sure.  

	Oh, I got so much I want to tell you.  Gosh, it's good tonight to feel this good.

	You know what?  They tell me that Mr. Nixon has to take sleeping pills now; we have got him so upset. 

	I tell you things have changed since we saw each other the last time.  There is something that is happening in America, and there is something that is happening in this party.  And I'll tell you what it is: we've got the show on the road, and we are gong to take the show right smack bang into Washington, D.C.  It has been a long, uphill fight.  You know it and I know it.   But I'll tell you, the tougher the battle, the greater the glory on the night of the election.  That's the way to look at it.  And we are going to win.

	We are going to win this election for one basic reason.  We are going to win it because we trust the people and the people trust the Democratic party and its leadership.  That is why we are going to win this election. 

	You know, Mr. Nixon has been going around thinking he had this election in the bag.  Oh, yes.  I've been reading about it.  If you don't think it was something to look at, you ought to be in my position and have read about it as long as I have--week after week--all the pundits, all the commentators said: it's all over, Mr. Nixon has it in the bag.  He may.  

	But I want to tell you something.  On November 5th, when he opens that bag, out is going to jump Hubert Humphrey and Muskie. 

	You know, friends, this is the right time of the year to have that upward drive, momentum.  We are soon going to have our children out, you know, and our grandchildren.  They are going to be out knocking at the doors.  They are going to say--tricks or treats.

	You know, friends, this is the right time of the year to have that upward drive, that momentum.  We are soon going to have our children out, you know, and our grandchildren.  They are going to be out knocking at the doors.  They are going to say--tricks or treats.

	You know, Mr. Nixon has been giving you tricks for years--for years.  Now on November 5th we can have some treats.  We can have a Democratic victory.
You know, I've been trying to get Mr. Nixon to stand on a platform with me, do a little talking to the American people.

	I sort of thought that if a man was going to be president, wanted to be president, he might be called upon to meet with the leaders of other countries, he might be called upon to defend our interests in debate with the leaders of even countries that are antagonistic to us.

	And I thought that that same man might have the courage, might have the willingness to meet a fellow American on the same stage, at the same time, before the same audience, to discuss his case.  Because, ladies and gentlemen, if he doesn't have a case that can stand up to my argument, what makes you think that he can represent the American case any place else. 

	Mr. Nixon has taken the American public for granted.

	I am asking this audience tonight--I am asking this audience tonight to redouble its efforts.  You are the troops.  You are the frontline fighters in this battle for progressive democracy.  Not a single man on this platform would be where he is in public life were it not for you.  We are all indebted to you.  You make possible our victories.  And I come back to you once again, asking you to make possible a victory that very few thought was possible.  Let's perform the political miracle of 1968--and we can do it with the Democratic national ticket. 

	Look at this audience tonight.  Just look around you.

	Here we are--neighbors and friends.  Here we are, white and black, business and labor, students and older people--here we are.  That is what makes this country.  And this is the kind of a country we are going to build up.  

	But you know, I wanted to get Mr. Nixon around to talk to me, because I had some questions I wanted to ask him.  I wanted him to answer some of the questions that Joe Clark put here tonight.  I jotted down just a few.

	You know, they get those billboards around the country that say "Nixon's the One" That's right.  I'll say he is.   And what a one.

	Let me ask you this question:  Who is the man that stabbed in the back the federal aid for education program that would have helped our children?  You know--Nixon's the one--that's right.

	Who is the one that called the Peace Corps a haven for draft dodgers?  

	VOICES:  Nixon's the one!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Nixon's the one.  Just get that, folks--beautiful.  You can really pin it down.  

	Who's the man that didn't want to extend and expand minimum wages for our workers that needed some help?  Nixon's the one.

	Who's the one that didn't care enough about our grandparents, that didn't want Medicare and said it wouldn't work?  I'll tell you.  Nixon's the one.

	Who's the one, if you please, that said that the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was a cruel hoax and that it was catastrophic nonsense.  I'll tell you.  Nixon was the one.

	You can go right down the line, ladies and gentlemen.   Look here.  I saw a sign out there a moment ago that said AFL-CIO.  Who's the one that never voted once for organized labor?  

	VOICES:  Nixon's the one!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You betcha.  And I'll tell you, my friends, don't wait for him to vote or you are going to be ready for Geritol and Medicare. 

	Yes, my friends--let me tell you that this man--I read about him.  They said he is the new Nixon.  And I guess in a sense there is something to it, because I couldn't get him to debate me, but he has been debating himself.

	Here is the man that said he was opposed to Medicare, it wouldn't work, and now he says he wants to improve it.

	Here is the man that voted against federal aid to education.

	He was over in Pittsburgh the other day and said he wanted aid to public, private and parochial schools.

	Here is the man, if you please, that never ever once advocated a job training program in his life for unemployed.  Now he says he believes in it.

	Oh, my friends, that fellow has got quite a debate going--the old Nixon versus the new Nixon.  And we find the real Nixon, and the real Nixon has never changed.  He is the same one that ran against John Kennedy, and he is the same one that got beaten. 

	Why, this man--I sort of figured that he would lose his cool pretty quick.  You know, they said he was--I read about it--had a smooth, efficient, cool, well-organized campaign--never spoke on a street corner like I have been doing here today, five times.  Never went into the slums or the ghettos, like I do--get out and see the people that are in trouble.  

	Oh, no.  This is the most deodorized, sanitized campaign that anybody has ever known--the one he has got. 

	Oh, he doesn't go out to see them.  And I'll tell you why.  Because he never remembers them in the first place.  He talks about the forgotten Americans. He ought to know.  He has forgotten more of them than any man that ever ran for public office.

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	All right--now wait a minute.  Let me tell you something.  If you think you want Humphrey, you ought to know how Humphrey wants you.   I sure do. 

	Let's go down the character reference here a little bit more on the Republican nominee.  Here is the man that says that we could stand a little more unemployment.  Yes--he is an expert in it.  He said in the Republican years that if you only had 4.5 million unemployed it wasn't dangerous.  But he has got one-upmanship now.  He says you can go up to 5.5 million now, and it is not dangerous.

	Now, let me tell you, I have never been for unemployment.  But I am willing to make one concession.  I am willing to have Richard Nixon unemployed for the next four years. 

	My friends, it was in this hall that a man walked out of here and led some others out when I spoke here twenty years ago.  It was in this hall, about in this area, where Mr. Dixiecrat, J. Strom Thurmond, got up and took his banner and walked out of one of those doors that said exit.  He left us.  Not the worst, I might say--left us the better.  But he left us.  And he walked out to become the third-party candidate of 1948.

	That man, twenty years later, found a new friend who was just about in his proper intellectual, mental, political attitude.  He found a new friend.  He went to Miami.  And the man that walked out in Philadelphia in 1948 on the issue of human rights walked into the Republican convention in Miami in 1968 with his arm around Richard Nixon--J. Strom Thurmond, Mr. Reactionary. 

	I think it tells the story.  I think it tells a great story.  I think it tells what I call the generation gap between the Democrats and the Republicans.  And I think it tells something else.  I think it tells about the attitude about people.

	The other night Mr. Nixon, for the first time to appear in two years on a national news show, like Face the Nation or Meet the Press or Issues and Answers--he hasn't been n one for two years.  I have been on at least forty or fifty during that period of time--taking my chances, taking my chances. 

	He was on that show, and he was showing who he was going to trim the budget.  Of course, he had added already approximately $50 billion for new armament, which we don't need.

	And then somebody said-"Well, how are you going to pay that?"  And he says,  "Well, I'm going to have to cut out some other things."

	I wonder what he is planning on cutting out.  You might ask yourself.  Well, he gave us one indication.  He said we are going to cut out the Job Corps.  I want to tell you what it means: I don't say that the Job Corps is the best of all things that we have done.  But let me tell you what it amounts to.

	It amounts to an educational opportunity for young men and women that never had a chance in life.  It amounts to an opportunity in training, and sometimes in just literacy, to learn how to read and write for a nineteen-year-old or a twenty-year-old young man.

	It amounts to a chance for that young man to learn a skill, to have a job.  And of course, it costs some money.  It doesn't cost near as much money as it does to send a person to a university.  But it costs money.  And Mr. Nixon took my Job Corps program the other night--and I am the author of it--and he said we are going to abolish it.  And that is the way he was going to save some money.

	A program that has provided an opportunity for 200,000 despairing, unhappy, unfortunate young men and women.  Most of them today are productive citizens, workers, taxpayers.  Twenty thousand of them went back to school.  Ten thousand joined our armed forces.  A hundred-and-some thousand of them got jobs.  And they are working and taking care of themselves.  And Mr. Nixon says we will do away with it. 

	And as he is making that statement, a young man from Brooklyn by the name of George Foreman, a dropout, a child of the slums that never had a break in his life, was standing in Mexico City, carrying the flag of the Untied States, having won the championship for our country and for himself. 

	And that young man--that young man, nineteen years of age, as he received the gold medal, and as the American flag was raised, and as our national anthem was playing--that young man said--"I am here to compete in these Olympics because I got my chance in the Job Corps."

	And Mr. Nixon wants to kill it. 

	I want you to know that Mr. Nixon has yet to utter the first word of support for a project called Head Start.  He has yet to utter his first word of support for our war on poverty.  He said he wanted to double the rate of convictions.  I said I would like to double the rate of decent neighborhoods in America for people to live in. 

	There is a great deal of difference in this election.

	Here is a man that challenged our government, said that there was a security gap in our country--who played politics with national security.  And he said that the security gap would develop into a survival gap--to frighten you, to mislead our allies or destroy confidence of our allies, and mislead our enemies, so that they might even miscalculate.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I laid it on the line to him, and subsequently did the secretary of defense, to show Mr. Nixon that there was no security gap whatsoever, that this nation is the strongest nation on the face of the Earth, and he knows it. 

	But Mr. Nixon says we must spend much more for more nuclear weapons at a time, my friends, when we have enough to destroy all that God has created, at a time when one nuclear exchange would obliterate 250 million people in one salvo, at a time this nation has a preponderance of air power, missile power, submarine power, Polaris power.

	Mr. Nixon says we need more influence of the military in the government.  Mr. Nixon says we have to add more power.   And when it was estimated in the New York Times--not by me, but by them--what this would cost, they said $50 billion.

	Here is a man who talks about balancing the budget, cutting the budget.  And in one fell swoop proposes a $50 billion addition, or cut it in half, $25 billion addition for weapons that are unneeded.

	What Mr. Nixon ought to do is join me in seeing to it that a treaty that is pending in the Senate to stop the spread of nuclear weapons is ratifies so that mankind has some safety. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting over jobs.  The last time the Republicans were in, they had three recessions, three job-killing recessions.  And Philadelphia was in trouble, and Pennsylvania was in trouble.

	We are fighting over income.  We are fighting over the trend of this nation.

	Mr. Nixon goes to South Carolina and whistles Dixie and drinks mint julep, and he comes up North and whistles Yankee Doodle.

	You can't have it two ways, my friends.  You cannot be for civil rights in Pennsylvania and then think you are going too fast and too far in Georgia.  It just doesn't work that way, ladies and gentlemen. 

	We are talking about human rights.  We are talking about peace.  We are talking about the economic structure of this country.  We are talking about the care of our children.  We are talking about the health of our needy.  We are not talking about handouts; we are talking about opportunity--giving people a chance to make something out of their lives.

	I am proud to be a member of a political party that in these past eight years under the administrations of John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson, 12 million people have come out of poverty to become self-sustaining citizens in this country.  I am proud of that record. 

	And I point with humble pride to a record of ninety-two months consecutive prosperity--ten million new jobs, the lowest rate of unemployment in fifteen years.  Proud of a record in which more of our minorities are having a chance for the first time in their life to share the blessings of this nation.

	We don't intend to turn this over to a party that looks to the past.  I don't intend to turn this government over to a man that has made an alliance with Strom Thurmond.  I don't intend to have any compact with extremism of the left or the right.

	I intend to have this election won by the Democratic party. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't intend, if I can help it, in these perilous, uncertain days, when tragedy strikes us without warning, when men are shot down in tragic moment--I don't intend to let a ticket, the Republican ticket, be the winning ticket.

	The first decision that a presidential candidate makes, that tests his character, that tests his ability, is in his recommendation and selection of the man that runs with him as his vice president.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that I have given you the finest man in America in Ed Muskie as our candidate for vice president. 

	So there it is. 

	One week from tonight we are gong to decide the course of this country.  Twelve weeks from tonight a new president will be in the White House.  Twelve weeks from tonight.  And on January 20th, when all of the balloons have collapsed and when the confetti is gone, and when the television commercials are silent, and the crowds have gone home, one man, with his partner, and vice president, will stand on the steps of the Capitol and take the oath, the solemn oath of office as president, and another as vice president of the United States.

	And under that leadership, this country will take a new direction, and so will the whole world--because what America does affects this whole world.
The choice that we make--the choice that we make in this election will be the very thing that Abraham Lincoln was talking about when he said America was the last best hope on Earth.

	We are not merely choosing for ourselves.  We are choosing for generations yet unborn.  And we are choosing for a whole world.

	I want you to know, in the final moments now that I have with you, the kind of a man that you are going to have in that office.  I want you to know what my presidency will be like.

	First, I intend to tell the people the hard facts.  The American people are not babies.  They do not need to be coddled.  They need to be taken into the confidence of their president.  They need to be told the hard truth.  And if it is a tough goal, we are up to it.  If we need to know the facts and face them, we can.

	The American people can do anything that they put their mind to, and you and I know it. 

	Now, I will open the doors of the White House and listen to the people, young and old.  And I intend to close the gap between the Americans and their government in Washington so that you feel that you are a part of it, so that you feel that you are heard and listened to.  And I will do everything in my power, my fellow Americans, as your president to heal the wounds in this society, to close up the divisions between white and black, between young and old, between rich and poor.  And I will do everything in my power to make true the American dream of one nation, one people, united, one people indivisible.  That is the kind of a nation that we want.  And, ladies and gentlemen, we can do it together. 

	My friends, I know something about these American people, because I have spent many years with them.  There is a basic decency in this country.  There is a fundamental greatness here.  

	And the president of the United States must call upon that decency and that goodness, and he must call forth that greatness.

	And I want to be your president because I know the times call for goodness, and I know the times call for the greatness--not of a president so much as of the people.  And together--together, my friends, we can unite this country, together we can build trust in this country, together we can have friends and neighbors rather than enemies and strangers in our cities and through the countryside.

	Thirdly, I will do my level best to make peace, to make peace in Vietnam, if peace by that time has not been obtained.  Tonight I am hopeful that that cruel war will end and end soon--that the talks in Paris will succeed.  And it would be indeed unwise and improvident for me to say more about them.  We all hope and pray that Johnson may find the peace that he has searched for before his term of office expires on January 20th.   But if he does not--if he does not, then on January 20th, high noon, it will be my responsibility to find that peace in Vietnam and to make the decisions and the judgments necessary to search for that peace.  And I will do it, so that we may bring our men and resources back home here to take care of the job that needs to be done.  

	As I have indicated to you, I will labor day and night to call a halt to this insane nuclear arms race that will consume billions of our resources, that raises the level of danger.  The next president of the United States must have the courage to search for ways and means to stop this madness of armament that builds up and up, until someday it will explode and destroy us.  The job of a president is not merely to use power, but to find ways and means to have restraint in the use of power.  We need a world in which the tensions are reduced, and we need a country in which the anxieties and the tensions are reduced. 

	Finally, my friends, I want to press forward with the business at hand here at home.  I want an open society, open to all, room for all, opportunity for all.  We need each other as never before.  We many have to stand alone sometime, my fellow Americans.  And when we do, we are going to need every American at his best.  We cannot afford the expense of illiteracy and despair.  We cannot afford the intolerable conditions in slums.  And I was shocked when I heard the vice presidential nominee of the Republican party say that when you have seen one slum you have seen them all.  It was a sort of a Republican way of saying it.  Let me tell you what I think.  When you have seen one slum, you have seen one too many, and we ought to get rid of them. 

	So I come to you tonight to ask for your help.  I have traveled the length and breadth of this land as your candidate.  And my vision of this country has made me confident.  I have never thought America was sick, and I have never sold it short in order for me to stand tall.  I believe that there is such strength of character in the American people that they can do anything if they but have the message, if they can but be shown the way.

	I do not believe that America has lost its way.  I think America is finding its conscience.  And I am proud to say the Democratic administrations have led.  We represent a party that cares for people.  We represent a party that has compassion for the needy and the helpless.  We represent a party that has unlimited faith in the enterprise system of this country, in our business and our labor, in our management.  But above all, we represent a party that looks to the future.  And it is to the future that we must cast our eyes.

	The future of an America in the next twenty-five years that will have a hundred million more people, the future of an America in the next few years that will be even more urbanized, the future of an America where sons and daughters, from rich and poor alike, will attend our universities, the future of an America that needs Americans, trusting each other, working together, praying together educated together, living together.  And that is the kind of an America that a president can help build.

	And I come to Philadelphia, this home of American liberty, this city that gave to the world those great words of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, I come to you and ask you tonight to work as you have never worked before.  I am willing to give the last ounce of my breath and life to this cause.  But it cannot be won by one man alone.  We are close to victory.  We can close the gap.  That victory is within our reach.  But it is only within our reach if you will fight like you have never fought before, if you believe like you have never believed before, if you work like you have never worked before.

	I ask my fellow Americans and my fellow Democrats to put yourself on the line, to put yourself as the patriots of old did--your life, your fortunes, and your sacred honor--put it on the line.  And if you do, on November 5th you will elect a Democratic president and vice president. 

	Thank you.
CIVIL RIGHTSEDUCATION--GENERALJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR WARPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     g Üf Öf Òf Êf
 ¾f ¹f ´f ¨f œf šf Žf ƒf	 ¬ 	   	 Ž 	 w 	 H 	 = 	  e: