Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1018.003SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/18STUMPHARTFORDCONNECTICUTCTCONSTITUTION PLAZA2,503 WORDS

	Thank you very, very much.  Thank you, Governor Dempsey, my good friend, Senator Ribicoff, Congressman Daddario, Congressman Monagan and the Congressman to be, Congressman Sharaf, ladies and gentlemen.  What a wonderful Democratic meeting this is.  I have never seen quite so many.

	And may I just express my thanks to my many friends--the troops that are here today.  I see different signs here and I want to thank each and every one of you very, very much for your help, for your support and also for your signs.  They look good.

	Governor and Chairman Bailey, I had a wonderful meeting with your people here in Connecticut at Bloomfield and we have been stopping along the way as we came here to greater Hartford visiting with your friends and your neighbors.

	Today I want to take just a few minutes of your time before you have to go back to your offices.  This is the city, the great city of the great insurance industry of America.  May I say that the very best insurance that you can have for an American that will live in prosperity and for an American that will search relentlessly for peace is to vote the Democratic ticket in November.    

	I remember so well when John Kennedy told me of his visit to Hartford.  He told me at one time in 1960 that whenever he felt a little discouraged that all he needed to do was to come back to Connecticut and when he came here--he went away with new spirit and new strength.  

	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel exactly the same way.  I know that this campaign that was difficult in its beginning, that was hard in its start, I know that this campaign is now on the victory trail and I know that in November when you have made your decision as to whom you can trust, as to whom you want as your president and your vice president, that I think I can see here today that you are going to place your trust in the Democratic nominee and the Democratic ticket. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question.  The ultimate question in this election, the ultimate question is not just a simple issue.  The ultimate question is one of trust each other and trust of the leadership of this country, and I now that the people of the United States--

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  And may I say that Humphrey wants you. 

	But as we meet again, there isn't a single thing that this country can do or hope to do--that we will be able to do--unless we can have a nation in which we have a people that are united in common cause, unless we have a nation in which we can trust each other and unless we have a president and a vice president in whom you can place trust, and ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that one of the great contributions that we have been able to make to this country is in the selection of a man from New England as my running mate, and I say to you that the ticket of Humphrey and Muskie is good for Connecticut and good for America.    

	I look at this great city and I know that cities of America need leadership.  I know that this great state has long looked forward to the time that you could save the Connecticut River, that you could make it a great national park, and may I say that the distinguished senator from this state, Senator Abraham Ribicoff, has single-handedly--has almost single-handedly made possible the Connecticut River Park Recreation Area and when the Humphrey-Muskie administration takes over, senator, we are going to get the funds that are necessary to see that this great national park from the Canadian border to Long Island Sound becomes a reality.

	And for you commuters that have spent a little time on the New Haven Railroad, I want you to know that I have been told in no uncertain words by Governor Dempsey, by Senator Ribicoff, by Daddario and St. Onge and others that the New Haven Railroad--they said, Mr. Vice President, when you become president, we want the railroad not only...[missing text]... but we want it modern and we want it operating and we want a good passenger service.    

	But there are other things that are even more important.  There are other things, yes, my friend, my friends, the war.  There isn't any man that is worthy of seeking this high office that doesn't have as his primary objective, as his ultimate priority, the securing of peace, not only in Southeast Asia and Vietnam, but the securing of a world order in which we can live without fear.  And I, my friends, as, one of your candidates and one who seeks the highest office of this land, I say out here before this great full multitude of its citizens, that the first priority of the Humphrey-Muskie administration will be to find a way of peace that has not been obtained by them, to find a way to bring that struggle in Vietnam to an honorable and prompt conclusion and we will get it done. 

	And when we have done that, then what?  What will we do with the peace dividends?  What will we do with the resources that are saved?  What will we do with the manpower that comes back?

	I say that we have a job to do.  We have a job to build a better America.  We have a job to insure this country and how do we insure America?  We insure America, my friends, by better education for our young, by better care for our elderly, by maintaining a growing economy that provides job opportunities for every American, black and white.  We insure America, my friends, we insure America by making sure that every American, because he is an American, because he is a citizen, that he shall have an equal opportunity not only to the benefits of this country but also to the right to participate in those benefits and in the processes of our democracy. 

	We have work to do--we have work to do and lots of it.  And I need your help to get this job done.  And America represents the great unfinished business of mankind.  America represents in each generation a new challenge and a new hope.  America represents a chance for the young to have a measure of fulfillment of what this country should stand for.  America represents a chance for the black man to have his opportunity.  It represents a chance for all of us to show that at long last we are civilized enough to be able to live together in harmony.  And my friends, in this campaign, dangerous voices have been raised, voices of bitterness and hate, voices of passion and emotion--and you know who they are.  I do not think that the people of Hartford and the people of Connecticut will listen to a voice of hate and racism.. I do not think that you are going to listen to the voices of George Wallace who wants to take this nation back.

	And I do not think that a state that is progressive and forward-looking is going to want to support a candidate or a program that says we have gone too fast and too far, that all we need to do is stop while the world moves on.  I do not think that Connecticut that helped elect John Kennedy is going to cast its vote in 1968 for the Republican nominee, that John Kennedy defeated in 1960.    

	But I do think that this state, that this forward-looking state and this people, are willing to place their confidence and trust in a political party and in the nominees of that party that has a vision about tomorrow, that believe that the best days of America are yet to be believed, that we believe that the resources of America are yet to be found.  I believe that you believe with me that America does not stand for the past.  It stands for the future.  And I want you to help me build America's future.  I want you to help me as your president, to build a country in which every person, regardless of his name, his background, his color or from whence he came has a chance to make his contribution to insuring that America is what we have always dreamed that it would be, the last best hope of this earth and that chance is yours.

	I ask your help.  I ask your help.  I know that we are out-financed in this campaign.  I know that we don't have all the tools that we need.  I have had to carry my message ten times a day from the public platform.

	Someone said to me the other day, Mr. Vice President, you sound hoarse.  I said, "That is right, I am."  I haven't had the chance to be cool, you know, confident, you know.  I haven't had the chance to take off every other day and sun myself.  I Dave had to go to you the people, but I want to say on this platform that I go to the people.  I do not take them for granted.  I am not afraid of the people and Mr. Nixon--Mr. Nixon, let me lay it on the line once again.  I have said that the American people, the jury of 200 million in this country, is entitled to know where we stand on every issue, not where we stand just a little bit from where we stand out in the open.

	And I have asked and I ask again for the opportunity of the three presidential candidates, the one of the third party, the one of the Republican party and the one of the Democratic party, to appeal before the same audience on the same day on the same occasion, on national television, on national radio, before the press and before you, and let us state our case.  And what does the Republican nominee say?  He says that is kid stuff.

	Well, let me tell you, I think I know-- I think I know why he says so, because he doesn't want me to ask him some questions.  And I have some questions to ask him.  I have questions to ask him, why it was that he said that a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was a cruel hoax and catastrophic nonsense.

	I have some questions to ask him.  I want to know why he didn't stand for education for our young people through Federal aid.  I want to know, Mr. Nixon, I want to know, Mr. Nixon--

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, will you tell some other folks about that so that I may get a majority who want Humphrey?  That would help a great deal.    

	My friends, I ask you to substitute for the money that we don't have in this campaign, your enthusiasms.  I ask for your commitment.  I ask that you trust each other.  I ask that you put your trust in me and if you do, my friends, I will give you every ounce of my life to make this a better country, to make it a better nation for the young, to work for the peace that you have yearned for, to work for the kind of America that you can be proud to say I am a citizen.  We can do this, my friends, and let's do it.

	Thank you very much.

	By the way, I have a special treat for you, one of the nicest things in running for office is the nicest people you get to know.  I have here on your left and my right one of the most gifted and talented stars of theater, the movies.  She is a lovely lady.  She is a wonderful person and she has been helping me a great deal, and by the way, today is her birthday and I introduce to you: Inger Stevens.

	Inger.  

	MISS STEVENS:  First of all, I am very proud to be campaigning for Vice President Humphrey.  But, I want to tell you something that happened to me today.  It was quite extraordinary, as the vice president just told you it was my birthday and this morning he presented me with a birthday cake.  Now, can you imagine anybody, any of the candidates, presenting one of their workers with a birthday cake?

	VICE PRESENT HUMPHREY:  Yes, I can.

	MISS STEVENS:  Yes, Yes--but certainly not George Wallace.  He doesn't want to give the workers anything.  And-- Mr. Nixon, can you imagine him giving someone a piece of cake when he can't even give us a piece of his mind? 

	I am very proud to be here. 

	Thank you.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Boy, isn't it nice to be a Democrat?  I tell you.  Beautiful, beautiful.

	Now, my friends, we have another person for you to meet: one of the great stars, one of the great champions of our country, a fine gentleman, a man that has blessed me by the gift of his friendship and a man that I feel very proud to call a friend.  He has joined us.  He comes with us whenever he can spare the time.  He is a great Olympic champion and he is your own Rafer Johnson.  Rafer, come on up here.

	MR. JOHNSON:  Thank you, Mr. President.  We feel victory, and we hope that is true in November.  It is a real pleasure to have this opportunity to be with the Vice President and I can just say that I know he is concerned.  He has faced the problem forthrightly.  He has spelled those problems out and I think of all the candidates he is the individual who is most concerned about meeting these problems head on, solving those problems and making America the kind of country it should be for all Americans, whether they are black or white, rich or poor. 

	I am very proud to be here and I just hope you cast your vote for the next president, Hubert Humphrey, in November.

	Thank you very much.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, I know that you have met Congressman Daddario, but I don't believe you saw Bill St. Onge.  Bill, here you are.  

	And Bob Sharaf.  Where is Bob?  Right here.

	Say, now, listen.  I want--all you good folks here to go back to your respective homes tonight and I want you to spread the good news.  We need your help.  We have got a big surprise in store for the opposition, and I want you to know that this campaign is on the upswing, and I want Mr. Nixon to know that when it is all over I will see that he gets both Social Security and Medicare.  
ENDORSEMENTS--CELEBRITIESEQUAL OPPORTUNITYNATIONAL PARKSPUBLIC TRANSPORTATIONRACE RELATIONSVIETNAM WAR     5 Ù4 Ó4 Ï4 Ç4
 »4 ¶4 ±4 ©4 ž4 œ4 Š4 4	 f 	 M 	 < 	 . 	  	  e: