Speeches\1968\rep\S68r1011.001SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/11STUMPDALLASTEXASTXSOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY RALLY, MOODY COLISEUM4875 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Tate, Senator Tower, Congressman Bush, Congressman Collins, all of the distinguished guests on the platform, all of the members of this audience in front of me and behind me--in fact, I hope you are all behind me, believe me--I am delighted to visit this campus for the first time. And I am particularly moved that we could be here with my family to receive this wonderful welcome.

	I recall our welcome at the airport last night. There were so many there I didn't think we could have them here today, but you filled this hall and there are thousands more outside and we are grateful for your coming.

	And I'd like to, if I may, say a word at the beginning of my remarks with regard to this state, this city, this university, how much it means to me to be here. And first I am proud to be on the same platform with those men with whom I have worked in the past and with whom I hope to work in the future in the Senate and in the Congress of the United States. You say them a moment ago, the team that we have, and we want more as well.

	Senator John Tower, George Bush, Jim Collins, and our candidates Frank Crowley, Dr. Roy Wagoner. Let's give a hand to the whole team. How about it?

	I know the quality of leadership that John Tower has brought to the Senate and that George Bush has brought to the House and that Jim Collins is bringing as a result of that special election. And all that I can say is this. I have great respect--and I know you will know what I mean, through the years that I served in the Congress and the Senate and to the years I served as Vice President--for the Republicans. All I want is more of them to be Republicans, so give us a few more.

	And we welcome all those who are here who are Democrats as well as Republicans because this is that kind of an election across this nation here and across the nation where we need the support not only of those who are members of one party, but Democrats, Independents as well. I am particularly honored that Alan Shivers is heading up our Texans for Nixon. You know that gives me a good feeling. The last time he did it we won Texas and won America, and this time we will do the same thing.

	And speaking of winning, I am glad to be in this area for a number of reasons. Winning is kind of contagious. You have got to be with a winner to be a winner. And if you are with a winner you sort of get it in your blood and you feel like it and you talk like it and the rest.

	So I was checking some of the statistics. Dr. Tate, I do follow this a little more than you think. I do go back a few years. I remember when Southern Methodist came and beat UCLA 7-30, years ago.

	Incidentally, how many in this audience are less than thirty years of age? Let's see you stand up. Look at them. Great.

	And let me say that's true all over America. We are talking about the new generation, not the old, although we, of course, are proud of that generation as well. But I know that I am standing in certainly a place where many winners have stood before. As a matter of fact, the holding room was the letter man's room. What a privilege that was for me. I went out for football for four years at Whittier. I never made even the team at Whittier. And here I am in a letter man's room.

	We are going to win, believe me. That's what that can mean. My notes say here that I am supposed to predict that Southern Methodist will get in the Cotton Bowl. What do I say if I speak at the University of Texas? That's the problem.

	All that I can say is this, that it is one of those great exciting teams. I had seen Jerry Levias on television last year and I remember him scooting around and throwing that ball as a substitute T quarterback. And now this year you have got Chuck Hixon throwing to Levias. It must be a great combination. And after November 5th I hope to see them again. Believe me, I will have time.

	And then, of course, I realize that I am here in Texas in not only a football conscious state, but one in which you have another great team. Last night when I arrived at the airport there were so many out there I thought there might have been a mix-up, that probably the Cowboys were coming home after beating somebody. You know, the trouble with being a candidate is that Bart Starr is on my committee, so I have a real problem there.

	But all that I can say when I look at that great Cowboy record, when I look at that great Mustang record, when I hear that we have got 72 percent of the poll, believe me, we are with winners and we are going to win with your help in November.

	But as I talk about winning today, I want everybody here to know that we are not taking anything for granted. Oh, I have noted that the polls have looked good. I have noted some of the predictions about the fact that we are going to win big. But, you know, I am somewhat of an expert in losing an election, a close one. I am also an expert in terms of what has happened in American political history. And I know that there are some of the prognosticators that say, "Well, Nixon may be ahead, but this might be like 1948."

	Most of you in the front rows weren't born then. I was born then and I remember what happened in '48. That was the year you remember, when Harry Truman won by giving them hell. Well, Hubert Humphrey says he is going to win the same way. I don't think its going to work. It's one thing to give them hell, but it's something else to give them Humphrey.

	And there's another difference. I could tell you, my friends, there is another difference. In 1948 we coasted a bit. We felt we had it made. And I can tell you that in the last three weeks of this campaign, you haven't seen anything yet. We are going to pour it on. I have given orders across the country, we are going to sock it to them from now on through the balance of the campaign.

	And when I speak of "socking it to them" let me make one thing very clear. I am not talking about in any personal terms. I respect the President. I respect the Vice President of the United States. They are hard-working men. We happen to disagree on some of the issues that I am going to discuss today, but, my friends, as I look at America today at this turning point in our history, as I see what the choice is, I think we can't take a chance.

	I think it's vitally important that we get new leadership, and I'd like to talk to you, if I may, about that leadership and what I mean when I speak in terms of how we are going to sock it to them on the issues.

	Let's look at what has happened to America over the past four years and over the past eight years. What do we find? We find that the prospects for peace today, not only in Vietnam but all over the world, are lower than they were eight years ago when General Eisenhower left office.

	We find that whether it's Vietnam where we have a war or the Mid-East or Europe or Africa or Latin America that we find that as far as respect for the United States of America, it is at its lowest point in all history. We find that as far as America at home is concerned that respect for law is the lowest point we have had in our history.

	We don't have any peace abroad; we don't have any peace at home. We find that prices go up and taxes go up and the value of our dollar goes down and crime goes up, and then they nominate a man who says that he helped to make the policies of the past four years, and he did. He has always supported them. He hasn't disagreed with any of them. And he has pledged in effect that if he is elected he is going to continue for four more years, except more and more and more money to be spent with those same policies.

	And this is my answer. I say, my friends, America can't afford four years of Hubert Humphrey in the White House. That's what I say. My friends, when I speak of affording, I am not just speaking in monetary terms. And I could mention that the fact that while he was a Senator of the United States he introduced bills which did not pass. Which would have added $100 billion to our budget, which would have pushed this nation into bankruptcy, and that already in this campaign he has advocated programs for new spending of $50 billion, and we are only halfway through the campaign.

	I could go on with that, but what I am talking about is in a bigger sense. And so let me lay it out, not in personal terms but in the way that I know that this young audience and this older audience as well will appreciate, as fairly as I can. The choice, let's call it the "Big D".

	I know what "Big D" means in Dallas. Let me tell it to you in terms of politics. The big difference between a vote for Nixon and a vote for Humphrey, foreign policy, for example. Peace. Everybody in this audience, and I see them all over the nation, college students, high school students, deeply concerned about peace. And speaking of high school students, I am most grateful that the Dallas Press Club has given up this hall so that we could use it today and that so many journalism schools are here. Here they are, over here. Journalism students from across the way.

	But I know that wherever our students and their mothers and their fathers are concerned, the overwhelming desire is to build a world which will not be like the generation that I went through in which we had three wars in one generation. And that is the main responsibility of the next president of the United States.

	So here is your choice. On the one hand a man who as I said defends the policies of the past four years and pledges to continue them, and I say that as we look at those policies, we need a change. We need a new foreign policy.

	Looking at that difficult war in Vietnam, let me make one thing very clear. I think the President of the United States, we can have only one president at a time, and I believe that he has to be given and should be given every opportunity to try to get the negotiations off dead-center. And I will say nothing to harm that chance between now and election.

	But if by the time we vote we do not have a breakthrough, then I say, my friends, rather than turning to a man who is imprisoned by the policies of the past, let's get new leadership and with new leadership we will end the war on an honorable basis, and that's what I think that the American people want.	And by an honorable basis, I mean in a way that will discourage aggression in the future, that will prevent more Vietnams, and that's the second point.

	Around the world America is in trouble. Around the world the forces of peace are in disarray. And it's required that we get new policies not only in Vietnam but in Europe and Latin America and Asia.

	And here again, do we go with what we have had for four years? They have tried it for four years and they muffed it. We need some new leadership. That's why I have said we need new policies that will restore the strength of the United States so that the next president can negotiate with the leaders of the Soviet or anybody else from a position of strength and never weakness.

	That's why I say we need new policies that will restore respect for the United States of America, and let me make one thing very clear. In our administration the American flag isn't going to be a doormat for anybody, at home or abroad, I can assure you of that.

	And then, my friends, let's have new policies that will recognize a fundamental fact. The world has changed since that period that I came to office in 1947. It's changed since the period that I came to the vice presidency in 1953, the period that Alan Shivers has described. Then we were the strong nation and the rich nation, and other nations in Europe and other parts of the world and the free world could not undertake the responsibility which they could today.

	So look over the past twenty years. For twenty years America has been furnishing the money, $150 billion, in foreign aid. For twenty years we have been furnishing the arms and for twenty years we have been furnishing most of the men, both in Korea and then in Vietnam to help other nations defend their freedom. Now, the United States will stand for freedom in the world. We are not going to turn isolationist. We are a rich country and we are a strong country. But there are 200 million Americans and there are two billion people that live in the free world, and that's why I say it's time for a new foreign policy in which other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world. I pledge that kind of a policy, my friends, a policy of friendship with all nations and offering the hand of friendship to those that may not be friendly; but a policy of firmness and strength, one that can keep the peace.

	And on that score you must look to a man's record. And I am proud to say today that I have been trained by a pretty good teacher. I have been trained by a man with whom I served and in our administration I would point out that we ended one war and we did keep this nation out of other wars for eight years, and the kind of leadership we need today in the United States of America.

	Again let's turn to the Big D, the big difference. Let's turn to the problems at home. On the one side a man who looks at America, this great and good country, and says that as far as the Department of Justice is concerned, as far as the decisions of our court are concerned, as far as the Attorney General is concerned, that he finds no disagreement with the policies of the last four years, that he will continue those policies and probably those men.

	And my answer, my friends, is this. I say to you that when we look over the last four years and when we find that crime has gone up nine times as fast as population. When we find that we have had riots in 300 cities with 200 dead and 7,000 injured, and when a poll taken by a President's Commission shows that 43 percent of all the people in the country living in our big cities are afraid to walk on the streets at night, my friends, we can't go with the old policies. We can't go with the old men.

	We need a new attorney general and a new policy and a housecleaning that will reestablish respect for law and order in the United States of America.

	And on that score I respect the courts of this country. I will defend them always against any who would derogate their powers and their responsibilities under the Constitution. I have the right, as does any citizen, and particularly any lawyer, to disagree with some decisions.

	And as I look at the decisions of our courts over the past few years, I have had to conclude that some of our courts in their decisions have gone too far in weakening the peace forces as against the criminal forces in this country, and we must restore that balance if we are to have what we need.

	What I am suggesting to you is that we can have respect for law, we can have order and we can have it at the same time as we defend, as we must always defend, the rights of individuals, those individuals, their Civil Rights, but recognizing that the first civil right of every American is to be free from domestic violence. Let's see that we have that again in America. Give us a chance and we will provide that civil right for every American, wherever he may be across this land.

	Now we look again at the Big D. The difference, on the one side a candidate who tells the American working man, who tells the people that are retired, who tells the people living in our cities, "You have never had it so good." He said that in Toledo a few days ago.

	Now let's look at America. Yes, we have a lot of things good. This is a great country, a good country, but, my friends, let's see those things that we could do better. And when I see, for example, that wage earners in America over the past three years had an increase in their paychecks of $14 a week but when I find that that entire amount and more has been eaten up by higher prices and higher taxes, then I say it's time for a change. It's time that we stopped the rise in taxes, that we stop the rise in prices, so that American wage earners and the housewives who keep their budgets can have a real increase rather than one that is eaten up by inflation.

	I think that's the kind of thing that Americans want. My friends, look at the older people in this country. There are twenty million of them over sixty-five years of age, and here they are. They saved their money--they have got a little Social Security, a little life insurance, a pension. What's happened to them over the past four years? They didn't have the increases that the wage earners have had. And so prices have gone up and prices not only of the groceries, but their housing and everything else, and then they have held the same income. They are the forgotten people. They are the people that we have to take care of certainly not only in terms of their income but in terms of stopping the rise in the cost of living. That's why I not only have stood and do stand firmly for Social Security, but I say let's adopt the provision that we recommended in our Republican platform that whenever there is an increase in prices there is an automatic increase in Social Security so that people can have what is necessary to maintain their budget-keeping.

	What I am saying to you, my friends, is that it's time to have government that can recognize this fundamental principle, that America is a go-ahead country. We want programs, we want prosperity, but it's time now to have progress without inflation and prosperity without war. That's what America can have and that's what you are going to provide.

	And speaking of progress, we turn to the major difference. I would call it one of the majors, if not the major difference between the two candidates. What's the road to progress?

	Look across this great country of ours and we see many people that are unemployed, many people that aren't trained to take a part in our great society as we are going to develop it the years ahead. We see people in poor housing, and so we say what do we do in order to give everybody an equal chance, to give black Americans and Mexican Americans and white Americans who have not had the opportunity that others have.

	And here you have a diametric difference of opinion, an honest one between two men who have different backgrounds, different voting backgrounds. One of whom says that the answer is to do what we have been doing for the last four years, and let me tell you what it is. For four years we have poured billions of dollars into federal programs for federal housing and federal jobs and federal welfare. And what's happened? We reaped a harvest and it's a harvest of failure and frustration and riot across the land of hopes raised and then hopes shattered.

	And I say that that's a wrong road and when you are on a wrong road and you reach a dead end, you don't go on over the precipice, you take a new road.

	And let me tell you the new road. I say that at this time rather than speaking in terms of more millions on welfare rolls, let's have more millions on payrolls in the United States of America. That's the way to do it. Instead of speaking in terms of more billions for federal housing in which people become a colony within a nation, apart from the other nation, let us provide those tax credit incentives that will have private industry build the housing so that people can own their homes and own their apartments and get the pride that comes from home ownership.

	My friends, I say that instead of having these programs that take whole groups of people and put them in the position where they are just waiting for what the government does for them, let us recognize that it is the responsibility of government to care for all those who cannot care for themselves, but that government does no favor to an individual who is able to help himself when it does provide assistance that he otherwise could provide for himself.

	Let me put it quite directly. The war on poverty didn't begin five years ago. It began when this country began. It's been the most successful war on poverty ever waged in the history of man. Sure we have problems. We have too much poverty, too many poor in America. But, go abroad and you will find the traffic's all one way. You will find that anybody who has the right to choose, he is coming this way. He is not going someplace else to live.

	Now, why have we been successful? Why is it today that we have more wealth in America, infinitely more, more equally shared, than in any nation in the world. I will tell you why. America is a great country. Never forget how we became great. We are a great country not because of what government did for people but because of what people did for themselves for 190 years, and that is the way to greatness in the future.

	And so we shall provide in this great and rich country for the aged and for the needy and generously. But we shall also provide that opportunity for all individuals not to just be workers and managers but to move up, to get a piece of the action. This is the way, the exciting new future for America, and this is the turning point that Americans are going to decide as far as this key issue of progress is concerned.

	And now one final note. I could not miss the opportunity with so many people here, young in years, with all of your lives ahead, without saying a word only to you. The rest can listen, but I am speaking to you.

	To those of you who are here in college and high school or immediately thereafter with your lives ahead, in a political campaign you are going to hear, as you have heard from me today, a lot of criticisms about some of the policies of our government and some of the things that are wrong in America. We need that, of course, as you know, because only by that kind of criticism can we change what is wrong and move ahead. And that's the greatness of America. Only through dissent, only through that kind of criticism can we move ahead.

	But in speaking of that, don't any of you get the impression that some university students have had. As they've come after a meeting, very troubled, they have said to me, "Mr. Nixon, wouldn't you have to agree that this is probably the worst time that we could have been born in, a war abroad and no peace at home and all of these problems?"

	Let me tell you my answer. Sure, we have got problems, at home and abroad. But as a student of history and one who traveled all the nations of the world, virtually, if I were to pick a time in which to live, a time to be young, and a place in which to live, I'd pick the United States of America, 1968. This is the time, this is the place.

	And I want to tell you why. This is the time and place because we have problems, but never has a great nation had power to do something about its problems. We are rich and we are strong and we can wage winning wars against the problems of poverty and misery and disease around the world if we get the leadership, and you can provide that.

	And then on the other side, not only as we look at that wealth, we see the wealth of our young people. Oh, I know, it's fashionable these days to talk about young people going to the dogs or to pot, literally, but, on the other hand, my friends, I can assure you, I have seen young America, thousands as I see them today, I have seen them in our rallies across the country, and I would say, evaluating the young people in comparing them with those thirty years ago when I was in college, that this generation of young Americans is the best educated, it knows more about the world, it's more interested and better motivated than any young generation in history. This is the generation for the future and this is the one that I believe in.

	And so I say to you today, what a time to be alive, because there's one other thing that may not have occurred to you. Whether peace and freedom survive in this world, for the first time in the world's and America's history, depends only on what we do in America as far as the free world is concerned. That wasn't true before World War I or World War II when decisions in Paris and London and Berlin and Tokyo made the difference. But now it's all here, all the responsibility is here, and whether America meets that challenge, whether we have not only the leadership but the inspiration and the new direction to settle our problems at home, to prove that we can keep the peace at home and thereby will be trusted to keep it abroad, that's what's on the line.

	And so we look down to the end of the century, to the year 2000 when the older ones here will be as old as I am, and you are going to look back at this year 1968, and I want you to look back and say, "I was there then, and I didn't sit on the sidelines.

	"It was an exciting time to be alive and I participated, and as a result of that participation we changed America. We provided the leadership which allowed a new America to build a new world of peace and freedom."

	That's what's on the line and that's why what I say to you today means not only winning a mock convention in Southern Methodist University, and I am glad to have that, but I simply say this: I hope that when the record of this campaign is written, it will be written that as SMU went, so went Texas; as Texas went, so went America--and with America we provided the new leadership that this world wants.

	Thank you.
COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHOME OWNERSHIPPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPOVERTYPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONALSENIOR CITIZENSSPORTS/ATHLETESVIETNAM WARYOUTH     äd °d ªd ¦d œd
 “d Žd ‰d ƒd ~d |d Id ?d	 	 
	 ü 	 ã 	 Ë 	 · 	 ¢ 	 ” 	 l 	 L 	 E 	 . 	  	  	  e: