Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1101.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)11/01STUMPSOUTH BENDINDIANAINNOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY ADDRESS2966 WORDS

	The campaign is in its final week and we're close to decision day. So this is a good time to let the smoke lift from the battlefield and talk about what the fight is really all about.

	There have been a lot of charges and countercharges the past few weeks, been some painting in broad strokes--and that's not all bad. In fact, it was inevitable. We are fighting for something big here--the future of a great nation. And some of the differences between my opponent and me are so deep and wide they demand broad strokes. On taxes, crime, and America's place in the world, you could probably call the distance between us "the great divide."

	It's not a divide that has to do with different degrees of conviction. At the last debate I was asked all of a sudden to name some things about Governor Dukakis that I like, and I said with conviction that I think he is a sincere man with a wonderful family.

	He has sincere beliefs; I have sincere beliefs. But those beliefs are totally different, different in their assumptions, and different in their implications.

	And it seems to me, after six months of a hard fought campaign, that what it all comes down to is this: One of us represents the American mainstream--and one of us does not. One of us holds mainstream views and stands for mainstream values--and one of us does not. And "mainstream" isn't just the middle--it's the big full-hearted center, it's the traditions and the faith and the beliefs that have guided this country for 200 years.

	We come from different places and we start with different premises.

	I respect common sense; I respect tradition. You can't become hidebound but it's good, now and then, when asked about your position on a question, to think first: How has man answered this question for centuries now? You know why? Because man has had his reasons. Maybe they don't stand up today, but maybe they do. And by "man" I mean "mankind," and by "mankind" I mean the men and women of the world.

	Does my opponent respect old-fashioned common sense? I think he's guided more by abstract theories and grids and graphs and computer printouts and the history of Swedish social planning; I suspect he's guided more by ideas about the way men and women should be than the way they are.

	I'm being a little facetious here. But I'm also making a larger point: that you can be very well meaning and very sincere about improving the lot of man, but if you stick too close to the grids and the graphs you can lose your appreciation of what's real--and you can become, for all your intellectual attainment, disconnected from common sense.

	Let me be more specific about the great divide.

	I know how to get peace. And I know how to keep it. I know that strength and clarity lead to peace, that weakness and ambivalence lead to war. My opponent's view? Far as I can make out he views American strength with anxiety and America's role with ambivalence.

	I am wary of taxes; I do not like them; I will not raise them. My opponent is not, does, and will. Why the difference? I think I see more clearly that the economic engine runs better with lower taxes. I see the father and mother at the dinner table counting up the bills, and realize again that "the power to tax is the power to destroy."

	I know it's a tough call for some, but I believe that the death penalty is a fair and just punishment for crimes of extraordinary cruelty and violence, particularly involving the death of police officers. My opponent does not.

	I would like for our children to have the right to say a voluntary prayer or observe a moment of silence in the schools. My opponent disagrees.

	But to get the true size of what divides us you have to go back in time.

	I came to power with Ronald Reagan only eight years ago, but it was another world. The economy had been sinking, and so were our hopes that we'd continue as a force in the world. For me, the symbol of the era was the helicopters sinking in the sand of Desert One. I recall this with no pleasure: those were painful times.

	But we rolled up our sleeves and sent out a message: "The slide stops now--the comeback begins today."

	We lowered taxes, forced down inflation, cut the rate of government spending and cut regulation. The result--the greatest, most expansive peacetime economic boom in American history.

	Do you know what our opponents said about what we were doing? They said we'd ruin the economy. They said we'd cause massive unemployment. But now, as you know, unemployment is at a historic low. They said we'd cause massive inflation. Now it's a third of what it was.

	Our job now is to see that the economy isn't tied to the old business cycle but breaks free, so the boom isn't followed by bust but is more like rolling thunder.

	In foreign affairs we built up our defenses, walked unbowed to the bargaining table and asked the Soviets to join us. When they refused we continued to rebuild, knowing that if overtures wouldn't work, strength would.

	It did. They came to the table, and the talks that followed produced the first agreement to ban a whole generation of nuclear weapons.

	Eight years ago we took on the status quo and challenged the defeatism that others called deep thinking. Sometimes they called us radical, and in truth we did seem different. But what we led wasn't a revolution but a return--a return to common sense, basic truths, and timeless values.

	Has it all been triumph? No. But it's triumph compared to what we had.

	That's why I believe Ronald Reagan was right when he talked about the American desire for change. He said, we are the change.

	I believe in change--not volatile change, not ill-thought-out change, not change for a slogan or a pose. I believe in change that is improvement, change that means let's together try to make the world better.

	And I don't want to be abstract. Sometimes to say big things you have to generalize with big statements, but it's this simple and this direct: The decision we make next week will affect all our lives. It will make a difference in your life. When you take big things like "peace" and "the economy" and define them down to concrete terms, you realize you're talking about families--and homes--and the grocery bill - and the mortgage--and the dentist--and the cost of college--and will your children have jobs, and will they have it as good as we did.

	I know those concerns. Five children. I used to have to wonder in the '70s, are they going to be okay, will they have a chance too, as big a chance as Barbara and I did. Now we've got ten grandchildren and every time I think of our relationship with the Soviets I think of the two youngest, Ellie and Marshall, aged two. It's not abstract, it's real, I've been there. That's why I care so much: because it's personal.

	Let me tell you about the changes I wish to make. I'll start with what I won't do, and then tell you what I will.

	I won't raise your taxes, and for three good reasons: you're not undertaxed--a tax hike would slow the economy--and if we raise more revenues, the Congress will just treat it as more money to spend.

	I won't accept big new spending. I may have a difference with the Congress on this. I will try to work with them. But if the people vote for me on November 8th to keep taxes and spending down, and Congress doesn't listen to the will of the people, then I'll have to use the veto.

	I won't allow what seems to be the desire of the liberals in Congress to "Europeanize" the American economy. By that I mean tying it up with so many rules, regulations, mandates, and tax forms that it grows muscle-bound and can no longer move or grow. It would be ironic if we did this to ourselves just as our European allies are freeing themselves--by emulating us.

	I won't let anyone balance the budget by gutting defense. I'll have to make tough calls on setting priorities in defense spending. I am pledged to those money saving Pentagon reforms. But I will not tear down the build-up that was the parent of our current peace.

	I mean to keep us strong while keeping my ol' businessman's eye on the bottom line. I respect bottom lines--I just know they're not the only line on the ledger.

	Those are things I won't do. But leadership is more "will" than "won't," and I want you to know exactly what I will do.

	I will be an activist president. I want this job because I want to do things.

	I will continue to build a strong defense.

	I will pursue more progress with the Soviet Union.

	I will work with Congress to reach agreement on a flexible budget freeze to get spending under control.

	I will move, here at home, to halt the pollution of our environment and do more to clean up our lakes and rivers and oceans and air.

	I will appoint a strong cabinet--a vigorous new leadership to build on our progress--to bring new approaches and new ideas.

	I will work with governors, Congress, and educators to set high standards for our schools, to reward success and increase educational opportunity--especially for the poor.

	I will continue to speak for and push for a return of solid values, including respect and nonviolence.

	If history is a guide, the next president will have a high number of seats to fill on the Supreme Court. I will appoint moderate persons of conservative views. I believe my opponent would appoint doctrinaire liberals. That's what he did in Massachusetts. But the excessive judicial activism of the '60s and '70s is one reason Americans turned against that kind of liberalism by the '80s. This is no time to go back.

	And I want to say something here: I have had some programmatic differences, but I respect the tradition of Harry Truman and FDR, a liberalism that was committed abroad and concerned at home, a liberalism that spoke for some good things like civil rights.

	But some of today's liberals do not see as clearly as their forefathers. A civil rights infraction is still a crime to them--but street crime, violent crime is somehow beneath their notice; it doesn't register. And if you bring it up they'll call you insensitive or backward.

	I see that violent crime is a great civil rights question of our time--that the victims of crime are not the rich and the well connected, but the working poor and the young and the old--and that an old woman who is afraid to go out for bread after dark is every bit as oppressed as a political prisoner in a totalitarian country.

	You may have noticed I've seen a lot of police lately, received a lot of endorsements. Someone said recently, "Oh the police, they always support Republicans." Well let me tell you, you've seen the men and women lined up around me when they announce their support. I turn back and look at them and it's like going to a Knights of Columbus meeting or the union hall: Those are Democrats--they come from Democratic homes--and they left their party. And they keep leaving not just because their party doesn't take them seriously, but because it doesn't take our values seriously: an unambivalent strength abroad, and a wise and sensible kindliness at home.

	Well, come January, I hope I can show them, "My house is your house."

	There are other questions before us. I have spoken of a kinder, gentler nation, and I plan to speak about it for the next eight years.

	And I start from this premise: In America these days there is prosperity--and that's good, even if it does sometimes upset the fringe liberals. But, when it comes to wealth, some of them are like the stern old Calvinist who was up all night worrying that someone somewhere was out having a good time.

	Wealth isn't bad in and of itself--but it's not an end in and of itself either. It's just a beginning.

	The percentage of our people who are poor has gone down significantly during the economic expansion of the last six years. But because our population is growing, the absolute number has grown. And what about them?

	We can't go back to the old ways of trying to buy our way out of the problem. We tried that for decades, for generations, and it didn't work. I'm not going to become president just to indulge some more failures.

	But I'm not going to turn away from this problem just because so far it's been unsolvable.

	I think we've got to take a new look at why things are the way they are; I think new ideas and a new cooperation are in order.

	These days, now more than ever, we must hold together and hold fast. We need a greater cohesion in our country, a new engagement in the lives of others.

	And finally, let me tell you one thing I've learned in life: It's that decisions are made by people, by very human men and women who base them on experience, on what they've seen and valued. So it matters who we are, we who seek the presidency.

	And here's the funny thing. Talk as we will, the fact is no one who runs for the presidency knows exactly what he'll face when he gets there. Somehow it's always a surprise. Lincoln was referring to this when he said, "I plainly confess that events have controlled me, more than I have controlled them."

	All you can know is history. And how once during a crucial moment in the Cuban missile crisis, John Kennedy held two cables. One, from Nikita Khrushchev, offered a peaceful way out of the crisis. The other, also from Khrushchev, had arrived shortly after the first--but its tone was more belligerent and aggressive. Kennedy wondered what to do--and made a decision that was brilliant in its simplicity. He decided to answer the good cable and ignore the bad one. As you know it worked. A cataclysm averted.

	How did Kennedy know what to do? Well, he had experience in the rough and rolling world of politics, where tempers get frayed and composure lost. He was tough--he'd been toughened by war and the call of high ambition. And he was patient.

	Harry Truman was in the Oval Office in 1945 when he was faced with the awesome question of what to do about a devastated Europe. Roosevelt was dead, the war was over, and a weary America longed for quiet. But Truman looked at Europe, saw Stalin poised at one end and famine at the other, and made the decision to mount the Marshall Plan. And then he saved Greece from Communism. He succeeded at both brilliantly.

	How did he know what to do? Well, a tough and flinty character that said the big battles are worth fighting for--a moral sense that said we can't yield Europe's freedom to our exhaustion--and a workaday common sense that said that strategically, we just couldn't afford to lose a continent of allies.

	The Oval Office requires an unflashy good judgment, a reliable calm; it requires that you know the difference between important and crucial, between desired and necessary. It demands an ability to take the long view, and to take short-term heat to win long-term gain.

	It is the place of cutting moments--the moments that cut through the expected and the everyday and force us, through action, to define ourselves.

	I don't know what the cutting moments will be for the next president.

	But I know they'll come.

	And I know I'm prepared--at least as prepared as you can be.

	I am no mystic, and my leadership will not be the most charismatic. But I'm not sure we need a lot of razzle-dazzle. There's probably enough drama in the world already.

	But I'll try to be fair; I'll try to be wise; and I'll listen.

	And so you know my hopes and aspirations; you know what I intend to do.

	And now the day of decision nears; and now you must choose your side in the great divide.

	I ask for your support; I need your help. I need your vote. Every vote counts. And I want you to send out the word to everyone you know, to everyone who cares about you. Tell them we need their help, your parents and your brothers and your sisters and your friends and the teachers and the nurses and the lawyers and the bus drivers--everyone, now, tell them: We need your help.

	And now you can tell your children and grandchildren that on a cool crisp day in the month of November in 1988 you helped a future president--and he will never forget it.

	Thank you. And God bless you all.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--DECISION SKILLSCONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYCONDUCT OF LIFE--INTELLIGENCE/COMMON SENSECRIME VICTIMSCUBA--MISSILE CRISISDEATH PENALTYECONOMY--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINCOME TAXLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONLIBERALISMNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (POST-COLD WAR ERA)REGULATION/DEREGULATIONSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTS     Ù@ ¥@ Ÿ@ ›@ ‘@
 ‰@ „@ @ u@ n@ l@ O@ E@	 j	 J	 3	 		 ü 	 è 	 Û 	 Ë 	 µ 	 “ 	 ‰ 	 o 	 e 	 1 	  e: