Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1016.005SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/16STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYAL SMITH DINNER, WALDORF-ASTORIA1,552 WORDS

	Your Excellency, your Excellency, Archbishop Cooke, Mr. President, Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Lindsay and my friend, Mr. Nixon, and distinguished ladies and gentlemen, and Senator McCarthy, wherever you are. 

	Charlie, your Excellency, for a while I thought that the suggestion that had been made here tonight that the president of the United States might serve as referee was somewhat within what I thought was fair play from my side of the fence.  But, after having listened to Richard Nixon, I am not so sure that I am going to trust the president tonight. 

	Darned if you don't make it seem almost worthwhile. 

	And I am happy that my mother isn't here tonight, much as I would love to have her here, because my father once told me, mother was sweetheart, wife, and he loved her dearly, and admonished his sons to respect their mother, but he said, son, I have got confide in you.  She is politically unreliable. 

	I thought I had that one nailed down. 

	My dear friend, Mr. Farley, Jim, a friend of my father and friend of mine, this is a wonderful country.  My, it is a wonderful country. 

	You have already been told that there are three men here who have served in the office of vice president.  Well, Dick Nixon and I know that this is the kind of a country where any poor boy can grow up to be vice president.  

	It is one of those chances you have to take.  And we have both taken it.

	Well, I am delighted also to be here at this great dinner that honors, you will pardon me, Dick, a great Democrat--that is the only partisan reference I shall make for the moment--but also a great churchman an I am also very pleased that my friend, Mr. Nixon, is on the same platform with me, almost within camera range. 

	It is all in good fun.  Don't worry about it.  We plan on talking to each other after November.  It just depends on where we are living. 

	But I really thought better of my friend.  I never knew that he aspired to live in public housing.

	Whatever the--what the television networks, the United States Congress and my telegrams couldn't accomplish, Archbishop Cooke has accomplished. 

	In fact, I am about to make a great political announcement.  I wish I had Archbishop Cooke as my campaign manager--Richard Nixon--I am going to call him affectionately, Dick, if you will permit me so, because we address each other as Dick and Hubert.  You would be surprised, we really do talk to each other. 

	He remembers that some eight years ago when he was on this platform with another candidate for President, Jack Kennedy referred that night to some of the differences that were evident in the audience, and I want to say tonight I think it is a wonderful, wonderful thing to be able to bring people of such basic different philosophies together so that they can discuss their differences, and I have really looked forward to what Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Lindsay and Dick Nixon had to say tonight.

	Now, his Excellency may even perform a real miracle tonight.  In fact, I think he has already done it.  He may be able to hold my speech down to about ten or twelve minutes. 

	There is only one other man that has ever been able to do that and he is to my left and your right. 

	But tonight we join in a great and common cause.  We join together as one great American family and we are all here in the cause of charity, and may I suggest that in a few moments, the ushers will pass among you for contributions to the Democratic party. 

	In my present position, in light of what you all know and have heard, I take a little heart from Harry Truman's campaign in 1948.  In fact, Dick, I have to.  And I say that in all respect to one of the best friends that I have in New York, to Governor Thomas Dewey, another great man. 

	I feel a little better because I remember another political year and if any of you do not share my enthusiasm for 1948, I am very sure that you will share my enthusiasm and admiration for the Democratic candidate of 1928.  I am going to make an announcement here that no other candidate in this election can make.  My father was Al Smith's County Chairman in Spink County, South Dakota.  And may I say that in those precincts, if it wasn't illegal and immoral, at least it was incredible.

	Now, the Democratic candidate of that year, that man that they called the Happy Warrior--he warned that prosperity was fragile.  He said then that disarmament was essential and he said that the world we see was fraught with danger--a prophet before his time, un-listened to.  He spoke then as he did all of his life of building a stronger and a better America, strengthening of our economy and, above all, of our moral purpose, and in his acceptance speech, he spoke for men of goodwill of both parties when he said these words:  "Government should be constructive, not destructive, progressive, not reactionary."  And then, he said:  "I am entirely unwilling to accept the old order of things as the best unless and until I become convinced that it cannot be made better."

	Well, I think everyone here knows that the story of America is that we can make it better, that we are willing to accept change and that we are willing to direct its course.  And then the Ku Klux Klan in those days burned its crosses as he campaigned, Al Smith warned this nation that it could lose its soul.  And it came close to it.

	And then, I remember, too, that in 1960 there was another man of Catholic faith, John Kennedy, and as the campaign began, it was said that his religion would hurt him, but to his everlasting credit, Richard Nixon, his opponent that year, and my opponent this year, declared that religion should not be an issue in the American political scene. 

	So, the fires of bigotry which burned fiercely in 1928 were dampened in 1960 and we salute you, sir. 

	But there are those of the extreme right and the extreme left of the extremes who are trying to fan those fires of bigotry once again.  In 1928 religion was the issue.  In 1968 it is race.  And we hear a slur against both black and white from irresponsible voices.  But I do not believe and I do not believe that you believe that the extremists will succeed.  I believe that America is brave enough to reject appeals to fear, and it is compassionate enough to reject repression, and I believe that it is wise enough to reject bigotry from any source in this land. 

	And I believe, too, that America is strong enough and its people, when inspired, are great enough to reject the spirit of suspicion and to replace it with that wholesome spirit of trust, and I know and every man on this platform knows that the world is watching us.  And here is the very essence of the question that is before this nation this year.  Shall our nation be divided by fear or shall it be united by faith?  Shall we trust one another?  Can we create the dream of every dreamer in this land, and of every patriot, of one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all? 

	Can we vote our hopes and not our hates?  And can we see a new day where opportunity for every American is a fact and not a fiction?  And can we judge a man not by his race or by his last name or by his religion, but rather, will we judge him by his merit and by his performance?

	You see, I believe we can.  In fact, I know we must.  I know that the world awaits our answer.  They are waiting to find out will we give to humanity inspiration or will we again settle for desperation?

	The Al Smith Foundation is dedicated to this great work, this great work of human understanding, of helping the poor, the disinherited and the disadvantaged--and our late and beloved friend, that noble spirit, Cardinal Spellman, who we remember tonight and revere, he fully understood this cause.  He devoted his life to it.  And I ask you, my fellow Americans, can we do less?

	So, this is the American credo, and there is nothing wrong in these days of sophistication and being above it all to have a little basic fundamental patriotism.  This is our credo--this compassion, this faith, this credo, this will.  It can light our way in the difficult and dangerous days ahead, and I tonight take heart from O'Shaughnessy, the Irish poet who in his own way once sang these words:  "For each age is a dream that is dying or one that is coming to birth."

	You see, I believe that the American dream is coming to birth and I say lustily and loudly, long live America, the last best hope of this earth.

	Thank you so much.  
DISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALRACE RELATIONS     ˘! ≈! ø! ª! ≥!
 ß! ¢! ù! ï! ç! ã! k! `!	 + 	  e: