Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1025.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/25STUMPLAS VEGASNEVADANVAIRPORT4,011 WORDS

	Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.

	Thank you very much, Senator Cannon, Senator Alan Bible--and to me he will always be Governor Sawyer. 

	And state senator Bigson--thank you for your words of prayer and of meditation with us tonight.  And may I thank also Pat Morrow and Lee Majors for doing such a fine job of entertaining you.  These wonderful stars are giving so freely of their time to us--and I cannot properly express my gratitude and thanks for their help.

	Now, I know that our good friend, Congressman Baring, cannot be with us as has been said.  But let me tell you, he is with you, and you re-elect him--don't forget.  You make sure you send him back to Congress.

	And be sure also, without question and doubt, that you give one of the finest senators that has ever served your state a vote, a great vote of gratitude and appreciation and support.  And I mean none other than Senator Alan Bible.  You just help him. 

	I don't know of any state that is more fully and adequately and honorably represented in the United States than the state of Nevada, in Senator Alan Bible and Howard Cannon.  You have two of the most respected, two of the most effective, tow of the most hard-working United States senators in this entire body--and I know.  I preside over that body. 

	I hear that you have Pat Brown out here, and I know he has done a lot of good Democratically speaking, and you have had my wonderful running mate, the man that is really just the best of them all, Senator Ed Muskie, out here. 

	Now, tonight we may be interrupted from time to time by some noise of a prop plane or a jet.  Don't let that bother you--that is just Democratic prosperity, that's all.  Just enjoy it--that's all. 

	Let me tell you, if I have my way, and I am your president, we are going to make this great city of Las Vegas one of the great international centers of air transportation, and that is exactly what it ought to be--a great international air center. 

	So every time that you hear a plane going over, just remember one thing--it is filled with passengers that have been able to pay their way, or at least on credit card that they will pay--and just remember this--that commercial air transportation is growing by leaps and bounds, and it will continue to grow unless you make the sad mistake of electing a Republican administration.  

	Now, I would rather have a little airport noise and a lot of jobs than quiet at the airport and a lot of Republicans in Washington--any time.  

	You know, we hardly gave you twenty-four hours notice to put this meeting together today.  We have been very busy.  And I think you know that I have been making a half dozen, a dozen meetings a day.  I am not the Republican candidate, you know, that makes one speech a day and one parade a day.  I am the Democratic candidate that makes ten speeches a day and has little time for parades.

	I am out here trying to carry your message. 

	But my Republican opponent has announced that he is going to make an extra effort in the closing days of the campaign, and he better, because I will tell you we are making one right now before the closing days of the campaign. 

	And I thought tonight that I would take just a little time of yours to talk to you, even though the circumstances may not always be as good as we would like, with a little noise--I would like to kind of summarize with you where we are, what has happened in this campaign.

	I said that he is going to make an extra effort, going to buy a lot of television time, much more than we are going to be able to afford.  I hope that you will compensate for that by getting out and talking to your families, talking to you friends, talking to your fellow members in the labor movement, talking to your associates in business.

	I want you to remember that in 1960, Nevada and Minnesota both voted for John Kennedy.  Now, let's not forget it.  

	And I think that both of them are going to vote against Nixon in 1968.  

	How did you like that for timing--wasn't that good? 

	What is the question that is before the American people right now?  Who can you trust.

	Now, listen to that precious word--who can you trust, to lead this country in the next four years.  

	VOICES:  Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you, friends.  I hope you will tell everybody.

	The second question is, who can you trust with the security of this nation and to win the peace that all of us want?  

	VOICES:  Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And who can you trust to hold this wonderful country of ours together as one people and one nation?  And who can lead this country forward?

	I think you know the answer.  Perfect.

	I was afraid that fellow wasn't going to take off.  But it was just at the right time.

	Now, our Republican friends have fought every piece of social legislation that has benefited this country--they have fought against it.  They have fought against social security, they have been against all forms of federal aid to education.  They have been against Medicare for our senior citizens.  They have been against minimum wages.  They have been against these great developments that have been so vital to the West, the great dams, the water conservation and the public power projects.  You just name it, and I'll guarantee you that you will have found a majority of them in Congress against it.

	This great state would not be what it is, and this great Rocky Mountain area of the West would not be what it is today, if you would have waited for Republicans to have placed their confidence in you.  And since they didn't have any confidence in you, I make a suggestion--you have no more confidence in them--and that is a fair deal.

	You know, I asked an audience in Los Angeles the other day--what has Mr. Nixon ever done for you?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What was that?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What are you going to do for Mr. Nixon?  

	VOICES:  Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, that's fair.

	The Democrats have been responsible for every piece of constructive legislation that has passed in those last thirty-five years.  And anybody that lives out here ought to remember it and keep in mind the Democratic party.

	Now, Mr. Nixon is beginning to talk.  I don't suppose he has a sore throat; he has been so silent.  He looks nice and tanned.  I don't know why he doesn't come to Nevada to rest up.  It's nice out here. 

	He is very cool, he is very confident.  But recently we have been roughing him up a little bit, and he is beginning to hear the voice of the people.  He hasn't heard my voice, apparently, but he is beginning to feel what is happening.  And I think I know what this extra effort means that Mr. Nixon is talking about.  Of course, it means four hours of television, nationwide network, next Saturday.  That doesn't come cheap.  But I don't think the American people feel the White House is for sale.  I just don't think you feel that. 

	But, you know, I guess I ought to feel pretty good.  I have been able to do something for Mr. Nixon that no other man has ever been able to do.  I have been able to bring this fellow around to where he almost sounds up-to-date.  

	Listen to this.

	Why, Mr. Republican now says he is for federal aid to education.  Isn't it wonderful?  I convinced him. 

	But he doesn't tell you that he failed to cast--that he cast a vote when there was a tie on federal aid to education--and he voted against it.  That is his record.  I don't care what he says now.  You shall judge them by their deeds, not by their words. 

	Now, Mr. Nixon, who has laughed at and ridiculed all of our efforts to help the poor people of this country--he now proposes a National Teachers Corps.  The trouble is, Richard, that the Democrats did that a whole year ago--you have just caught on. 

	And we did it with 95 percent of the Republicans voting no.  So we really don't need Mr. Nixon's vote.  We did it without him.

	Now, you know, in 1962 Mr. Republican--and that is what I have to call him--Mr. Republican spoke out on Medicare.  There are a few people around here that are eligible for it, and some of the others will be in a short time.  And I want to be sure we have the right administration in power when I am eligible for it.  I want to be sure we are going to get it.

	Well, Mr. Republican said about Medicare--he said it would do more harm than good.  And then he said it would not work.  But now, Mr. Nixon, the new Nixon, he says he supports Medicare.  Well, we don't need him.  We have already got it. 

	I say that a man who has fought it every step of the way, who did everything he could to kill it, can't be trusted to keep it--and he cannot be trusted one little bit, to keep it. 

	You see, this is why I wanted this man to stand up here and debate.  Gosh, it would be nice if he were out here in Las Vegas tonight, wouldn't it?  

	VOICES:  Yes!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  It would be real nice.

	But you know, he doesn't want to answer some of these questions, because I am apt to ask him--when did you get this political death-bed religion, Mr. Nixon?  When did you start to get so progressive, Mr. Nixon?  All of your life you stood there and resisted and fought.  You called my party the party of treason--and he did.  He fought Harry Truman.  He fought Roosevelt.  He fought Kennedy and Stevenson.  He fought Lyndon Johnson.  And he fought me.  And I am going to lick him in this election. 

	You bet.

	Now, listen here...

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, wait a minute.  If you think you want Humphrey, you want to know how much I want you?

	Listen, my friends, listen--with this spirit and this enthusiasm, we can win this election, and we can have a victory here that will make Mr. Truman feel twenty years younger. 

	Now, let me tell you what else this fellow, this Mr. Republican, has been saying.  I have been checking up on him.  He said in Flint, Michigan the other day--listen to this--for every person on a private payroll in America today, there are three persons on welfare rolls.  Poor man--can't even count.  I don't know how you can win the election if you can't count.  The only problem with that statement is that there aren't that many people living in the United States--that's the trouble.

	Six out of every seven people employed in this country are employed in private industry and, might I add, that we have added another ten million in these few last Democratic years.

	Mr. Nixon, get your facts straight.  I don't expect you to have much judgment, but get your facts straight.  You are dead wrong. 

	Now, let's talk about jobs for a minute.  What about jobs?

	Well, Mr. Republican is saying that he is a friend of the working man.  Now, that's news for you, I'll guarantee you that.  If he is a friend of the working man, Scrooge is Santa Claus. 

	But when the Nixon Republicans were running the country in the 1950s, they increased unemployment by two million, they plunged the country into three profit-killing--Mr. Businessman--three profit-killing, job-killing depressions.  And he says he is a friend of the working man?  I want to tell you folks, better to have poison ivy any day. 

	Today, after eight years of Democratic government, we have got one of the highest economic growth rates in the world, unemployment stands at the lowest level in fifteen years, we have had ninety-two months of consecutive uninterrupted economic expansion, we have added ten million new jobs, and we have trained more than one million workers who last year were on welfare rolls and are off of them this year, and 12 million people have been brought out of poverty to be taxpaying, self-respecting, productive citizens.

	Mr. Nixon, listen to that.  And now, Mr. Nixon, what about your economic adviser, that fellow that said what America needs is a little more unemployment?  

	Whose job are you going to abolish, Mr. Republican?  I've got an idea.  I know one man that can be unemployed.  Guess who?  Nixon's the one.     

	Whose job?  What kind of talk is this?  People need jobs--people have mortgages, they have debts to pay, people want to send their sons and daughters to college.  And a man says that he thinks that America could stand a little higher rate of unemployment.

	Ladies and gentlemen, that disqualifies a man to be the leader of this country--and no man ought to vote for him on that basis. 

	But, my friends, today was the day of all days of irresponsibility.  Today Mr. Republican charged that the administration of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson have weakened our defenses to the point where a security gap exists today and a survival gap may soon exist.

	He frightens the American people.

	And I say to you tonight as a member of the National Security Council, as the vice president of the United States, and as the Democratic nominee, there is no security gap and there will be no security--no survival gap, unless we heed Mr. Nixon's advice.

	He cited figures, and he made charges. And I come to Nevada to speak about it, because Nevada is vital to our security.  The state plays a unique role in the security of this nation--in its testing program, in its Air Force, in its bases.

	You people understand security.

	And when Mr. Nixon talks and misrepresents, I say it is time to call a halt to it.  And I don't intend to let him get by with misleading the American people, misleading our allies, and misleading our enemies.  All of it is dangerous. 

	Already today I have refuted these charges.  I am not going to burden you with extra emphasis.  But the facts speak for themselves.  They are on the record.  Mr. Nixon is wrong, and Mr. Nixon is guilty of irresponsibility when he talks the way he did about our security.

	I'll say this.  Mr. Nixon, in making his extra effort to catch votes, he is playing fast and loose with matters of life and death to this country--our national security.  He is trying to mislead the American people, and I am not going to let him.

	Worse than that, he is undermining the confidence of our allies, and he is risking miscalculation by our enemies.  And, ladies and gentlemen, that is too much to inject in American politics.  He ought to be ashamed of himself. 

	But he isn't going to prevail, because his figures are phony, his facts are wrong, and I think the American people are beginning to see that there isn't a new Nixon.  There isn't any old Nixon.  There is just Nixon.

	In putting together his extra effort he announced in Cincinnati, Ohio, just last week, very calmly, you know, the polls are very good for him.  They have been changing a little bit lately, as you have noticed.

	My dear friends, they are going to change a lot more--make no mistake about it.

	But he was there in Cincinnati, Ohio, and he was very sanitized, deodorized, looking very perfect, and he announced this new, extra effort, but he said he wasn't going to engage in any name-calling in the campaign.  Then he cleared his throat and called me an adult delinquent.   

	Well, thanks very much, Mr. Nixon.

	I am not going to call you an adult delinquent.  I am just going to tell the record on you, that's all.  I have no personal reactions about you.  I just simply say that your public record is one that isn't good for this country and wasn't good in the past and it isn't good for the future and we don't intend to let you be president. 

	Well, this is an uncertain political year.  But I think I can make one prediction rather safely--that during Mr. Nixon's extra effort, in these final days, the real Nixon will emerge--make no mistake about it.

	You remember what Mr. Agnew said--that I was soft on Communism.  And then he had to all get around and say--Well, that was a mistake--Humphrey really isn't soft on Communism.

	Don't blame Mr. Agnew--poor fellow just got a hold of one of Mr. Nixon's old speeches--that's all.  As a matter of fact, Mr. Agnew is a rather pleasant, nice fellow.  He should be kept right back in Maryland.  And he will be--make no mistake about that.

	So we have heard from several Nixons.  Kind of interesting.  I just wish I had so many different personalities.  We have the confident Nixon, vacationing in Florida's sunshine, taking the American people for granted, reading what was written, looking at the polls.  Let me tell you who is the best Pole of them all--Ed Muskie. 

	And now we have another Nixon.  We have the statesman Nixon, who is above the battle--above the battle for peace at home or peace abroad--just cannot comment on anything; it's just something that he ought not to say anything about, way above it all.

	And then we have the liberal Nixon, who talked for a while about choosing John Lindsay for his vice presidential candidate but ended up, when the chips were down, whistling Dixie by yielding to Strom Thurmond and picking the incredible Mr. Agnew. 

	And then we have another Nixon--the Southern Nixon.  Oh, that is really--that one is really a honey--the Southern Nixon, basking under the magnolia blossoms--you know--reading the crime news from the daily newspapers to Southern audiences.

	And then we have Sheriff Nixon.  And then we have Professor Nixon.  And so on and so on.

	Mr. Agnew says that if you have seen one slum, you have seen them all.  Well, it was Mr. Nixons's decision to chose Mr. Agnew, and if you have seen one of Nixon's decisions, you have seen them all. 

	As a matter of fact, if you have seen one Nixon, you have seen them all.  The real Nixon is emerging.  Yes, he is reverting to his old self.  The makeup is falling off.  And that is enough for anyone--make no mistake about it.

	The next president of the United States has tremendous responsibilities.  Every president does.  This president does.

	By the way, Mr. Nixon has been playing president all summer long.  He has just been so discreet, he has been so statesmanlike, he has been so presidential, that I'll tell you that by the time November 5th comes, people are going to think it's time for a change, and they are going to vote for Humphrey.  

	So, my friends, I leave you tonight with the thoughts about the grave decisions that the next president must make.

	We hope and pray here tonight, as Senator Bigson did with us, that there may be peace in Southeast Asia and Vietnam.  And let me say to this audience that as I speak to you now, your government, your president is doing everything that he possibly can to insure that peace and to bring that peace to us.  

	But if he should not be able to do so, and it will be through no lack of effort on his part, then the next president must do so.  And I am the only candidate in this entire campaign that has talked to you about what I would do as your president if I had the responsibility to bring peace in Southeast Asia.

	The next president must hold this country together. Let me repeat--the next president must hold this country together, because unless we are together, we can do nothing.  He must be able to help heal the wounds that our people have suffered.  He must listen to the young people of America and understand what they are trying to say to America.

	He must help this nation find its conscience.  He must help build one nation of one people--not two--and he must create a society where dissent can be heard, where the poor are helped, and where the young are proud to be Americans.

	He must enforce the laws, and he must insure order.  And he must help our states and our municipalities to have the resources that they need to make every citizen secure and to make our streets safe once again so that families and individuals can live in safety and can live in honor and not live in fear and live in violence.

	The next president must help do these things. 

	The next president must do everything he can to end the mad escalation of the nuclear arms race.  He must insure the security of this nation even as we push forward, step by step, to a safer and a saner world, a world which cannot be destroyed by one rash, erratic act or one error in judgment which unleashes a nuclear holocaust that could literally wipe out nation after nation.

	These are the things that your next president must do.  And these are the things that are on my heart and my mind.  And these are the things that I intend to do when you elect me your president.  

	So, my fellow Americans, and my good friends of Nevada, the next ten days are going to be the longest ten days in Mr. Nixon's life, the long day and the long night.

	It has been an hill fight for me ever since we started this campaign.  But we are running in high gear now, friends.  We are in motion.  The market trend is up.  And the Republicans are running scared.  And I don't blame them.  They ought to run scared. 

	I want you to get everybody you can out to vote.  And I commission every person in this audience tonight to be a campaign worker for Humphrey and Muskie, a campaign worker for Alan Bible, a campaign worker for every Democrat.

	Let me tell you what John Kennedy used to say when he would talk to people as I talked to you tonight.  What he would say to you is that America needs you, every one of you.  He quoted from Dante--the hottest places in hell are reserved for those who in a time of great moral crisis maintain their neutrality.

	There is no neutrality, friends.  You cannot sit it out.  There are choices to be made.

	So I ask you tonight, as I come to your city, to this state, in the presence of dear friends--two senators, and a governor that I have worked with and had the privilege of knowing and trusting, the privilege of calling friends--I ask you to join with me tonight, I ask for your hands, I ask for your help, I ask you to work with me as you have never worked before.

	Let's not let this election go to the Republicans because we didn't fight hard enough.  If we are to lose, let's lose like great people.  But if we are to win, let's win because we fought to win as we never fought before.

	Thank you.   
CONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYEDUCATION--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNMEDICAREMILITARY PREPAREDNESSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)UNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     fW 2W ,W (W  W
 W W 
W W ûV ùV òV çV	 ž 	 € 	 n 	 P 	 H 	 3 	  e: