Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1023.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/23STUMPSpringfieldMISSOURIMOSpringfield Fairgrounds2689 WORDS
	Thank you. Thank you very much. I want to say--first of all, I feel right at home in Springfield. I'm glad to be back here.

	I know, too, that out here in the audience we've got some of our Arkansas travelers who've come to be with us. Out here.

	And outside, there are more than twice as many people as are inside and they can hear us out--

	Folks, I'm proud to be here tonight with Pat Deaton and Jerry Rothman Surrat; with people who want to make a difference for our country, who believe there is a new Democratic party.

	I also want so say a special word of thanks, even though he's not here, to my friend Mel Carnahan for his early support and his strength and support for me throughout this campaign.

	I want to ask you to help us all to build a new America. I want to remind you that I cannot do that alone. A president must work with others.

	I've got my 1949 Harry Truman button on here. You can see this. I thought I ought to wear it.

	You know, Harry Truman once said that his job consisted largely of trying to get people to do what they ought to do anyway without him having to ask them.

	Now, what that means, among other things, is I need people in Congress who are committed to change, people who believe--people who believe as I do that we've got to put this country back to work. We've got to invest more, we've got to educate better, we've got to control health care costs and provide affordable health care to all of our people. We've got to find a way.

	So I ask you to please, in the closing days of this campaign, do what you can for Bill Clinton and Al Gore, but do what you can for Pat Deaton and Jerry Rothman Surrat. We need them in Washington. We need them.

	You know, I just came from a remarkable tour of the far West. A place where people never vote for Democrats for president.

	We were in Pueblo, Colorado, where I met people who said they'd never voted before. I meet them every day now but they were going to vote for me. We were in Cheyenne, Wyoming, and we were in Billings, Montana, and Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Billings, Montana. We had more than 1 percent of the entire population of those states at our rallies there because people want a change.

	And we went on to Seattle, Washington, and to Eugene, Oregon, and Oregon. The Portland Oregonian, a very prominent newspaper in that state for 142 years had never, not one time in 142 years endorsed a Democrat for president but last week endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket because they want a change.

	And then, we went on to Orange County, California, the most Republican big county anywhere in the West, and last night we had 24,000 people in an Irvine Center there and another 10,000 outside.

	You know, I--one of the first stories I ever heard when I got in politics down the road in Arkansas was the story of an older woman who was ninety years old and had always been a Democrat and never missed an election and when she was on her deathbed she sent for the county clerk and changed her registration to Republican. And her son was so upset he said, "Mama, you always taught me to vote Democrat. You never missed an election. Here you are at the end of your life, changing your registration."

	She said, "I know, son. I'm about to go and I'd rather them lose one than us."

	Now, that is--that's the way those folks began to look at their Republican credentials. But I've been telling them, you know, there is a new Democratic party and at the end of the Cold War we need a new direction for America. We can't afford four more years of trickle-down economics.

	Another great son of the state of Missouri, Mark Twain, once said, "Loyalty to petrified opinion never yet broke a chain or freed a human soul." We've got to break a lot of chains and free a lot of souls in this country. We've got a lot of work to do and we're going to have to change to do it.

	I don't know how you feel, but I am sick and tired of seeing most Americans work harder for less. I'm sick and tired of seeing unemployment go up, poverty go up, 100,000 people a month lose their health insurance. I believe we can do better. I think you believe we can do better.

	I've worked hard in my state--and I think you know it--to bring common sense government to the people of Arkansas.

	I got tickled the other night in the last debate when Mr. Bush said Arkansas was terrible and Mr. Perot said it was irrelevant. And I just--so you know what? I went out to the West to a lot of states that are a lot smaller than Arkansas and they don't think it's so bad to be from a small, rural state.

	You know, if you think about Springfield and all the little towns around here, there's lot of common sense. You couldn't function very well in this environment if you denied your problems, you never did anything but blame other people and you spent all you time trying to escape responsibility and then, when you got in the tight, all you could do is run the people who were against you down you'd never get to square one. That's what they make a living doing in Washington.

	I say we need a little small-town common sense in Washington, DC. It wouldn't do any harm.

	I've got just a few basic ideas and I want to reiterate them one more time. Number one: No more trickle-down economics, no more across-the-board tax cuts for the wealthy and the special interests. But, no more tax-and-spend either. You can't divide a pie you don't grow.

	What we need to is to ask the wealthiest Americans and foreign companies to pay their fair share of taxes and then say, look, we're not against people making a lot of money, we like to grow millionaires in Arkansas and south Missouri. But we've got this nutty idea that if you make a lot a money you ought to make it the old-fashioned way--by putting the rest of the people to work.

	So if you want to lower your tax liability there's a simple way to do it--invest in new plants and equipment, start a new business, explore new technologies, start a housing investment project, invest in agricultural technologies, put the American people back to work and lift their incomes. You can make all the money you want in our country.

	Second basic idea is--we live in a world where what we earn depends on what we can learn. That means you need a real education president, not somebody with photo ops. I want every child in this country that needs to be in a Head Start program to be in one where the parents can help the children to learn prepare for school.

	I want--I want, on the other end, I want to teach every adult in the work force to read in the next five years and give them all a chance to get a high school diploma. We could raise the per capita income of this country.

	I want the young people who don't go to college to know they can get at least two years of further training in an apprenticeship program so that they can get good jobs, not dead-end jobs. I'm tired of seeing young people start and work hard for nothing.

	And maybe the program that best embodies what the Clinton-Gore campaign is all about--I want to open the doors of college education to all Americans. And here's how--but I want to do it in a way that makes it both fairer and tougher than the present student loan program. Under my program, you'd pay back a small percentage of your income after you go to work at tax time, so you can't beat the bill. Or even better, Americans would have the option to work off their college costs by giving two years as teachers or police officers or working for the elderly or working for people with disabilities or working with little kids--or working in housing programs.

	You think of that. You think of that. If the brightest Americans got their college degrees and before or afterward, in whatever they qualified to do, helping people with disabilities live in their homes and work and become more independent, helping young kids stay out of trouble, helping the elderly maintain greater independence and stay out of more restrictive environments, opening up a lot of these housing projects the government shut down and rehabilitating them for the homeless, we could solve a lot of the problems of this country from the grassroots up and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	The third thing we have got to do is to finally, finally become the last industrial country to control health care costs for everybody and provide basic health care to all Americans.

	You know, I get tickled. Old George Bush says, " Bill Clinton wants to have rationed medicine and socialized medicine." Guess what? When George Bush was a congressman he said Medicare was socialized medicine. He was wrong then and he's wrong now.

	I'm not going to mess up what's good about this system but we've got to control the costs. We've got to take on the big insurance companies and the bureaucracies and the health care regulators and the people that are ripping the system off and using that money to cover people that control costs. It's going to bankrupt us if we don't.

	A couple of days ago a bipartisan commission of people looked at our health care plan and said that Bill Clinton's plan would save the average American family $1,200 a year more than the Bush plan by the year 2000, would cover everybody while he'd leave 27 million behind, and over the next dozen years--listen to this--would free up $2.2 trillion dollars to reinvest in American jobs and America's future. It's time we did that.

	Well, there's a lot of other stuff I wish we had time to talk about. I know you're burning up. We ought to take every dollar by which we reduce defense and reinvest it in transportation, in road programs and high-speed rail and environmental clean-up and solid waste recycling--putting the American people to work instead of just letting them drift out there.

	We ought to take this environmental challenge and say, as our competitors do, "We're going to make jobs out of cleaning up the environment, not lose jobs," if we do it in a smart way.

	And I want you to know something. This is not going to be easy or quick. We're going to cut this deficit in half in the next four years, too, by cutting unnecessary spending and not everybody will like the cuts. And the American people are going to do some things themselves.

	We need, for example, in your government, the toughest possible system of child support enforcement so people can't cross the state lines and beat their obligations to take care of their kids.

	There are some things that people's personal responsibility has to prevail on. But I'll tell you something folks; when you get right down to it this is a race of hope against fear, of new ideas against proven, failed ideas, of having the courage to change against the comfort of the status quo.

	And old Mr. Bush--all he can do is say, "Bill Clinton's another tax-and-spend liberal." But it's inconvenient for him that my state has the second-lowest tax burden in the country, the lowest state and local spending in the country and the highest job-growth rate in the country. It's unfortunate but those are the facts.

	And look at what they're doing. Look at how they're preying on your fears. I mean, here is George Bush saying, "Trust me," and he's got the FBI and the Justice Department so busy investigating each other they can't look into the crooks in America any more.

	He's got--did you ever think you'd live to see this?--he's got the CIA and the Justice Department fighting with one another over which one of them lied to the federal court about the Iraq scandal in Atlanta.

	And now, this guy who talks conservative has given us the biggest increase in spending in over two decades, the biggest increase in government regulation in twenty years. And they've got so much time on their hands up there in the State Department they can send three political hacks to rifle through my passport records and when they got tired of that they looked into my mother's. Now, have you ever--could you believe that? I mean, have you all seen my mother on TV? Can you imagine a more unlikely subversive in you life?

	It'd be funny if it weren't pathetic. But the truth is--you look at this. What does this mean? This means these people are desperate to hold onto power. Not--they have forgotten that the purpose of--you have the power. You give it to us so we can use it for you. They've forgotten all about that.

	And I want to tell you something. Folks, I have worked hard to revitalize, to reinvigorate and to broaden the base of the Democratic party of America--to change it so that it embodies the values of ordinary people and was an instrument of real change.

	Of all the folks you could vote for on November 3rd, there's only one who's ever balanced a government budget, only one who's ever taken on lobbyists and reformed the lobby laws of his state, only one who's ever passed a program to promote job growth and education through a tough legislature, and only one who's never been part of the Washington establishment; your neighbor. I've been stuck down there at home and I liked it just fine.

	The other crowd--they have run out of energy, they have run out of ideas, they have run out of commitment for you and it's time to run them out of town on November 3rd. We can do that.

	You are my neighbors. You know a lot about my state and what I've tried to do. And I just want to ask you this: Give the people you know courage, not only in Missouri but anywhere around the country. If you know anybody you can call and say, "This is a can-do country." We've been told for too long what we cannot do. This is a country that always, when the chips are down, says, "We can do better. We never give in to the things-can-be-worse crowd."

	And on November the 3rd ask the people you know to think about themselves and their children and their future, and let's take a stand for hope over fear, for new ideas over proven failure and for the courage to change to make America what it ought to be.

	Thank you and God bless you all.

	Thank you. Give the Clinton Missouri band another hand over there.

	Thank you so much. I'm going to go outside and say hello to those folks. I want you to know it's been a wonderful night for me. One of my old law students, Dan Ramsdale is down here. If he ever mistreats you it's all my fault.

	There's a woman who taught me in the second and third grades here tonight, Sister Mary Amata, and the Clinton Missouri band. This is a great night. Let's go win this election.

	Thank you and God bless you all.

EDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVES     : ß9 Ù9 Õ9 Í9
 Â9 ½9 ¸9 ­9 ¥9 £9 Œ9 ‚9	 ± 	 Ÿ 	  	 b 	 5 	  e: