Speeches\1972\dem\S72D0920.004SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/20STUMPPHILADELPHIAPENNSYLVANIAPA2,000 WORDS

	In these past weeks of campaigning, we have posed a choice between the performance of a government based on favoritism and secret deals, and the promise of a government based on justice.

	We have examined a tax structure that works like a sieve for the rich and a sponge for the worker.

	We have examined an economic policy that has accomplished a remarkable feat never before attained in our national history--high unemployment, ruinous inflation, record deficits, and spiraling welfare rolls, all at the same time.

	We have examined a property tax structure that can't provide enough to keep children in school, yet takes enough to force people out of their own homes.

	We have talked about the problems of the old and the sick; about the homeless and the hungry people who are still neglected; about the drugs and crime which make constant fear a fact of life in every one of our cities.

	We have heard about a $10 million secret campaign fund, about ITT and Lockheed, about tip-offs to the big grain speculators while the family farmers are broke.

	And in all of these areas we have offered alternatives to the American people. We have offered something else besides the sterile Republican rallying cry "four more years."

	Instead, we offer, and we ask, four years to restore the government of America to the American people again. But there is one concern that surpasses all the others, not only in this campaign but in the very heart and soul of the country.

	It has weighed on my conscience for nine years. For all that time it has been an obsession I could not leave alone.

	And now it asks, more directly and insistently than any other issue, what kind of people we are, and what kind of country we want to be.

	As I deliver these words, more than 100,000 pounds of bombs will fall on Indochina.

	As I speak to you tonight, hundreds of American airmen lie helpless and hopeless in Indochinese prisons.

	More than 100,000 Americans are still mired in the longest, the cruelest, and the stupidest war in our national history.

	As I speak, hundreds of Asians will die, or burn, or bleed, for a cause they will never understand.

	And I want you to know tonight that every fiber of my being--every of energy I have--is determined to see that we will not have four more years, or even four more days, of that.

	In the presidential campaign of 1968, the Republican candidate spoke of a secret plan for peace. He said in that campaign, and I quote, that "those who have had the chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance."

	Today that candidate is President, and his four years are up. But the secret plan is secret still.

	It will remain a secret forever to the 20,000 young Americans who have died, and the countless Asians who have perished, since he rode into office on pledge of peace.

	And it remains a secret to the American people, who placed their faith in what turned out to be just another political gambit, and not a personal commitment at all.

	What is it that keeps us there? Why can we not escape this dreadful war?

	We are told the bombs fall to rescue our prisoners. But how transparent and foolish that is.

	Three prisoners of war have just been released. But last week the 100th American in five months was blasted out of the sky and locked away. More than 550 have become prisoners or missing since Mr. Nixon's pledge of peace was made.

	Surely we can all see that bombing does not release prisoners, but that it creates more prisoners every day. It will make new prisoners of men who are free right now--men who have not yet been sent out on the mission that will put them in chains.

	Last Christmas the wife of a missing American pilot, Major William Muliens, wrote about her fifth bleak Christmas alone.

	She said, "Christmas is pain and lonely and tears; and he'll be away for many more years."

	She said, "Don't think about Asians, or question why; prisoners alone and forgotten should die.

	"Talk of brotherhood and kindness and cheer; tell all your friends it's been a good year."

	And then she said, "Peace on earth is a lie, and death is sadness; they'll never be back, for mankind is madness."

	The prisoner-of-war and missing-in-action families have been given countless expressions of concern and appreciation over the years.

	But plague or a medal or a cash payment cannot substitute for a husband, or a father, or a son.

	And only peace will bring them back.

	Then we are told the bombs fall for democracy and self-determination in South Vietnam. And what a tragic deception that is.

	General Thieu's brand of freedom means jail for anyone who has the audacity to run against him. It means forcing a law through his puppet legislature to disqualify all the other candidates.

	General Thieu's brand of self-determination means executing more than 38,000 people without a trial, because they are politically suspect. It means a government that literally seethes with corruption--with officials who steal our aid, with officials who sent poisonous heroin into the veins of American GI's and now onto the streets and into the schools of America.

	That Saigon dictatorship defames everything this country stands for. It diminishes the very concepts of freedom and democracy and justice when they are applied to a crooked regime of that kind. And it is not worth one more dime of American treasure; not one more day of American sacrifice; not one more drop of American blood.

	And, finally, we are told that the bombs fall so America's honor will not be stained. And that is the greatest fraud of all.

	How many of us really know what is going on in Indochina now? How many of us know what is happening to our honor there?

	We are told that the war is winding down, and that our ground combat role has ended. American casualties are down. The economic costs have been reduced.

	But another kind of cost has risen.

	The war now, more than ever before, is an assault on our sense of ourselves as a decent and humane people.

	For we now present to the world the spectacle of its richest and strongest nation standing at a safe distance and raining down--on primitive, helpless, and defenseless people--the most incredible and murderous bombardment in the history of mankind.

	I have spoken before of 3.7 million tons of bombs dropped since 1969; of 6 million civilian victims dead, maimed, and homeless. I have spoken of 20 million bomb craters scarring the face of Indochina.

	But we seem to reflect the saying, "one man killed is murder; thousands killed is a statistic." We seem insensitive to the sorrow. We have counted bodies so long that they don't seem to count any more.

	But consider how it is on the ground. Listen to a Laotian father:

	"My son is six years old. We are from Ban Ngoui. In July 1969, we were all sitting in our small shelter out in the forest when planes bombed around 11 a.m. Two people with us, a man aged 60 and a little girl aged 7, were killed lying in their beds. My son's hand was hit and his fingers flew up, embedding themselves in the roof."

	The strikes come with new weapons and new techniques. These weapons have a very special purpose. They cannot blow up a bridge, or destroy a structure, or stop a truck, or even penetrate a rubber tire. They are designed solely to tear human flesh.

	We have the innocuous sounding "pineapple," with 250 steel pellets in the casing of each one. A single aircraft carried 1,000 of these "pineapples," or 250,000 pellets, and it can saturate an area the size of four football fields. And it just hits people.

	We have developed a way to explode those weapons above the ground, so they can even reach people who hide in ditches or holes.

	We have steel fleshettes that penetrate the skin and cannot be removed. We have napalm-jellied gasoline that sticks to the skin as it burns. We have white phosphorous that cannot be extinguished until it burns itself out.

	These are some of the weapons which produced the picture we saw not long ago, of a little South Vietnamese girl running from her bombed-out school. She was running naked, because she had torn off her flaming clothes. She was running in terror from American napalm, and that picture of little Kim ought to break the heart of America.

	And throughout the war most of the bombs have fallen not on enemy targets but on allied land and people.

	A 35-year old woman from the Plain of Jars in Laos recalled: "The roar of the bombs and the noise of the planes frightened me terribly. Our life became like one of animals who search to escape the butchers. Each day, across the forests and ditches, we sought only to escape from the bombs. When looking at the face of my innocent child, I could not stop crying for his future."

	Can we ever comprehend the horror? Can we ever understand the anguish of a mother who watches her child torn apart before her eyes? Of a father whose family disappears forever beneath tons of earth?

	I do not charge that we are deliberately pounding innocent civilians in Indochina. That is not my claim.

	But what I ask is this: does it make any difference whether it is deliberate or not? On the ground, the suffering is no less if it is inflicted by accident instead of design. And our most sincere apology will not resurrect the dead.

	A decision to bomb at all is a decision to bomb civilians. And a decision to increase the bombing is a decision to intensify their pain.

	So I ask here tonight how our honor is saved by fewer American deaths, and more Asian. I ask if we are more honorable because the color of the bodies has changed from white to yellow.

	I think not. For the blood is still red.

	I think not, because when we think of the people of Indochina, we must know that they, too, are made in the image of God.

	The war does not represent the honor of America and it does not represent the American people.

	I have traveled this land for twenty months, in a quest for the presidency and in a search for peace.

	I have looked into the eyes of people all across America. I have listened to what they had to say, and I have tried to sense what was in their hearts.

	And what I have found is that the American people remain a powerful moral force--a force for compassion and love and human decency, not only in our own land but throughout the world.

	And I have found that the American people want most of all to love their country, to take pride in what it does, and to honor what it represents.

	That is a goal I share.

	That is the reason for my firm pledge that within 90 days of my inauguration, we will have every soldier, every bomb, every plane and every prisoner home from Southeast Asia.

	And it is the reason why we must then resolve that never again will we commit the young blood of America to bail out a corrupt dictatorship half a world away.

	So come with me and we will restore peace.

	Come with me and we will find again the true patriotism that has nourished our freedom for 200 years.

	Come with me and we will bring America home to the great and good land we know it can be.
PACIFISMPOWS/MIASSOUTH VIETNAMVIETNAM WAR     	, Õ+ Ï+ Ë+ Ã+
 ·+ ²+ ­+ ¡+ •+ “+ “+ ˆ+	 ) 	 ! 	  	  e: