Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1021.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/21STUMPCheyenneWYOMINGWYSky Harbor Aviation Hangar2515 WORDS
	I love that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.

	It is great to be back in Wyoming. There are so many wonderful signs in this crowd, but one here says: "Dentists for Clinton say extract Bush." I like that. I love it.

	You know, I think Governor Sullivan said this, but this state gave me my first victory outside the South on the road to the White House and I will never forget that.

	I have been to Wyoming about five times in my life. Once gave a speech here in 1981, but I've been here three times in the last couple of years and even though it is a small state, I like it.

	You know, at various times in the last few months, both of my opponents have implied that somehow if you were governor of a small state that it wasn't relevant to being president, you didn't have enough sense to be president or whatever. But you know, I think--I think there's a lot of common sense in places like Wyoming and Arkansas [missing text] I remember--I asked your Secretary of State, Cathy Carpand, to serve on the platform drafting committee for the Democratic party. You ought to read our platform. It's a platform for a new Democratic party, for new ideas. It's a platform that says the Democratic party believes in private-sector economic growth. The Democratic party believes in a strong agricultural sector, and we know the difference between a farmer and a rancher, unlike some of those guys.

	The Democratic party believes in campaign finance reform and in reducing the influence of lobbyists in Washington on both parties. The Democratic party believes in providing educational opportunities for all Americans. The Democratic party believes in finally providing affordable health care to all of our people. The Democratic party wants an end to trickle-down economics, does not want to go back to tax and spend economics, but wants to go forward to invest and grow economics not--we don't want bigger government, but we want the one we have to work for a change for all of the people of this country.

	Now we believe also that government cannot solve all our problems and that we should promote more personal responsibility, but we also think the government ought to stay out of our private lives. That's the old-fashioned Western way.

	Now that's the platform that people like Cathy Carpand drafted and guess what, for the first time in a generation, the Democrats are running proudly on their platform and the Republicans are running away from theirs.

	I also want to say that this Democratic party has some people running for other offices that we're proud of including--including Dr. Hersler [missing text] and I want you to help him get elected.

	And I want you to help us all tell the people of Wyoming and the West that this election is not over anywhere. It is not over in the country but it is not over in the West. The Republicans have taken you for granted too long. I'd like to take you into a new tomorrow together. We can do it. We can do it.

	Here in the West, where people are hard-headed and practical and open, you know the difference between talking and doing. I'll tell you this, of all the people running for president this year, only one has ever balanced a government budget. Only one has ever passed a--only one has ever passed campaign finance reform. Only one has ever taken on the lobbyists and the special interests to improve the laws. Only one has ever passed a program through a legislature to improve jobs and generate educational opportunities. My state ranks first in the country in job growth this year and I'd like to do that for America with your help. I need your help.

	My fellow Americans, this has been an incredible campaign. At one level, it's been incredible because of the kinds of people who have come to endorse our common effort. The Portland Oregonian the other day endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket for the first time in 142 years they ever endorsed a Democratic ticket.

	Not very long ago, thanks to Governor Miller from Nevada and others, we had a press conference in which thirty-two state attorneys general and over 200 prosecutors, people representing law enforcement from around the country, endorsed the Democratic ticket, the first time ever a majority of the attorneys general had endorsed a Democrat running for president.

	The other day, we had twenty-four retired generals and admirals, including a man who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush and another who was a deputy commander-in-chief of Operation Desert Storm, endorsing the Clinton-Gore ticket. And not very long ago, in Northern California, the heads of twenty-one fast-growing, high-tech companies who between them had created more private sector jobs in the last four years than George Bush has in the whole country, endorsed our ticket and two-thirds of them were Republicans. Many had never voted for the Democrat before. That says something about what we're trying to do.

	I say that because you know I know that out here in the West a lot of people consider themselves Republicans the way people in my part of the country used to think they were yellow dog Democrats. Reminds me of the story, you know, we used to tell the story at home of the old woman who was ninety-four years old and she was on her death bed. She never missed a time voting. She was a Democrat, fourth generation, and right before she died she sent for the county clerk and changed her registration to Republican. And her son nearly had a heart attack and said, "Momma, you have never missed a time voting; you've never voted for a Republican. Why are you doing this on your death bed?" She said, "Son, I'm about to go and I'd rather them lose one than us."

	What I want you to do is to tell the people of Wyoming they may not have ever voted for a Democrat before, but there's a new Democratic party and a tired old Republican party and [missing text] for change. We'll build this country and take it where it wants to go.

	But I want to say too that the people that really have moved me are not all those well-known people I just mentioned but just the people that I've met along the way.

	We just came from Pueblo, Colorado, where I met a woman in the crowd--a woman in the crowd said, "Governor, I have seven children between the ages of eight and fifteen and this economy's terrible. And I don't want them to grow up to do worse than I did and it's all I can do to feed them. I'm going to vote for you because I want things to be better."

	The other day, in Orlando, Florida--in Orlando, Florida, I met an eighty-three year old woman who came up to me and said, "I have never voted before, not one time in my life, but I'm going to vote for you because I'm worried about my children and my grandchildren and I want this country to be better."

	I met--I met a young couple, a twenty-four-year-old young married couple who had never before voted who registered to vote for our ticket. I met a couple in a rodeo arena in Ocala, Florida, a real rural place--you know about rodeos out here--so I'm in this rodeo arena and this really lovely couple give me a picture of their son who--from Ocala, Florida, who died of AIDS and they said, "Governor, this is a national problem. Talk about it. Don't wait for election time. I want you to face this issue and bring us together on it."

	I say that because, folks, this is our western tour, but the truth is we're at the end of the Cold War, we're facing a new era, we have to find new ideas for new challenges, and we need to bring this country together without regard to region or race or income or age. We need to come together.

	I have seen so many politicians of both parties win national office and absolutely forget about the West. They didn't understand the problems out here, they didn't relate to the people out here, they didn't have anybody from their administration out here, except maybe some token appointment. I want you to know, you see these people that just talked, Governor Sullivan, Governor Nelson, all these other governors you cheered for, you won't have to worry about me getting out of touch with the West. They won't let me. I'll stay with you all the way through.

	I want you to vote for me because I grew up in a place where people are pretty much like you, because I've worked hard to deal with the problems of ordinary people, because I've proved I could pull people together across the lines of race and party and incomes and most of all because we cannot afford four more years of trickle-down economics.

	When their crowd took office, we had the highest wages in the world. Now we're down to thirteen. When the 1990 census came out, it revealed that most Americans were working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. We've had the worst economic performance in this country in the last fifty years and we can do better. And the reason I say we can do better is I know that we're working harder, I know we're as smart and as good as any other people. We still have the strongest economic resources in the world. We are in the grip of a failed idea. The answer is not four more years of across-the-board tax cuts for the wealthy. The answer is not four more years of doubling the national debt. The answer is not four more years of spiraling health care costs where 100,000 people a month lose their health insurance. The answer is not four more years of no educational opportunities, where the college dropout rate is two and a half times the high school dropout rate.

	No, it is not that. The answer is not trickle-down and it is not tax-and-spend. It is not raising the taxes on the middle class. It's controlling health care costs, asking the wealthy and foreign corporations to pay their fair share, and giving people incentives.

	Look, folks, this is not a government-operated recovery I'm advocating. I want the private sector to be involved and I want us to make more millionaires than Bush did, but I've got this nutty idea. I think people in America ought to make money the old-fashioned way by putting the American people to work, by creating jobs here. And I think you do too.

	Our program says we want the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share but we'd be glad for them to lower their tax liability. But no more across-the-board cuts that don't make a difference between a vacation home and a sports car and a manufacturing facility. You want a tax cut? Build a new factory, invest in a farm, invest in a small business, invest in new technology, invest in housing. Build the American economy. Make a million dollars by lifting up this country and moving it forward.

	I need your help. Our program says we ought to open the doors of college education to all. We've got a lot of college students here today. It says no matter what your income, you ought to be able to borrow the money to go to college but you must pay it back. You must pay it back as a small percentage of your income at tax time, so you can't beat the bill, or even better, by working for a year or two for your country. You consider this. What if--what if every young person from Wyoming could pay for a college education and then pay it back by working as a teacher, as a police officer? Helping the elderly. Helping people with disabilities be independent. Helping children in trouble. Lifting up the problems from the grassroots up. We could turn this country around and educate a whole generation of Americans. We can do it. We can do it.

	My fellow Americans, there are only thirteen days left in this campaign. It is what it has always been, a race of hope against fear, a race of the we-can-do-better crowd, that's us, against the things-could-be-worse crowd, that's them. A race of people who want to seize the future because they see it clearly, full of hope, but also challenges against those who want to stay in the same old tired rut because they can't bare the thought of being out of power. I'm telling you, if you vote for me, I'll make some mistakes cause I get things done and doers make mistakes cause I'll do things.

	But I will wake up every day in that White House thinking about the people I met on these bus trips, thinking about the people who shook my hands with tears in their eyes, thinking about the people that I knew back home when they lost their farms or they lost their businesses or their children couldn't get an education, thinking about all the people in this country who have so much to give who've been robbed of their potential, and thinking about the winners in America who can do so much more if only they had a government that worked for a change, that was on their side for a change, that made sense for a change.

	We can do better. And for thirteen days, for thirteen days, the real test is the American people will have to decide not only about the candidates but about themselves. I do not seek a victory of a political party. I do not seek a personal victory. I had a wonderful job and a wonderful life before I ever got into this.

	I seek a victory for my country. I got into this because I got tired of seeing my folks work harder for less and fall further behind. I got into this because I've got a twelve-year-old daughter and I refuse to let her grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. I got into this because I know that every generation of Americans has been called upon to have the courage to change. It is our courage that is being tested.

	I plead with you today: Lift up your hearts, lift up your voices, tell the people of Wyoming to vote for themselves and the future, fight on to November 3rd and we can change this country together. 

	Thank you and God bless you all.
ECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--GENERALENDORSEMENTS--PERSONS-ON-THE-STREETINCOME TAXPARTY AFFILIATIONREGIONALISM--WESTSOCIAL/ECONOMIC CLASS     7 Î6 Â6 ·6 Ÿ6
 Œ6 …6 ƒ6 º6 µ6 ≥6 ô6 è6	 © 	 ô 	 y 	 d 	 A 	 7 	 & 	  e: