Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1016.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/16STUMPPATERSONNEW JERSEYNJ2134 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, Governor Driscoll, Senator Smith, Congressman Canfield, other distinguished guests and my very dear friends:  I am certain that I can use that kind of term or else you wouldn't be here, and certainly you wouldn't have given me such a welcome.

	I am an old campaigner but I am in a brand new type of campaign for me.  Much of it is hard work; some of it is frustrating when you are trying so hard to give to your fellow citizens what really lies on your heart and mind; some of it is just plain tough; all of it is informative; some of it is inspiring to the point of being overwhelming.  Today, this occasion is one of those latter types.

	I know, my friends, that organization can do much.  Powerful organization can possibly bring people out on the streets, possibly it can fill this great armory.  But no organization in the world can put a real smile on a person's face that shows that there is a warm feeling of cordiality in the heart, and for that I thank you beyond my ability to express.

	With millions of Americans, I am engaged in a crusade.  That crusade, stated in its simplest terms, has this purpose:  to substitute good government for what we most earnestly believe has been bad government.  Now, there will not be time today to give you every item on the bill of particulars that we hold in our indictment against the present government, but I should like to turn over with you hurriedly some of the things that I have been talking to Americans about and they have been talking to me about over the length and breadth of this great land.  I have talked to them individually and in groups, in trains and in planes.  They have shouted to me from the streets and from the by-ways advice that sometimes cannot later be used over the radio.  But it is all emphatic.  Each one has an idea, and I take those ideas and try to sum them up to see if, in my own words, I can reflect what America is thinking.  In a country such as ours there is only one force under God that has any validity:  It is public opinion.  Public opinion does everything.  If we go to war it wins that war and if we, in the long run, win a peace, it is only through the united support of a great nation like ours that gives strength to statesmen and earns respect from those who otherwise would dismiss it as of no account.

	Now, in this bill of particulars, I want to give you just one or two of the things that seem to be most on peoples' minds.  When I think of all of them, number one is the fact that we believe that we have not been led intelligently toward peace.  America seems to realize that seven years ago, we were the mightiest nation on earth, not merely mighty on the terms that we are now mighty--an enlightened people of great spiritual strength, of great intellectual strength, the most productive nation on earth--but in addition we were then the most powerful nation in the world militarily.  All that great list of assets has been available for the use of our leaders.  Let us look back at the record of those 7 years.

	On the average, we have the tragic toll of one hundred million human souls having passed each year to Communist domination.  We have the record of loss of China, the emergency action in Greece and in Turkey, and the airlift to save Berlin, and finally, Korea which unhappily still goes on.

	It would be completely unfair to say that there could be any perfect peace today at a time when the Godless doctrine of Communism commands the strength that it does in the heart of the Eurasian land mass--absolutely ruthless and implacable--it would be idle to say we could have that perfect peace for which mankind has longed since the dawn of history.

	What we want to know though, and what we have a right to demand is:  Why have we not a better peace than we have?  Because on the other side of the ledger, we must remember this:  The total resources available to the free world--the material, intellectual, scientific and productive resources, and the human resources--vastly outweigh anything available to this Godless Communism.

	Why, then, must we be frightened?  Why have we not been led into a better combination of collective security that will lift from our homes the fear that a son may be called, the dread of hearing bad news from the son who is away from home at this moment?  Then, after we take this problem which overshadows all others, makes them more intense, we begin to look at what has happened to us here at home, and we see an expenditure program that, in the absence of a more reasonable explanation than we have yet had, appears reckless and extravagant to the point of sheer folly.

	I don't believe there is anyone in this room who has the slightest ideas as to what eighty-five billion dollars is.  At least I don't; I don't know what the amount of tax represents when we talk about seventy billion dollars.  Is that this room full of dollars, or is it three truckloads?  I don't know.  But I do know this:  We can't afford what we are spending and stay strong enough to lead the world toward peace.  Someone, my friends, is making a terrible error; they believe that we can have and maintain military strength above our capacity to pay for it.  Our form of government means that, in the long run, over a period of years, you cannot pile deficit upon deficit and have left the kind of economy that we have known.  Now, ladies and gentlemen, whenever I say this, I am accused of saying that America cannot afford to defend itself.  I never said any such thing; I said that frugality, efficiency, information, knowledge, properly used, can bring us a defense organism that will be balanced with our capacity to pay, and so will make and keep us strong.

	Then, remember that the taxes we pay now are at a time when we know we are the most prosperous in our history, and their rate is the highest we have ever had.  It is possible that a few more billions might be squeezed out of the tax pockets of America, but certainly, in many instances and in many levels, including the lowest, we have gotten to the point where that individual incentive that has made this nation great is dangerously risked in the process.

	Then we have the squeeze of prices.  Many of you here may be lucky enough to have a five dollar bill in your pocket.  If you will think about it for a moment, you will remember that it looks like a five dollar bill--has five dollars printed on it, feels like one, but in terms of just 1940, it is $2.65, and that is what it means when you try to buy your groceries.

	All of these costs and all of these expenditures would be bad enough if they were limited strictly to what they have to be, but when we have waste and carelessness piled on top of that, to the point where we are getting two airfields for the price of five, we simply cannot afford that luxury in this time of our history.

	Then, as if all of this were not enough, why do we have to have any vestige of subversion or dishonesty in our government--in high places and in low?

	Not long ago, a lady wrote me a letter.  She said, "General, I should like to vote for you, but before I do will you promise me this:  That you will see that more of my tax money actually gets to Washington."  I wrote to her and said, "My friend, a hard-working American taxpayer does not have to request that common woodshed honesty be observed by American officials in high positions.  That we can and should demand, and we don't have to ask for it."

	And so, with this record to try to defend, we have campaigners in the opposition going up and down the line; having worn out the political promises over the last twenty years, having nothing left of that kind in the bag, they now go around selling a bill of fear.  They tell you to fear, that if you allow a Republican Congress, if you allow any Republicans in the executive departments, you will lose your social security.  Sheer bunk, and they know it!  The Republicans and their associates, the Independents and the enlightened Democrats, are going to keep your dollar worth something so social security will mean something when you need to use it.

	We are told that the rug will be pulled out from under the farmers, we are told that labor will have its wages reduced, and they fear mightily that I would even cut soldier's pay--that I who have spent forty years in the Army would go around and reduce every soldier's, marine's, sailor's and air man's pay, increase his hardships and his length of service.  When they get down to telling that kind of lie, they are low.

	They know that everybody associated together in this crusade is for honest government, that their ambition is to serve 155 million people and not to try to divide or continue to try to divide the United States up, in making the thing that one class can prosper at the expense of another.  They know that the Republicans are practicing and leading toward that day when every man, woman and child in the United States will be treated the same, and will have the same opportunities regardless of any race or color or religion.

	And they have noted another thing:  They have noted the number of women who have joined in this crusade, and this is something of which every one of us is particularly proud, and I will tell you why.  I believe, and those associated with me, believe, that women in our country have a special responsibility and place in preserving those priceless spiritual and moral values on which our government is based.  They understand what our founding fathers meant when they said, "We hold that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain rights."  They know that our form of government makes sense only if we understand that it is founded deeply in a religious faith.  Women know that.  And women have the responsibility of imparting that kind of understanding to all our children at a tender age.  And women know also that they need help in order to get these ideas firmly imbedded, and therefore, they demand a government that will be an example to all of us.  They realize that any kind of malfeasance in office, if it touches upon money, is a matter possibly of only a few cents for each of us.  That is not the important point.  The important point is that we have no pride in our government.  We cannot turn to our children and say, "Those men and women up there represent all that is best in American public life.  They are people of prestige in their own localities.  They are people whose record guarantees us against subversion in government, against cheating in government."  

	Ladies and gentlemen, that is the reason that I am so proud that so many women have come into this crusade, and all of us are proud likewise that the first voters and the youngsters are joining up.  I have spent my life, I have been fortunate in that I have spent my life with the young of America, and I know one thing about them.  They will fight and work their best only when they believe there is an ideal to be served.  The ideal of this crusade is the service of America:  not one part, not one section--but 155 million people.  The people that we are putting before the American public to be sent down there are those who represent a determination, a dedication of themselves to be fair, just and friendly, a gang that wants to work for you and not just to work you--and that is the big difference.

	My friends, again I know you will allow me to thank each of you for the honor you have done me in coming here today.  The honor I have felt in sharing this platform with your distinguished citizens of New Jersey is another matter for which I am grateful.

BUDGET DEFICITCOMMUNISMGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEMILITARY PERSONNELMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--WOMENPUBLIC OPINION/POLLS     š. f. `. \. R.
 D. ?. :. 2. (. &. &. .	 ¥ 	 — 	 Ž 	 q 	 a 	 O 	 2 	  e: