Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1002.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/02STUMPTEANECKNEW YORKNYFAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY1683 WORDS
	I have wanted to visit this beautiful campus ever since I read an article about "The Man Who Invented a College." It has been my great pleasure to meet that man today, Dr. Peter Sammartino. This university is a splendid testimonial to the power of ideas, a commodity always in short supply. I think the Fairleigh Dickinson idea, which has been so successful here, will have spreading influence, for it shows how imagination, community spirit, and philanthropy can cooperate in helping young men and women to better themselves through education.

	I have a friend in Chicago who "invented a college"--Roosevelt University. It was founded about the same time as Farleigh Dickinson [1942], and its central idea is: no discrimination on lines of race or belief or economic condition; that the right to an education is basic to all other rights.

	Lots of people have ideas--but not very many people have what it takes to plant them, tend them, watch them grow up, weed them, water them, sit up night and day with them, and make them grow so they affect the lives of other people. It's the finest form of service to one's fellow men.

	When such colleges as this are made possible by private contributions and by the philanthropy of the rich, we must be approaching the highest form of social responsibility. And the social responsibility of so many of our more fortunate and financially successful people has been, I think, one of the most laudable aspects of American civilization. It has not always been so in older, more rigid societies. While comparisons are invidious and I shall make none, the failure of the fortunate to concern themselves with the lot of the less fortunate has, we know from history, been a powerful incentive to widest social change. That we have had so little genuine class struggle and conflict in this country reflects in part, at least, I think, the growing sense of responsibility for one another among us.

	And now I have come here today particularly because I heard about the new World Arms Control Center you have set up here at the University. The people who can build a college are the kind of people who can build the peace. And surely that is the most important building job in the world today.

	Your stated purpose at the World Arms Control Center is, as it is reported to me, "to stimulate practical thinking about peace." I want to talk briefly to this point in the few minutes we have here this afternoon.

	First, may I speak, not presumptuously or ungraciously I hope, a word of warning? I always think, when someone speaks of being "practical" or "realistic," about what seem to me two dangers: One is that in trying to be "practical" we will set our sights too low. We'll never win the peace unless we set our sights mighty high. The other danger is that we think of our own ideas as "practical" and everybody else's as less practical, or impractical. That, too, would be a blind alley in anybody's search for the path to peace.

	There is obviously not the opportunity here this afternoon to explore very deeply into the baffling and imperative subject of peace and disarmament. Let me only, for what little they may be worth, offer you a few of what seem to be the starting points in a practical approach to peace.

	The beginning of practical thought about peace, I think, is the complete conviction that war is no longer a practical means of adjusting differences between nations. War holds no more promise for men of ill will than for men of good will. The mushroom cloud is impartial, falling on just and unjust alike. And may I say that I consider this not by any means a wholly gloomy fact. It may be the single most hopeful fact of international life today. For when men of ill will see no chance of profit, the threat of war has been greatly reduced.

	A second starting point, I think, is the realization that peace is more than the absence of war. Peace is more than an uneasy truce during which armed forces peer anxiously over insecure frontiers, as in Korea today. The peace we want--the peace the world needs--must be far more than this.

	The first necessity for peace is the ability to deter possible foes from aggression. We must have enough military force to convince any potential aggressor that what he might possibly gain cannot equal what he will surely lose. So we need a powerful national defense--a strong strategic air force, ground forces capable of meeting the complex technical requirements of modern war, a great navy, etc. And for our defense to be strong it must be geared to the next war, not to the last one.

	But I sometimes think that as a nation we become preoccupied with the machinery of defense as an end in itself--or at least we have succeeded in giving that impression to too much of the world outside. We have talked so much about atom bombs and our skill in devising ever more terrible weapons, we have lately put our dealings with other nations so largely on a military basis, that the world has gotten the idea that we think all the problems of our turbulent and revolutionary age are to be solved by the weight of military force.

	With a strong, modern defense, we can move on to the real job--the job of organizing the peace. We can't expect to do this overnight. Peace is the building of a community--the slow growth of just and orderly ways of settling disputes--the growing realization that there are no victories in war and that what is common to us all is more advantageous to us all than the excitements over what divides us.

	International law is growing, and therefore a just and orderly peaceful world is growing, a step at a time. Korea was a lesson to would-be aggressors everywhere that international crime does not pay, that there is a powerful sense of justice and decency at work in international society.

	It is because I see the building of a just and peaceful world as an organic process that I attach so much importance to the halting of larger-scale nuclear tests by the great powers. Surely there must be sufficient vision to save the human race from contaminating its own air, from filling the upper atmosphere with malign elements which may have incalculable effects on humanity.

	The renunciation of such tests is a step which I think the great powers are now willing to take--if there is leadership in this direction. It is a step that can be safely taken, for no one can explode a hydrogen bomb in secret, and each would know whether the others were acting in good faith. It would be a step along a new path toward peace.

	I regret that this administration has not pressed forward along this path to peace as so many have urged--Catholic and Protestant religious leaders, distinguished scientists, prominent educators, yes, and serious politicians. I regret, also, that it seems to have ignored what appears to be an increasing desire to close the gap between East and West on such subjects as mutual inspection and limitation of armed forces. Surely we should carefully explore these proposals to see whether they were made in good faith and whether they will meet our security requirements. This administration has even withdrawn its own proposals when others indicated a willingness to accept these proposals.

	I think it is one of the starting points in a practical approach to peace to recognize the danger of insistence on perfect, foolproof, answers. We must always press toward those answers and not be content until we get them. But we cannot afford to reject small gains. But if desire for perfection is one potential enemy of improvement, defeatism is another. That the world had never yet achieved a system of universal and enforceable disarmament surely does not prove that it never will. After all, until a few years ago, the world had never achieved an atomic bomb. As nuclear fission broke the pattern of science, so atomic explosion may break the pattern of history. For in the hydrogen age disarmament becomes not a matter of convenience but a matter of necessity.

	That is why I am so pleased to learn of your work here at Fairleigh Dickinson. As we consider the impossible price of another big war, we may begin to wonder whether the soft-headed dreamers are not those who think that disarmament is impractical, and whether the hard-headed realists are not those who demand that we give the search for the means of world disarmament top priority in our conduct of foreign affairs.

	We must not deceive ourselves about the implication of enforced disarmament. The price will be high. I do not mean the cost of money. I mean the cost in the readjustment of old habits, of old ways of thought, of national attitudes, and such readjustment would involve an even more tremendous wrench in a totalitarian society like the Soviet Union--perhaps a far greater wrench than there is reason to suppose the Communists are likely to make.

	I do not know how as a nation we will answer these questions. I do know that it is not too soon to begin facing them. I can assure you that I can conceive no matter of higher urgency or deserving more sustained and personal executive attention than the search for the abolition of the institution of war.

	If peace could be won by rhetoric, it would have been ours long ago. Few commencement speeches in the last decade and probably fewer political speeches have failed to pay tribute to the importance of peace. But unfortunately peace will not be won by wishing for it or by reciting the word. It will be won by men who have the vision to see, and courage to act. 



CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONSNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)     @& & & & ú%
 í% è% ã% Ü% Ô% Ò% ´% ª%	 [ 	 C  / e: