Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1018.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/18STUMPSAN ANTONIOTEXASTXALAMO PLAZA1422 WORDS

	Like many who have made this pilgrimage before me, I stand before these battle-scarred walls with a profound sense of reverence and awe.  For this is a hallowed place.  It has been hallowed, to the extent that mere human beings can sanctify any place, by the unfaltering sacrifice of life itself in a noble and unselfish cause.

	The men who died here accepted that fate by a deliberate and clear-eyed decision.  They were under no compulsion of military discipline.  Each man had to make the choice for himself, supported only by God and his own conscience.  When William Barrett Travis drew a line with the point of his sword on the dirt floor, and invited all who wished to die with him to step across it, every hero in that immortal company knew exactly what he was doing--and why.  They knew that the road to escape stretched clear before them; and they refused to take it.  Even Jim Bowie, crippled and ill, asked his comrades to lift his cot across that line of death.
	This story will never be forgotten as long as any American gathers his children about him to read them our immortal literature and tell them of the spirit which has made this country great.  In the truest sense, the men of the Alamo will never die.  They will live forever in the memory of free men, for they forgot themselves into immortality with a courage of no ordinary sort.

	This kind of martyrdom--this sacrifice by deliberate choice--is possible only when men are caught up by a truly magnificent ideal.  Men do not die that way for selfish interest.  The Texans who stood together inside these walls were not fighting for mere property, or self-advancement, or personal glory.  Their cause was not simply a struggle between two nations, as many people wrongly believe.  On the contrary, many men of Spanish blood--such as Enrique Esparza, Juan Seguin and Lorenzo de Zavala--stood shoulder to shoulder with Travis, Houston and Austin in the crusade which found its climax on this spot.

	They understood that they were fighting for something more precious than the fertile lands of Texas, even more precious than nationhood.  They were fighting for an idea--the idea of human freedom.

	This struggle is never entirely won, and it can never be entirely lost so long as the spirit of Travis and Bowie survives anywhere in the world.  It is the same battle we have fought over and over again.  It is the same cause we are defending today on the shell-torn hills of Korea.

	I think our young men who hold the line of freedom in Korea--and none among them are more gallant than your Texans--understand this just as clearly as the men of the Alamo understood it 116 years ago.  They know that the new autocracy of the Kremlin is an evil and a dangerous thing.  They know that tyranny must be halted, at whatever cost, whenever it marches or creeps or crawls against the liberties of free men.  They know that if the battalions of militant communism had not been stopped in Korea, we soon would have met them in another place, and another, and, at the end, perhaps on our own soil.  And here I cannot overlook the ever-eager response of Texans to our country's call.  In the last war, I am told that one of your colleges, Texas A&M, furnished twice as many officers as West Point.

	This understanding, this willingness to defend the simple idea of liberty which is so dramatically symbolized by the Alamo, is the mightiest weapon America can ever possess.  If we ever lose it, all our planes and tanks and atom bombs can avail us nothing.  In the end, the only true defense we have is the willingness of free men--knowing full well what their choice may mean--to step across a little line, drawn by a sword-point on hallowed ground.

	For this reason I have nothing but contempt for those whining politicians who try to tell us that the American people don't know what they are fighting for and what they have been fighting for more than 150 years.  When they tell us the struggle in Korea is unnecessary and meaningless, then they ask us to deny the very meaning of America itself.  Such craven words mock the men of the Alamo and our sons in Korea who are defending the same ancient ideal.

	It would be easy, and perhaps it would be politically smart, for me to hint obscurely that there is some quick and simple way to end this struggle.  It would be pleasant if I could tell you that we can safely withdraw and leave all the fighting to the Asians or the Europeans.  But I will leave such deceptive suggestion to someone else.  I did not come here to Texas to fight for votes with spears of straw and swords of ice.

	That is why I tell you bluntly that there is no easy escape from all our troubles, there is no cheap and painless shortcut to peace.  We are engaged in a conflict with forces of darkness which have engulfed seven hundred million human souls.  We confront an enemy who is crafty, implacable and far stronger than any foe America has ever known.

	Like Santa Anna, he is an enemy who offers no quarter.  He cannot be appeased; he can never be bought off by the surrender of territory or by the betrayal of some trusting ally, even if we were capable of such treachery.  For his aim is total conquest--not merely of the earth, but of the human mind.  He seeks to destroy the very idea of freedom, the concept of God Himself.

	Such an enemy cannot be defeated by name-calling, by character assassination, by the sowing of distrust among our own people.  He cannot be shooed away by the Republican brand of political DDT, guaranteed to contain no taxes, no anxiety and no effort.

	If any man promises you a soft path to the future--if he invites you to vote for him and then relax in a tax-free paradise--then beware.  In times of crisis our leaders have not promised beguiling comforts.  Like William Travis, they have led you, invited you, across that line which is the mark of greatness--and you have always emerged victorious.

	This invitation does not come to every generation.  And it is our rare privilege to be born in an age of testing and decision.

	We are living in one of the great watershed periods of history, which may well fix the pattern of civilization for many generations to come.  God has set for us an awesome mission:  nothing less than the leadership of the free world.

	Because He asks nothing of His servants beyond their strength, He has given to us vast power and vast opportunity.  And like that servant of biblical times who received the talents, we shall be held to strict account for what we do with them.

	Let us, then, set out on our mission with rejoicing--not doubting our beliefs and believing our doubts, but free of fears, free of doubt and self-pity.  Let us say as Ralph Waldo Emerson did:

	"If there is any period one would desire to be born in--is it not the age of revolution when the old and the new stand side by side and admit of being compared; when the energies of all men are searched by fear and hope; when the historic glories of the old can be compensated by the rich possibilities of the new era?  This time like all times is a very good one if one but knows what to do with it."

	And of course, need I add, that we Democrats are not afraid.  In close communion with the people, we will know what to do with our times because we believe in the wisdom of people, we believe that everyone is wiser than anyone.

	I've had a heartwarming experience in Texas--here in storied San Antonio today and among so many Texans in Fort Worth and Dallas who don't seem to have forgotten the great mission of the Democratic Party and what it has done, sometimes with the help of our Republican friends, more often without, to advance the well-being, the dignity and the happiness of all the people--and most of all to pursue relentlessly and to persevere in the quest for peace on earth.
HEROES/HEROISMHISTORY--UNITED STATES--TEXASKOREAN WAR     W #   
  ÿ ú ï ê è Ý Ó	 5 	 ' 	 
 e: