Speeches\1972\dem\S72d1003.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/03STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYEXCERPTS FROM SPEECH AT MEETING ON CRIME; NEW YORK CITY COMMITTEE AND CIVIC LEADERS2636 WORDS

	There is a story told about the time that the last living survivor of the Johnstown Flood died. When he got to heaven, he wanted to recount the story of that flood to all the inhabitants. They gathered, by the tens of thousands, and just as that survivor was about to step out on the celestial stage and begin his tale, an angel turned to him and whispered: "There's just one thing you ought to know. Noah is in the audience."

	I feel like that survivor when I come here today to talk about the crime problem. You live each day the topic I wish to discuss here this morning.

	In the cities and suburbs of America, crime is a condition of life. We are in the middle of the worst epidemic of crime in our national life. It can be seen in the statistics. But it can be seen even more sadly in the eyes and hearts of the American people.

	It is seen in the cold terror which empties our streets at nightfall; the fear and isolation which stalks our elderly citizens when they leave their homes to buy a loaf of bread or visit a neighbor; the unbelievable situation in schools across this country, where students walk the corridors with their pockets turned out to avoid a sudden assault for a few pennies.

	It is time we understand the fear that locks our senior citizens in their tiny rooms in Coney Island, deprived of human companionship. We must understand the terror of the old man in the Viadek project on the Lower East Side when he approaches the unlighted elevator or ventures into the street for a container of milk.

	We must understand the apprehension of young and old alike which empties Grant Park, or the streets of downtown Brooklyn, at nightfall.

	We must sense the fear of children walking to school with their pockets turned out to avoid attacks for a few coins, and of their refusal to go to school washrooms.

	We must know the vicious physical attacks on female teachers in their classrooms in broad daylight and of the stairwells sealed to avoid danger lurking on darkened landings.

	We must live with the horror of a crippled newsboy in Harlem, lying in a hallway, his head split open by a club, his pockets cut off; of the seventy-year-old Chicago woman knifed in the back by a thirteen-year-old for her empty pocketbook; of the esteemed Columbia Professor, Wolfgang Friedman, murdered while walking to the subway, and of the thousands of other innocents, not so well known, who are assaulted daily on the streets of all of America's great cities.

	We should sense the hopelessness and despair of the shopkeeper in Watts or Hollis, Queens who is robbed at gunpoint six times in six weeks.

	And we must quash the desperation that drives a nine-year-old drug addict, living alone in a burned out shell, to attack a sixteen-year-old with a knife to get his radio--the locks, and double and triple locks and bars in houses and apartments across this nation. I see these things and I am appalled.

	If I am elected president, crime and drug abuse will be my number one domestic target.

	Tough but empty talk and public relation gimmickry will be replaced by aggressive and effective programs to deal with the drug addict who victimizes society, to control the flow of deadly narcotics, to take guns out of the hands of criminals, to strengthen our police forces and their presence in local neighborhoods, and to completely overhaul our inadequate court and correctional systems.

	I intend to renew the commitment initiated by President Kennedy, expanded by President Johnson, and sabotaged by President Nixon--to eradicate the poverty, alienation, and despair which unleash madness in our streets.

	Drug addiction, with its corrosive effects on the very fabric of civilized life, has to be our first order of business. The magnitude of this scourge is known to all Americans. Sixty percent of the street crime in our cities is caused by drug addicts, and now drug-related crime is skyrocketing in our suburbs. In New York City alone, where conservative estimates admit to 150,000 heroin addicts, hard drugs cost society at least $3 billion dollars per year. No community and no family in America is safe.

	If we are to begin to win the battle against addiction, which is the source of so much of the crime in our cities, we must wipe out the international sources of heroin. We must withdraw our support from those corrupt governments of Southeast Asia whose officials profit from this traffic. And we should end all aid to any other nation which tolerates the cultivation of opium, from which heroin is extracted. Poppy-growing may be a way of life for farmers in Turkey, but it is a way of death for citizens of this country. And it must be stopped.

	Here at home, we must aim our law enforcement efforts at the big pushers-- the upper bureaucracy of the drug trade which controls and profits from distribution on the streets.

	We should explore every method of infiltrating and overrunning these modern merchants of death.

	Then we must assure that every addict is afforded adequate treatment, whether we find him through his own voluntary efforts to seek help or through arrest. Heroin addicts do not "dry out" when they are simply confined; without treatment they leave prison just as hopelessly addicted as before. And addiction is contagious. Addicts recruit addicts, because they often become pushers. There is no alternative to treatment.

	That means releasing the federal funds that are needed to carry out a balanced program of drug treatment and rehabilitation. Mayor Lindsay and Commissioner Murphy have inaugurated a program of that kind in New York City to provide the treatment that offers the best hope of success with an individual--whether it is methadone, therapeutic communities, or the quest for a drug free status. That program has made important progress, against ominous odds, and despite Washington's tangle of red tape. The number of addicts in treatment in New York City doubled between 1971 and 1972, and it will virtually double again in 1973--to 65,000--if the funds can be pried free.

	An effective program means speeding those funds on the streets of the city, where the need is most urgent and the knowledge is most complete. Our cities have suffered astounding delays waiting for money to trickle down through all the layers of federal and state bureaucracy--and a little money is lost at each stop on the way. Yet at the height of New York's state-level war on drugs; 130 addicts were cured, at a cost of about $2.8 million each, before the Governor decided the state couldn't handle the problem. Funds should flow directly to the cities, where they can be effectively used. Mayor Lindsay's administration has shown considerable capacity to do that, and I think this city can expect real progress in the future--if the money is not frittered away before it gets here, hiring superfluous state and federal officials.

	As a parallel initiative, I propose a special program to treat all addicted Vietnam veterans, estimated at 100,000, who have been forgotten--15,000 Vietnam veterans now roam the streets of New York City untreated and uncared for. For these young men who risked their lives for their country, this neglect is truly an outrage. The government of the United States has a moral responsibility to help these men become rehabilitated, and if elected, I will immediately see that this obligation is fulfilled.

	I would allocate a major portion of Law Enforcement Assistance funds for drug law enforcement.

	And, finally, and most important, I will strive to exercise the kind of national leadership that is essential to steer this country away from its obsession with pills and drugs of all kinds, an obsession which has created a climate of permissiveness and indulgence that is so clearly the seed of tragic drug addiction. I will crack down on exploitative commercial advertising which suggests that everyday problems can be cured with drugs. And I will provide significant federal resources to support community drug abuse education and prevention efforts. One-half of the output of large drug companies is now diverted to illicit use. We must stop this widespread and dangerous practice.

	The second direction of a crime containment policy relates directly to you and your neighborhoods. It must be obvious to all of you that the federal government has no presence in your communities when it comes to crime prevention or enforcement. In fact, 75 percent of the funds for Nixon's anti-crime program, LEAA, never even reach the local level.

	In order to begin to control street crime and to allay the fear which stalks every neighborhood in this nation, we should launch a new Neighborhood Street Crime Prevention program whose specific purpose will be to help localities build safer neighborhoods. Initially, the program will focus on neighborhoods in the twenty-five cities with the highest crime rates. Programs and services of visible impact at the community level will be supported, with paramount emphasis focused on increasing the number of foot patrolmen. Supplemental neighborhood programs will also be eligible, including tenant patrols, escort service for the elderly, auxiliary police units, guards for children's routes to schools, security personnel in the schools, special alarm systems, crime watch units, community police councils, and after-school centers.

	We should implement a national "Light the Streets" program, as spelled out in a bill introduced by Congressman Koch, that would allocate $30 million dollars over the next three years for purchase and installation of high-pressure vapor lights for crime-intensive streets in cities throughout the nation. Such a program, introduced in Washington, D.C., has reduced crime by 30 percent in some areas.

	Strict gun control is the third point of my street crime program. Every thirteen seconds a new handgun is sold in this country. One hundred million handguns are now in the possession of private citizens. In New York City, which has the nation's strictest gun laws, over 9,000 illegal guns are seized each year.

	Since 1968, murders of policemen--the most heinous of crimes--have doubled. Seventy-five percent of these murders were caused by handguns of the type manufactured right here in New York City on Wooster Street.

	What ultimate tragedy must this nation endure before it finally realizes the mortal danger of the lethal Saturday Night Special and the correlation between these weapons and the cold-blooded murder of police officers and innocent citizens. In 1968, I sponsored a Gun Control Bill to provide mandatory life imprisonment for any person who uses a firearm to commit a federal offense or an act of violence. We need the strictest penalties for the sale or possession of Saturday Night Specials so they can be eliminated once and for all.

	As a fourth initiative, we muse increase the strength of local police. We should have more foot patrolmen at the local level. And we must encourage police professionalism through a "Policeman's Bill of Rights," modeled after the GI Bill, which would provide police officers, who have the nation's toughest job, with additional educational opportunity while remaining on full salary with their departments.

	To strengthen our courts, I advocate complete overhaul and streamlining of the judicial structure, and a dramatic acceleration in the process to ensure that not more than sixty days elapse between arrest and trial.

	In the crucial area of corrections reform, it is painfully clear that we need an entirely new approach, spearheaded by the federal government. Over one million persons are presently incarcerated in this land, and less than ten percent receive any rehabilitation at all. Eighty-five percent of those released commit another crime. It is the innocent street victim and the taxpayer who ultimately pay for this archaic and useless system. Yet prisons in America are little more than finishing schools in crime.

	It is imperative that our correctional system begin to impart some humane values to those it seeks to rehabilitate... some genuine belief in the humaneness of society... if we are to break the vicious cycle of crime. We must start with the basic building blocks of relevant job training and job development to restore dignity and purpose to the offender's life.

	Now, let us consider the dimensions of the crime issue in America.

	There is a myth that people who are concerned with human liberty and human rights--and by this I mean Democrats--are not deeply concerned by the violent crime that floods our streets. It has even been charged that people like you and me are somehow more concerned with the criminal than with his victim. Nothing is further from reality. Mr. Nixon and his administration sell this myth so they can mask a record of astounding failure in the field of crime behind a veil of "law and order" rhetoric, which grows more strident as the muggings and murders and rapes in our cities continue to rise.

	We need something more from the Republican candidate than the slogans he gave us four years ago. Tough talk on television never stopped a mugging, never convinced an addict to kick his habit, or forced a stickup man to throw his Saturday Night Special in the nearest river.

	But I want to ask the people of New York: do you feel safer after four years of Richard Nixon?

	And I want to ask who has really been "permissive" toward crime? I say it is those who thwarted gun control, and refused to take the Saturday Night Special out of the hands of the potential killer. I say that Mr. Nixon has been permissive in not stopping the flow of drugs from the Golden Triangle, where military dictators "friendly" to the administration profit from and protect the international drug traffic. And I say it is permissive to allow the chaos in our courts which keeps potentially dangerous criminals on the streets for months and years because we don't have the facilities to bring them to a swift trial.

	If you get nothing else out of my remarks, I want you to leave here with an absolutely clear understanding of George McGovern's fundamental credo on the crime problem in this troubled nation. I want you to take this message back to your communities so that the people can assess fairly and accurately the distortions which are the trademark of President Nixon and his campaign apparatus in the Justice Department.

	I believe that the first obligation of society is respect for the law and its instruments of enforcement.

	I believe that the first task of society is to protect its citizens' lives and property.

	I abhor and condemn the violent crime wave which sweeps across this country and the vicious drug plague which preys on innocent citizens and kills our youth.

	I believe that we must take whatever steps are necessary to strengthen the capability of police and other law enforcement agencies to deal with rampant crime.

	I believe that any government or party which talks about law enforcement but which ignores court and correctional reform--and the underlying alienation and poverty which breeds crime--lies to the American people.

	Most important of all, I understand and deplore what the crime epidemic, raging out of control, has done to cripple the spirit and freedom of movement of Americans in their daily lives.

	Through workable measures, rather than juggled figures and derisive rhetoric, I believe all of us together can take what steps are necessary to add to Franklin Roosevelt's Four Freedoms a fifth freedom: freedom from violence. And by so doing, to once again make personal security a way of life in this country that we love.
CRIME PREVENTION--COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENTCRIME VICTIMSCRIME, VIOLENTCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALDRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG ABUSE--TREATMENTDRUG TRADE--FOREIGN COUNTRIESDRUG TRADE--GENERALHEALTH CARE--VETERANSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONREHABILITATION OF CRIMINALSCRIME--GENERALCRIME, DRUG-RELATEDDRUG ABUSE--GENERAL     4?  ? ú> ö> î>
 â> Ý> Ø> Ð> È> Æ> s> i>	 B	 	 	  	 ç 	 Ã 	 ® 	 ‘ 	 ~ 	 i 	 O  4  &   e: