Speeches\1952\dem\S52d1008.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/08STUMPMILWAUKEEWISCONSINWIMILWAUKEE ARENA--FOR RELEASE AT 8 PM BROADCAST ON RADIO, AND FOR RELEASE TO THE MORNING NEWSPAPERS ON OCTOBER 92,837 WORDS

	I have come today to Wisconsin and now tonight to Milwaukee, in a new role, but as an old friend. There are thousands of us in Illinois, you know, who work fifty weeks out of the year so we can spend a two-week vacation in Wisconsin.

	I know the beauty of Wisconsin's vacation country on a blue and white northland day. I went up there this summer after I was nominated for a few days of rest, reflection and fishing. But I'm a conservationist and I decided not to molest the fish much, and they cooperated so well I didn't molest them at all.

	I've had that slack line feeling quite a lot here lately. Every time I think the General of the Army is about to say something specific, positive and clear about an issue, he says something about wanting a change--and swims back under those lily pads entitled "I just want to do what is best for the American people."

	When I was young I remember a story my grandfather told. He was in politics, too, and he often stayed at Ephraim up in Deer county in the summer and knew a lot of Wisconsin people. Some Wisconsin Democrat who wanted a campaign speaker in his district wrote him: "Try to get Senator Vilas to come out. If you can't get him, get Voorhees. If you can't get either, or some other good man, come out yourself and make some speeches."

	When I was young I also remember that we all talked about the "Wisconsin idea." It meant to us a willingness to try things out, to experiment in ways of meeting the changing needs of democracy and of America. And we thought of Milwaukee as one place where the word socialist was something more than a club you used to beat the brains out of any new idea.

	I speak to you tonight with the conviction that the independence of thought which was the root of the Wisconsin idea and Wisconsin progressivism, is still a vital force in this community and state. I know it is because I know the men you have chosen to express your views in next month's elections.

	I know Andy Biemiller and Clem Zablocki, and the way they have worked in Congress for help to Europe. Aid to these fatherlands of America is the hope for freedom for our friends and families in the old countries. It means resistance to the tyranny of Communism. It means preventing World War III.

	I know the way my friend, Bill Proxmire, has worked in the Wisconsin legislature on the anti-lobbying act, and has fought for a fairer tax system. And I've known that splendid young man for a long time. His father is a famous doctor. He was my doctor, which probably accounts for Bill's good health and mine too.

	And I know Tom Fairchild. I know his record for bringing to public office the highest ideals of decency, dignity and clean government. I know, too, about his efforts in eliminating racial discrimination.

	Let it be clear that I speak of these men because I admire them--and not just because they are Democrats. If I were ashamed of them--so that I could not bring myself even to speak their names--I would not ask you to vote for them. My opponent has been worrying about my funny bone. I'm worrying about his backbone.

	I have built this campaign on the proposition that the American people are interested in all the public questions that affect their lives--and in knowing where their government is going as well as the name of the man at the wheel.

	The election is now twenty-seven days away. And as yet we have no square statement from the Republican candidate on the major issues America faces. He has told us what he is against--but he refuses to tell us what he is for. And mostly he's against sin and Democrats.

	The Republican strategy becomes increasingly clear. The political hucksters of the Old Guard have now a nice, new, fancy, khaki-colored package. They have an honored name and a trick slogan. They have nothing in the world to worry about--if they can just get the American people to buy that package without opening it. Well, they don't like the New Deal, and they don't like the Fair Deal, but we don't like this Fast Deal.

	And furthermore, that package is coming unwrapped. What we see peeking out is alarmingly familiar. The GOP has a new package, and a new label, but it's the same gloomy old product.

	Let's see just what it is we're being offered.

	Let's look first at farm policy.

	The Democratic position can be stated in one clear, unambiguous sentence. We stand for the firm 90 percent supports which the Democrats enacted over Republican opposition, and we are going to continue our search for practicable price supports to cover perishable products.

	And the Republican position? Well, pay your money and take your choice. It's getting harder every day to tell which shell the Republican farm policy is under. The Republican platform was ambiguous, to say the least. But on September 6th, the Republican candidate said he supported the Democratic program. Then on September 10th he had that famous breakfast with Senator Taft. When they were through Senator Taft announced that the Republican candidate agreed with him on all domestic matters. And Senator Taft opposes 90 percent price supports.

	The GOP has a new package, and a new label, but it's the same grand old political hokum.

	Let's look, next, at the Republican attitude toward rural electrification co-ops. You are deeply concerned with this in Wisconsin; one of your REA co-ops, the Dairyland Power Cooperative at LaCrosse, is the largest in the country.

	The General of the Army says his newly adopted Republican party is for the REA program. I guess they forgot to tell him that most Republicans in Congress have consistently voted against REA The two Republican senators from Wisconsin, for example, have voted against REA and public power programs on twenty-four occasions in twenty-nine times at bat.

	The story on labor policy is clearer than most. On September 17th, before the AF of L Convention in New York, the General spoke generally of American labor's glorious past, its present prosperity, its future promise. But everything he said boiled down to just one word: No. And a Republican senator, Wayne Morse, took the same platform one day later to say the General's speech made it completely clear that the "Republican signals" are now being called by the "substitute quarterback" from Ohio. I believe it's the only time in history that a candidate for the presidency lost the nomination but won the nominee. And after a name-calling contest that wore out the vocabulary of indelicacies at that.

	And what of the vitally important matter of guarding our economy today against both the inflation of rising prices and the deflation of another depression? You people here in Milwaukee just decided to extend rent ceilings, and you have been strong in your support for necessary cost of living controls. No man in Congress has been more forthright in protecting the public interest on this front than Clement Zablocki.

	It is the firm position of the Democratic party that the rising cost of living has got to stop. And I don't mean slowed up. I mean stopped. I have spelled out a four-point program of government economy, pay-as-we-go tax policy, credit restraints, and price and wage controls which will do this job.

	We of the Democratic party are equally determined to prevent another depression in this country. We will not, as the Republicans did in 1930, let this nation be forced to its knees when there is work to be done and men who eagerly want to do it. We will not let the farms and factories of America lie idle while men and women and children need food and clothing.

	Where do the Republican leaders stand? From the candidate comes the usual assurances that everything will be done for the best. But we know what that is worth. For the candidate has signed a blank check on domestic issues--and Senator Taft is his banker. We know the Republicans in Congress voted this year to end all price and rent controls, and let the cost of living go on up.

	The candidate says he is against inflation, but his party voted for it. It's a new package, and a new label, but it's the same grand old poppycock.

	I spoke last night in Detroit of the Communism issue.

	We despise Communism with an intensity which makes us grim with hatred toward those who gnaw at the vitals of democracy at home and abroad. On this the Republican candidate, too, has spoken loudly--and frequently.

	But the issue is not whether Communism is evil. The issue is what we are going to do about it. On that, the Republican candidate is silent. He is always against something. But what is he for? He's for driving Communists out of government. Well, who isn't? I have not heard about anyone running on a "more Communists in government" ticket.

	I want, and I think you do, to pay the taxes which are the price of fighting Communism where it is spread by Russian warlords. I want, and I think you do, to spend what is necessary to fight Communism by building up the economic and military strength of our European allies and fatherlands. I would rather buy insurance than a new house.

	I intend to continue rooting out of government, and keeping out of government, every person of doubtful loyalty. I disagree squarely, however, with those who think the way to do this is by firing a sawed-off shotgun into a whole group of public servants if there is a rumor that one among them is evil.

	I agree completely with the Roman Catholic bishops of the United States in their pronouncement last November. "Dishonesty, slander, detraction and defamation of character," the Catholic bishops said, "are as truly transgressions of God's Commandments when resorted to by men in political life as they are for all other men."

	I believe we can and will guarantee our internal security not by scatter-shooting, but by sharp-shooting. I know that in the Federal Bureau of Investigation we have the precision weapon to do the job. I, for one, am willing to give my confidence in this matter to men like J. Edgar Hoover. And I doubt very much whether the Republican candidate has any new tricks up his sleeve.

	Finally, tonight, I want to speak in a little more detail of the issue of American policy in Europe. No other issue reveals more strikingly the tactics in this election of the Republican leadership--the use of one man's good name to camouflage a bad record, and that man's willingness to compromise his own views in opportunistic gasping for support in this election.

	From 1945 on through the first part of 1952, General Eisenhower supported actively every step in the development of this nation's policy in Europe. He advised us that the first thing to do was, in his words, to try to "establish a working partnership between the United States and Russia." When that proved impossible, the General became a faithful adherent of the program of making Europe strong enough, economically, morally and militarily, to defeat Russia's plans for aggression.

	Then he became the Republican candidate for the presidency. And overnight he changed his mind about what he stood for.

	This man had stood out against American isolationism, had supported the Marshall Plan for aiding Europe, and had defended General Marshall as a great patriot. But now he puts his arm around Senator Jenner, who called General Marshall a willing front man for traitors, and here in Milwaukee, we are told, he deleted a defense of General Marshall from his text when Senator McCarthy requested it.

	In May of this year the General opposed the attempts of the Republicans in Congress to slash the appropriations for economic and military aid for our allies. But now the Republican candidate promises this country budget reductions of $20 billion or more--when he knows this could only mean a reduction in military aid to our friends abroad and in our own defenses. We hear the voice of the General--but the words come from Senator Taft.

	At the beginning of 1951, the General assumed the role of leadership in building that military strength for Europe which will mean eventually that Russia must keep its Yalta promises and release the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe from Communist bondage. Our policy, and the General's, was to build that strength so that this purpose could be accomplished without war. We did not attribute to him the trigger-happy habits we sometimes associate with the image of the military leader.

	Yet in his first speech as a candidate he spoke in unguarded terms about "liberation" for the people behind the Iron Curtain, terms which millions of people in America and in Europe interpreted as foreshadowing reckless action--even war.

	A few days later the General withdrew those words. Yet the record was clear. His newly acquired Old Guard handlers, whose words he first spoke are men willing to play politics, not just with the hopes and anxieties of people, but with peace and war itself.

	Surely, if war is the answer, then all is lost. War today would transform these enslaved countries behind the Iron Curtain into the graveyards of the world--for they would be the first battlefields of an awful holocaust, which would end by engulfing all mankind.

	The policy we have followed in Europe--the policy the General himself served until he went into politics--is a plain and sensible policy.

	It starts from the fact of our American experience--our proving that men and women from different homelands can live and work together in an ever-stronger framework of national unity and faith. That is why we are encouraging, by every means, the new unity which is arising in Europe. A United States of Europe is today more than a possibility, the most encouraging star in European skies.

	Upon the foundation of this unity, and with America's help, there is being built today a European army.

	It will be this unity and this strength which will be the salvation of Europe. It will be the strength of a united and powerful Europe which will make the Soviet rulers respect the promises they made to us at Yalta. It will be then that Germany can be reunited, then that Poland and Czechoslovakia and the other countries now in bondage will live again in freedom.

	I offer you no glib promises, no cheap and easy solutions, and no certain timetable. I tell you rather, in the few words not of politics but of humanity, that the party for which I speak works today and will keep on working toward the single objective of returning these victims of cruel oppression again to living freedom. We have saved much of Europe without war. We will, God willing, return to freedom those who are temporarily lost--the only way it can be done without the total obliteration of atomic war.

	We must deal in realities, not pipe dreams, in Europe as in Asia. We are in Korea because our own security is at stake. The General's proposal that the South Koreans be trained and take over the defense job is interesting if not helpful. We have been training them for a long time and they have been fighting for a long time. I assume he does not mean to promise an early return of our forces from Korea, regardless of the consequences.

	If he does, I shall not match him. I have said before, and I repeat, I shall make no promises in this election I know I cannot keep.

	I know the thoughts of American fathers and mothers who have youngsters in the service of their country. You can feel that ache no more strongly than do I. I shall count it, if I receive your trust, the biggest demand upon me that the job our sons are doing be completed quickly.

	But I know, and you know too, that we are going to win through to peace only by working for it, and paying for it, giving for it. I say let us glory in the service of our sons--and let us honor them by facing squarely and soberly the truth about the world today.

	This is not just an election to be "won" by one man or another. Four years of America's future hang in the balance, four historic years of decision, hard decisions.

	We will, under God, move forward during those years toward that day when there is freedom and justice, not alone in America, but in the whole world--and to that day of peace.
AGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCOMMUNISMCOST OF LIVINGEASTERN EUROPEECONOMY--DEPRESSIONELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESEUROPEFEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI)GOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSMILITARY AID--EUROPEORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALRURAL DEVELOPMENTSOUTH KOREASOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)     AA A A A û@
 î@ é@ ä@ Û@ Ò@ Ð@ a@ V@	 W	 .	 		  	 ò 	 ä 	 Ñ 	 ­ 	 § 	 ‚ 	 c 	 O 	 7 	 & 	  e: