Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0905.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/05STUMPDENVERCOLORADOCOCO-VOLUNTEERS FOR STEVENSON DINNER2,570 WORDS

	When this visit to Denver was arranged for me I had thought to find here a bustling and hostile campaign headquarters. But evidently all is quiet in Denver. The tents have been folded and the captains and the kings have departed. 

	I am informed, if not very reliably, that with both discordant elements of the Republican Party here in Denver suddenly someone realized that Denver is very close to the Great Divide. And I guess they thought it was time for a change before this unhappy symbolism became too apparent. 

	Whatever the reason, I am afraid my neighbors in Springfield, Illinois, are not going to get the same relief you in Denver have had. My headquarters will continue to be there on November 4th. 

	Now there is deep personal satisfaction for me in the fact that this, my first talk on my first extended campaign trip, is sponsored by the Independents who are organizing around the country on my behalf. 

	I'm reminded of the lonely days of my first venture into political life in 1948. Few really believed then that I, a Democrat, could be elected governor of an overwhelmingly Republican state. But there were a lot of independent-minded people in Illinois who believed in me enough to work hard for my election. 

	In Illinois the Independents--and I include in that term all those who wear a party label over their hearts but not over their eyes--those people in Illinois shared with me, I think, certain ideals and objectives for government at all levels. We believed in these things: 

	Government--any government--is not an end in itself. It exists to serve certain human purposes. These purposes should be enlarged only with caution. Indeed, the effort should be always to leave as wide a range of activity as possible in private hands and to keep public intervention as far down the scale and as close to the people governed as possible. 

	What ought to be done by government for the public welfare should be done. There should be no wistful dragging of the feet or turning backward to a dead, irrelevant past. 

	Government should be competent. Its personnel must not be under the heavy hand of purely political selection or influence. It must not be afraid of raising and spending money for worthy purposes, but it must detest and fear waste and dishonesty as ever present threats to the whole moral basis of government by the consent of the governed because people don't consent voluntarily to be cheated or abused. 

	We believe above all else that those who hold in their hands the power of government must themselves be independent--and this kind of independence means the wisdom, the experience, the courage to identify the special interests and the pressures that are always at work, to see the public interest steadily, to resist its subordination no matter what the political hazards. 

	Now this simple principle is not peculiar to Illinois, nor is it foreign to the majority of those who participate in political activity. It's my common ground with those who are devoting their time and their effort and their money to the Volunteers for Stevenson, under whose auspices I speak here in Denver tonight. 

	This election year can set the stage for great ideas and great events. This is a year which opens out on challenges, on opportunities and decisions as big as history itself. They are awesome things for any citizen to ponder. They are more awesome for a presidential candidate. 

	Feeling this, I must assume that my opponent, whom I honor for the proud page he has written in American history, feels it too. And I can imagine nothing more false or hollow than to conceal these things from the American people in order to put on a show of politics as usual. If we do this, we will succeed only in making a show of ourselves. In a contest for the greatest office and in a time for greatness I think we owe it to the people to talk sense. 

	I don't think many people are beguiled by denunciations and generalizations and I don't mean a pun. I may be wrong, my friends, but I must persist in that conviction--at least until November. 

	So I propose to go on saying just what I think about our public questions one by one, with little hope of pleasing everyone, but with confident certainty that honesty is the best policy and that for this office, in this anxious year, you don't want a political free-for-all, and you do want to know all you can about me and about my views. Frankly, until recently not many people cared about either. It's a little hard to get accustomed to this importance. 

	Now, having stated the ground rules as far as I'm concerned, I should like to talk a little about one of the biggest hazards of this campaign, as far as I'm concerned. As divided, as silent as both wings of the Republican Party are on major objectives, on policies to guide the nation, they have wholeheartedly united on one profound proposition: "It's time for a change." 

	You will hear this phrase many times--usually at the end of a long string of invectives in which each of the following words will appear at least once: crime, corruption and cronies; bossism, blundering and bungling; stupidity and socialism either the creeping or galloping variety, depending on the inflammation of the speaker. Indeed, my friends, apparently you are going to hear little else. The question must come to your mind: "Change to what?" But don't pause for an answer because you may pause indefinitely. 

	Now, I've read the Republican platform, which is pretty good as a "whodunit," but it doesn't tell us what kind of a domestic or foreign policy they are going to change to. I've listened to the speeches, too, and I don't yet know what legislation of the past twenty years is to be changed or changed to what. Nor have I heard yet to what new foreign policy we should be committed, unless it's the reckless suggestion of a war of liberation in Europe, which has frightened everyone except the Russians. 

	No, the guideposts and the road maps to the new utopia which change will build are not yet visible. But meanwhile the Republican candidates seem to have clasped all of the social gains of the past twenty years to their bosoms with a "me-too" fervor that is touching to a Democrat, for imitation still remains the sincerest form of flattery. 

	I confess it's all a little perplexing. The Democrats are denounced for not wanting changes and then they are denounced for a subversive desire to change everything. I'm beginning to wonder if the Republican campaign rests on the proposition that Democrats are social revolutionaries who want to keep things exactly as they are. 

	But, and more seriously, "change" is about the most important word in the world today. In fact, I would be perfectly willing to have the outcome of this election decided on these questions: 

	Which party best understands the meaning of change in the modern world? 

	Which party has ignored it? 

	Which has anticipated the need for a change and done something about it? 

	Which party has resisted about every important change for the past twenty-five years? 

	And looking ahead now, which party is most likely to cope effectively with the vast changes already in the making? 

	You'll forgive me if I'm a little cynical when I hear shouting the loudest for change the politicians who have consistently opposed change at every turn as far back as most of us can remember. 

	Timing, timing with respect to change, is as important as change itself. It's when the problem is a live one that change becomes important. In fact, if my party had not met the challenge of change at the right time, there would be no program in America for the Republican leaders to endorse. 

	I have a hunch that the American people would like to see them get out in front with something besides criticism--for a change. And I have a hunch that there are a lot of us who would be more impressed by specific ideas about the making of a better world than by these hoarse denunciations and demands for a blank check made out to "change." 

	I believe there are a lot of changes still to be made. I'm for continuing the process of gradual and economic betterment which began at the depths of despair in 1932. The changes wrought in these twenty years have steadily raised the standards of life of our people, given new hope to the underprivileged and proved to the slave world the capacity of free men to provide security for themselves within the framework of freedom. 

	I'm glad that the general has apparently embraced these changes. But I don't detect any roars of approval from the Old Guard--you know what they are, they're the men who don't want anything done for the first time. My fellow townsman, Colonel McCormick, has even deserted--he's "gone over the hill" as the GIs say. And Senator Taft, it's reported, wants commitments and he wants them in writing. 

	Some commentators tell us that there are really two Republican parties, which of course has been obvious to most of us for a long time--the comparatively modern men and the powerful Old Guard who are still fighting valiantly to keep us out of World War II. 

	Now they tell us that if the Republicans lose this year, as usual, the Old Guard will come raging in and drive the so-called me-tooers into shameful exile. And, therefore, the thing for Independents and Democrats to do is to let the Republicans win, thereby assuring the triumph of moderation and enabling us all to live happily ever after. 

	I believe that this is the first time in history that it has been contended that now is the time for all good Democrats to come to the aid of the Republican Party. 

	Now, at the risk of seeming to lack compassion and humanity, that's too high a price to save enlightened Republicans from their more primitive brethren. They'll just have to take care of themselves while we take care of the country. 

	But of course there is an easier, safer path of escape for these liberal Republicans trapped behind the GOP line. There's always a light in our Democratic window for the politically homeless or the repentant. There's a warm welcome and plenty of shelter for Republicans as well as Independents, and as in the Foreign Legion, no questions asked. 

	Now, my friends, I shall not argue that it is necessarily fatal to change horses in midstream. But I doubt if it is wise to jump on a struggling two-headed elephant trying to swim in both directions in very rough water. 

	Man does not live by words alone, despite the fact that sometimes he has to eat them. Alas, in this world he sometimes, or perhaps too often, lives by catchwords. Slogans are normally designed to get action without reflection. This one, "time for a change," fits these specifications admirably. This may not be too serious when all that is at stake is whether to buy one cake of soap or another, but I don't think it furnishes a sound basis for deciding a national election. 

	If we believe in human progress, if we believe with the pioneers that there is a peaceful better life to be found beyond the horizon then we all profoundly believe that it is always time for a change--a change to something better. "The important thing," as Justice Holmes once said, "is not where we are, but where we are going." 

	This year the Democratic Party nominated me for the presidency, a nomination I did not seek. That's the best evidence that the Democrats wanted a change, too. And the Democrat who wanted it most of all was President Truman. 

	Now, the bitterest enemies of President Truman could never accuse him of being one to run away from a fight. But he knows that change--new men, new blood, new ideas, new methods--is helpful. He has not sought to interfere with the considerable changes in the Democratic Party organization that I've already made. And I could add that no one has made or even proposed any deals with me for any coffee, or benefit, or favor whatsoever. 

	Now I think the Republican leaders know this. Yet I hear them attack corruption as if there wasn't a single honest federal employee and then go on to say that I am indebted to someone, that I would have no freedom, and that I could do nothing if I found dishonesty. 

	On this subject I want to say, as I've said many times before, that corruption in public office is treason and it's treason to Democrats as well as to the Republicans. Any crooks that I can find in the government will be exposed and punished as ruthlessly as I've done it in Illinois--Republicans and Democrats alike. 

	And what's more, my friends, I think I know more about their methods than my opponent because I followed eight years of magnificent Republican rascality in Illinois. I've used an ax on my own party men without fear or favor or hesitation and, frankly, I resent the charges that imply that either my honesty or my fidelity to the public trust would be diminished by election to an office I revere. 

	I had not expected that from the general. And I will not repay him in kind. But I would thank him to read more carefully what I don't believe he would write himself. Moreover, you'll forgive me if I gag a little when Republican politicians don the ill-fitting mantle of self-righteousness and deliver holier-than-thou sermons on morality. 

	I've read enough of our history to remember the shameful periods after previous wars, and who was in power then? The Republican Party. 

	But that doesn't condone the recent revelations of faithlessness. And I don't condone them and never will--either in public life or in private. 

	Finally, let me suggest to our Republican friends that it's time for a change in that old tired meaningless tune "It's time for a change." It has been used every four years and it hasn't started any dancing in the streets yet. 

	What we really believe in, I think, Independents, Republicans and Democrats alike--Americans--is not the slogans of people who are out of office and want to get in; what we believe in is the power and the right of peaceful, continuous change for the better. 

	We believe in it because we, the American people, believe in ourselves. We believe in our ideals and in the necessity for justifying our exalted position in the world. 

	And finally, we believe that with prudence and patience, with a sense of dedication, and with God's help, we can give enriched meaning to human destiny. 

	I'm grateful to all of you who have rallied to my support in this vast undertaking. I have learned that the greatest, perhaps the only enduring satisfaction in public office is the confidence and the respect, not the total agreement because it can never exist, the confidence and the respect of disinterested men and women who don't want anything for themselves. 

ELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEPARTY UNITY/LOYALTY     |: H: B: >: 6:
 ): $: : : : : í9 â9	 c 	 E 	 ( 	  e: