Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1010.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/10STUMPOKLAHOMA CITYOKLAHOMAOKSKIRVIN HOTEL, FOR RELEASE TO AFTERNOON NEWSPAPERS2025 WORDS

	November 4th is now twenty-five days away. To me that means about ten to twelve thousand miles and, worse than that, about 150,000 words away. Maybe that doesn't sound like many miles to the captain of my DC-6, or like many words to men who have to put out a newspaper regularly, as many of you do. But it sounds like a lot of mileage and a lot of wordage to me.

	All this activity has its meaning, of course, in the X's which millions of Americans will mark on their ballots on November 4th. The moment will come when in the lonely polling booth each one of us must decide where to put his X's.

	I would not be here, of course, if I did not think that there are good reasons why those X's ought to go into the Democratic column. I have been doing my best to set out those reasons in speech after speech around the country.

	The problem every candidate has--whatever his party--is a problem of communication. There are not many people--there are not even many professional politicians--who are going to read every speech, every editorial, every columnist, and every other bit of material which might throw light on how one ought to vote.

	Indeed, sometimes I wonder if we do not flood the voter in a sea of words when we might better leave him to think about the issues by himself. I have heard of juke boxes where five minutes of silence can be purchased for a nickel. Perhaps a political party might serve the country by purchasing a half hour of silence on the radio and TV networks during which the voters would be asked to think quietly about the choice they are going to have to make on November 4th.

	Politics and politicians being what they are, I doubt that this happy idea will be seized upon with favor. But fortunately radio and TV sets can be turned off, and, who knows, perhaps the knobs are being used for that purpose with and enthusiasm unflattering to the men at the mikes.

	On November 5th we will discover that millions of Americans have voted one way and that a few more millions have voted the other way. When you find a 99 percent vote--the kind of vote that used to be recorded in Nazi Germany and that is now recorded in the Soviet Union, in China, and in the so-called "People's Democracies" of Central and Eastern Europe, you have all the evidence you need to be sure that freedom has been extinguished. In a free country no party ever has a 99 percent stranglehold on the truth.

	Now, of course, the nature of a political campaign is such that each party is supposed and expected to blow its own horn. Everyone understands this, I think. As the old saying goes, some of my best friends are Republicans--and I hope they still will be when the campaign is over.

	But I wouldn't be here if I didn't think that we Democrats have the best of the argument.

	I would like to try to put our case into a few words today. All of the issues that have been talked about in this campaign come down, it seems to me, to peace and prosperity. These are the questions which really affect all of us. Let's take a look at them.

	Every American is concerned with the question of good times. All that we have heard on this from the Republican leadership is scare-stuff. The General says our prosperity is a sham prosperity, that it is based on war, and that it is going to collapse as soon as defense orders taper off. I don't think this advances our knowledge and understanding very far.

	On this subject the General has agreed to agree with Senator Taft. On domestic economic policies the General has, in effect, admitted that he does not know very much. If he did, I don't think he would have chosen Senator Taft as the man who will determine his domestic economic policies.

	There are real differences between the two parties in the domestic field. The Democratic party thinks the government has three major economic functions. It should be an umpire and policeman to see that the economic game is played according to the rules--the rules that we have worked out over a long period of time in this country to prevent private abuse of economic freedom.

	We Democrats are against monopolies. We are against unfair competition. We are against misrepresentation in the selling of securities. And so forth and so on. This is about the only function that the Republicans would let the government perform in the economic field--and they don't want the government to do a very thorough job of policing.

	The second--and really a more important task--is defense against depression. This is the area in which the Democratic administration of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman have made notable advances. There is no need for this country ever again to go through the terrible waste of a depression. And we are not going to!

	Our farm price support programs, minimum wage laws, social security measures, and tax and fiscal policies are all designed to ensure that depression shall not again stalk the land. The Republican leadership has ridiculed this program, denounced it, and threatens to dismantle it if returned to power. This is, I think, an important fact for the voter to remember.

	The third economic function--and one of growing importance--lies in the field of economic development. There are many undertakings which are beyond the resources of private individuals and private corporations. Three examples are development and control of our rivers and water resources, soil conservation, and slum clearance.

	Development work of this kind opens up vast new opportunities for private enterprise. One of the most exciting stories in America is the story of how private enterprise has flourished in the river valleys of the West. Government has opened up new frontiers by making investments in America's future which in turn make it possible for people to buy farms and open up small businesses, and bring about great industrial development.

	We have only begun to realize the possibilities for building a better America. And it is one of the proudest accomplishments of the Democratic party that it has seen these opportunities to strengthen our free society by opening up these opportunities for private enterprise.

	The great and overshadowing question which concerns the American people in this election year is, of course, the question of peace. If one party could convince the people that I knew the road to peace and that the other party did not, there is no doubt in my mind which should be elected and which would be elected.

	I would be content to have the outcome of the election rest on this one question. I do not claim that the Democratic party knows the certain road to peace, but I do not claim that the Democratic party knows a lot more about it than the Republican party.

	The conviction of the Democratic party is that the road to peace lies through the building of strength and unity in the free world--military strength, economic strength, moral strength. The price of this policy of strength is formidable. But the price of the policy of weakness--the policy, demanded by the Republicans, of prematurely slashing our defense budget and our aid to our allies--might well be disastrous. Weakness invites aggression, and aggression means war.

	I would remind you that our present foreign policy--the policy of collective strength--began as a bipartisan foreign policy. It has been accepted by the best men in both parties. No amount of election year talk can obscure that fact. What the campaign has clearly brought out is that the Old Guard of the Republican party wants to scrap that bipartisan foreign policy--and that their candidate with the new look, the General of the Army, has either forsaken his own great past of becoming the policy partner of Senator Taft and some gentlemen of similarly eccentric views about our world.

	Senator Taft and the Old Guard, of course, have fought our bipartisan foreign policy right along. They have said that it costs too much, forgetting that, however expensive peace may be, it will cost as nothing compared to a new world war.

	I think that on balance our policies have been mightily successful. They have rallied and united the free world and have checked the spread of Communism. If the democracies had pursued policies of a comparable boldness in the thirties, we might have averted the Second World War. If we stick with these policies, I deeply believe, we shall avert a Third World War.

The greatest reverse was in China--and I don't think any responsible American in either party, including my opponent, ever favored doing the only thing which might have saved China--that is, sending American arms and soldiers in force to bolster up the crumbling armies of Chiang Kai-shek. Nor, so far as I know, do they favor doing it today. Until they have the candor to acknowledge this as the only real alternative, their interpretation of the China issue remains, in my judgment, disingenuous and indefensible.

	Our policy of collective strength has worked. It has worked so well that we may well be seeing--this week in Moscow--a shift in Russian policy which may be of the greatest importance. The Russians may have decided that their aggressive policies have been too risky, and that they have more to gain by honey than by vinegar. I said "may have," but that is at least a possible interpretation of Stalin's recent statement. Only time can tell.

	But I tell you frankly that I do not see any likelihood of sudden and drastic changes in the world situation. We must not be deluded by the Soviet attempts to reestablish the united front. But I do see a chance of long-run improvement provided we steadfastly pursue our present course.

	This might all be sadly altered if the Republicans win in November and proceed to do what they say they will do. For if we show signs of letting up--and that is what we would be doing if we slashed our defense and foreign assistance programs--the Kremlin can change its signals again.

	We all know in our bones that it is dangerous to talk tough unless we are ready to act tough. The new Republican policy--and I am sorry to say this--is to talk tough while we simultaneously weaken our defenses and alliances. That just doesn't make sense to me. That is a sure road to disaster.

	So on each of these overriding issues--prosperity and peace--I think that the Democrats have the better of the argument. I am, of course, partisan. But I tell you from the bottom of my heart that I would not be going around the country asking for your support unless I did believe this.

	For I think the future of the country is far more important than who wins this election. And I urge every one of you to make up your own mind on these questions. If you honestly believe that the present Old Guard Republican leadership--which is the leadership now fully embraced by the General--its internal strains and tensions--can do a better job in preserving prosperity and in achieving peace, then you should by all means cast your vote for the Old Guard.

	But I think that, if every voter really searches his mind on these questions, a majority will decide that the Republican party should not be trusted with the responsibility of governing this nation. Their record is against them. Their present campaign is against them.

	If we Democrats can carry our message to the people, I have no doubt as to the outcome of November 4th. For in this election year, the Democratic party is the party which has dared to talk sense to the American people.
BIPARTISANSHIPDEMOCRACYECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTECONOMY--DEPRESSIONECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALPEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINASOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)VOTING     ,. ø- ò- î- æ-
 Ù- Ô- Ï- Â- º- ¸- †- |-	 ® 	   	 — 	 ƒ 	 p 	 S 	 ; 	 ! 	  e: