Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1022.005SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/22STUMPAUSTINTEXASTXMUNICIPAL AUDITORUM6,187 WORDS

	Thank you, Governor. Thank you very much, Governor. Thank you, Governor, Governor Connelly and Senator Yarborough and Congressman Pickle, distinguished members of the Texas congressional delegation and my fellow Americans and the good friends of Texas and good friends of the University of Texas and fellow Democrats.

	I received some rather disquieting information when I came to Austin. I knew there were three parties in this campaign, I knew there were at least three candidates, but I never realized that James Street was an active contender, but I found out he was here.

	I hope this great student and quarterback of the university will be willing to give me his support in the crucial moments that we come to when we have to cast those electoral votes just before the next congress of the United States meets. Jim, I would like to meet you after the election. They tell me Nixon and Wallace have a deal, how about Street and Humphrey. I think that sounds better.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I was told--I was told that the University tower always glows orange following any great victory, and I hope and pray that it will glow orange on the night of November 5th and the morning of November the 6th.

	By the way, I hope that they will also keep that sign up there, that says "Hook 'em Hump." I like that.

	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been very gracious and kind to Mrs. Humphrey and myself. We are deeply thankful. I want you to know that I have been a little concerned about all the applause that my wife gets, and tonight you sort of equalized it. It kind of puts balance in the Humphrey household. It is going to be very helpful. It just proves that you can have peace if you really work for the way you have tonight.

	My friends, it is a great honor to come to this great congressional district. It is a privilege--

	VOICES: Pull out now!

	VOICES: Humphrey, Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: You Texans are an expressive bunch, if I have ever seen any.

	No wonder Mr. Nixon doesn't want to make it down here: he wouldn't enjoy a night like this.

	You know, Mr. Nixon likes it cool, he likes it well planned, he likes it well organized, he likes many more balloons than you have, and he likes lots of confetti. You know, Mr. Nixon has been acting like president for so long that when it comes November 5th people are going to think it is time for a change.

	We are going to let him act for a while because, after all, it is all right if he plays president, but for goodness sake we don't want him for president, and he is not going to be president.

	Luci, I want to thank you, my dear, for being here tonight. I think I should tell your young friends that are here that I have known you just about as long as it is possible to know anybody. I can remember picking you up and saying she's grown. So it has been a very wonderful, wonderful opportunity to now this great family. And I come to the home district of my very dear friend, I come to the home district of a man that has served this district for years in the House, I come to the home state of a man who served this state with great distinction in the Senate, and I come to the state of Texas that has produced for the United States and the world truly one of the great presidents of our time, Lyndon Johnson.

	Let me tell you, let me also add, let me also add that there is only one big improvement that I think that the state of Texas can make right now for the Senate, and that is the next election, the next election that you have out here for the United States Senate, will you please send somebody down to Washington that fights for the people like that grand Senator Ralph Yarborough?

	Well, you surely do recommend a fellow when you get up. After Ralph Yarborough recommended me, let me say, I am ready to go right out now and vote for Humphrey.

	I intend to have Ralph Yarborough make a broadcast all over the whole state just like he did tonight so when people get ready to go to those polls on November 5th they will be so filled with Democratic political religion that even Republicans will confess their sins and vote Democratic. 

	Governor--my thanks to you, Governor, and Mrs. Connelly, John and Nellie, two very dear friends, and I want to say here publicly that this governor has served his state with great distinction. He has earned respect--I will tell you if I had as big an audience in the state of Texas as John Connelly, you can say anything you want. I will settle for it. I am proud of his friendship.

	Tonight I want to talk very seriously with this great audience. It isn't always that a candidate for the highest office in the land is privileged to address an audience of this size and of this makeup of students, of business, labor, professional people, of young and old. Tonight I want to talk about problems of great concern to those who will be in charge of this nation, our young, and for those that I do that--to those who are in charge, to those, the great people across this land that are the concerned citizens of this republic. 

	A candidate for president should be something else besides being in parades, besides just joining in the general glamour of a political meeting. He should be able to talk responsibly and intelligently to the people that he hopes to serve. Every American has the right to be heard, and every candidate has the duty to speak out. 

	I have been trying to get the Republican candidate in this campaign to stand before the American public with me in public debate to discuss the great issues of our time. I have asked the third party to join in that discussion because I have felt that these three candidates have something that they might want to say to each other as well as to the people, and I had felt that it was not proper for any one of us to assume for a single moment that we had the right to expect support unless we could earn it, unless we could merit it. I know that Mr. Nixon sits on the issues. I know where he hides out on the issues, but I want him to stand up and speak on the issues, and I want him to speak to you.

	Now I know today that he has started to at least take note of the fact that we are around. He was kind enough to call me an adult delinquent. That, at least, identifies one, doesn't it?

	May I say that I am not going to indulge in that. I will simply say that the Republican nominee, as fine a man as he is, should stay in the law practice and not try to be president of the United States--until he is willing to level with the people, until he is willing to place his public record, until he is willing to place his public record before you. Just as I am willing to put my public record before you; the American people have the right to know, have the right to know the public record, have a right to know the public record of the respective candidates.

	Now tonight I shall speak of my record.

	The first great issue that any man that hopes to be President faces is the issue of reducing tensions at home and abroad, the issue on the world scene and vital to the survival of this nation, the issue of peace and war, and to that issue I direct my attention. First of all this nation has been involved in a cruel, ugly, costly war for years in Vietnam.

	VOICES: Peace! Peace!

	VOICES: Humphrey!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: May I say that the call that went up...

	VOICES: Bring the troops home!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: The call that went up, the call that went up through this audience is exactly what I was to talk about, and that is the quest for peace, the quest for peace. Peace does not come, peace does not come to the timid. Peace does not come to those who merely ask for it. Peace does not come to those who merely ask for it. Peace does not come to those who are weak.

	Peace does not even come to those who shout for it. The Scriptures say--the word is, the word is that, "blessed are the peacemakers", not the talkers, not the shouters, and not the wishers, but the peacemakers.

	And it is to this--my friendly hecklers back there--please be quiet.

	VOICES: No, no. 

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: At this very hour--at this very hour the most sensitive, the most important negotiations that this country has been involved in since World War II, those negotiations are underway. Your President as the Commander-in-Chief, as the spokesman of this country, has labored long and hard to find a path to a just peace. He and his representatives are at this very hour seeking that peace, and may I say that our hopes and our prayers tonight should go to those men in Paris representing our country at the peace table, and to the President of the United States as he searches for peace in Southeast Asia.

	VOICES: Humphrey, Humphrey!

	Thank you very much. Thank you. And may I make, may I once again, may I once again, may I once again renew the pledge, may I once again renew the pledge of Senator Muskie and myself that if perchance that the efforts of this administration, of which I am proud to be a part, if the efforts of this administration are not successful in the quest for that peace that we long for, the first act of the Humphrey-Muskie administration will be to renew that effort and find the peace that this country needs and longs for.

	Ladies and gentlemen, but there are other matters that relate to the question of war and peace. One of them is the dangerous spiraling arms race which today faces this nation and faces a troubled world. The Nuclear Test Ban Treaty which was consummated in 1963, which was called by Mr. Nixon a cruel hoax and catastrophic nonsense, that nuclear Test Ban Treaty was one of the steps, one of the building blocks in a more peaceful world. Now there has been a second treaty which lies before the United States Senate which was negotiated painfully and carefully, perseveringly over many years, a treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons and nuclear technology, a treaty, if you please, that would prevent other nations from becoming the custodians of or the users of nuclear weapons or the means to make them. This treaty is the most important step towards safety in this troubled world that has been taken since World War II. That treaty was all right, said that we should wait, that we should not do it now. Then as before, peace did not seem to be his paramount business. It seemed to be delay. First he condemned the treaty to prevent nuclear fallout, to stop nuclear testing as a cruel hoax. He is a little more refined, a little older and a little more settled. He says the treaty for preventing the spreading of the weapons may be all right, but don't ratify it now.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I say to this audience that unless we can halt the arms race before the arms race gets out of hand, we are going to halt humanity, and the next president of the United States must have the courage and the will and the know-how and the skill to be able to deal with other nations, to negotiate even with the Soviet Union, to prevent this spiraling arms race from getting out of control. This is the issue of peace.

	Now what are some of the other factors that are built into this cathedral of peace that we hope to build, this edifice, which is imperative? There is nothing more important, and those that want peace, I pray with them the same as they pray themselves, let me tell you that my life has been devoted to it.

	I stand before this audience tonight as the author of the Peace Corps, one of the great programs of this nation--a program that has brought the best of American youth to other parts of the world, the best of our technology, but more important, the best of our spirit. And what did Mr. Nixon have to say about that program when we were working for it and fighting for it? When it was being presented with the support of John Kennedy, he said it was a "haven for draft dodgers". He said it was no good. But thank God, ladies and gentlemen, that then Kennedy-Johnson administration, and the then Majority Whip of the Senate, Hubert Humphrey, didn't listen to that kind of sorry nonsense. We went ahead and passed it, and today it is a fact.

	And we established in this government, we established in this government an agency for peace itself, an Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and may I say to this great audience tonight that when I held the hearings on that bill, because my name was attached to it, it was not popular. That bill, in one of its critical moments, passed by one vote, the central section of that bill, but we made it by one vote, and today the United States of America is the one nation that has been able to take the lead in the arms control and nuclear field because we have an arms control and disarmament agency, another building block in this great edifice of peace.

	And the food of our farms, the Food for Peace Program, food that has saved millions of lives; food that today provides a hundred million school lunches for children in Africa and Latin America and Asia--Food for Peace--ladies and gentlemen, the bounty of our agriculture, the surplus production of our farms, has been converted into mercy and into compassion and into health, and it has also been converted into lives; and the Food for Peace Program has saved millions of lives, another building block, may I say, in the edifice of peace.

	But we did not stop there. We know that the world is dangerous, we know that. As Winston Churchill said so rightly, "No longer is there a balance of power, there is a balance of terror, and no society can long live and endure under the constant fear and the constant danger of nuclear terror", and so we seek and try to find ways to improve the U.N., to improve regional organizations, to establish regional institutions such as the Asian Development Bank, the World Bank and a host of others. Why?--to find ways to get people to learn how to live together. In a major address to the Commonwealth Club I outlined as a candidate for the presidency a new strategy for peace, not where America is the world policeman, not where we go it alone, but where America, through its moral leadership, through its political leadership, through its economic abundance and through its strength, helps bring the world to an understanding of what needs to be done. We are a leader, we are not omnipotent, but we are a helping hand.

	Now, it would seem to me that this issue was important enough so that the different points of view that are held by men who think they can be president, who say they want to be president, could stand on this same platform before these same microphones, before these same cameras, and before this same audience and that we could debate, discuss the merits of these proposals--where we could discuss them from this platform and where the American people will be the jury.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me proceed to what I think is the second imperative issue in this campaign--the question of progress or stagnation in the fields of human relations and in the fields of our economy.

	There are differences in the candidates.

	The third-party candidate not only wants to stop the clock--he wants to set it back. He has no economic policy. He has no foreign policy. He indulges in the oldest practice of American politics and the politics of other parts of the world--the politics of doubt and suspicion, the politics of fear, the politics of hate, and the politics of racism. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is no room in America for that kind of politics.

	The Republican candidate is, indeed, a more cautious and indeed a much more contrived and subtle man. He is not so crude and not so open about it.

	But, ladies and gentlemen, I have some questions to ask.

	I have a question to ask Mr. Nixon. Just where do you stand on civil rights? Where is--what is your position, where do you stand in its implementation?

	Thank you very much, Mr. Nixon--glad to see you there [speaking to empty chair].

	Yes, it is the empty chair. But what is more dangerous than an empty chair are in the arguments, the confusion, the doubt, the indefiniteness, the lack of substance.

	Let's talk about what has been happening to this country, and let's see if we want to put a check rein upon it.

	Mr. Nixon says we are going too fast, we are going too far. He speaks of the federal government as if it were a foreign power and an enemy. He speaks, if you please--he speaks of people who have had less than a fair chance, through his vice presidential candidate, in a manner which is nothing short of shocking. When a vice presidential candidate can say that you can learn nothing about poverty from the poor, then I say there is something wrong with that ticket.

	When a vice presidential candidate--when a vice presidential candidate can say, "If you have seen one slum, you have seen them all", I say there is something wrong with that ticket, because, remember--because remember this: each vice president is but one heart-beat away from being president--and keep it close to your mind. In the last fifty years of this Republic, one out of every three of your presidents has failed to fulfill his term due to either assassination or natural death--one out of three.

	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important in this election, as never before, in the uncertainties of this world, in the difficulties that this nation faces, not only that you have a man that you want for president, but that you also have someone that you want, that you can trust to be vice president of these United States.

	And I think you might mind the names well. I think you might ask yourself how it sounds to hear President General LeMay, President Agnew.

	I can tell you that if fate should so decree it that this country would be in good hands if it were President Muskie.

	We in the Democratic party have taken into our consideration and to our heart the needs of this country--because it is a presidential team that must go to work. And when I am your president, the vice president of the United States will be given new assignments just as I have been given them by President Johnson.

	He will be given the assignments, if you please--he will be given the assignments to coordinate and to effectuate the great domestic programs that relate to the needs of our people.

	He is a man who is the author of the Model cities legislation; he is the man who as governor and senator possibly knows as much or more about intergovernmental relations as any member of this government.

	He is a man schooled and trained in the art of government.

	And I am proud, proud to speak wherever I go, not only of my own candidacy, which I offer with all the sincerity at my command, but proud of the ticket of Humphrey and Muskie. And I think it's good for this country.

	Why do we want to continue the development which is thus far under way?

	Look what has happened in the last few years--look what has happened.

	VOICES: War.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Yes. May I say a war that started in 1954--a war that started in 1954.

	May I say to that student that spoke--that same student today attends a university that undoubtedly has received millions of dollars in federal aid under the Aid to Higher Education Act from this government.

	This administration--this administration, the Johnson-Humphrey administration, has increased federal aid to education by 300 per cent in the last five years--three hundred percent. We have tripled our budget in the field of health, we have extended aid to elementary and secondary students without regard to race or religion. We have started in this country tremendous programs that help our little ones--as Mrs. Humphrey and I came into this city tonight, to see a group of children in Project Headstart, pre school education, for the first time in the history of this land.

	And, my friends, to those who are not as fortunate as some--and interestingly enough some who are the least fortunate complain the least--to those who are not as fortunate as some--there has been a government that did care; a million men and women, one million have been trained with new skills under training programs for new jobs. Ten million people in this country, my fellow Americans--ten million people in this country in the last five years have been brought out of poverty to become self- respecting, producing, tax-paying, decent American citizens.

	This is something we can be proud of.

	It isn't what the government does for those who already have too much by which you judge it. It is what a government of the people does for those who have too little--is the way that you judge it. And this government of yours, this administration of which I am proud to have been a part, has done more in the field of education, of health, of job training, of opportunity than any administration in the history of this land.

	Within a few miles of this great city is a Job Corps camp. It was once a military installation. But a sword was beaten into a plowshare and a spear was turned into a pruning hook, and a military installation was made into a Job Corps Center, and through business and training and programs and education, over 3,000 young men that never had a chance, that never ever had a chance to go to college, that never had a chance, are now holding jobs.

	Might I say that some of this exuberance of our time might be well used to help the less fortunate, the less fortunate of this land.

	There is a whole new vocabulary that tells us what is happening in America. There is a whole new vocabulary--Job Corps, Upward Bound, VISTA, Project Headstart, Community Action--these things mean something to the people of America today.

	And I was sure when I came to this great city, to this great university that I would find here a reception indeed to what I think is the greatest opportunity of government--to enhance the education and the culture of a people.

	Thomas Jefferson once said, "You cannot be both free and ignorant." He also reminded us that the only legitimate objective of government was the education and the well-being of the people.

	Ladies and gentlemen--ladies and gentlemen--I am proud to be a part of--I am proud to be part of a government and I am proud to be a part of an administration that has seen as its first great opportunity and responsibility, education--all the education that our people can have.

	Now, what is the record of the opposition--because we must compare that record--on elementary and secondary education.

	Over three-fourths of all the members of the House of Representatives that bore the Republican label voted against it.

	When Mr. Nixon had his chance to cast a vote for federal aid to education, he cast a "no".

	I am one of the authors of the National Defense Education Act. I am one of the authors of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act.,

	My friend, Ralph Yarborough, over here, is the author of a dozen education acts. He has worked for the people.

	You know, vice presidents don't get a very--don't often have a chance to cast a vote. They cast it only under our constitutional system when there is a tie. Mr. Nixon cast a vote to break a tie in 1960. That vote was on federal aid to education.

	To you college students, he voted "no". I voted "yes" a dozen times.

	I had an opportunity to cast a vote on education as vice president. There was a tie vote, as Senator Yarborough will remember, in the United States Senate, on preschool education called Project Headstart--a tie vote. But I was there, and I voted for the children, I voted for Headstart. I didn't vote against them.

	People will learn about our economy, because all that we seek to do, all the hopes that we have for a better nation, for a better word, will depend upon the dynamism of this engine called the American economy, and how it operates, every bit of it. And this economy has had different management under different times.

	In the 1950s it had the management of Mr. Nixon and his group.

	In the 1960s it had the management of Johnson-Kennedy--Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey and their group. And I ask any objective observer to compare the records.

	In the 1950s--in the 1950s three recessions. In the 1950s, seven percent unemployment. In the 1950s, fifty billion dollars of plant capacity each year lying idle. In the 1950s, $175 billion of lost income due to unemployment. Family income only up in those eight years nine percent.

	In the 1960s, with all of our troubles, with all of the changes, with all of the international difficulties, this great economy of ours today has cut its unemployment in half; 12 million workers have been employed, 10 million have come out of poverty, family income is up 32 percent, profits are up, dividends are up 66 percent.

	I submit to you it is a greater record.

	And everything we seek--from the hospital that is needed, from the home for the mentally retarded that is needed, to the public housing or the private low-income housing that is needed, to the cleaning up of our cities that is desperately needed--every single thing that we need today in America is going to depend upon the vitality and the growth and the stability and the expansion of this great economy of ours. And I submit to you that our record of eight years of management is a record that you can put your confidence in for four more years.

	Imagine, if you will, a man who seeks to be president of these United States that says through his chief economic spokesman that possibly we need a little more unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment may be all right for the author of those words, but unemployment for the average wage earner, for the home owner, is a disaster. And Mr. Nixon and his economics, Mr. Nixon and his economic fail to take into consideration the human equation.

	Statistically, he may be able to make a case, but in terms of human need, in terms of human want, in terms of humanity itself, anyone that says that a higher rate of unemployment is required in this country is disqualified as president of the United States.

	You know, I represent a party that cares. I represent a political party--I represent a political party that believes that this country has yet to live its best days.

	And I want to talk to you then finally of what I think is the third reality and the third issue before the American people, and that is what kind of a people are we and, ladies and gentlemen--ladies and gentlemen--we occasionally see some demonstrations of what kind of a people we are.

	If we are not a people that can respect one another, if we are not a people that believe with a passion in the freedom of speech and freedom of assembly and freedom of conscience, and if we are not a people that recognize the right of each and every one of us to have our chance, then, my dear friends, our country is in trouble. And might I say to loud and raucous voices, that you do a disservice to your democracy and to your education by that kind of action.

	Thank you, my friends.

	And may I say to this audience--may I say to this audience, that what we seek to do ...[missing text]...thank you. That's my name, and you ...[missing text]...to remember it when you tell your neighbor.

	Now, let's just talk together a little bit about this American family of ours.

	There are people in this country that are fearful, there are whites who fear blacks and there are blacks who fear whites, and there are those who spread this doubt, and they spread this suspicion, there are angry voices.

	We Americans have to understand that we have ways and means of working out our difficulties without anger, without hate, without doubt, without suspicion.

	Let me say--let me say to this audience tonight that in every meeting house like this democracy is being tested. The question is can we meet together as responsible citizens and trust one another, respect one another, and accept one another, or are we going to be adversaries?

	I seek to be your president, not to divide a nation, but to heal it; not to have one group of the people pitted against another, but to have them join hands.

	I say to you that we need--I say to you that we need now as never before each other.

	The responsibilities that this nation has to itself and its own people, the responsibilities that this country has to the world, those responsibilities cannot be fulfilled with a nation divided on race, with a nation divided between rich and poor, with a nation divided between young and old.

	My fellow Americans, Lincoln once said this is the last best hope of earth. But that hope can only be realized if we want it to be. And I submit to you that the voices that would seek to divide us, the voices that would seek to say that when a black man gets a job it threatens a white man's seniority, that that voice is the voice of evil. I submit to you -

	I submit to you that when a black man, white man, Mexican-American, whoever he is, gets a job, is trained for a job, becomes self- sustaining, becomes productive, we are all the better for it, all the better for it.

	When any American child, black or white, whatever his race, creed or color, receives an education, a quality education, whatever it costs, we are all the better for it.

	And I seek to be president of these United States to unite the people. I want to see the American people give an example to the world. I want to have us give an example to show that regardless of our differences, we have many things in common.

	I want this great America of so many voices and many people to be like a beautiful mosaic, and not to be a shambles and be torn apart. I want America the beautiful to be known for its people. I want an America that is supposed to be the land of the free and home of the brave, known for its people, all of its people, all kinds of people.

	And, my friends, I have been told by the public opinion samples, I have been told many times that this kind of talk of mine doesn't get me votes. I have been told that this is one of the issues you ought to stay away from. I have been told that this may lose you votes in certain parts of America.

	But, ladies and gentlemen, let me lay it on the line.

	I don't think winning the presidency is worth a compact with extremism, and I don't think it is worth dealing in racism and I will not do it.

	I have tried to bring you my message tonight, I have tried to talk to you not only from the mind, but from the heart, because I believe, because I sincerely believe, that what is most important are not the words that are written, words that may be written by someone else, but the words that are spoken, spoken not only from your mind but spoken from your heart and from your soul, and, my fellow Americans, the world is watching us, the world is wondering whether or not we can make it work, we in this pluralistic society of ours--whether we have different races, we have different religions, we have different nationality groups--we can really be one people--whether we can really create a society that is safe for diversity; whether we can really create an America in which every person can have his chance to make the most of his life.

	And I want to be president of these United States because I believe that there is more decency in the American people than there is bad.

	I want to be president of these United States. I want to be president of the United States to call forth the goodness, the great reservoir of goodness that is here to be tapped.

	I want to be president of the United States because I know that there is a greatness, a greatness in the people of this nation that can be called upon.

	And, my friends, if we call upon our goodness, if we seek to trust one another, if we call upon our greatness, there is nothing that we cannot do--because this country has a faith.

	Let us all in this hall tonight be convinced of one thing--that we live in a land that is not only blessed, but we live in a land that is the greatest thing that has ever happened in the history of organized society on the face of this earth.

	I do not come before this audience to tell them that America is sick. I come to tell them that America is growing up.

	I do not come to tell you that America, as some have said, has lost its way; I come to tell you that America is finding its conscience.

	And, ladies and gentlemen, a nation that is maturing, yet with youthful spirit--a nation that is finding its conscience and doing things for those who need help to help themselves--that nation will merit the respect and the admiration and the affection of generations yet unborn.

	This is why I say that America is the great unfinished business of humanity. This is why I say that the American revolution is a great, unfinished revolution. And I want to have my chance, I want to have my chance to work with you and you with me to see if we can't just build this home of democracy just a little better, a little freer, a little more just, a little more opportunity for more Americans and more for every one of us. And I ask you now to give me your help. I ask you to remember that the days are few between now and that day of decision, November 5th.

	My opposition is well-organized, well-financed--this I know. I know that we are supposed to be behind.

	But I want to tell you what I am sure of. I am sure that if the people get our message, if you will take this message of both strength and compassion, this message of firmness and understanding, this message of progress and stability--if you will take this message to your neighbors, we can have one of the greatest victories that this nation has ever known--not for the Democrats, but for the American people. 

	Thank you very much.

DIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMEDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION, PRE-PRIMARYFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALFOREIGN SERVICEJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGPEACE TREATIES/NEGOTIATIONS--VIETNAM WARPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSPOVERTYRACE RELATIONSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)UNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWEAPONS PROLIFERATION     ª… v… p… l… d…
 X… S… N… H… C… A… .… #… Ù	 h	 N	 <	 &	 	 ÿ 	 è 	 ¹ 	 ¥ 	 } 	 ] 	 V 	 H 	 * 	  e: