Speeches\1980\rep\S80R1008.002SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)10/08STUMPYOUNGSTOWNOHIOOHRegulatory Reform1508 WORDS
	The past two days I've discussed the issues missing from the Carter campaign--the tragic economic problems which affect all of us, and which this administration has refused to address. An administration which is unable--or unwilling--to recognize the mistakes it has made in its first four years, would be doomed to repeat them in another four.

	So it is with federal regulation, the Third Missing Issue. Mr. Carter said this January that--quote--"We are reducing the cost of regulation on our economy." But the president either does not understand the true costs of regulation, or he is attempting to deceive the American people. True, there have been highly publicized examples of "showcase deregulation, where Mr. Carter has acceded to congressional demands to deregulate. But, by and large, Mr. Carter has greatly increased job-destroying regulation.

	Here is the record:

	Pages of regulations added to the Federal Register were more than 35 percent greater in 1979 than in 1976 and are running 50 percent greater this year. In 1976, spending for regulatory agencies cost $3 billion. Last year, the cost had increased to $4.8 billion.

	In 1976, regulation imposed a $66 billion burden on the economy. Last year, the cost was more than $100 billion.

	In fact, Mr. Carter has increased regulation of almost every segment of the economy. He even created two new cabinet-level departments. Mr. Carter has become the biggest regulator in history. And you, the American workers, have been the loser.

	Every dollar spent to comply with federal regulations is a dollar that is not available for investing in new job-creating machinery and for hiring new workers. This is especially true in the steel industry, which is one of the most over-regulated industries in America.

	And the cost of complying with regulations diverts money that could otherwise be spent modernizing and improving plants and equipment. This revitalization is necessary if new jobs are to be created, or even present jobs maintained.

	By draining away needed investment funds, regulations also reduce productivity. Productivity means many American companies cannot compete with foreign producers, and American jobs are then exported overseas. Lower productivity also means lower real wages for workers. And under Mr. Carter, productivity has fallen for the last 18 months.

	In fact, the utilization of steel plants had dropped to almost 50 percent, meaning that almost half of our steel capacity is lying idle, due in no small way to the excess of federal regulation. How can American steel be competitive in the world, how can steelworkers get the jobs they need, when so little of our productive capacity is in use?

	Mr. Carter doesn't want to talk about this problem of overregulation, however, because he has no answers for it. He doesn't want to talk about the real problems of the unemployed, because he has no answers for them. What he does have is plenty of excuses. And he has become pretty adept at pointing the finger at everything and everyone but the source of so much of your economic misery--his own economic policies.

	Last week, he blamed OPEC for unemployment. Mr. Carter is simply wrong--Japan and West Germany import almost all their oil, and their unemployment rates are less than ours. But more important, he doesn't want to take responsibility for the effects of his own policies. As I said earlier, anyone who can't--or won't--learn from the past is doomed to repeat it. Look at the high unemployment, high inflation, and high interest rates which surround you and ask yourself: can you really afford four more years of this?

	There's no reason to believe that a second Carter term would be any different from the first. His desperate attempt to run away from his record shows that his administration apparently cares more about its political fortunes than your economic fortunes.

	This failure of leadership and understanding has brought some of America's largest industries to their knees. But his failure to lead in an area where presidential leadership is essential--the reduction of regulation--is just one more reason why he should not be reelected.

	I believe we can control excess regulation, and our administration will work to do just that. But I want to emphasize that I oppose excess regulations. We must help protect the health and safety of workers, and consumers, and the quality of our environment. These are areas where federal regulation is not only appropriate, but necessary.

	But we must recognize that many regulations impair the ability of industries to compete, reduce workers' real income, and destroy jobs. Therefore, we must have a balanced regulatory approach, in which we recognize that regulations have costs as well as benefits. We must ensure that regulations are limited to those necessary to protect health, safety, and the environment.

However, we must not allow regulations to flourish for their own sake.

	Let me give you an example. The air pollution standards we use today were, in general, established in 1970 on the basis of known scientific evidence at that time. Since then, new evidence has become available, and air pollution has been substantially controlled.

	But these 1970 rules have helped force factories to shut down and cost workers their jobs. In fact, according to regulatory expert Murray Wiedenbaum, there is concern that--quote--"the regulations issued by the EPA under the 1977 Amendments to the Clean Air Act will slow, if not halt, industrial expansion in many parts of the United States." And they will certainly slow the use of coal, so essential to making us more energy self-sufficient. We need to thoroughly review those regulations to bring them in line with all new scientific knowledge. Such an update would help prevent such economic tragedies from occurring in the future.

	To better control the growth of federal regulations, we should:

	Where possible, replace specific, restrictive rules which mandate procedures, with more flexible performance standards, to allow companies to meet Requirements in the most cost-effective manner.

	Require detailed cost-benefit analyses of all sets of proposed regulations.

	Establish an annual regulatory budget, which itemizes the costs of regulations, and allows these costs to be reviewed by Congress and the president.

	Implement sunset legislation for regulations, which would mean the regulations automatically end unless Congress specifically extends them.

	Grant both Congress and the president greater authority to veto regulations approved by executive agencies.

	Review regulations where scientific or technical knowledge has expanded since the regulations were implemented. These six steps alone will help tremendously to reduce the burden of federal regulations. But they are not enough. We need leadership--a president, cabinet officers, and agency heads, and employees, committed to higher quality, but less regulation. In this way, we can improve regulation where it is needed, such as in health safety, and air quality, but we modify or eliminate it in the countless areas where it is not.

	And we need to revitalize the industrial belt. Cities such as Youngstown, Detroit, and Pittsburgh have paid the heavy price of this administration's failed economic policies, and we cannot let them suffer for four more years. Creating the economic conditions which will spur new and modernized industrial development in America's heartland will be a major goal in my administration.

	That is why I have proposed accelerated and simplified depreciation schedules, to encourage job-creating investments, and the establishment of enterprise zones in the inner cities, where taxes and regulations are reduced to encourage business and job creation. And that is why I am now proposing to control excess federal regulation, which this administration has failed to do--to make American industry more competitive with foreign producers, and to keep jobs here in America.

	Here especially in companies like Youngstown Jones and Laughlin, you need action. And you need action now, because the failed Carter economic policies have effectively shut down much of this plant. Thousands of jobs have been lost. Last week, Mr. Carter visited an auto plant at which there had been no layoffs. It's easy enough to understand why, with as much damage as his policies have done, he probably doesn't want to face the angry voices of the unemployed.

	But the American people are not going to let him hide from the disastrous effects of his policies. I say, let Jimmy Carter come to Youngstown and explain himself to you. Let him come here and listen to the tales of misery--of lack of work, of high prices, of interest rates out of sight. Let him see how his leadership has failed this nation.

	By asking the people to trust him in 1976 and by breaching that trust as president, Mr. Carter has crushed the hopes of Americans everywhere. That is why as I travel the country, I see my fellow citizens yearning for a message of hope. That hope will only be restored when we have leadership that provides answers in place of excuses. I hope you are going to give me that opportunity. 
AIR POLLUTIONPRODUCTIVITYMANUFACTURINGREGULATION/DEREGULATION     ´$ €$ z$ v$ l$
 b$ ]$ X$ N$ J$ H$ 7$ -$	 = 	 0  $   e: