Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1017.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/17STUMPDETROITMICHIGANMIJFK SQUARE3,389 WORDS

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much.  

	VOICES:  We want Humphrey.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Thank you, thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor.  Thank you, thank you.  I will come back to you in a minute, Mr. Mayor, on that invitation.  

	First, I want to greet all of the public officials that are here, particularly my friends in the Congress that so brilliantly represent the state of Michigan.  We have here all of these good men I am sure that have been introduced, and Congresswoman Martha Griffin, Congressman Dingell, Congressman Diggs, Congressman Ford, Congressman O'Hare, Congressman Conyers, and Don, I want to thank you for that full opportunity of yours.  And Mr. Mayor, I want to thank you for something now.  I accept your invitation to come to Cobo Hall.

	Now, all you have to do is to get those other two fellows.  You get them in the ring with me.  You know, Mr. Nixon is a great shadow boxer.  He does most of his work in the gym. 

	And Mr. Wallace is so busy running over people with his car--that it is going to be a little difficult to put those programs on in Cobo Hall.  But I do want the mayor to know--I want the mayor to know that I, in all sincerity, would look forward to the opportunity of engaging in debate with the Republican nominee, and with the third-party nominee, in Cobo Hall.  You put on the show, and I will be there. 

	Now, I come to the town where every man is a Tiger.  And I want to say Mickey Lolich--I want to say to Mickey Lolich, and Willie Horton--that I took a great deal of inspiration from what you did.  You came from behind to win the series, and I am going to come from behind to win the election.  And by the way, just to make doubly sure that I do, I've got Rafer Johnson here, too, to help me. 

	I want to thank our entertainers that have been here today.  You know, that Chubby Checker is a great fellow.  Last night we were in New York, we were there mighty late, I might add.  I wish Chubby wouldn't keep me up too late.  But I had to cheer this appearance for him.  He hasn't been home for a long time.  He has a beautiful wife.  And I said to Kathleen, I said, is it all right if Chubby takes another week off and comes out with me free of charge.  She said--that is no way to pay for the groceries.  But Chubby and your group, I want to thank you.  And I surely want to thank the lovely Inger Stevens.  And I want to thank one and all. 

	Inger, you look mighty peppy this morning.  I saw you last night at 4:30--don't tell my wife--but that is true.  We got into Detroit last night from New York City just about the time that--just about the time that they were ready to open up the shops.  And we didn't get much sleep.  But after all, we really don't need much.  Nixon is sleeping for everybody. 

	Now, I want to talk to you today just a little bit about this campaign.  I want to talk to you about it because it is more than a campaign.  It is your life, it is our country.  It is our future that we are talking about.

	I have been in Detroit, I have been here in the John F. Kennedy Square before.  I have spoken on your street corners.  I have seen Detroit when there were men that were out or work.  I have seen this city when there were difficulties beyond human description.  And I have seen that Detroit in these last few years, as this city rebuilds its--and I have seen Detroit and its area surrounding it with jobs, with new factories, with new plants.  And the difference is that in those eight Republican years, from 1953 to 1960, this city, like cities all across America, was sick, sick with unemployment, sick with trouble, sick with low pay checks, no overtime and all the problems that perplex a country that is in difficulty.

	Today this city is building.  There is a new Detroit.  This city has workers on the job.  And this country of ours today has millions of people for the first time in their life have an opportunity.

	In the last four to five years, over ten million of our fellow Americans, black and white, have come out of the cellar, come out of the slums of poverty, to stand upright with good jobs and self-respecting citizenship. 

	And, my friends, I have seen before in this city and other cities young people that wanted to go to a university and a college, and couldn't do it.  And I come back now to see a great state, and a great city, with thousands and thousands of young men and women, getting their first chance of a decent education, and many of them, may I say, get it because of Federal scholarships, because of Federal loan guarantees. 

	Yes.  Things are different.  Surely they are troublesome.  This country of ours is in difficulty.  But there isn't a single thing that this country has wrong with it that we Americans--if we pull together, if we work together, if we believe in each other, if we trust in each other--but what we can fix it.  And we can take care of it. 

	I have been out on the stump.  Mr. Nixon has been down there in Florida sunshine himself.  I have been out speaking to you.  And the reason I speak to you like I do today is because I don't have a $20 million budget for the victory.  All I have is you.  And I need your help. 

	But I want Mr. Nixon to know something.  The White House is not for sale.  And neither is the presidency. 

	It isn't dollars--it isn't dollars that can decide this election.  It is votes, it is people.  This country belongs to its people--not to the dollars.  And this election belongs to the people.  And I am asking the people of Detroit and the people of Michigan--I am asking you to give me the kind of support that you gave those Detroit Tigers, and we will win this series.  How do you like that?

	I am sorry.  I may have hurt his pitching arm.  But I will tell you something.  Mickey Lolich, even with a sore arm, is better than Wallace and Nixon put together with two arms.  And Hubert Humphrey, even with a sore throat, is better than Nixon and Wallace, even with a clear throat.  

	Now, let's take a look at this--let's take a look at these candidates.  The first ones I want you to take a look at are the Bombsey Twins, Wallace and LeMay.  We will take a look at them.  They have got a program.  Their program is at home:  If you get in front of the car, run over them.  Abroad, bomb them back to the Stone Age.

	Ladies and gentlemen, if it wasn't so pitifully sad, it could be funny.  But America cannot be in the hands of people who believe that the answer to our problems abroad is a larger bomb.  And America cannot be in the hands of a man that believes that the way that you deal with the American people, even when you disagree, is that you use brute force, and that you run over them as if they were nothing but an animal.  That is no way to talk.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to explode the myth of the third party.  I think it is time in this city of workers, in this city of good citizens, for me to tell you straightforwardly that this third-party candidate means.  That candidacy is as phony as a three-dollar confederate bill, and you know it. 

	Let's take a look at it first.  The man says he is for law and order.  Law and order.  Yes, my dear friends--don't worry, we will come around to Humphrey.  That is the best part of the story.  Just hold your breath.

	Law and order.  Mr. Wallace--law and order.  The highest murder rate of any state in the union, Alabama.  And he talks about law and order.  

	The second highest aggravated assault rate.  And he talks about law and order.  A man who obeys the court orders that he likes, defies the ones that he doesn't.  A man who supports the laws that he wants to, and disobeys the others.

	Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need any Montgomery, Alabama George Wallace law and order in Washington, D. C. 

	And then, what does he say?  What does he say when we say, well, listen, what about the police--are you going to give them some help?  He says now, when he was asked what kind of support he would give the police--he said he would give them moral support--bumper stickers, support your police.

	Well, let me tell you what Humphrey says.  I say that just as peace and freedom are not cheap, neither is equal protection of the law, neither is order and justice.  You have to pay for it.  And if you want better law enforcement for blacks and whites, and believe me both of them want it--if you want it, you are going to pay for it.  And that means more police, better training, more of them that are talented and professional, and it costs money, and I know it and you know it.

	Now, what about the working man?  I hear that there are some workers that say they might be for Wallace.  And I know why.  Somebody has told them--and here is what they say--they say if you elect that Humphrey, he will see that somebody gets your job, and it will most likely be a black man.  That is what they say.  Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me make it quite clear.  If you elect me, will see to the best of my ability that whatever your color--black or white, short or tall, thin or fat--if you are an American, if I have anything to say about it, you are going to have a job, and not lose a job. 

	The ugly kind of gossip and rumors in this country, putting one man against another.

	And what does he say for his economic program?  What is it?  One of the lowest wage states in the Union, Mr. Worker.  And every union member in this audience--George Wallace is a union busting Governor, and you know it.  A right to work state--and you know it.  The lowest workmen's compensation in America, and you know it.  And mothers, the second lowest per capita expenditure on education for white or black in Alabama.

	Now, what kind of a program is that?  We are not going to have it.  You want Wallace?

	VOICES: No

	You want Nixon?  

	VOICES: No

	How about Humphrey-Muskie 

	VOICES: We want Humphrey.

	Thank you.  I hope you all feel that way on November 5th. 

	One of the most important decisions--one of the most important decisions that a president must make is the quality of men that surround him.  And I ask this audience, in sober reflection, to take a look at the first choices of the candidates for the presidency, as to their running mates.  I ask you to think about the prospect of what could happen--one out of every three men that has been elected in the presidency of the United States in the last fifty years has not served out his term.  He has died in office--either through natural causes, or through assassination in this country.

	One out of every three.  That is a pretty bad average.

	Ladies and gentlemen, when you vote in this election, you are not only voting for the president--you are voting for the vice president.  And I come to this audience to tell you that if you will compare the candidates, not only for president, which I want you to do, but for vice president, I don't think there is any one that would deny that Democratic candidate for vice president stands head and shoulders above the other. 

	Yes--put those signs up--Humphrey and Muskie.  There they are.  And I am glad to see that somebody has the picture of my wife up there, too.  She will make a nice first lady.  

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, what about the other one?  I have asked Mr. Nixon to debate me.  I got close to him last night.  We were at the Alfred E. Smith dinner in New York.  By golly, I want to tell you--I couldn't help but think as we were celebrating the memory of Alfred E. Smith, and Dick Nixon was there--what Al Smith must have thought as he was looking down from those pearly gates.  I just couldn't help it.

	Well, I got close to him last night.  I got close to Richard Nixon.  I got within camera shot of him.  And we each had our chance to make a little speech.

	The mayor suggested that we make one here.  And that is what we ought to do.  And you people know it.  You know that we ought not to take these things for granted.  You know that this platform today would be a better platform for the American jury, if on this platform we were to have the three candidates for President, where we have equal time, where we could speak to the same audience, at the same time, and answer the same questions, and face the same people.  
This is what I have been asking for.  And what does Mr. Nixon say?  What does Mr. Nixon say?  He says that is kid stuff.

	Well, Mr. Nixon, I want to tell you what I think it is.  I think it is he-man stuff.  And you ought to stand up here and talk to the people. 

	I want to hear Mr. Nixon--I want to hear him talk on the issues--not in the quiet of a television studio, not in the quiet of a radio station.  But I want Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace--and I will stand here with them--and if need be, I will take them both on at the same time. 

	But I think I know why Mr. Nixon won't debate me.  And I will tell you why: because he knows that he can't come before an audience of working people and say to them that he has been your friend.  He knows he can't come before an audience of students and say to them that he ever did anything to help education.  He knows that he can't come--he knows he cannot come before an audience of housewives and say that he ever did anything to help protect the consumer.

	He knows he can't come before an audience of shopkeepers and businessmen and say anything else but the fact that in eight Nixon Republican years you had three recessions, unemployment, bankruptcy, and trouble.

	I know why he won't debate.  I can understand it very, very well.  He is afraid.  He is afraid to talk to mother and father.  I look over here and see a gentleman with gray hair, a man that I would say that most likely is eligible for Social Security.  Well, God bless you, you never would have gotten it with Richard Nixon's help. 

	I look out here, and I see a lady that is over possibly the age of eligibility for Social Security.  And I will say to that lady, that grandmother, or that grandfather that you never would have had Medicare if you had waited for the vote of Richard Nixon.  You never would have had it. 

	No, my friends, Mr. Nixon doesn't want me to ask him whether he still believes that Medicare won't work.  He doesn't want me to ask him why he refused to vote for improvements in Social Security.  He doesn't want me to ask him, when he had a chance to break a tie vote on education, that he voted against the students, voted against the teachers, voted against the schools in this country.

	He doesn't want me to ask--and, and Mr. Mayor, why, when he was in Congress, he never lifted his finger to help the cities.  He doesn't want me to ask him why he didn't help extend minimum wage coverage to thousands and thousands of workers poorly paid, farm workers, laundry workers, hotel workers, that were the most poorly paid workers in America.  He doesn't want me to ask him--he doesn't want to face the music.  He doesn't want me to ask him and why did you say that it was catastrophic nonsense?

	I know why Mr. Nixon won't debate.  He has got nothing to say. 

	And imagine his running mate--imagine his running mate saying yesterday--and I quote you--when he was asked why he didn't go into slums, why he didn't go down and see the poor people--here is what he said: "You don't learn from people who are suffering from poverty, but you learn from the experts who are studying the problem."

	Ladies and gentlemen, here is the man that might be president, who says you can't learn about poverty by going to see the poor--the way to learn about it is to go see somebody that has a $35,000 salary that is studying it.  I think that is sheer nonsense, and we can't have it. 

	Now, I want to tell you what I think is the central issue before us.  The issue before us--the issue before us is peace abroad and peace at home.  And ladies and gentlemen, this man that is standing before you now, this man that is speaking to you now is pledged as the first priority of his administration to find peace abroad and to find peace and harmony here at home. 

	And I will tell you what I am going to do--I will tell you what I am going to ask you to do.  We are not going to settle our problems--we are not going to settle any problems by shouting.  We are not going to settle any of our problems by violence.  We are not going to settle any of our problems by people having catch phrases.  We are going to settle our problems when we settle down as neighbors, and as Americans when we can learn to live together, when we can learn to trust one another, when we can learn to trust one another, when we can put faith in ourselves and in our country.  And just as that sun just came out--may I say that if you will put trust in one another, black and white, if you will make up your mind that the most previous gift that you have is your citizenship, if you will learn the issues, study the candidates, if you will make up your mind that this is your country, your family, your community, your city, and your state, and that you have a stake in it, that it is your responsibility--if you do that, I have no doubt that this country will prosper, and that this country will be safe.

	I ask you, therefore, as I leave this platform--I ask you to try to make this what the American dream is, to make it one nation of one people--not to listen to the haters, not to listen to those who talk suspicion and doubt.  I ask you to vote your hopes and not your hates.  I ask you to vote for men that believe in this country, that have faith in the people, who understand the problems of the cities, that want to see people have a fair chance.  I ask you to vote for the Democratic ticket that will work its heart out for you to make this a better America for every American, wherever he may live.

	Thank you.
ALABAMACRIME--GENERALDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPOVERTYRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SOCIAL SECURITY     ÀF ŒF †F ‚F zF
 nF iF dF ]F UF SF IF >F	 ° 	 © 	 › 	 † 	 f 	 L 	 4 	 - 	  e: