Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0909.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/09STUMPCOMMERCETEXASTXEAST TEXAS STATE COLLEGE1607 WORDS

	My friends, the Democratic Party is a chorus of many voices - and many of our wisest and most eloquent voices come from Texas.

	Just five weeks ago, at our Convention in Atlanta, we heard Lloyd Bentsen talk about fulfilling Lyndon Johnson's dream of an America with opportunity for all, no matter who they are or where they come from, or what the color of their skin.

	We heard Ann Richards speak with sensitivity and understanding about how many of our families are working harder and harder just to stay in place.

	We heard Jim Hightower talk about what the economic squeeze means for American farmers who are afraid that they will be driven from the land.

	And we heard Barbara Jordan and remembered what a difference one person can make who believes so deeply in the Constitution and the rule of law.

	When I listened to Lloyd Bentsen and Ann Richards, and thought about the great dreams and accomplishments of Lyndon Johnson, Jim Hightower and Barbara Jordan, I also remembered a man who was with us only in spirit--and whose memory is very much with us today.

	Of all the pictures on the wall in Lloyd Bentsen's office, the largest is of Sam Rayburn.  And that's as it should be - because Sam Rayburn should be a model for all of us in public service.

	Sam Rayburn served in Congress for almost half a century, from Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom to Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal, to John Kennedy's New Frontier, but he never forgot where he came from.

	And I'm here today to talk about things that mattered to Sam Rayburn and matter to me.  Strong families.  Real patriotism.  The real difference between Democrats and Republicans.

	Sam Rayburn was the eighth child in a family of 14.  All 14 worked hard together.  They had to, to make a bare living growing cotton on 40 acres.

	Sam's father gave him $25 to go to college here at East Texas State.  It was a year's savings, a fortune for the Rayburn family.  But Sam's father gave him even more.  He gave him commitment:  do something, and do it hard.  Integrity:  live honorably.  Courage:  stand up for what is right, no matter what.

	He was proud of Sam when Sam went into politics as a populist Democrat.

	Sam Rayburn stayed true to his father and his roots in the cotton country of Texas.  Honest.  Hard working.  A fighter for the small farmers, the small business people, and the working people who sent him to Washington to fight for them.

	He called them "the real people."

	The real people who work hard.  The real people who pay taxes.  The real people who fight our nation's wars, and pay our nation's bills.  The real people who are the heart and soul of the Democratic Party.

	My own father came to this country as an immigrant in 1912.  He didn't have any money, and he couldn't speak the language.  Eight years later, he entered medical school and became a family doctor.  He took care of people.  He went to their homes.  He delivered their babies.  He cared for their sick children.

	And, like Sam Rayburn's father, my father raised his own children to live lives of hard work, service and honor.  He told me 100 times:  Michael, much has been given to you, much is expected of you.

	Sam Rayburn, like my dad, cared about the real people.

	In 1933, Congress approved the Securities Act; in 1934 it approved the Securities and Exchange Act; and in 1935, it passed the Public Utility Holding Company Act.

	Sam Rayburn had to fight to pass those laws.  Those laws reformed Wall Street after the last round of high-rolling frenzy led this country into the Great Depression.  The Republicans put together the biggest and most vicious campaign of propaganda, lobbying and intimidation ever seen.  They attacked Sam Rayburn and Franklin Roosevelt, and they called them Communists.

	Sam Rayburn didn't back off.  He snorted, "Hell, I'm a conservative, but even a conservative can smell garbage in his front yard."

	Sam Rayburn knew that when you fight for the real people, the other side will attack your patriotism.  He saw that when he passed the Wall Street reform bills.  He saw it again in the 1950s when the Republicans cheered as Joseph McCarthy slandered good Democrats as Communists.

	And those Republican tactics haven't changed.  Just as they did to Franklin Roosevelt and Sam Rayburn, they're now attacking my patriotism.  And just as they did in the 1930s and the 1950s, the American people can smell the garbage.

	My friends, the difference between George Bush and me is not patriotism; it is judgment and concern for real people.

	And it is a commitment to high standards and integrity in the government of our nation.

	Recently, we learned that key advisers in the Bush campaign had a contract with a foreign government, some of whose members have been under investigation for drug profiteering.  These advisers or their representatives had over a dozen meetings with the Vice President's staff, and used their personal relationships throughout the government to help their client.

	I don't question Mr. Bush's patriotism, but I do question his judgment.

	Yesterday; we learned that a committee established by the Bush campaign to build ethnic support included one member, and perhaps others, who have been involved in anti-Semitic activities or have links to fascist groups.  I don't question Mr. Bush's patriotism because he asked these people to participate in his campaign.  But I do question his judgment.

	I've been critical of Mr. Bush's involvement in the Iran-Contra scandal; his professed lack of knowledge of General Noriega's involvement in the drug trade; his silence as dozens of Administration officials were indicted and convicted or forced to leave public service.

	I don't question Mr. Bush's patriotism, it I do question his judgment.

	Republicans have been trying to cut social security and Medicare for eight years--until yesterday, they had opposed every effort to increase the minimum wage.

	I don't question their patriotism.  I do question their judgment--and their lack of concern for real people.

	My friends, today, here in Texas and in nearly 30 states throughout the country, we're giving George Bush 60 days notice.  60 days notice that we're going to beat him on Election Day.  Because this election is a choice between leadership that's out of touch with the real people and leadership that shares your values and stands on your side.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I want to bring economic growth and good jobs back to Texas--and 60 days from today, with your help, we will. 

	We want to build an America in which there are good schools in every community; in which the door of college opportunity is open to every young person who graduates from high school and is accepted to college; and 60 days from today, with your help, we will.

	We want to make teaching a valued and honored profession again, and 60 days from today, with your help, we will.

	We want to develop a national energy policy that unites this country and doesn't divide it; an energy policy that gets your natural gas to the consuming states of the east quickly and cleanly, and creates thousands of new jobs for Texans; and 60 days from today, with your help, we will begin.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I care about our environmental future - about the ozone layer and global warming--about acid rain and toxic waste.  We haven't had to undergo an election year conversion on the environment.  We want this country to have an Environmental Protection Agency that protects us, and not the polluters; and 60 days from today, with your help, we will.

	We care deeply about the nearly 40 million Americans who don't have a dime of health insurance--most of them members of working families--who don't know when they go to bed at night how they're going to pay the bills if their children get sick.  We think it's time that jobs came with health insurance in this country; and 60 days from today, with your help, we're going to begin.

	Lloyd Bensten and I believe that decent and affordable housing ought to be part of the American dream for every American family; that it's time to end the shame of homelessness in America; and 60 days from today, with your help, we will.

	We believe that it's time we had a Justice Department that understands the meaning of the word "justice;" that knows the difference between anti-trust and anti-freeze; and 60 days from today, with your help, we will.

	And we believe that America must have a national defense that is second to none; a Pentagon that spends our dollars on real defense, not to line the pockets of dishonest contractors and Washington beltway consultants; and 60 days from today, with your help, we will.

	Because we want America to be number one again.  We don't want our future and your future to be mortgaged to foreign bankers.  We don't want you to have to pay billions in interest on a national debt twice what it was eight years ago because we couldn't pay our bills.

	We want to build the best America.  An America that you and I can be proud of.

	My friends, there are no shortcuts to the American dream.

	The best America doesn't hide; we compete.

	The best America doesn't waste; we invest.

	The best America doesn't leave anybody behind; we bring everybody along.

	The best America isn't behind us; the best America is yet to come.

DEBT, NATIONALEDUCATION--GENERALENERGY POLICY/RESOURCESENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCESTATESPERSONS--TEXASTEXASPATRIOTISM     x% D% >% :% 2%
 '% "% % % % % ö$ ì$	  	  	 m 	 V 	 > 	 # 	   
 e: