Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1005.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/05STUMPDaytona BeachFLORIDAFLBus Tour Kick-Off Rally1,850 WORDS

	SENATOR ALBERT GORE: Do you want four more years of Dan Quayle?

	AUDIENCE: No!

	SENATOR GORE. Do you want four more years of George Bush?

	AUDIENCE: No!

	SENATOR GORE. Is it time for them to go?

	AUDIENCE: Yes!

	SENATOR GORE: They've run out of time, they've run out of excuses, they've run out of energy. With your help, they're going to be run out of office. I give to you the next president of the United States of America, Bill Clinton.

	GOVERNOR CLINTON: Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Gore has made a pretty good case against the crowd that's in there, but I do want to remind you of one thing. Next time you hear my opponent talk about this election being about trust, you just remember that we've only made one decision in common, and the decision is [missing text]

	I am so proud to be back here in Florida, so proud to have the support of all of you. I like the banner over that says "We love Hillary." I thank the [missing text] band for coming out here and wearing their beautiful uniforms on a warm day to be with us. I like the "Grandmothers for Clinton and Gore" over there. There was a wonderful young girl I met on the way in that said, "Thank you, Governor. My mother and I, we're a family, too", which I like. And sitting right down there is a woman who came up to me and said, "Governor, my name is Sele Nass, I am 96 years old. I have lived here for 65 years, and I'm for you and Al Gore in this election. And I kissed her right out here in public, I plead guilty.

	My fellow Americans, I owe a lot to Florida. On December 16 of last year in the Florida straw poll, the Democrats here gave me a victory which started me on my way. On Super Tuesday, they said the only test really was whether I could win in Florida and by what margin, and you gave me an overwhelming victory, and for that I'm grateful.

	But make no mistake about it. What Al Gore told you is true. The Republicans have believed for years that they owned Florida in the general election, and you can turn out the lights on trickle-down economics and open a new day for the United States of America.

	Al Gore and I have worked hard to try to change the Democratic party, to try to open it up [chorus of jeers and boos]--wait a minute, let me show you something--whoa, wait a minute--wait a minute. Let me say to you, my fellow Americans, you are just seeing an example of why we ought to throw Bush and Quayle out of the White House. They can't run on their record, they have no plan for America's future, so all they can do is bad-mouth their opponents and try to shout them down! They don't even believe in free speech any more! And let me tell you what I want you to do. If George Bush or Dan Quayle comes here, here's what I want you to do. I want you to go to their rally, hold up our signs, but here's what I want you to do. I want you to be quiet and polite and let them speak, because their ideas cannot stand the test of honest debate and hearing. Don't be rude! Don't be crude! Treat 'em like Americans!

	Let me tell you something, folks. This campaign has changed dramatically [missing text] that we're lifting up all of our people, and we're going forward together.

	I believe that Florida will be better off--that Florida will be better off--under an economic policy that says, trickle-down economics is a failure. It says, just cut taxes on the richest Americans and let the benefits trickle down. I say, we want to make millionaires the old-fashioned way. No more across-the-board tax cuts, but give people incentives for investment in new plants, in new technologies, in new small businesses, in agriculture, in housing, putting the American people to work. That's what creates economic opportunity. That's what we need in this state, and that is what we need in this nation.

	They say, "We need more trade with the rest of the world," and I say so, too. But their idea of being fair to the rest of the world is let other people take advantage of us and even spend tax dollars to move American jobs overseas. Did you see that? This administration ordered our own Customs Department to give the Japanese a break on cars even as they were discriminating against our auto parts. This administration has spent $300 million nearly of your tax money--listen to this--if I were the other guys, I'd be screaming now, too. I wouldn't want you to hear this.

	This administration has spent money--your money--through the Agency for International Development to offer low-interest loans to companies that will shut their plants down in America and move into Central America. Low-interest loans that we couldn't get to modernize their plants here in America. They are spending--they spent money last year to train workers in Central America than they spent to train workers who lost their job because of foreign competition in the United States. They have spent your money to hire someone who was photographed and shown on national television in the last week--somebody working for you, one of your hired hands, now--down in Central America was photographed talking to people who said they were business people from Florida. And the people said, "We want to know if we can shut our plant down in Florida and move it down to your country. Our workers are reliable. Are the workers reliable here?" And this person who works for the United States taxpayer said, "Oh, the workers here are more reliable than they are in Florida."

	Now, I believe in expanded trade, but I want fair trade. I want other people to treat our products fairly, and I believe we should spend our tax money rebuilding the American economy, not moving jobs overseas.

	They say they've got a health care plan. I say it's more money down the same old broken system. I believe we need to become finally the last advanced country in the world to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all of our people, and provide access to long-term care to the elderly and to the disabled in this country. We've got to do it.

	Just last week, a group of--again--Republican and Democrat health experts who have served in several administrations in the past examined my plan and the Bush plan. They said the Bush plan by the end of the decade wouldn't control health care costs and would leave 27 million Americans without health insurance. They said our plan would control health care costs, would save hundreds of billions of dollars in the private sector for investment, and would save the average American family $1,200 a year by the end of the decade. You tell me who should be elected president on November the 3rd.

	They say it's fine to tell you one thing and do another. They promised you to protect the Florida coast; now they're trying to make sure it's drilled. In the last--listen to this: in the last State of the Union address, the President sent a budget to the United States Congress that was rejected--and I want you to hear this--that was rejected by 75 percent of the Republicans in the House of Representatives. This guy can't work with his own party because there's nothing but negativism and charge-throwing, no hope, no uplift, no programs, no progress for the future.

	My fellow Americans, I got into this race, and I came to Florida not to run down George Bush, but to lift up America. And that's what this election ought to be about. And when I tell you what I want to do as president, it's not just some campaign promise I cooked up for the election; it is the work of a lifetime for me. I know we can create jobs in America again. I know we can lift incomes in America again. I am mad that two-thirds of our people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago, and you ought to be mad, too. I know we can face our problems. I am tired of being told that we can't do anything about the health care crisis. I am tired of seeing a nation that won't face its health care problems like AIDS, like long-term care, like the women's health problems that would have been addressed in that bill that Mr. Bush vetoed for political reasons. I want us to face our problems. I want us to make progress. That's why I entered this race. And what you have to decide is simply this: Do you really believe that this country is going to be better off if you give them another four years?

	AUDIENCE: No!

	CLINTON: Is there any reason to believe that trickle-down economics will work any better the next four than it has in the last twelve?

	AUDIENCE: No!

	GOVERNOR;CLINTON. If we offer a departure from the political paralysis in Washington, if I want to give you a national government dedicated to investment, to education, to dealing with the health care crisis, to bringing the American people together to helping us to compete and win in the global economy, isn't that really what America needs today?

	AUDIENCE: Yes!

	GOVERNOR CLINTON: This election is not about Bill Clinton and Al Gore, it's about you and the people like you we've seen on these bus trips all across America. I'm tired of people breaking down and crying in front of me, a total stranger, because they think their lives have been taken away from them; people who have worked hard and played by the rules and done what they were supposed to do all their lives, and they think that every day nobody in Washington gives a rip about them.

	I'll tell you something, folks, if you'll vote for me, I'll make some mistakes because I do things. I don't believe in sitting pat and standing pat and doing nothing and hurling words. I measure life by action. I will do things. So I will make some mistakes, but I'll tell you something else, every day in every way I will wake up thinking about people like you all over this country from New Hampshire to Florida, from Washington to Southern California to the Heartland in between. The people we saw on this bus trip are the people Al Gore and Bill Clinton want to give their government back to. We want America to be what it ought to be! We're better than this, help us make it better than this on November 3rd!

	Thank you, and God bless you!
BUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEMANUFACTURING--PLANT CLOSINGS     p( <( 6( 2( *(
 ( ( ( ( ( ÿ' è' Ý'	 T 	 8 	  e: