Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1029.008SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/20TELEVISION/RADIONEW YORKNEW YORKNYBROADCAST AT 101405 WORDS

	Thank you, Miss Bankhead.

	I am happy to have this opportunity for a summing up of what this campaign means to the people of the United States.

	Next Tuesday, each of us must go into the polling booth, away from the tumult and the shouting, and cast his ballot. What will we be voting for? What is the choice before us?

	As far as the party I represent is concerned, I think you know exactly where we stand.

	We stand firmly and definitely for continuing the economic and social progress that has been going on for twenty years in this country. And we stand firmly and definitely for continuing a strong and positive foreign policy to withstand Communist aggression and establish peace.

	And when the Democratic candidates say we will continue these things, you know we mean it. For it was the Democratic party under the leadership of Franklin Roosevelt that picked this country up from despair in the depths of the depression, and started it up the long road to recovery.

	We have worked for good wages, and good farm income, and for the growth and independence of small business. We have worked for good education, good health, for a fair opportunity for young people starting out in life and for economic security for older people when they retire. We have helped remove drudgery from the lives of farm wives and mothers by bringing electricity to the farm. We have helped to remove the scars of slums from our cities and to bring good housing within the reach of more and more families.

	The result is plain to anyone who looks around him. Our country is rich and powerful today, and our people are prosperous and free. New plants are springing up, cities and towns are growing, the savings of our people are at record levels.

	The Republican campaigners have tried to belittle all this. They say prices are high, and that is true. Prices would be a lot lower, as every housewife knows, if the Republicans in Congress had not fought all these years against strong policies to check inflation, including price and wage and rent controls.

	The Republicans say taxes are high, and that is true too. Taxes are high because it is a big and expensive job to defend ourselves against Communism and bring peace to this torn and troubled world. Eighty-five percent of our tax dollar goes to pay for the cost of national security and past wars. That's an appalling burden, but it is far better to pay the price of peace than the price of world war.

	Taxes and prices are high, but in spite of them the American standard of living is the envy of people in every other country in the world. The United States is, after all, the only country where there are so many automobiles that people have trouble finding a place to park! And we are the only country where people go on a diet--by choice!

	Look around the world today, and see the millions of people who are wretched and miserable, who want for food and clothing and medical care--for all the things we take for granted. They are people like you and me, born of woman, children of God, striving for peace and freedom and human dignity.

	We have, from our abundance, been helping these people. The Republican Old Guard sneers at such help. They call it "money down a rat hole." Do they not recall the ancient instructions of our religious tradition--to heal the sick, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, teach the illiterate? Do they not understand the teachings of all religions--do unto others as ye would be done by? And do they not realize that, even in the narrowest terms of national self interest we could not hope for peace and prosperity in a world where half the people had no hope for a better future? Do they not understand that the strength we are building protects us--as well as other free peoples--from Communism?

	Americans should be proud that in a time of trouble we are strong enough to help our brothers in other lands. We have saved France and Italy and Greece and the other countries of Western Europe from the black night of Soviet tyranny. We have supported the independence of new nations--Israel, India, Pakistan, Indochina, and many more. We have joined in forming the United Nations to establish the basis for law and order in the world. The road of collective strength of free peoples is the only road to lasting peace.

	And when the tyrants in the Kremlin sent their puppets marching across the 38th Parallel in Korea, we and the other free nations met the supreme test--we met force with force and fought the aggressors back behind their starting line.

	The Old Guard Republicans are telling the mothers of America that Korea is a "useless" war, that their sons have died in vain. That is one of the most shocking and terrible statements of our time. What could be less useless than to stop Communist aggression in its tracks? What could be less useless than to rally the free men of the world to prevent a third world war?

	Today, the Old Guard Republicans are making the same mistake. They fight against helping our friends abroad; they have opposed our alliances with other free nations; they object to strong defenses because they don't want to pay the taxes to support them; they have proposed either pulling out of Korea, which would expose all of South Asia to further Communist expansion, or extending the war into China, which would be, as General Bradley put it, starting the wrong war, against the wrong enemy, at the wrong time, and in the wrong place, and which might well mean the third world war.

	The alternative is the policy I have described in this campaign: the policy of continuing the slow, painful, steady building of a structure of strength and peace that will defy the Communist aspiration to dominate the world. I have said time and again this is not an easy road. There is no shortcut to peace. The shortcuts lead to war--or to surrender. I have said, too, that the courage and energy and the might of our people and our nation are sufficient to give us confidence that if we stick by our guns we can succeed.

	My opponent started this campaign with a reservoir of good will. He was a distinguished professional soldier, with a fine military record. We hoped he would lead his party into the paths of progress at home and cooperative strength abroad.

	But, instead, we have watched in mounting disappointment and dismay as the general has gone around the country closing ranks with the very same Old Guard Republicans who have been bitterly fighting all these years against progress at home and a strong foreign policy. We have watched the general yield his party leadership to Senator Taft. We have watched the general ask for the election of men who have voted time and time again for a weak foreign policy. We have watched the general make soft commitments to tax reductions he must know would require cutting down our defenses and abandoning our allies. We have even watched the spectacle of the general making soft promises about bringing our troops home from Korea soon--promises he knows as well as you and I do that he could not keep.

	The general has yielded control of his domestic views to the very men who have tried for years to block our forward movement. This is why so many people have written me to say they cannot vote for a military man evidently so inexperienced in civil government.

	For my part, I offer no miracles. I will not attempt to compete for votes by making false promises. I offer you experience in the struggle for peace both in foreign missions and in the United Nations. I offer you a record of thrifty, clean and progressive civil government in Illinois. I can offer you only determination to work as hard as I can to continue our well-being and our progress toward social justice in this country. I can offer you only determination to lead our country in its strength and majesty toward peace for ourselves and for all people everywhere.

COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--EXPERIENCE/QUALIFICATIONSCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEFOREIGN AID--GENERALKOREAN WARMILITARY PREPAREDNESSPARTY UNITY/LOYALTYSTANDARD OF LIVING       ê ä à Ø
 Ë Æ ¶ ® ¦ ¤ • ‹	 ¬ 	 £ 	 y 	 X 	 D 	 : 	 % 	  e: