Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1006.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/06STUMPSPOKANEWASHINGTONWA1931 WORDS

	Governor Langlie, and ladies and gentlemen: it is a tremendous honor to be with you this morning.  First of all, I want to thank each of you who has given up this hour from his or her busy day to come out here to allow me to greet you, to look into your faces, and to express to you one or two of the thoughts that are on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	A part of the honor I feel is the association of the men who are on this platform with me.  They have been introduced to you.  I want to make it clear that this is not a personal campaign.  This is a campaign for a team of people, a team of people who believe that there is within the capacity of this country an ability to give greater and better leadership to the United States than we have been getting.  Part of that team is here: Governor Langlie, Mr. Horan, Senator Cain, Mr. Canwell.  I should like to point out also that we have with us the Senator from Illinois--Senator Dirksen--who this evening is going to talk to you at another meeting.

	Governor Langlie has called to your attention that my campaign train has been preceded through this state by another one.  I am told that from its rear platform a lot of salvos--red hot salvos--have been fired at me.  I should like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that I have been shot at by real artillery, and I am not much concerned by these harmless blanks, although I admit there is a lot of soot about it.

	I suppose we must take all this clatter and din as typical of the campaign which the present administration and its hand-picked candidate are trying to wage--a lot of sound without substance, promises without performance, and howls without harmony.

	What I am engaged in--and my associates with me--is getting rid of that kind of ineptness and incompetence in Washington.

	One of the blanks that has been fired at me and the Republican Party is that there will be no more reclamation projects in all this great Northwest, if you people should be so foolish as to think you wanted to get rid of the dishonesty, the incompetence, the duplication and the waste that is going on in Washington.  Well now, who started this reclamation business?  After all, haven't we been celebrating, this year, the 50th anniversary of the start of the Reclamation Service?  It was founded under Teddy Roosevelt.  There has been bipartisan support for every one of the big multipurpose projects that has been initiated during the past twenty years.

	So I don't know how this particular blank was evolved or where it was manufactured, but it certainly has had no effect where it was expected to have an effect.

	I notice also one of the blanks which comes about through the use of adjectives: worst this, worst that, and worst 80th Congress that ever was; you have got the worst newspaper that ever was, which must make me some relative to that newspaper, whether they want to claim me or not, because I am "worst" too. 

	Now, I want to point out that these reclamation projects will be continuing here in the West long after this "Fair Deal" has gone into nothing but our history books next January.  Republican leadership and their associates--all those opposed to the New Deal--have shown their interest time and again, not only in these great dams and reclamation projects but in the matter of soil conservation, our minerals and our forests.

	After all, there was a very prosperous United States here for a long, long time before we had the Fair Deal, and the one thing that the Republicans and their associates, including the Independents and the enlightened Democrats--the one thing that we advocate that this administration does not is to home rule for these projects.  We believe that the people in this state and in this valley have greater wisdom to apply to the development of the whole basin than does a bureaucrat 3,000 miles away in Washington.  And yet, ladies and gentlemen, do you know this: there are no fewer than twenty federal bureaus and agencies now in your area trying to manage your business, putting their long noses into everything that affects you from morning to night.  Duplication, confusion and empire-building are not only their objective but their actual practice.  Is that the kind of efficiency we have been hearing about from some of these salvos fired off the back platform of a campaign train?

	It seems to me it is no wonder we are lagging behind in this reclamation program.  Here in this Northwest, with 40% of the capacity of the hydroelectric power in the whole area, we still have periodic power shortages.  It is high time that there was correction to this--correction through a partnership of private enterprise, the locality, the state and, where necessary, the federal government--but not with the domination of the federal government.

	We will find a better answer than setting up in this region a super-state, a valley authority set up and blueprinted in Washington, D.C. with all of its principal officials appointed from there.

	Another of those blanks is that the Republican leaders would like to abolish all the gains that labor has made through these last years since the beginning of the century.  Ladies and gentlemen, sheer bunk!  I am not going to take time this morning to outline what the Republican Party is attempting to do in establishing the kind of climate in Washington where the labor-management problems can be settled without strikes, but I am going to repeat just briefly the promise I made to labor on Labor Day.  I said something to this effect: that four years from now, if you people had decided this fall to establish a Republican administration in Washington in the Executive Department, in the Senate of the United States, and in the Congress, that the leaders of that group would hope to stand before a crowd like this at the end of those four years, and each of you could look at the other and honestly say, "Those people were fair; they were just; they settled everything on the basis of what is good for the United States of America, not just some particular section or group whose votes they were trying to buy--what was good for the United States of America."  Moreover, they would say and you would say to each other, "They protected the rights of all--labor, management, professional men, farmers, everyone."  And finally, you would say, "And besides being fair and just, they were friendly.  They were just people who belonged to us, one of us, not a bunch of long-haired bureaucrats in Washington who wanted to rule our lives from 3,000 miles away."  That was the pledge I made and I make it everywhere I go.

	Another of these blank salvos fired at the Republicans and at me is that we want to abolish social security.  Social security laws have long ago passed out of the realm of partisan politics.  Social security laws, ladies and gentlemen, are nothing in the world but that floor that we want to put and do put under the individual citizen of this country so as to protect him against the kind of disaster where he can't protect himself, and all of the old age, unemployment insurance, all of the rest of it, including indeed farm support prices, are done with this idea: we protect you from disaster--the government does--but don't you, by any manner of means, think that is the limit that you can attain.  You build on that, out of your initiative, out of your own interests, out of your own energy, out of your own imaginations and abilities; you continue to build the kind of America that has been building here for 175 years--and don't be content with Fair Deal handouts.  You can get far, far more than that and let these floors be what ensure you, but go far, far beyond what they can do for you.

	The genius of this country is that 155 million people can go ahead to build the kind of a future we have never even dreamed about.  We can go further than any kind of political organization can give us.  It is the genius of the individual that has made this country, and we are going to protect him so he will go on and on and on and make this country bigger and bigger.

	Indeed, one of the great programs in the Republican platform is this: to stabilize your dollar, to stop its cheapening so that your mid-age pension does not run out from under you, so that your bond does not disappear down the drain of inflation, so that your savings account remains what it is, so that you don't, finally, have to carry as much money in a basket down to the store as it takes to bring the vegetables back.  You shouldn't have to have as big a basket for the money as you do for the groceries.  And that is what we are coming to.

	That is the farm program we have outlined and argued about time and time again.  In addition to the kind of thing that you have heard from the opposition, those supplies that have been called perishables are going to get the same kind of treatment as do the nonperishables, and we are going to do it so that it preserves the independence of the farmer.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have been accused of so many things, I can't keep you here to listen to all of the blank cartridges that have been fired at me.  I am just going to make to you the final pledge of the Republican party: we are not going to try to out-promise anybody.  Anyway, the political promises have been used up in the last twenty years.  Most of them were made without any attempt to keep them, and many of them without any idea of keeping them when they were made.  We are simply going to pledge you this: there will be real progress toward peace in the world; America will live within its means; duplication and waste will be eliminated; and, above all, corruption will be removed from government.  You can have the kind of government of which Americans can be proud.

	I will give you one little idea--one little story--to illustrate exactly what I mean: the other day, I got a letter from a lady who said, "General, I should like to vote for you, but before I do will you promise that more of my tax money will actually get to Washington."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, when a hard-working taxpayer of the United States has to request a prospective officeholder to be honest enough to see that tax money actually gets to Washington, we have come to a pretty pass.  That kind of woodshed honesty you can demand; you don't have to ask for it, and you can be sure that you get it.  And you can make sure that you insure it firmly and certainly for the next four years on November 4th.

	Now, again ladies and gentlemen, my thanks and with your permission, before I sit down I should like to introduce the better half of the Eisenhower family.
GOVERNMENT WASTEORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSRECLAMATION PROJECTS     ²* ~* x* t* j*
 \* W* R* K* A* ?* ?* 5*	 { 	 k 	 S 	 D   e: