Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1003.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/03STUMPCHARLOTTENORTH CAROLINANC5,231 WORDS


	Well, my good friend Billy, it seems to me like I did almost too much speaking last night.  I really maybe ought not to start off so early in the day.

	First, I want to pay my greetings and my thanks to Governor Hodges.  I saw him on early morning television and I see him here again bright and sunshiny. Well, that's good.  That makes me feel better.

	We sent Everett Jordan up to Washington to kind of take care of things while we are away.  So to each and every one I want to express my thanks, particularly to Mr. Hope for the wonderful help he has given me here.  He has been very, very helpful in this endeavor.

	We are indebted to you, sir. We are indebted to--I am sorry, Billy, if I gave you a fast trot this morning, but actually, I was slowing down to shake hands.  You ought to take a real morning walk with me.  It will give you a good workout.

	Harry, good to see you out there, too.  One of my dearest friends. Wonderful to see you.

	I thought I would just visit with you this morning.  Really, I am a sort of night man.  I am not much in the mornings.  I just use mornings to get ready for the rest of the day.

	There are one or two things I want to talk about over and beyond pleasantries, which are so important.  I said last night that I felt like an adopted Tar Heel and I really do.  Mrs. Humphrey and myself have grown to love this state.  We have been here many times.  Governor Dan Moore and Mrs. Moore have received us with great hospitality and kindness.  We have been their guests at the governor's home, the governor's mansion.  We have been at your great college and universities.  I have been here, I think, as much or more during my vice presidency as any state in the union.  Each time I come, I have fallen a little more deeply in love with North Carolina.

	And I meant every word that I said last night. This state truly represents the great economic and social progress which is taking place across the length and breadth of this land.  And for that area of America that we call the South, North Carolina is a beacon of hope and progress and it has been for a long time. Part of that is due to its extraordinarily great educational system and particularly your great system of higher education--the number of colleges and universities, public and private, that you have in this state.  The investments that you have made in education are the most valuable investments that the people of North Carolina have ever made.  You have produced a great people, a great citizenry--out of this investment and I do feel a sense of partnership with you in this way--that at last the federal government is beginning to understand that it can be of help and that we can, particularly in those fields of education, help you develop those institutions of technology and science, of the humanities and the arts, so that we give our young people the kind of training they are going to need for this rapidly changing world.

	Dr. Frank Graham, former president of your great university, one of my dear beloved friends--I think he is one of God's real good people, and I always have thought so.  He is a wonderful person.

	Mr. Mayor, how good it is to see you here and to be in your community again.  Last night, Mayor Butcher was kind enough to mention that he serves with me on my committee of mayors to help promote my candidacy.  We have worked together, particularly in these last four years, in trying to bring these federal programs just a little closer to the local government and local government needs.  If I have any field in which I feel a degree of competence and little better than average knowledge, it is in the field of urban affairs.  I work very closely with the mayors of the big cities and the smaller communities to try to understand what is happening in these communities of great development, both in terms of industry and the population. This city of Charlotte is again a pioneer.  It is just doing the wonderful things that it is.  The mayor and the council, the governmental officials here have really put to work federal programs without sacrificing one bit your local autonomy.  We have been able to utilize federal resources to strengthen local government, and that is the way it can be.  If I am permitted to be your president, I can tell you that that is the way we are going to make it.  We have to have these programs sufficiently flexible so that we can adapt them to each of the set of circumstances that may exist in the local community.  There isn't any pattern that you could design in Washington that you can cut so that it will fit every situation in every state in every area.  We simply must grow up in this country to have some faith in each other to be able to use these resources that are made available as we would like to have them be used.

	In other words, John Kennedy once said, "Let's make the world safe for diversity".  I think it is good if we in America would understand that in some of our differences is our beauty and is the quality of character of our country.  We don't want a society in which we just impose sort of a pattern upon everybody.  We prefer each person to march to his own music and to his own beat, but to march to a common cause for a common purpose.  I think that is the kind of an America that you want.

	So I want to emphasize this morning to you once again this role of partnership that we can have--federal, state, and local and private, in the field of education first.  Thomas Jefferson said you cannot be both free and ignorant and never were truer words ever spoken.  And the state that puts its resources to work, makes its investments in the field of elementary and secondary education, is the state of tomorrow.  That is why this state of North Carolina got an early start on many of its neighbors.  It really took the quantum jump, so to speak, because it puts its emphasis upon education.  In the next twenty-five years, we are going to have to double our educational establishment in this country and that frightens some people.  It does not frighten me a bit, because in the next four years, we are going to reach the trillion dollar, trillion dollar gross national product.  It is very hard for some of the older folks to understand that this can happen, but we are just moving along like compound interest, if we can keep this economy growing--and that gets me down to the next thing.

	Everything that we want to do--in education, in the betterment of our people, in the redevelopment of our cities, in the modernization of our countryside--everything we want to do, everything--depends on being able to keep this economy of ours strong.  And I believe the greatest single contribution that the Democratic administration since 1961 to date, from Kennedy through Johnson, I think the greatest single contribution is the fact that these administrations have been able to work with the great dynamic force of free enterprise in this country to keep this economy of ours moving forward, moving forward not in sporadic spurts but in a steady flow.  There is no country on the face of the Earth that has done so well.

	Now, I know we enjoy griping a little bit. That is part of the American character and particularly early in the morning if you feel like I do.  I am very good at it until about noon.  Then I sort of smooth off.  But the fact is that no industrialized country has had as good a record of price and wage stability as the United States--none; not even close.  No country has had as little inflation as the United States.  No country has had as rapid an economic growth, steady growth, as the United States.  And yet no country in the world has ever had to take on as many responsibilities as the United States.

	Now, you just add it up.  I know that when I talk like this, I disappoint some of my friends because they feel that it has not really emphasized all of our problems.

	Listen, I know the problems.  I don't need to come in here and tell you that I have got a headache, because you most likely have got one, too.  I frankly do not have one.  But I know, some people feel that in order to prove that you have health, you have to tell about all your illness.  I don't think that is necessary.  I think what is important to know is what does it take to have good health--like a good fast walk, Billy.

	What's important to know is what does it take to overcome the problem we have.  My fellow Americans, we have simply got to start telling each other that we have the resources in this country to do what needs to be done and all we have to figure out is what needs to be done and then put our resources to work.

	Now, there aren't any instant cures.  The only time you get any instant cures is in some of these patent medicines that do not work.  And I say that as an old pharmacist.

	There are no instant cures for ancient problems and old lingering difficulties.  Democracy is primarily important for the beginnings that it makes.  The endings--you never live long enough for those, because there is another generation that comes along.  It is the breakthrough.  It is the breakthrough of social security.  It is the breakthrough that we make, for example, in a disease, in conquering a disease, the little breakthroughs we make on cancer, the little breakthroughs that we have made on heart disease, the little breakthroughs that we have made on transplants.

	Which reminds me, if the American public would be as charitable with those of us in the political and economic field on our efforts to make some changes and to do some things that have never been done before as we are with the medical profession, we would be all right.  We do not complain at all if they make kidney transplants, heart transplants, liver transplants and the person dies.  They say, well this is experimentation.  But as soon as they get one that lives, they say hooray.  You can't remember the name of the doctors that failed.  But in American politics, the one that you generally remember are the ones that failed.

	Now, we are experimenting today.  We are experimenting with many things.  We are trying to experiment. This is not the first time that I have been in the dark, I want to say. 

	We are experimenting today with how we can design fiscal policy, fiscal and monetary policy to sustain, to have a sustained economic growth and sustained prosperity.

	I wonder how many of you realize that this is the first country in the history of recorded civilization that has had over ninety consecutive months or ninety months of continuing, consecutive prosperity.  Now, that is not an accident.  My economic advisor, one of them, at least, is Dr. Walter Heller.  Of course, I might tell you, he is from the University of Minnesota.  I brought him in contact with the late John Kennedy.  I introduced him.  I can tell you a human interest story that is really on me.  I remember when President Kennedy first became our president, president-elect.  He set up show down there in Washington, and he came to me one day and said, say, "Hubert, who is that fellow out in Minnesota that you kept bringing me papers from.  You know that man you introduced me to out there, and you kept bringing me all his documents?  What is his name?"  I said, "Well, that is Dr. Walter Heller."  He said, that is the fellow.  Why don't you test him out and see whether he would like to be the chairman of the Council--I mean whether he'd like to be on the Council of Economic Advisers?

	I said, "I don't think so because he is going to be dean of the School of Business Administration and Economics."  And he said, well, you try him out.  So I called him up.  He had already told me he did not want to come to Washington.  That is what everybody generally says, except me, I like to be there. 

	So, I called him, but I had been told before I called him that if he sort of balked a bit just being a member, that he might be chairman.  I indicated that and I got a sort of friendly responses and next day, the president-elect took up the phone and suggested that he come on down.

	He is one of the best men that I know.  What I am trying to say is that we have been experimenting with our economy and it has worked very well by having a flexible fiscal policy, a monetary policy that is able to put on the brakes sometimes, open up the gauges another time, encourage private investment.  Let me say to the editors that are here and the people of business, no administration in the history of this country has ever put as much faith in the private enterprise and the business community than this Democratic administration--not one.

	What is the evidence?  We reduced taxes--by the way, I was for the tax reduction a year before it went into effect, and fought for it.  We said let the private enterprise sector do most of the investing, encourage investment--that is the way you get jobs.  And there has been more investment in the last eight years of the Democratic administration than in all of the Republican administrations since 1920--all of them put together.

	When I go out and talk to businessmen, I almost want to scold for a little bit and if I did not like them so well, I would.  Why in the name of common sense a businessman is a Republican is beyond me--unless he just hates his stockholders.  That is a fact.  As a matter of fact, I told a business friend of mine the other day that if he doesn't shape up, I was going to tell on him.  I said how in the name of common sense can you vote for a Republican when your company made more money last year than in all the eight preceding Republican years?  How do you dare, as chairman of that board, vote Republican when you know that the odds are, from the record, that you are going to have some recessions and you are going to have some slumps and you are going to lose some money and your profits are going to drop and your dividends are going to drop.  Now, do you want me to tell on you to your stockholders or are you going to shape up and make a contribution and vote?

	Now, Luther Hodges can put this down to you and it works much better than I can, because I am telling you the truth.

	And what about a working man?  Well, I will tell you, he knows better.  But there is a problem of prosperity.  When you get a little prosperous or when you do a little better, darned if you don't just want to run around and tell folks occasionally you are a Republican  I don't know what it is.  I don't mind it. I am going to level with you.  If you want to say you are a Republican, all right, as long as you vote Democratic.

	I have to get a few of those little partisan things--it's a nonpartisan gathering, I was told this morning, so, I thought I'd mention them to you.

	We have done a good job on our economy.  I have issued a little statement here this morning on the economy in this state, for example, in this state of North Carolina during these Republican years, the economy did slow down.  There isn't any doubt about it.  Just to give you a few of the facts, at the end of the Republican period, the unemployment rate for the state of North Carolina was 5.5  By 1967, it had fallen to 3.4.  This reflected a 29 percent reduction in the number of people unemployed in this state.  During the Republican era, nonagricultural jobs in North Carolina increased 17 percent--172,000.  From 1960 to 1967, they leaped 377,000, more than double the earlier rise.

	Textile workers in particular took the brunt of the Republican policies.  In seven years, from 1953 to 1960, there were only two years in which the textile employment in the state of North Carolina rose at all.  In the entire seven-year period, there was a net reduction of 13,700 textile jobs.  In every year since 1961, employment in textiles has increased from 1960 to 1967.  Textile employment has risen by 42,000 jobs in this state.

	Now, I say that that is something--that is a record.  And we Democrats have been derelict and I want to speak now to the few that may be in this room or the many, for we have refused to take the spirit out of our economy.

	The one-price cotton that we have put in here has done more for the cotton industry than all the Republican oratory of the last one hundred years.  I had a hand in that.  And John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson have done some things for the textile industry that long needed being done.  I helped in that, too, and I want to make it clear that if I am privileged to serve as president, and I want it right on this record, and I had it in my speech last night, I am going to see to it that this textile industry that we have built here with investment and work and planning and modern technology, that this textile industry has a chance to grow, that the jobs that are in that industry grow.  The textile industry is the greatest employer of semiskilled and unskilled labor that we have and we desperately need it and we are not going to let it go out the window on the basis of academic theory.  I want you to know that.  I am going to take the measures that are necessary to see to it that this gives us--the word "protection," they say is wrong, so I'll say that this industry has a fair break in the market place and isn't pushed out by foreign exports or foreign imports.

	Now, I have issued a little statement here this morning on the tobacco industry.  By the way, I have been chairman of the Textile Committee, the congressional committee--I mean the Cabinet committee.  I have worked with Governor Dan Moore.  I have been working with the Senators.  I have been working with Governor Bob McNail, Mills Godwin.  I have been working with all the people in these areas that are affected by textiles.  And we have a conflict in the government, to be frank about it.  But I think I have been sort of like Horatio at the bridge.  Maybe that is why my middle name is Horatio.  We have not let things go to pieces.  And I am going to try to seek an international agreement on man-made fibers just as we did on cotton and I am going to police it. It does not do any good to have an agreement if you don't make it work.

	Secondly, if that is not enough, I will go to the Congress to seek the additional authority we need.  I am not going to let workers in the United States of America lose their jobs in the name of theory.  I want that quite clear.  I believe in liberalized trade policies.  I always have.  But I also believe that we have a responsibility to our own people.

	Now, the same thing is true of this tobacco industry.  I am not going to go into the details of it. I am going to read you the last statement:  let me make it abundantly clear that as president, I shall see to it that the export business of tobacco growers in North Carolina and in other producing states is maintained without impairment.  Trade is a two-way street.  We import hundreds of millions of dollars worth of automobiles, metal products and countless other commodities that are as vital to the European community economy as tobacco and other agricultural commodities such as poultry are to us.  As president, I shall make it clear to the European community--that is the common market--"that it cannot adopt policies that impair tariff concession and damage such an important segment of our export trade as tobacco without the lost of some of its valuable markets here."  In other words, a quid pro quo.  You may have and we may have and you get tough and we get tough.  That is just the way it has got to be. 

	Now, that's what a president is for.  He is not there to stand around and just let things happen.  We need jobs.  I want to end up on that.  The greatest--one of the greatest things that we have done in this country is to reach down into this untapped resource of human beings that we call the poor and the illiterate and the ignorant and the untrained, black and white--and by the way, there are more poor whites, than there are poor blacks; there are more poor people in rural America than there are in urban America.  I wish some of these people would get that straight.  Just because the largest newspapers are in the largest cities does not mean that all of the problems of America are in the cities. They are going to find out when they go with me to West Virginia.  The Republican administration did not do one living thing for Appalachia, not one thing except to let it starve and die.  It took a Democratic Administration to do something for Appalachia.

	And I repeat to you that poverty knows no race and it knows no region. So when we wage war on poverty, it is not just to help the black man, even though it is important.  It is to help any man, any woman, any child, when we have federal aid to education, it is not just to help a child that is a Mexican-American or a Puerto Rican or a black man.  It is to help an Anglo, it is to help a poor child.  And if we will quit talking about race and talk about people, we will get a lot more done in this country. 

	Well, we have been training people.  Unemployment was 7.7 in 1960, of the workforce. Richard Milhous Nixon said that until unemployment got to be 4,500,000 or more, it could not be considered dangerous.  I wonder how many times he's suffered without a job.  It might not be dangerous to the man that computes the statistics, because he's got the job.  But if you are without a job, believe me, you are not a statistic, you are a hungry, homeless human being.  What kind of crazy economics is it that says you need a cushion of unemployment of about four and a half or five million in this country?  That is the way some people like to keep the prices down--at the price of human agony.

	We don't believe that way.  I don't, and I want you to know what you are getting if you elect me.  I have seen too much unemployment.  I've seen too much of it.  I saw it in my own state.  I saw it in those Republican years when we had unemployment in Minnesota, in Northeastern Minnesota, of 25 to 30 percent of the work force.  I saw young people leaving my state by droves.  And we did something about it with a Democratic administration. We--And, we have produced jobs.  And more importantly, the jobs are here now, except the manpower isn't trained.  There was not one single manpower training program in eight years of Republic administration--not one.

	They like to talk to you about how they cut the budget.  Well, they cut the heart out of thousands of people.  They have not heard from me yet.  I am just getting warmed up in this campaign. 

	Let it be on this record: there were more poor people in New York in 1956: fifty-eight, fifty-nine and sixty than there are now.  There were more poor people in Charlotte five, ten years ago than there are now.  There were more illiterates in America ten years ago than there are now.  And the war was over in Korea and there was peace and they did not do a thing with the peace divided--not one thing.  Except to reduce taxes and in the process, get themselves three recessions.

	And when they talk about fiscal management, I would not trust them with a piggy bank. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that you remember waking up one morning to find out that in one year, 3,900,000 of gold had gone out of the treasury.  You did not know about it.  They kept it like a big secret.  And then it was exposed--the largest single balance of payments deficit this country has ever known was under that prudent, cool, confident, businesslike management of the Republican administration.  I want to tell you, you had better take another look.  We Democrats are supposed to be the liberals and full of compassion.  There is nothing wrong with that.  The question is what do you do and how do you stay compassionate?  It does not do any good to be compassionate with your tongue.  You have got to have the resources.  

	Now, we have trained in the Manpower Development and Training Program alone over one a half million unemployed, illiterate, unskilled hard-core unemployed in the last four years.  And they have been made productive taxpaying, self-respecting, self-sustaining citizens.  Ten million people have come out of poverty and today are paying taxes, standing tall and straight--10 million of them in the last four years.

	I submit this is quite a record.  It isn't nearly as sexy as Vietnam.  Everybody likes to be a general there and most of them could not lead a boy scout troop, but they like to be a general.  I tell you what we need to be concentrating our attention on right around here is what we are going to do after Vietnam.  We are going to get peace in Vietnam.  The next president of the United States if this one does not get it has to get it.  I said I would get it and I know a little bit about the processes of negotiation.  I have been close to the center of power in this government.

	But what about the peace dividend?  Are you going to put in a Republican administration to do like they did after Korea--bankrupt you?  In many areas of this country, raise your unemployment?  The wholesale price index went up more under the Republican administrations with three recessions than it has done under Democratic administration.

	They talk about inflation and the cost of living.  That is why I want to get Mr. Nixon out on the platform.  He has been reading his own stuff.  He has been reading his own propaganda.  He ought not to do that.  A man of his age ought to come around to the point where he starts facing up to the facts of life.  He is old enough to read about the real facts.  And I intend to tell him about it.

	We have got a country to save.  More than that, we have got a country to build.  This country is young.  Really, we are just getting going.  And we have got so much to do and so many people depend on us and so many people are looking forward to what we can do and how we can make this democracy work.  Do you realize the wonderful thing we are doing.  You know there is not a single society in the world that has the pluralistic population that this one does, this wide variety of peoples.

	Every race, creed, color, religion, every known kind of person lives in the United States.  We have them here.  Can we make these people work together as neighbors, as follow citizens?  Can we really develop the society of equality or opportunity, of respect and dignity?  If we can, it is greater than all the science put together.  Because remember, the worse dictators in the world can develop a machine that will get to the moon.  The worse fiends in the world, tyrants, can develop a technology and a scientific base that will frighten you.  What we need to become are human engineers and if we can design a society in which every person, as one of your own North Carolinians, Thomas Wolf, said, "Every man his chance,"--every man his right to live, to work, to be himself.  Every man the right to make of his manhood whatever his vision can make of him.  This is the promise of America.

	That is what it is all about. That is what I was trying to say last night.  Every man his chance.  Boy, that is going to be a great day.  And you know that, I think we can make it.  And I would kind of like to put a date line on it.  Not one date later than our 200th birthday.  I would like to have it said in 1976 that our forefathers were right, that the God-given rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, that those God-given rights have been realized.  And don't be afraid to say it.  Don't think that you are an intellectual because you are a sour puss, because you are not.  I have carried a Phi Beta Kappa Key for a long time with a smile on my face.  And I have a vice presidential candidate that carries one, too.  And you might think about him.  It is kind of important to think about who is a heartbeat away from the presidency.  I think we have presented at least one member of the Democratic ticket, in the vice president, one of the finest men that ever came into public life.  If you want to compare tickets and if you think it is a stand-off between Nixon and Humphrey, you just take a look at the second man. 

	Well, that is enough for the morning.  You can just imagine how I will feel at noon.  Thank you.

BUDGET DEFICITBUSINESS--GENERALDIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMECONOMY--GENERALECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANEDUCATION--GENERALINVESTMENTJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMONETARY POLICYNORTH CAROLINAPOVERTYPOVERTY (RURAL)TEXTILE INDUSTRYTOBACCO INDUSTRYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALURBAN AFFAIRS/AID     ∂o Ço |o xo po
 do _o Zo Qo Co Ao Ao 6o	 	 	 Û 	 Ÿ 	 … 	 ¨ 	 ö 	 ê 	 y 	 j 	 \ 	 U 	 F 	 6 	 & 	  e: