Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1007.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/07STUMPSCRANTONPENNSYLVANIAPA1,568 WORDS

	I've been traveling this country now for weeks, from Florida to Oregon, from New York to California, and it's great to be back in Pennsylvania.  And I think I know as much as the pollsters know about what's on people's minds in this critical election year.  The people know the country is in trouble.  They are deeply concerned.  They know the choice they have to make November 5th if one of the most important of their political lives.

	And I know what questions the people are asking themselves.  They are asking:  which candidate and which party can you trust?  They are asking: which candidate and which party can end the war?  And they are asking:  which candidate and which party can hold this country together?

	And the American people are not jumping to conclusions.  They are thinking long and hard before making up their minds.  And that's just as it should be. But in the last week, I've noticed something else.  The American people are coming to understand that the type of campaign waged by a candidate for the presidency reveals the kind of president he would make if elected.

	And in the last week I've noticed that more and more people are getting fed up with Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace and their tactics to win the presidency.

	The third-party candidate--George Corley Wallace--has made an organized and deliberate appeal to hate, to fear, to anger, to frustration, to all that's worst in America.

	Is that any way to run for president of the United States?

	Now he's added to his ticket a bombing general who thinks the nuclear bomb is just another weapon--who once suggested that we bomb North Vietnam back to the Stone Age.

	Brute force at home and catastrophic force abroad--between them General LeMay says he would bomb North Vietnam back to the Stone Age and probably start World War III in the process, and George Wallace says he would drive over demonstrators in his car and probably unleash violence and bloodshed here at home.

	But General LeMay and George Wallace are not going to get this chance to destroy America.

	My Republican opponent--Richard M. Nixon--is more careful.  He follows the advice of his highly-paid Madison Avenue advertising executives who are in charge of the Nixon image.  In the South Mr. Nixon says he will not use the only effective federal instrument to enforce the Supreme Court school decision--but in the North he says he doesn't really mean it.  In the North he stood silent during the ugly campaign against Mr. Justice Fortas--and in the South he slyly joined it.  He says he is for the treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons--but he is against ratifying it now and he will not encourage the Senate to ratify it.  He has stood absolutely silent on Vietnam.

	But while Mr. Nixon has been silent, his campaign managers have been mailing secret messages to special interests, such as the stock market traders on Wall Street, assuring them that a Nixon administration will look after their special interests--forget the public interest.

	Given his public career, I'm not surprised Mr. Nixon has remained silent.  Outside of his early congressional campaigns of smear and distortion, Mr. Nixon has compiled virtually no record at all during twenty-two years of running for office.  

	While some of us were fighting for Social Security, Medicare, civil rights, housing, jobs and all the other Democratic programs passed in the last few years, Mr. Nixon sat on the sidelines, only coming on the field to attack and oppose our efforts.

	You remember in 1960 when a reporter asked President Eisenhower to specify the major decisions which Mr. Nixon had participated in as vice president.  You remember President Eisenhower's answer to that reporter, "Just give me a week and I'll think of one."

	And so Mr. Nixon has spent most of this campaign vacationing.  But the White House is no place for a vacationer--and the people know it.

	The public opinion polls, the Republican newspapers, and all the conventional wisdom have convinced him he is going to win.

	And so he has taken the American people for granted.

	I say you can't trust a candidate like George Wallace whose only appeal is to people's fears.  It's time somebody appealed to the best in the American people, not the worst.  And that's what I've tried to do.

	And you can't trust a candidate like Richard Nixon who refuses to speak out on vital issues and who says one thing in the North and another thing in the South.

	Candidates owe it to the people to speak out clearly on the great issues before this country.  And that's what I've tried to do.

	There are forces in this land struggling to divide and embitter our people.  They are demagogues who preach hate and fear and division.  They are radical extremists of the right and radical extremists of the left.

	On the extreme left are those who chant and disrupt meetings and threaten to disrupt the election.  They would deny to others the free speech they demand.  They have seized upon the legitimate grievances of students and capitalized on the unease over the war to mount an attack on the entire American system.

	Theirs is a simple--and totally unacceptable--solution of violent, destructive protest.

	I reject their tactics and I will fight them now just as I have done in the past.

	Freedom of speech, of assembly, of dissent are among the most sacred liberties we possess--and I will defend them in this year of fear and rage as I have defended them all my life.

	On the extreme right are those who preach disrespect for our courts and for some of our laws and who appeal to the darkest fears and deepest suspicions of our people.  They seek the simple solution of violent repression.

	I've gone to the South and said what I thought about Mr. Wallace and his campaign of extremism and fear.

	Mr. Nixon thought he could tip-toe through this issue too.  He wasn't planning to criticize George Wallace and his frightening campaign of fear and hate.  He planned only to tell Southern voters not to throw their votes away on Mr. Wallace.

	But we changed all that.  We forced Mr. Nixon finally to say something.  And in a rare burst of courage he finally said he didn't really think a man who would run over people in his car should be president.

	That's Mr. Nixon's profile of courage--and a mighty weak profile it is.

	When John F. Kennedy came to Pennsylvania eight years ago to usher in a New Frontier and a New Day for your state and our land, he said:  "Republican policies have done nothing for you, but they have done a great deal to you.  The Republicans have vetoed Pennsylvania."

	John Kennedy was absolutely right in 1960.  When the Nixon Republicans got through ruining the prosperity of this country in the 1950s, the unemployment rate in Scranton hit a modern all-time high of 12 percent; 375,000 men and women in Pennsylvania were out of work; farm income fell some $600 million, and throughout this land men suffered from three job-killing recessions.

	But Humphrey-Muskie Democrats believe that every man and every woman has a right to a decent job at good wages.

	And the Democrats have delivered.  Today unemployment in America stands at a fifteen years low.

	Ask yourselves why Richard Nixon is against federal money coming in here to help build schools and pay teachers and construct libraries?  Why is he afraid to help your city lower local property taxes with federal help?

	I've proposed these things and I know we can do them--with your help in this election.

	Richard Nixon talks about "forgotten Americans."  He ought to know.  He forgets you every chance he gets.  Democrats don't forget.  We do things.

	Where were the Nixon-Republicans when time came to vote for you?

	Eighty-one percent of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against the Appalachia Development Act.  Ninety-two percent of the Republicans voted to kill the Economic Development Act.

	That's what the Nixon Republicans think of your problems in Pennsylvania.

	In this campaign the Democrats are running behind.  But we are moving up fast.  John Kennedy once said:  "When the going gets tough, the tough get going."  That is why I have taken the issues of his campaign to the people.  For I believe that in this troubled year the candidates must speak out.  And I intend to keep on speaking out whatever happens, right down until November 5th, when the people--and not the pollsters now anybody else--will choose who shall lead them in the difficult dangerous years to come.

	I believe the United States is the greatest country in the world.  And I believe there is an essential goodness and a potential greatness in the American people.  I believe that goodness can be aroused.  I believe that greatness can be inspired.  I want to build this nation, not tear it down.  I want to unite this people, not divide them.  I offer you no easy answers.  There are none.  But I make my appeal to reason , not to passion.  I appeal to hope, not to fear.  I choose to speak, not stand silent.  And I ask your help in this election.
CIVIL DISORDERCONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNFREEDOM OF SPEECHPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVIETNAM WAR     }$ I$ C$ ?$ 7$
 +$ &$ !$ $ $ $ $  $	 õ 	 ç 	 o 	 Q 	 @ 	   	  e: