Speeches\1996\rep\S96r0911.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)09/11STUMPWASHINGTONDISTRICT OF COLUMBIADCSENATE-HOUSE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE MEETING2,907 WORDS

	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I think ninety days ago today I left the Congress, on June the 11th, and I'm happy to be back. I haven't made it back to the Senate side yet, but I'm happy to be back in the area. And maybe I'll make it to the Senate again before the recess.

	But I want to say, first of all, that we're very proud of the Congress. One of the things I talk about every day is a pro-growth Congress. If we're going to get the country moving, we need a Republican Congress. And we're proud of the Republican Congress and proud of the work that Newt Gingrich and Trent Lott are doing every day and that each one of you are doing every day. And wherever we can help--or if we can't help, you can tell us that--wherever we can help, we're going to be there.

	I believe in the Republican Party, as I said in my acceptance speech. And as Jack has said, we are the party of Lincoln, we are the party of the future, we are the reform party, and it all comes together in the year 1996. And believe me, I'm excited about it. The crowds are enthusiastic, the money is rolling in. I won't reveal how much we took in one week, Haley at the RNC with direct mail, but it was a record setter--millions of dollars. So don't let anybody dissuade you in this effort.

	But I wanted to talk frankly about two or three things. First, we're behind right now. Second, we will win. And third, we're not going to go back to a liberal Democrat Congress in 1996. That's for certain.

	And I'm very proud of Jack Kemp. And a lot of people said it would never happen. In fact, Jack said it would never happen. It happened. I remember seeing Connie Mack--first got off--and Connie was in the final four, I think it's fair to say. And Connie said, "Oh, that's great news that you picked Jack Kemp." And I said, "That's the good news. The bad news is you're going to have to fly around with him after your recess." So Connie and Jack are great friends.

	It was a difficult choice. But it seemed to me, with the economy being on the front burner and having an economic package, there's no better salesman in America than Jack Kemp. He's been out there doing it year after year after year.

	And of course I checked his football record, and he had been traded a lot. So I figured we'd have a lot of hometowns to visit. So--and we've been to San Diego, we've been to Buffalo, and we've been to Pittsburgh. And I don't know, maybe another place or two.

	So we've had a great time, and Joanne is fantastic. She does a great job, and Elizabeth is doing a good job. We've got a good foursome. And we're out there working every day.

	When I leave here today, we go to Connecticut and Delaware. And then tomorrow night, I end up in Montpelier, Ohio, and somebody--quite a lot of people haven't been to Montpelier. I haven't been there before, but I'm going to visit the home of my great-great-grandfather, to claim Ohio as another home state. And they're excited in Montpelier, all of them. And we'll be there. I think--I'm not certain whose district that is, but I think it's Paul Gillmor's.

	But I want to say just a word or two about the next fifty-four days. Fifty-four days is a long time in politics, as all of us know. Each of us have been in close races, tough races. And the polls go up and down, and people get discouraged. But the candidate can never get discouraged. The candidate has to be optimistic. And again, as I said in San Diego, I am the most optimistic man in America. I love America, you love America, we love America. And together, we're going to go forward with America into the next century. It's going to be a better country because of Republican leadership in Congress and Republican leadership in the White House. And we're going to make it happen.

	And we're going to stick on the economic message, make no mistake about it. We're finding out, in surveys where people know about our economic message, there's a big difference in the survey. In California we lead by eight points where people know about our economic package.

	We're going to be talking about tax reduction, about capital gains rate reduction--cut it in half and, as Jack said, 15 percent across-the-board child credits for every child under eighteen. It resonates--it resonates with audiences all across America. We're going to reach out. We're going to also have estate tax relief. We'll get it started--won't be as much as we'd like, but--because of the cost.

	We've also been talking about opportunity scholarships and what we call choice and competition in schools. I have a lot of confidence in teachers and parents. I'm a product of public schools. I like public schools. But I don't think a little competition would hurt. And I recall what particularly the House did so well, in trying to get scholarships--you called them vouchers--in the District of Columbia.

	So Jack and I are out there talking to low-income parents and low-middle-income parents. We're Republicans, you understand, and we're reaching out to low-income families. And we're looking them in the eye and we're saying, "I'm Bob Dole. I'm a Republican. Your child should have the same choice of an education as President Clinton's child has or as President Clinton has, or anybody else."

	And I don't criticize President Clinton. Don't misunderstand me. But if he has a choice as a parent, why can't everybody in America have a choice as a parent, to send their child to the best possible school--maybe a better public school, maybe another school?

	And that may shock some, coming from Republicans. But it's been debated on the House floor. You initiated it in the House, the Republican House initiated it. And I picked it up from you and from Lamar Alexander, former secretary of education. We broadened it a bit. We call it opportunity scholarships, and we believe it.

	And it seems to me that we've got to give the schools back to the teachers and the parents, and take them away from the union leaders who sit in Washington, D.C., and call themselves the National Education Association. And that's what we're going to do.

	And when I'm sitting in the White House, I won't be twisting arms in the Senate trying to defeat a constitutional amendment for a balanced budget, I'll be twisting arms the other way.

	And wages are also at stake, and wage stagnation has taken this country and this election. We want to create opportunities. We can't do it without growth, we can't have growth without tax reductions, and finally, as Dick knows, without a whole change of the tax system.

	We don't know precisely what that system will be. But I note that Ross Perot has picked up on it--ending the IRS as we know it. A lot of "me too" candidates getting into this race at this point. But we're going to make it work. We're going to end the IRS as we know it, and we're going to change the tax system, that's phase two of the Dole-Kemp tax package.

	And today a book's coming out, a little book's coming out called Trusting the People. This will be available to members and be on bookshelves all across America about our economic plan. This is the economic plan for the next century. This is the Bob Dole-Jack Kemp-Republican Congress plan. We're going to sell it. The American people deserve it. And we want you to help us in the next fifty-four days.

	And keep in mind it's a six-point package. Oh yes, it's tax reduction. It's also a constitutional amendment for a balanced budget. It's a balanced budget by the year 2002. It's regulatory reform--another $7,000 tax per family in America--regulatory reform, which you cannot get through the Senate because of President Clinton's opposition. It's litigation reform. It's education and training. A six-point package for economic recovery--economic recovery--getting the growth rate back up to 3 percent or 3.5 percent, creating jobs and creating opportunities. That's number one.

	We've heard a lot about drugs. If you picked up Washington--Sunday's Washington Post you read how drugs were streaming in from Mexico, hard stuff, cocaine. And what has happened in this administration? We know what's happened. Drug use among twelve to seventeen-year-olds has doubled under the Clinton watch. And he can't escape it.

	They ridiculed Nancy Reagan. The liberals had a great time with Nancy Reagan, but she had this program saying "Just say no." But she stood there as the First Lady with some moral authority and spoke to the children and spoke to their parents and spoke to their grandparents, and they listened. And you know what happened? Drug use went down and down and down, and the same in the Bush administration.

	Along came Bill Clinton. And he changed that "Just say no" slogan to "Just say nothing." And he didn't say anything, and they cut funding, and we all know that. They stopped a lot of interdiction, and drug use has doubled. Drug use has doubled.

	And in my view on day one, on January 20th in 1997, Bob Dole and Jack Kemp are going to start a war on drugs, and we're going to make it pay, and we're going to stop drugs at the border if necessary. And I've spoken to the National Guard, and they're willing to accept the mission. We will stop drugs before they come into America, and that's the best way for prevention.

	And I'll just take a couple more minutes. I know you've got another speaker, not here, but a little later.

	Judiciary. We started a Hall of Shame in the Senate of some of the judges appointed in this administration, some who refuse to prosecute people who handled big piles of illegal drugs up in New York, as Alfonse knows. And I've said, and I believe it, I'm not going to give litmus tests for judges, but I want them to be conservative; I want them to strictly construe the Constitution of the United States. And if they want to be legislators they can run for Congress. I don't want them expanding and distorting the Constitution.

	And I would say to my friends, pro-choice or pro-life, there's one procedure we've got to stop, and that's a partial-birth abortion. We need to stop it. It will not have a future if I'm the president. I will not veto it and then try to have it both ways, as President Clinton always tries to do. I will sign the bill.

	But it all boils down, as I conclude, to trust. And trust is very important in politics. We all know that. All we have is our word, whether we're Democrats or Republicans or Independents or members of the staff or whatever; all we have in this business is our word, and once you violate that, you don't have much left, you've lost your credibility.

	And it seems to me, in the final analysis, the American people are going to say, "Well, let's see, here's Candidate A and here's Candidate B. Which one can I trust?" And "trust" is a broad word; means a lot of things to a lot of people.

	Some people are concerned that Republicans are going to rip up the safety net. Not in a Dole-Kemp administration, it's not going to happen because we understand--I understand, we all understand, there are people in this country who are going to have to rely on government help, and we're going to be there.

	We're a caring party, we're a compassionate party. We have better ideas; we think we can shrink the government and make it more effective and more compassionate and more caring, and we can send power back to the states and back to the people in accordance with the Tenth Amendment. And the people are waiting for it, they want it, they want it, they want the power. They're waiting for us.

	And I told Jack, I think the American voter is just waiting for Bob Dole and Jack Kemp and Republican members of Congress and Republican governors and Republican officeholders and Republicans generally to give them one good reason not to vote for the other person. And I believe in the final analysis that reason is going to be trust--trust.

	Who do I trust when I'm talking about my son or daughter in the armed forces? Who do I trust in making decisions about sending my son or my daughter halfway around the world to protect our liberty or our freedom? Who do I trust, Bob Dole or Bill Clinton? Who do I trust when it comes to tax policy, somebody who promised me a tax cut in '92 and then gave us the biggest tax increase in the history of America? Or do I trust someone else who says I will keep my word? And I will keep my word, and my word is good. Who do we trust when it comes to dealing with Medicare and Social Security? Do we trust a party and an individual who understands there's a problem, we better fix it or nobody's going to get their doctor or hospital bills paid? We ought to solve that problem, as we're trying to do on the Republican side.

	So I'm willing to stand by trust. As I said in an interview with Barbara Walters this Friday, she said, "What do you want on your tombstone?" I said, "The people trusted me." That's what it's about, it's about trust. And what do they have to offset trust? Fear. That's all they've got. They don't have any ideas, they don't have any agenda, but they're out preaching fear. They've spent millions and millions and millions of dollars on television scaring senior citizens, scaring veterans, scaring parents about education, scaring people concerned about the environment. All they have is fear.

	You go back and read a piece in the New Yorker magazine--I'm going to try to find it today somewhere--about a month--about a year ago, and it predicted how they would run their campaign in 1996. And it said what they have is fear; they're going to frighten people. They've got the money; they will frighten people. Well, I've got news for them. I think together, all of us together, we can offset that fear. We can look people in the eye--senior citizens or veterans or parents or environmentalists or whoever--and say, "Here we are. We're the party of common sense, we're the party of reform, we're the party of change, we are the party of the future." And that's what this election's all about.

	And I would just conclude--you know, I was digging--once you're out of this place, they talk about your archives. So I've had an archive--archivist working for years. And I talked in my acceptance speech about the man on the train and about my father, and about--I think it was two weeks ago, I was looking through some of this archivist business, and I want to say to those fainthearted people in the audience--there are probably not very many--don't worry about this election, we're going to win. We're going to win. We're going to make it happen.

	And I went back--I found this letter, which indicates that I've--you know, I've been in a tough spot before. It's a letter that says, "We regret to inform you that your son, Robert J. Dole, who was admitted to this hospital on October 10, 1945, is seriously ill with pulmonary infraction. At the present, it would appear that his recovery is somewhat questionable." That was from a second lieutenant to my father, and that's why my father came there. "If it is your desire to visit him at this hospital, you may feel free to do so at any time. You may rest assured that everything has been and is being done to bring about his speedy recovery." 

	Now, I brought this letter this morning to read it because I understand you have your ups and downs in this business, you have your ups and downs in this life. But the bottom line is, if you're optimistic, if you have the right message, if you believe in the American people--and I've believed in the American people for a long, long time; they've gotten me through a lot of tough spots, they've gotten you through a lot of tough spots with their prayers, with their hopes, with their work. And we're going to do it again, we're going to win on November 5th, 1996 and it's going to be because you were out there working with us, we were all working together. The Republican Party, as I said, is the party of the future.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECONDUCT OF LIFE--TRUST/HONESTYCONGRESSDRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG ABUSE--MINORSDRUG TRADE--GENERALEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)TAX REFORMTAXATION--GENERALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOME     @ ‘? Œ?  ? ¿?
 ∏? ≥? Æ? §? ê? é? d? Y?	 	 ¯ 	 ⁄ 	 “ 	 Æ 	 ú 	 â 	 O 	 1 	 ' 	  e: