Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1015.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/15STUMPMEMPHISTENNESSEETN2051 WORDS

	I deeply appreciate the introduction by Ed O'Neal, a great leader of American agriculture.  He has given a lifetime of honorable service to the farmers of this country.  The farm programs which exist today are a monument to him and to other far-sighted men, men from both parties.  Ed O'Neal helped bring farm leaders from the West and South together.  Out of those meetings grew many of the basic ideas that today are embodied in agricultural programs.  These programs were nonpartisan in character and should so remain.  I am sorry to say that the existing administration has tried to make them partisan; to use them for political ends.  I know southern farmers and farmers all over this country resent this fact and will make their resentment known at the opportune time.

	I come here today with a feeling of kinship for the South--a feeling which goes back to my family ties to the South and to experience outside the United States.  By tradition and by training, the South realizes clearly the trade ties which link us with the rest of the world.  You realize clearly our interdependence with the rest of the world.

	There are no isolationists in the South.

	Memphis is one of the great cotton markets of the world. It lies in the heart of an agricultural empire.  You have industry and lots of it.  But your economic welfare depends directly upon agriculture, and my talk today is devoted primarily to agriculture.

	Here and now, let me say to you what I have said to farmers elsewhere.  I stand behind the price support laws now on the books.  This includes the amendment to the basic Farm Act, approved by both parties in Congress, to continue through 1954 the price supports on basic commodities at ninety percent of parity.

	Present price supports apply to four of the great crops of the South-- cotton, tobacco, rice and peanuts.  All of these, as you know, are directly affected by world events and world conditions.

	The mandatory price supports at ninety percent of parity will expire at the end of 1954.  This means we have just two years--beginning next January--to plan ahead.  In those two years we must mobilize the best brains of agriculture-- farmers, farm organization leaders, legislators, agricultural specialists, to join us in building and improving our long-range farm policies and programs.

	With single-minded purpose, we must move toward sound farmer-run programs which assure farmers their full share of the national income, and we will do this without putting farmers in a government straitjacket.

	Then we will take our farm programs out of the grasping hands of politicians who have to use those programs to corral the farmers' vote.  A sound agriculture is to everybody's advantage.  We will take these programs out of partisan politics.  We will then move forward to strengthen them.

	We will find a sound way for the farmers to shift patterns of production without losing the basic protection to which agriculture is entitled.

	Conditions affecting agriculture are constantly changing.  We must, therefore, realize that a formula which works today may not work tomorrow.  Most important, we must be prepared to do the right thing at the right time.  At all times, southern farmers must have their say as to what is right.

	We will establish a bipartisan farm commission to review existing farm programs and to help plan for the future.  And when I say bipartisan, I mean bipartisan.  On this commission will be outstanding farm leaders of the South.

	But I don't believe any more than you do, that price supports alone make a complete farm program.  Price support programs--like many other federal programs--should be regarded as floors.  They give farmers protection.  But they don't enable farmers to reach the major objective.  That objective is a fair share of the national income for agriculture.

	To work toward this goal, our main reliance must be on the initiative, energy and ability of our citizens as they are expressed through our private enterprise system.  The government can and should help farmers, as a partner-- not a dictator.  It will help to develop new opportunities, new markets, and new efficiency.  Then the farmer will move forward toward this rightful income goal.

	Today, the initiative of our citizens is being hampered by unnecessary and unwanted bureaucratic control.  It is being choked by a dangerous policy that deliberately fosters inflation.  Our future is being mortgaged by a national debt--a debt which will be a heavy burden on our children and their children.

	Today, prices for most farm products--although there are notable exceptions--appear on the surface to be good.  But farmers know that they are caught in a squeeze that is flattening their pocketbooks.  Their costs are rising alarmingly, while their prices are weakening and their taxes soaring.

	Farm production costs in the United States have more than tripled since 1940.  Every time you turn around, it costs you more to keep going.  It cost twenty-four percent more to operate a cotton farm in 1951 than it did the year before.  It is costing a lot more in 1952, and costs are still rising.

	The plain fact is that the income of farmers, after expenses and taxes, is going down.

	This squeeze hurts in many ways.  For example, farmers are having to borrow more money to meet their costs.  Short-term borrowings have been forced up twenty percent so far this year--the largest rise since 1921.  This hits all farmers.  But it is particularly hard on small farmers and young farmers-- especially young veterans--who are trying to buy farms.  They find that production costs take all their cash and strain their credit. 

	Farmers are tired of the wasteful spending, higher costs, and ever- mounting taxes which are the inevitable partners of inflation in the hands of an irresponsible administration.

	Southern farmers, like anyone else, want to call a halt to all this.  They want a change.  They can help get that change on November 4.

	Southern farmers are concerned with the future for still other reasons.  They greatly need an expanded research program.

	The South must have the answers to literally hundreds of questions as its farming moves toward greater mechanization.  In particular, we need bold, imaginative research to bring mechanization to smaller farms.

	Here I pay tribute to all segments of the cotton industry for their foresight in finding ways to increase the uses of cotton.  But the cotton industry needs help with this tremendous job.

	The fact is, we are spending on research for agriculture only one-ninth as much per unit of income as American industry is spending on research.  This is shortsighted.  We must greatly enlarge our system of research and education and extension in the Land Grant Colleges.  This would be a real investment in the future.

	In this region, you are deeply interested in the Tennessee Valley Authority, and in the past it has played in the improvement of the agriculture and commerce in this area.  TVA has served rural areas well and has created many new industries in this section.  It has helped conserve natural resources, control floods, and promote national defense.  Certainly, there would be no disposition on my part to impair the effective working out of TVA.  It is a great experiment in resource development and flood control for this particular area.

	We should not, however, look upon the TVA as a rigid pattern for such development in other regions.  In the Missouri Valley, for example, many officials and other thoughtful citizens are considering the possibility of a legal arrangement which would make state and federal agencies true partners in developing the resources of that great region.  We should give all such suggestions serious consideration.  This is the system I favor, in general, for new projects.

	Our goal should be to work out river basin development the way the people in the region want it done.

	A constructive job can be done with the cooperation of an administration in Washington that is devoted to the principle of decentralized government and to the principle of states' rights, as well as to the full development of our resources.

	No region of our nation has greater soil problems, or benefits more from a sound conservation program, than the South.  We must strengthen all conservation activities.  But these activities should not carry a political price-tag.

	The Agricultural Conservation Program, administered by PMA, is now permeated with partisan politics.  At this very moment, in certain areas, federal employees--paid with your tax dollars--are meeting with the farmer-committeemen and other farmers, misrepresenting my views about farm programs.  They are urging farmers to vote to perpetuate all the mistakes and fumbling of the present administration.  I am glad to say that thousands of PMA committeemen deeply resent the pollution of these programs with politics.  And so do I!

	Recently my two opponents--the president and his hand-picked candidate-- have said that on July 21, 1949, Republicans voted forty to one against the plan to help the producer of perishables.  The plain truth is that the vote in Congress that day was on the Brannan Plan--nothing else.  I am proud that on that day members of my party joined with Democrats to defeat that monstrous proposal!

	I pledge you an administration that will cleanse all farm programs of partisan politics, that will decentralize their administration, that will increase farmer-participation in their own programs.  And I pledge you now:  There will be no Brannan Plans!

	No section of the country will benefit more than the South from healthy trade with the rest of the world.  We have built in the United States an agriculture which, for continuing prosperity, must sell much of its cotton, tobacco, rice, wheat and other farm commodities on the world market.  We also have built an industrial empire which, for its successful operation, must draw many raw commodities and some processed goods from the Far East, Middle East, Europe, South Africa, South America and elsewhere.

	If we were suddenly cut off from the rest of the world, our entire agriculture and industrial economy would collapse.

	But, sound trade relations with the world are far more than an essential part of our economic system.  They are also a means toward peace, and they are a fruitful product of peace.

	Peace is our supreme goal.  The present administration has not ended war or the fear of war.  You and I have a right to hope--not fear--for the future of our country.  We have a right to a steady, clear-headed leadership by able and devoted men and women who will work unceasingly and effectively toward a true and lasting peace.

	These are harrowing times and our hearts are troubled by the thoughts of our boys--yours and mine--now in Korea.  We have a right to be deeply worried by the terrifying possibility that the same leadership that let us drift into the Korean War, might bungle us into still greater conflict.  We have a right to be distrustful of a leadership which has allowed the Godless red tide of Communism to engulf hundreds of millions of people who were once our friends and allies.  We have a right to be suspicious of the judgment of an administration which failed to see the red stain seeping into the most vital offices of our own government.

	We must now work--all of us--to regain our lost peace.  As a start, we must establish a leadership of our ablest men and women in Washington that we can trust--we must have an administration which inspires the confidence of our allies and the respect of the world.  We must build a strong, secure, solvent United States that can and will cooperate intelligently, consistently, and effectively with other friendly nations in the cause of peace.

	And we must approach this all-important task with faith in Almighty God, the faith that is rooted deep in both our religious convictions and our concepts of freedom.  It must be the same intense faith which gave vision and strength to our founding fathers.  That is the faith which, throughout our history, has made the United States the symbol of freedom for the world.  With the renewal of our faith, we will not falter in the task.   
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCOMMUNISMNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTREGIONALISM--SOUTHRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTAGRICULTURE--GENERAL     41  1 ú0 ö0 ì0
 Þ0 Ù0 Ô0 Í0 Ä0 Â0 Â0 ¸0	 ¾ 	 ¥ 	 ‰ 	 d 	 [ 	 > 	 ,   e: