Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1023.001SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/23STUMPMaconGEORGIAGA3,134 WORDS

	All right. Thank you very much. I'm--there's two four-letter words you can teach your kids: Dole-Kemp, Dole-Kemp.

	You know, I was over there thinking, if I had a dollar for every time Clinton leveled with the American people, I would keep one and give one to Elizabeth.

	But I want to welcome you all to this retirement party for Bill Clinton this morning. I'm glad you're here.

	I want to thank...[missing text]. It's an honor to be in his district. I was here when he first ran. He's done an outstanding job as a new member of Congress and will continue working for all of you, all of you regardless of party. A good, conservative member of Congress. That's what we need. We need more of them. Get rid of some of the liberals and send us some more conservatives. That's the American way.

	And Tilly Fowler, who was Tilly Kid, when she was in Georgia and her father was in the legislature--she is so popular nobody even ran against her in the general election. And somewhere out there her sister's roaming around. Her sister's out there somewhere. In any event, we'll find her later.

	Paul Coverdale is my good friend. He's done an outstanding job, will be the senior citizen...[missing text]...part of our leadership, blazing the way and of course, his election. I said this to start. His special election sort of set the stage for the 1994 revolution, when Republicans took over Congress, conservatives took over Congress.

	And it all started right here in Georgia. Well, let me say it's only two weeks now until election day. The clock is ticking. Many Americans are just beginning to focus on this election. They are probably still 30 percent of the voters undecided in America, and we're finding that more and more of the undecided are coming our way. And when I see the future behind me here, the young children, their mothers, maybe their grandmothers are around, too--when I think of the future, there's no doubt in my mind that what America needs is strong, decisive, honest leadership in the White House.

	And I believe the current administration is out of touch with the problems in America. And I believe the federal government is too big and spends too much of your money. It is your money. It's your money.

	In many families today one parent works full time for the family and the other works full time just to pay the taxes, because the taxes now are the highest in history--nearly 40 percent of what you make--more than a food, clothing, and shelter combined cost to your family, you pay in taxes. We want to turn that around. We want a tax cut. We haven't had a federal tax cut for ten years. We can do it. President Clinton says he can't do it. We know he can't do it--that's why we want another President--somebody who'll cut your taxes.

	I mean the President says he--we had these little debates. He doesn't want to have any more. We have these little debates. And he said, "Well, I've created 11 million new jobs." And I said, "Yeah, I met a guy the other day that's got three of them." You know--the husband works, the wife has to work. If they want to work, that's fine. This is America. But they shouldn't have to work just to pay the taxes. You shouldn't have to have three jobs--one eight hour job, one at night, and one of the weekend just to pay your bills and just to pay the taxes, Mr. President. That is not a good economy. That's not good for the family. That's not good for anybody. So why not have a little tax cut--15 percent across the board--

	And Kappa Sigs are going to get more, of course, yeah. I found a fraternity brother out there. All right. You get 25 percent. Yeah.

	And we're going to have a $500 credit for every child. I see one here--somebody holding a child. I see three--bring those three babies up here. Yeah. Right up here. Yeah.

	These are young conservatives, right here. Oh, here's ______ oh, look a this. There's $2,000 in credits right there--$500 apiece. One child, $500, two child $1,000--ten, you're probably too busy to worry about taxes--$5,000. Think of it.

	This is a working family's tax cut. It's not a Wall Street. It's not for the rich. Even President Clinton has not said this is a tax cut for the rich. He just says the government can't afford it. Well, did he come down and ask you if you could afford the tax increase in 1993?

	He said he was going to tax the rich. Who did he tax? Yeah. Everybody out here. If you're a small-businessman or small-businesswoman, you paid seventy percent of the increase. If you're a senior citizen--I don't see any here today--but if you know of one--oh, here's one. All right. He raised your taxes on Social Security. While he was trying to scare you on Medicare he took it out of the other pocket. He raised your taxes on Social Security. And if you drive a car, or a tractor as you do in this part of the country--$32 billion in gas tax increases--not to build highways, but to go in these little pet programs that President Clinton likes to talk about--these liberal spending programs. So we're going to give you some of your money back. It's your money--it's your money.

	And we're going to cut the capital gains rate in half 50 percent. Give businessmen and farmers and others a break. We have $7 trillion in assets locked up in America, and you know why? Because they can't afford to sell, because the capital gains rate is too high. We're going to create more jobs and more activity and more profit in America by cutting the capital gains rate in half, than you've ever heard of. And we're going to do it in a Dole-Kemp administration.

	And again it's very simple. Since it's your money, you shouldn't have to apologize for wanting to keep more of it. The government ought to apologize for taking so much of it in the first place. That is the basic difference.

	And I believe instead of these mothers back here pinching pennies, the government ought to pinch pennies for a change. So the average family, making $30,000 a year--a family of four--there would be a tax cut of $1,261 per year--that's an 86 percent tax cut--86 percent--for working families, working families. It's your money--working families--keep those things in mind, because President Clinton may come to Georgia again, as he did in 1992. And he'll--

	Yeah. Well--yeah. I mean, everybody's got to go to Atlanta to get to Little Rock, or wherever it is, you know. And he'll get the tax cut if he leaves his forwarding address. We'll be sure that he gets it next year.

	So--we are serious. This is serious business. It's about our economy. It's about economic growth. It's about agriculture. It's about small-businessmen and small-businesswomen.

	One more thing we're going to do is restore the home office deduction so mothers can stay at home, or people with disabilities can stay at home and get the home office deduction. We're reaching out for those soccer moms all across America, because they're important.

	And let me read an excerpt--a letter I received just three days ago from a lady in Minnesota. And I quote--as a young woman who works full time and goes to school part time, the only way that I want your help is by giving me more of my money back. Give me more of my money back. So my husband and I can make decisions based on trying to get ahead--my husband and I--not the government--my husband and I can make decisions on trying to get ahead. You see, if we had 15 percent of the money the government takes from us, it could mean that we would have the option of me working part time and going to school full time. I would be finished with my degree twice as fast as I'm getting it now, and can start working in my field as a teacher more quickly. It is obvious that it is better for everyone. Or we could put that money toward a savings account, or maybe even take a vacation. That's not illegal either in a--it won't be in a Dole-Kemp administration. So--

	That's what it's all about. Real Americans working hard and doing the best for their families, and they don't want to be told how to run their lives. They just want a chance to do it on their own, and as I said, this tax cut is important. It's part of a six-point economic plan that Paul helped put together. First we want a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. I'm for it--he's against it.

	We're going to balance the budget by the year 2,002. We're going to stop some of these regulations that cost the average family in Georgia $7,000 a year. We'll protect the water, we'll protect your health, we'll protect your food. We'll protect the air. But we can do it with some common sense and save a lot of money in the process.

	We're going to have litigation reform--stop some of these frivolous lawsuits. I'm not certain how many saw it, but I was out in California a couple of months ago and the railing gave way, and I dove into the crowd. And on the way down my cell phone rang. And this trial lawyer says, "I think we've got a case here, Bob." You know--we're going to stop some of those frivolous lawsuits that put small-businessmen and women out of business.

	And we're going to put a cap on punitive damage that wipes people out and wipes people out of their business. We're also going to send all this money--$5 billion a year--we have for work training programs--we're going to send it back to the states--more power back to the states and back to the people, closer to the people.

	But we're not going to touch Medicare. Let me say to that senior citizen who's here today, that a lot of scare ads--we think about $91 million worth of scare ads run across America this year. Here's a President who raised taxes on your Social Security, trying to frighten you on Medicare. We're going to save and strengthen and preserve Medicare just as I helped save Social Security with Claude Pepper, a Democrat, and others in 1983. We're going to have a bipartisan, nonpartisan commission, take it out of politics, save Medicare. We know that it's going to be broke in three years. And under our plan we increase Medicare spending 39 percent. So don't let President Clinton scare you on that one, either.

	In fact the executive director of the AARP, which represents a lot of people in America, sent a letter last week to the chairman of both parties. And the letter essentially said what we've been telling President Clinton, and what his own advisor's been telling him for a long time--Medicare, they say, is on the path to bankruptcy. We better fix it instead of playing politics with it, or a lot of people are not going to have their bills paid. So I want to fix it. I want to fix it. And we will do that on a nonpartisan basis when I am President of the United States.

	And nobody's going to be forced out of Medicare. That's another scare tactic they're using in Georgia and Florida and other states across the country. We are going to make the country work. We're going to make the economy grow.

	We're also going to take a look at all the young people in the audience and audiences around America, and say, "Wait a minute. Why did drug use double when Clinton was President?" Why? Because he didn't do anything. He didn't do anything. I don't know what he said on MTV about inhaling, but he didn't do one thing about drugs when he became President of the United States, and for the ages twelve to seventeen, drug use doubled. It doubled. We're going to cut it in half in the first four years, just as Ronald Reagan and George Bush cut it in half. We'll cut it in half again.

	We also have in our plan, and then I'll conclude--opportunity scholarships. Think about it. There are probably low income parents in Macon, who would like to have a choice, maybe a better choice. I'm a product of public schools. I like public schools. Most everybody will continue to go to public schools.

	But in some cases we have--I was in Ohio yesterday and the governor told me that in the state of Ohio, in some of the cities, where a hundred young people enter kindergarten, thirty graduate from college. Now that's a disaster. That's a disaster and it's happening all over America.

	So we--we can't stand up and look you in the eye and say the President's system is working. One out of four high school graduates are functionally illiterate. The most popular course in college is remedial reading, because you can't read when you graduate from high school in many places.

	We want to give low income parents and middle income parents a choice, the same choice the President has who sends his daughter to a private school and I applaud him for it. He wants the best education possible. But what about somebody who doesn't have the money or the power or the prestige? Why shouldn't their child have the same opportunity--to send their child to the best school possible in Macon or anywhere in America? And that's part of our program and we're going to get it done.

	I also believe in a strong defense. We've cut defense too much. President Clinton's cut defense too much. He said he was going to cut $67 billion. He cut $112 billion in defense. We're going to strengthen our defenses when I'm President of the United States. We're going to strengthen our defenses. I know we've got to be careful. I know we've got to watch the defense budget, but as the commander-in-chief, if I'm going to make an error it's going to be on the side of having enough and not having too little, when it comes to defense.

	And I'm a product of World War II, where some of us had to train with broomsticks--we didn't have enough rifles. We didn't have enough rifles. Then I came to Fort Benning, Georgia, in ninety days got to be a second lieutenant. I knew everything. In ninety days I was a wonder. Then I went over to Italy and--Mark Clark was the general. He never called. I kept waiting by the phone. I thought I was the only second lieutenant in Italy. He never called, but we won. We won because of American spirit, we won because of American sacrifice. We won because of American know how. People stayed home and made the machines, and produced the food, and did all the things they had to do. We should never be second to none, to anybody in this world. This is the United States of America.

	And if we ever make a decision on sending somebody halfway around the world to protect us, I will make that decision, and not Boutros, Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations.

	So I want to conclude this, and remind you of two or three, I think, basic things, that sometimes I wonder if people are focusing on. The balanced budget amendment--if we're ever going to have any discipline in America, we need a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. We lost by one vote in the Senate because President Clinton used his powers of persuasion to convince six Democrats to vote the other way, who said they were for the balanced budget amendment.

	I want to protect the flag that's being waved out here today with a Constitutional amendment. I want to protect the flag. And he's against it.

	I believe we can have voluntary prayer in school and he's against it. That's the basic difference.

	And I will appoint conservative judges to the bench who will interpret the Constitution.

	And if you send me a partial birth abortion bill I will sign it; I will not veto it. And I don't care what your view is on abortion, pro-life or pro-choice. If you understood this procedure you would be against it. Dr. Koop said--Dr. Koop said--Dr. Koop, whom President Clinton loves to quote, says it's never necessary; in fact, it can harm the mother. This is Dr. Edward Everett Koop. So let's get it, let's pass that bill. I'll sign it. I won't veto it.

	So the decision is up to you. It's all going to be yours. Georgia's a very important state in this election. We want to carry the South all the way, solid, all the way. Maybe not Arkansas, but maybe everything else. And this is a state that we must win. This is a state that we should win.

	I'm a--I'm a conservative; he's a liberal. Don't let him fool you. For the first--he's already had two terms. He had one two-year term where he was a liberal. Now, the last two years he's trying to act like a moderate or something else.

	But, Ted Kennedy's still his chief advisor, and Ted will still be around. As I said in the debate--I was speaking one day on the Senate floor and I said, "Now, gentlemen, let me tax your memories." And Ted Kennedy stood up and said, "Why haven't we thought of that before?" They want to tax everything. Everything. Everything.

	Now if you want to end this, think what he tried to do to health care. Don't forget what they tried to do to health care--$1.5 trillion in new spending, seventeen new taxes, price controls, fifty new bureaucracies.

	This is the real candidate Clinton, not the candidate who's out there now talking like a conservative. Keep this in mind. He's never changed. He's a liberal. He's a liberal. He's a liberal. Don't let him forget it.

	And with your help, and God willing, we're going to make it on November 5. 

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
ABORTIONBUDGET, BALANCEDCAPITAL GAINS TAXCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEDRUG ABUSE--MINORSEDUCATION, PRIVATE/PAROCHIAL--TAX CREDITS AND SCHOLARSHIPSFLAG/FLAG ISSUESGASOLINE TAXINCOME TAX--CREDITS PER CHILDLIBERALISMLITERACYMEDICAREMILITARY PREPAREDNESSTAXATION--GENERAL     D ÚC ÔC ÐC ÆC
 ¾C ¹C ´C ¯C ¨C ¦C ›C	 	 	 ÷ 	 æ 	 Å 	 ³ 	 y 	 i 	 ] 	 @ 	 6 	 . 	 & 	  e: