Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0922.004SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/22STUMPCLEVELANDOHIOOHSHERATON HOTEL3,853 WORDS

	Thank you.  Thank you.  Bert, I want them to save all that energy.  Thank you very much, Bert Porter.  It's always a special pleasure for me to come to Cleveland to be introduced by you, to be welcomed by the good mayor.  And by the way, he made a fighting speech here today.  It's a good one for any day, including Sunday.  We want to thank you very much, Carl.

	There is so many here that I would like to acknowledge that I hesitate to get started but I'm going to start acknowledging folks that I know can just pull this ticket through and make things really click.

	The first thing, I want to tell Mike Feighan: you just gather in all the votes you can, Mike, and give me my fair share.  That's all I want.  Then I want Charlie Vanik to not to be too greedy about his votes, too.  Just get in all you can get, Charles, and give me my fair share.  And when you pile them in from both of these congressmen I hope that you will give every single vote that you can possibly measure to the next United States senator from the state of Ohio, Jack Gilligan.  That's the man we need.  I have been looking over this program today that we are going to have out at the annual steer roast.  I see this fine array of candidates, every one of them undoubtedly the right man and the right woman to be elected to whatever office they aspire, but there are four members of the four contestants here for Congress, two incumbents that I already mentioned, and two that we hope and pray will receive the majority vote of the people of their respective districts, and I know they are here with us and I want very much to emphasize the importance of the election of Louis Stokes and of James Stanton to back up Mike Feighan and Charlie Vanik.  They both need to be elected.  I have the privilege of having Tony Calabrese and Frank King join us as we came down today or came here from Columbus, and I guess everybody knows that I have been a long time friend of these gentlemen and I want to say particularly to Frank, who has been the minority leader up there in the Ohio state Senate, how much we have all appreciated his remarkable steadfastness, his great loyalty to the Democratic party and to the best interests of the state of Ohio.  This man is truly a great public servant.  John McDonald, who has done exactly the same thing over on the other side as the minority leader over in the Ohio state house of representatives, the only thing is that these fellows ought to quit being minority leaders and become majority leaders.  And to Pat O'Malley, that fine Swedish gentleman--we thank you and your labor movement for what you do for all of us.

	Now, I was asked to say--to make a few remarks here today. I don't know what that is going to end up in.  It's hard to tell.  But I do not know one thing, that if I can do as well in Cleveland and Cuyahoga county as Dr Samuel Gerber, if I can get as many votes as Doc Gerber, I am in.

	Doc, would you mind just kind of keep stroking me all the time up here?  He really has the touch, that man has.  He has the touch.  Every place you go, Doc, I want you to just interrupt the remarks that you may have to say I have a very special friend and he is the candidate on the Democratic ticket for the office of president and if you will just keep saying that--and the name is Humphrey-- I think it's going to do a lot of good around these precincts.

The same thing is true for Bert Porter over here running for county engineer.  I guess these two just have it made, I don't know.  They do it the way we all want to do it and if they do it the way they want to do it, maybe we will all get a chance to do it. 

	Thank you very much.  To Peter Grady: may I just take a moment to express my thanks to Pete for that wonderful dinner last night up at Columbus.  It was really a remarkable occasion. We had the Democrats there and they were jumping and they were screaming and they were applauding and they were shouting.  It was the kind of dinner that would have warmed your heart, and I hope it made a little money for you, too, Pete.  Anyway, it was a real fine affair and gave me the sense of feeling that we are on the road here in Ohio, we are on the road to the success that this great county and this great community can testify to.  One out of every five votes, I understand, in the state of Ohio are in this county.  Now, that's a good, good average to go in with, and if we can start to get our share of that one out of every five right here in Cleveland and this county, we are going to start to be on the victory road.

	I know that Ohio is often spoken of as a state that is very difficult for the Democrats to carry, but it's been carried, and because it's been carried in the past, I think it can be carried in the present.  I think we have the makings here of what is needed for a victory in 1968 and I will tell you why I think so.  First of all, your Republican opposition thinks they have it made. They are feeling pretty good, they are active, they are confident, their candidate is cool and relaxed, they tell me.  Well, let me tell you, he will be taking tranquilizers before this thing is over.   I intend to sell them to him right out of Humphrey's drug store.   I know that this state is recognized as one that can be the--well, it can be the crucial state.

	Surely here in Cleveland in 1960 John Kennedy felt that it was here in this city, and I believe it was at the steer roast if I'm not mistaken, in this great city, that he said that he felt that was the turning point of this campaign and while he did not carry the state, he went out of Cleveland with a great majority and he knew that the message of enthusiasm for his candidacy had permeated the entire nation, and if you don't mind my bragging a little bit, it got as far as Minnesota and we carried John Kennedy in Minnesota in 1960.

	And I talked to a gentlemen yesterday that told me a little bit about Ohio, too.  I was out in the state of Missouri, stopped by out at the airport at Kansas City, got in a car and drove over to Independence, Missouri, and I talked to a man that did carry this state, and I talked to a man that gave me more sound political advice in a brief visit that I had with him than I have had in all the years of public life.  And you know what he told me?  And you know, of course, to whom I refer, the one and the only, the incomparable, the greatest of them all, Harry S. Truman.  I said, "Mr. President, just what advice have you for me?"  He said, "Hubert, you just go out to the people and tell them the truth and particularly about those Republicans, and you give the Republicans what" Carl Stokes said that you're supposed to do.  And how well we remember it, an uphill fight, one that all the pundits, all the columnists and all the predictors said was impossible.  For you know, I have been looking at the polls, too, but the polls that I like best are the ones that must be leads. and I told a group in Columbus last night that I read these polls in Ohio and I know they are wrong, I got more relatives in this state than that, but quite frankly, all my relatives don't vote straight.  That's the trouble, a little politically unreliable but it's not bad to be an underdog, not at all.  As a matter of fact, that's been somewhat the--well, it's been somewhat the pattern of my political life.  I want to share with you some observations about that.

	When I run for mayor of Minneapolis, Carl, in 1945 against the incumbent mayor, I was the underdog.  They said they didn't think I could win.  In fact, most of my good friends advised me not even to run, but I won and I won by the largest majority that was ever given a mayor of the city of Minneapolis up to that date, so it wasn't bad to be the underdog, particularly when you are the top dog on election day.  And I remember in 1948 I ran for the United States Senate.  My opponent in the primary on the Republican ticket received three times as many votes in the primary as I did in that election and they had me written off, they already had a stone carved for me, "Here lies the political remains of a young man"--they were ready to bury us, and we went on--that was the year when Truman was fighting for his political life.  It was a time when a man who professed to, openly proclaimed that he was a Democrat, was running on the ticket in Minnesota for the United States Senate for there had never been a Democrat ever elected to the United States Senate for a hundred years in the state of Minnesota and I looked at the polls and I listened to all the wise boys and they said, "You'll do good back there teaching school or staying on as mayor of Minneapolis", because I had one re-election in 1947, and I was the underdog.  But I didn't get to the Senate by appointment.  I was elected and I was elected by the largest majority ever given a United States senator in the state of Minnesota up until that particular time. 

	I have led a lot of fights in the Congress of the United States where they said I didn't have a chance.  I was the first man to introduce Medicare.  It took us sixteen years to get it, but we stuck with it.  And I remember when we first introduced federal aid to education; it took us a long time to get that.  In every one of these fights we were the underdog.  Everything that ever amounted to anything had to come the hard way, every one of them, and how well I remember that even in 1960, when the polls were taken, it appeared that John Kennedy was the underdog, too.  So, my fellow Democrats, don't ever get discouraged if you want to be on my team.  Don't ever be that way, because I have got enough optimism and I have enough confidence that if you will just stand alongside of me, I will give you a little transfusion, get you all pumped up, because there's one thing that to me is absolutely inconceivable:  that is that you, the Democrats, and that the people of this country, the majority of the people of this country, are going to permit a political party which has made an alliance with the remnants of the old Dixiecrats, that we are going to permit that party of Nixon, Agnew and Strom Thurman to take over the leadership of this country.  I don't think you are ever going to let that happen.  

	Somebody said, "Well, when you come to an occasion like this, Mr. Vice President, you ought to talk about all the issues."  Listen, the issues are bound up in those names and you know it.  There isn't a working man here in this audience today. Pat, that doesn't know that Mr. Nixon has never cast a labor vote, never cast a vote that was beneficial to labor yet, and there isn't a businessman in this audience that doesn't know during those Nixon Republican years from '53 to '61, this country suffered three recessions, and the profits of American business were static and workers were laid off by the thousands here in the state of Ohio and there isn't a mother or father that doesn't know that during those eight years of Nixon Republicanism that our educational system was in dire trouble, that poverty was the lot of far too many of our Americans, that little or nothing was done to protect the consumer.  

	I think people know that and I think people also know that while we had our trouble at our convention, and we had bitter battles on the floor of that convention, we fought it out like men and women, we argued out our platform, we called the rule, we took our case to the public, and sometimes it wasn't too pleasant, but we didn't have ourselves a national wake like that Republican crowd did down here in Miami.  Jack Gilligan was talking to me this morning and he is very bright man and a wonderful senator-to-be and a good man in Congress during the time that he served there.  I just want, I really want to clear you up on this fellow.  It's absolutely imperative, regardless of what happens to my candidacy in this state, that you send to the United States Senate to stand alongside of Steve Young, Jack Gilligan.  Now, let's not have any monkey business.  Let's get that job done.  Jack was saying to me this morning, he said, "You know, one of the things we think of a president are the men that he selects to help him make great decisions", and the great decisions are--well, they are almost beyond man's comprehension.  Whoever is president of this country needs not only divine guidance which he surely should seek and search for, but he needs the combined judgment and wisdom of many good people.  And I am going to just level with you from this platform.  I want you to take a look at our ticket and then I want you to take a look at the Republican ticket and I want you to take a look at the man that I ask you to make vice president and I want you to take a look at what the Republican ticket offers in terms of president and vice president.  I am talking now about the fact that these are decent men, that these are good family men, that these are good people.  I am talking about experience, I am talking about judgment, I am talking about training, I am talking about a political maturity and political responsibility.  I didn't have to go to anybody to make a deal--not anyone.  Ohio never came to me and said we are going to give you a large block of our votes.  And I am ever grateful to you for those wonderful votes that you gave me in that nomination and you surprised me.  I got a lot more than I thought I would get a few more I imagine than I deserve.  I want to thank you very much.  The nice part is, the ones I didn't get went to good fellows, so you couldn't be wrong.  But anyway, I wasn't asked by your chairman, Pete, or by Bert or by Carl or by anybody else, I wasn't asked by anyone here or had somebody come up and say to me.  Well, now, you are going to get our votes, Mr. Vice President, on that nomination, if you take so and so.  I never had a Southern governor come to me and say, listen, we will give you our votes, but we want to make certain that so and so is on the ticket.  Not one.  I made no deals.  I had for a long time in my mind who I wanted.  It's no secret now.  I tell you why I wanted the man who is my running mate.  Because now, more than ever, the vice president of the United States is an important man in the affairs of government.  He is not only a heart beat away from the president or from the presidency, but he is also one of those that is needed more and more for the duties and responsibilities of government.  This office has grown in it's responsibilities; it has very little authority, but it has an ever increasing amount of responsibility, and I know that there are difficult times, I know that these are times when life is uncertain, I know that every day of your public life you run the risk of that being your last day.  Those are the facts that you must face.  And I know that this country cannot afford to have mediocrity, I know that you cannot afford to have less than what we think is the best, and I wanted to be sure that on the Democrats ticket that not only would you have what I believe are my credentials, which I have spoken to you about in the past, service as a mayor of a great city with all the
responsibilities that go with that, sixteen years in the United States Senate and four years as the majority whip and four years as vice president close to the center of this country, but I wanted to be sure that you would have something even better.  I wanted you to be sure in your mind that you could go to the public and say that we are presenting a team here, we are presenting a team of experienced men in public life, family men, men of youthful spirit, men of determination, men who have earned their way, and we both have, and I went and looked for a man and found one.  Two terms governor of his state, and a Democrat, by the way in Maine, which is no small achievement, might I add; two times United States senator, re-elected by his people; the author of the Model Cities Program for the cities of the United States; a member of the intergovernmental commission that deals with the whole problems of our federal system; the foremost expert on the problems of public works, air pollution and water pollution, but best of all, a man of judicious temper, a kind man, a strong man, not an angry man, but a man of reason, and I really believe that we are giving you, if I can be immodest for a moment, at least let me put it on the side of my colleague here, that we are giving you a ticket that you can work for in confidence, that you can go to the people and say here is a ticket that will govern this country and will govern it with a sense of firmness on the one hand and passion and humanity on the other and that is what a good leader ought to have. 

	Now, we are going to have my colleague, my associate, my vice presidential running mate, Ed Muskie, he's coming in to talk to you.  You are going to love him.  I want you to know when I am president of this country, with your support, that we are going to work as a team.  The office of the vice presidency has been developing and Senator Muskie will tell you when he comes to you that this is no one-man show.  I will make the decisions, I will have to be responsible as your president, but I'm going to have to have the advice and counsel of many.  And you can help here so much, you can help so much.

	Now, listen, don't believe what people tell you about things are not good.  You know the facts, you know that our convention was late, you know the strife that we have had in our party, you know that we have had less than two weeks to really get a campaign underway, you know that our opposition has had over two months, but we can do more work in two weeks than they can do in two months if we will buckle down to it.  And this is a four-quarter game.  We are not quitting at halftime and we are not throwing in any towels and we are not hitting anybody with the bucket, but we may have to do a little open field running.  I saw my own University of Minnesota yesterday looking good four minutes before the end of the game and then USC, University of Southern California, turned loose that O.J. Simpson on us. Well, I just want you to know that I am the O.J. Simpson of the Democratic party.  I would have picked out a star from Ohio but you've got so many universities and colleges that I didn't want to choose up sides at this particular moment in my political life.

	Well, friends, just one final thought:  I have really a message for you out at the steer roast.  I don't want you to have two full meals, but I saw this lovely program and it really a tribute to my family and is a wonderful tribute to you for the way you have put it together.  I saw that picture there of myself and my wife, our five little granddaughters.  I tell you, that's a package, that's a package, and I'm going to make a prediction to you. We can't do it in 1968 because I doubt that they will let me have the Christmas party there in 1968, but we will have the merriest Christmas you ever saw in your life, I'll tell you, in 1969, because we are going to have all of those granddaughters there and I hope a grandson or two by that time, too, if I can encourage my young sons.

	We do thank you.  Now, I want you to go forth from this meeting today convinced of one thing: that we can do what we need to do.  The party needs to be like a country, because it's difficult, it becomes more challenging, because it's to some people impossible it becomes possible to us.  I am convinced as I am of my own name that if we do what we need to do. if you continue that registration drive, if you will get out that vote, if we will forget the pettiness we have, if we are united as a Democratic family, take our message to every club, every fraternal order, every group, every union, every business meeting, every PTA, whatever it is, if we will just get on out and bestir ourselves, we can have another great victory on November 5th and you will have a Democratic administration in Washington continuing on January 20th, 1969.  Thank you very much.

PUBLIC OPINION/POLLSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     	O ’N œN ÀN √N
 ∑N ≤N ≠N §N †N ûN êN ÖN	 2   e: