Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1016.003SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/16STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYALFRED E. SMITH DINNER4623 WORDS

	We Americans have been deeply stirred, these last months, by a most actively waged presidential campaign.  The excitement, in its best form, is a sure sign of health in a democracy.  The pulse of freedom must race fast once in a while, when a people's interest in its own destiny remains quick, keen and lively.

	This is all in the national good.  Ours would be a sickly democracy--sluggish with age and complacence--if we did not debate great issues with honest zeal.  Any enemy that professes to find comfort in this fact confesses his ignorance of democracy's true strength.

	Yet--in today's tight, tense world--we cannot allow ourselves to become totally preoccupied even with this exhilarating display of democracy at home and at work.  In these very weeks, decisions and events of special moment and meaning have been shaping themselves at a distant point on our globe.  So grave are they, I believe, that all thoughtful Americans--of all parties and persuasions--should pause to analyze these events, to discern--if possible--their significance for our safety, our freedom, our whole future.

	I am speaking, of course, of the Communist Congress that convened just eleven days ago under the Kremlin's towers in Moscow and adjourned just forty-eight hours ago.

	Some fifteen-hundred delegates and representatives from the Soviet Union and from forty-four other countries met in the Great Hall of the Kremlin.  This--the 19th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union--the first such assembly since 1939--it was the largest assembly of Communist leaders ever that met together--at any time, in any place.

	This is an event that the free world cannot ignore.  It is an event that sternly summons our most sober attention, our wisest understanding.

	My credentials, allowing me to address you on this subject, are simple and few.  Certainly I make no foolish boast of perfectly perceiving the intricate Communist scheme for years ahead.  Although both "Pravda" and one of the Communist delegates conferred on me the honor of personal attack, I was charged with no crime so constructive as cracking the Soviet code or penetrating a crucial Red cell.

	But, as you all know, my assignments in Europe spanning the last decade--in years of war and in years of peace--demanded of me both personal study of Communist methods and some acquaintance with Soviet leaders.  In the light of this study and experience--modest as they may be--I have tried to scan the words and events of the last fortnight for their serious meaning.

	The torrent of words has been formidable.  Stalin anticipated the Congress by a few days by publishing a twenty-five-thousand-word essay bringing Soviet economic doctrine up to date.  Malenkov read the Communist Party report to the Congress--an oratorical endurance test lasting some five and one-half hours.  From Molotov and Beria came the familiar short, sharp thunderclaps of invective against the United States.

	All this we all know.  But what does it all mean?  What did they really say?

	The first fact--whose outline we must clearly make out through this thick fog of rhetoric--is the crucial matter of ultimate Soviet purpose.  What is it?  In the words of Stalin, it is the old and implacable chant:  "In order to destroy the inevitability of wars, it is necessary to destroy imperialism."  For this pronouncement, no interpretation is necessary other than to note that the word "Imperialism" is standard Soviet shorthand for democracy, in general, and for the United States, in particular.

	I stress this fact because--out of all of Stalin's twenty-five thousand words--these few are likely to receive least attention for the simple reason that their sound is so familiar.  The drums of Soviet hate are still rolling for the same old enemy.  America is still marked with indelible invective as Communism's final and greatest victim-to-be.  In the grim and candid prophecy of Lenin:  "A series of frightful clashes between the Soviet Republic and the bourgeois states is inevitable ... In the end ... a funeral requiem will be sung either over the Soviet Republic or over world capitalism."

	This, then, is the first fact that we must keep clearly and constantly before us when we listen to this chorus of strident Communist voices chanting the ambiguities of Marxist economics.  They are but rehearsing the requiem that they expect to intone one day upon the death of the free world.

	A second fact, scarcely less important, is this:  While the purpose of Soviet policy remains steadfastly the same, its plan for action is always undergoing revision.  The consistency in Soviet behavior--we have long known--does not come from neat, precise adherence to a straight line.  It comes from a meticulously measured zig-zagging--back and forth, to right and to left--to achieve a result carefully calculated and balanced.  This, again, is venerable Soviet practice, as Lenin described it bluntly in 1920:  "We have to use any ruse, dodges, tricks, cunning, unlawful method, concealment, veiling of truth."

	We all know that this devious way of life was not so devastatingly new as Lenin may have thought.  We were warned about it a long time ago.  In the words of the Old Testament:  "The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart." 

	This knowledge brings our problem into clear focus.  We are not beguiled by the words in our enemy's mouth.  But we need to know more than the cold fact that war is in his heart.  Our problem is:  what is the plot that is forming in his brain?

	To answer this question intelligently, we must first call to mind some of the historical facts that have weight and meaning to the men shaping Soviet policy today.

	The last two hundred years tell one simple, sensational story about Russia's relationship to Europe.  Through all this time, one of the commonest ways of measuring Russia's pressure upon the continent has been in terms of the distance of the Russian frontier from Europe's center at Berlin.  In 1750 that frontier was twelve hundred miles from Berlin.  In 1800 the distance was but seven-hundred-fifty miles; in 1815, only two hundred miles.  Now, innumerable border changes later--the Russian frontier has moved westward until it includes Berlin within its limits.  Thus, under Communist impulse, the old Russian vision of an empire spanning two continents--"from Aachen to Vladivostok"--has come closer to fact than fantasy.

	The last fifty years have witnessed one of history's great revolutions in power relations among the nations.  This revolution has ended the great and old predominance of Europe.  Two nations outside Europe's traditional boundaries have soared in wealth, in might, and in prestige.

	This particular revolution has dictated two lessons to the world conspiracy that has its headquarters in Moscow.  First--its mortal enemy is America rather than Europe.  Second:  Europe's relative loss in might and influence has afflicted European nations with anxieties, longings and fears that can be ruthlessly agitated and cleverly mobilized by the Communists against America.

	The last twelve years tell a cruel story.  It is the story of a growth in the Soviet Empires so fast and so fabulous as to make all prior fears seem conservative.  With the conquest of China on one continent, and the Sovietization of Eastern Europe on the other, the number of people under effective Soviet rule has swelled, in little more than a decade, from some 190 million to eight-hundred million.  This great mass signifies the largest empire in the history of mankind.  Never before, in man's long pilgrimage from darkness toward light, has tyranny dragged so many millions back into the night.

	The last seven years have told another story of this tyranny's progress--the near-consolidation of its conquest of Europe's central heartland.  For many Americans, this part of the world has always seemed both remote and baffling, clouded with Middle European strife and Balkan intrigue.  Yet one simple measure of this area's importance is the fact that it embraces some forty percent of the whole continent's population outside Russia.

	Into this key area, Soviet Russia has now moved with ruthless purpose.  Economic control has been thoroughly assured by such devices as Moscow-dominated stock companies--gearing each nation's economy to the Soviet scheme.  New Russian-gauge rail lines have been laid to span mountains, plains and rivers--from White Russia and the Ukraine across Poland into Czechoslovakia and Hungary, across Northern Rumania--so that arms and armies can now be swiftly moved from deep within Russia to the borders of Yugoslavia and to the Elbe.  Scores of Soviet generals have been busily instructing satellite armies now numbering more than one million men--armies united in a common training program, common military organization, common military tactics with common weapons.  The result of this carefully planned work--in all these countries--has been the building of perhaps the most thoroughly internationalized army in history.

	Meanwhile, these same years have witnessed the rapid economic and military recovery of the Soviet Union itself from the blows and losses of World War II.  This means--as but one important example--a steel production that, today approaches double what it was when Hitler attacked Russia.  It also means, of course, a continuing atomic development.

	These, then, are the key historic facts that set the scene for the words of Stalin, Molotov, Malenkov and Beria in the last ten days.  These facts define a Soviet diplomacy leading from growing strength.  And they spell a formula for that diplomacy's conduct:  As the Communist world carefully marshals its gigantic new sources of strength, the free world--crowded back on its own defenses--may be led to fall into factions and prey upon itself.

	This is the formula for action that Stalin explained quite plainly.  Behind his flat, abstract words are sharp, concrete ideas.  He denounces as Communist heresy the mistaken belief that--as he puts it--"the contradictions between the camp of socialism and the camp of capitalism are stronger than the contradictions between capitalist countries."  Emphatically, he reaffirms the Marxist axiom that decrees "the inevitability of wars ... between the capitalist countries."  These wars--Stalin forecasts--can be sped by two types of conflict.  The first can be provoked by the resentment of our British and French allies against what he calls "the domination and oppression of the United States."  The second can be stirred by resurgent nationalism in Germany and Japan, as they again in Stalin's words, "attempt to break out from American slavery."  Finally --the voice of Stalin continues-"all these perils and conflicts will be sharpened by the free world's loss of trade markets formerly enjoyed in both China and Eastern Europe".  "Economic friction thus can heighten political tension until an angry and divided free world takes arms against itself."

	This, I believe, is more than a formula for Soviet action:  it is a deadly challenge to the free world in this critical autumn of 1952.  It is this challenge that we must answer if we are to survive in freedom.

	As we seek the right answer, our first task is to see how Soviet Russia may translate this challenge into specific directives to Communist parties around the world.

	To Communists of the United States specifically, this call can mean a summons to agitate all forces working toward economic isolationism.  This appeal will address itself, for example, to rousing American watchmakers against the Swiss; machinery makers against the Germans; textile manufacturers against the Japanese.  It will stir every smoldering prejudice and passion that can be inflamed against Britain or France, against Germany or Japan or Italy.  It will trade in fraudulent pacifism and fake idealism.  It will warn with sly insinuation against British imperialism or German neo-Nazism, against the resurgence of Japanese trading combines or France's slowness in rearming.  Where warped half-truths cannot be uttered, the full lie will be invented.  With skill and guile, a people loving freedom will be urged to hate freedom's friends.

	To Communist parties of Western Europe, similar instructions are--so to speak--already in the mail.  They are to form a common front with all selfish nationalists and frightened neutralists.  They are to sigh with mock grief over Europe's enlistment in an alien American cause.  They are to sob with false sorrow over each nation's fancied surrender of sovereignty to international agencies.  In Germany, they are to denounce the Schuman Plan as a wicked Franco-American scheme to enslave Germany economically.  In France, they are to denounce the Schuman Plan as a cynical German-American plot to make France's ancient foe again master of Europe.  Everywhere and on every issue--from allocation of coal to appointment of NATO officers--the poison of international hate is to be sold, under the innocent label of patriotism, to the gullible, to the weary, and to the envious. 

	We might see in all this a kind of change in tempo in the cold war--even the beginning of a kind of cold peace.  But whatever language we use to describe this Soviet formula for action, we could--I think--make few blunders so serious as to doubt its menace to the free world's unity.

	Perhaps the only more serious blunder we could make would be to hold any deep doubt that--if we are both wise and courageous--we can best back this challenge and the forces behind it.

	I believe, in short, that we must both face the strength of the enemy--and know that it cannot match our own at our best.

	I say this, not with any lighthearted boastfulness, but with reasoned confidence.  I want to explain both why I feel this confidence--and what I believe "our best" will demand of us.

	First and above all:  We have a matchless spiritual strength--beyond our enemy's reach or understanding.  It is the strength that fortifies a civilization believing in man as made in the image of God.

	We should next recognize that the Soviet leaders, for all their formidable gains since 1945, have suffered some rude jolts to their expectations of that date.  In the first place:  With such American help as the Marshall Plan, European governments that might have stumbled toward Communism in 1945 have held fast to their freedom.  Secondly, the vigor and courage of the armies of the United Nations in Korea have astonished a Kremlin that has been led to believe that this little nation could provide a cheap and easy victory.  In the third place:  The stunning defiance of Yugoslavia has coldly warned that nationalism can infect Communist territory with dangerous success.  Finally and most importantly:  The cataclysmic American economic collapse supposed to strike immediately after the war has never come.  Our economy is vulnerable and insecure in many ways.  But all our people have come to know that it is the primary task of any president and any government to insure that our country never again suffer a great depression.  As a soldier and as an ordinary citizen, I know that to permit such a disaster--in the name of any economic theory whatsoever--would be the quickest way to concede victory to Stalin.  Our economic strength and our military strength are our nation's shields--without which peace could never be preserved, nor freedom defended.  All America's acceptance of this basic truth is--in itself--one of America's surest sources of strength.

	These facts do something to offset the staggering losses suffered elsewhere by freedom's forces in these years of dubious peace.

	There is yet more solace and hope, I believe, to be found in some of the grave weaknesses of Soviet Communism itself.  It is one of the crude ironies of our times that this system, so charged with internal strife and tension, should preach such lengthy sermons on the "internal contradictions" of the free world.

	The truth, of course, is that the "internal contradictions" of Communism are constant and stupendous threats to the Soviet Union's own safety.  There is the colossal "contradiction" of slave labor--both a mockery of the pretensions of the workers' paradise and a source of constant political and economic danger.  It is indeed strange that a government--so loudly shouting that the free world is going to be destroyed by harsh, inescapable economic laws--itself ignores the ancient historic law that no economy is so explosive as a slave economy.  There is the "contradiction" of nationalism itself--a risky weapon to be wielded by a government whose own empire presumes the denial of national identity and freedom.  And there is this most curious of all "contradictions"--the fact that Soviet policy constantly becomes frightened by demons of its own invention.  Thus its self-induced hysteria over fear of Western attack led it into a truculence which solidified the free world against it as nothing else could have done.  Its neurotic fear of non-existent Western alliances spurred it to actions which have, in fact, brought those alliances into being.  Rarely in history has a nation been so justly punished for its own wild and ugly imagination.

	These, then, are a few reasons why the free peoples--despite the formidable size and might of the Soviet empire--can face any new Soviet tactics without panic, with steady poise and clear purpose. 

	We can successfully meet those tactics--I believe--only by dedication to two ideals.  They are: Unity and faith.  Upon our understanding of these two ideals, and our fidelity to them, depends, in truth, the fate of freedom.

	Unity is no simple precept.  It is a complex and exacting principle.  It is the subject more often of fervent talk than of faithful practice.  To Americans today, this ideal, in its fullest dimensions, has a twofold meaning.  It means our own national unity.  It also means our unity of purpose with the whole free world.

	Unity of our own people implies a host of great tasks and duties.  It demands--on all fronts and in all senses--the keenest guard against divisive propaganda, the sternest watch against divisive prejudice.  It demands a true fellowship of peoples of all religious beliefs and of all national origins.  It demands a true attack upon any barriers in our national life that mark off one group of citizens from all others.  It demands a true cleansing from our hearts of the faintest stains of racial and religious prejudice.  There is no such thing as just a little bigotry, just a little hate.  In this--freedom's day of decision--our unity must be beyond all doubt, above all compromise.

	Unity with our allies in the free world imposes tasks just as explicit.  Here the sharpest questions bluntly challenge us.  Have we the vision to triumph over the temptations of economic nationalism and to welcome full, equitable trade with our allies?  Have we the patience to check our tempers when some of our allies seem to be quibbling petulantly or foolishly temporizing in their defense programs?

	The answers to such questions must be a resounding, yes.  The spirit of these answers must govern all our relations with all those peoples whom we ask and expect to stand fast--and, if need be, shoulder arms--for freedom's sake.  These peoples need our patient and comprehending leadership--no less than we need and expect their full devotion to our common cause.

	With Britain, we must remember that it has demanded both great dignity and great wisdom for a proud nation to adjust so swiftly to its recent loss of financial and imperial strength.  We must--even as we argue firmly against Britain's reluctance to enter certain continental European arrangements--still show understanding of the problems of the British Commonwealth.  We must strive tirelessly to reconcile our harmful differences on crucial Far Eastern policies.

	With France, we must remember that a nation shattered by two successive world wars--while it remains as great of heart as ever--should not be expected to show the zeal and the stamina of another nation that--partly by the mercy of geography--has enjoyed safety from invasion.  We must remember that Frenchmen were dying by the hundreds of fighting Communists in distant Indo-China years before our men were called to fight Communists in distant South Korea.  We must, here, strive tirelessly to work out a common and humane policy on the danger--our problem of the North African populations now striving for freedom from French dominion.

	With Italy, we must salute a defeated and impoverished nation's magnificent recovery from not only military defeat but from the sly temptations of intellectual cynicism and political neutralism.  We must marvel at this resilience, especially in a nation that for centuries has been the European cockpit of invading armies.  Most importantly, we must resolve this:  We must strike from our own statute books any legislation concerning immigration that implies the blasphemy against democracy that only certain groups of Europeans are welcome on American shores.

	With Japan and Germany--our defeated enemies in World War II--we face, of course, a legion of special problems.  They demand infinite patience and uncommon good sense on both sides.  Perhaps the keenest of these problems are the acute economic dilemmas these two countries must face.  Both have lost--behind the Iron Curtain--markets that, in past decades, now gone forever, were vital to each.  In the case of Germany, the great market of southeastern Europe has been chained to the Soviet economy.  In the case of Japan, its unequaled market in China has become Communist territory.  For in the long run, these two facts pose huge problems.  We must not wait for the long run to have elapsed before we start facing these issues with loans spurred by panic and other such desperate last-minute improvising.

	These, then, are some of the severe tests we face in trying to achieve unity in the non-Soviet world.  Perhaps the first thing we clearly see from this brief list of problems is that the unity we seek is no kin of uniformity or conformity.

	Unity in a free world means something utterly different.  If the matter can be put in artistic terms:  We no more seek dead, dull uniformity than we would try to achieve unity in a painting by having all the colors run together.  The unity we seek consists instead of true harmony of distinct and varied colors.  Only on the total, final effect must we agree--and that is:  the stout defense of freedom.

	As it is with unity--so it is with faith.  Faith demands devout, enduring dedication to our belief that democracy is the only just way of life.  This dedication no more implies fanaticism than unity implies uniformity.  A great philosopher who died a few weeks ago, George Santayana, once remarked:  "Fanaticism consists in redoubling your effort when you have forgotten your aim."  That is precisely the way we must not defend freedom today.

	Our aim--to which we must be pledged in joyous, generous and confident dedication--is ever clear, ever the same.  It is the idea of human freedom--that glorious gift of our Judeo-Christian traditions.  This idea--democracy--is not a mere sentimental mood, nor some casually inherited persuasion.  It is a doctrine of life and a definition of man.

	None knows this better than the Communist himself.  Karl Marx said plainly:  "The democratic concept of man is false because it is Christian.  The democratic concept holds that ... each man has a value as a sovereign being."  And he roundly declared:  "This is the illusion, dream and postulate of Christianity, that man has a sovereign soul."

	We know the truth--the everlasting truth--behind those words:  this is the dream and the postulate that, through all the ages of Judaism and Christianity, have given strength and dignity and purpose to free men defying tyrants.

	There are, I suggest, two particularly vital areas of the world today where this dream must be embraced--this postulate proven--if freedom is to live.

	The first area is that great heartland of Europe, now a vast serfdom ruled from Moscow.  Both practical sense and immutable principle here coincide to tell one fact:  These lands cannot be written off as irrevocably lost.  The free world cannot permit their burial to the accompaniment of either Leninist requiems or fatalists' casual post-mortems.  To do this would not merely seal Soviet dominion in Europe:  It would signify the free world's abdication of its own conscience.  It would sound as a tortured echo of the ancient cry:  "We have made a covenant with death, and with hell are we at agreement."

	There is a second area where our faith must burn with uncompromising brightness:  the vast lands that--in only the last decade--have won their full independence.  The list of these new-born and reborn nations is astounding:  Israel, India and Pakistan, Burma, Ceylon, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Indonesia, Libya, Abyssinia, and the Philippines.  In total, these lands embrace some 560 million people, inhabiting millions of square miles across three continents.

	To the timorous among us, these may seem only danger spots for Communist attack--young and vulnerable nations, at once susceptible to intrigue and defenseless to attack.  But to those of us of stouter faith, these are not so much areas of danger as areas of hope.  These new lands challenge us to prove again that the faith we hold is never weary, but is ever new.  These new lands--unburdened by weighty dreams of vanished glories--can face the future with the zeal of youth.  They should be in the vanguard of freedom's forces.  They should be the ones--from Israel to India, from Syria to Indonesia--whom we should be quickest to help.  For they should be the quickest to share our faith in freedom's future--in the brotherhood of men under the fatherhood of God.

	This, then, is the faith that can heal those sick with doubt, comfort those afflicted with tyranny, refresh those wearied by freedom's exhausting battle.

	This is the faith--not in the fiction of the abstract common man, but in the wondrous fact that every man is an uncommon man.  He is the infinitely precious, utterly unique individual of living flesh, whose spirit has such strength that he can endure and survive oppression and poverty, disease and imprisonment, to keep alive his soul's love of freedom.

	This is the faith that exalts the humblest of all the world--the dark--skinned beggar in a dirty alley in Algiers, the blank-faced German boy scuffing through the ruins of Berlin, the hungry tough boy on the docks of Naples, the hunchbacked cripple stumbling through the ruins of Seoul--all of them proclaimed, in their full dignity, sons of God and honored brothers of all men.

	This, in short, is the faith that must instruct us in the ways we wield our power:  resolutely, to hearten our friends; wisely, to confound our enemies; constantly, to give hope to the hearts of the enslaved; prudently, to guard the trust of the free; and courageously, to be worthy of the high commission history has conferred upon us.

	United in this faith, we can take and hold the initiative with a constructive, peaceful American world policy.

	United in this faith, no power--however massed, however menacing--can prevail against us.

	This I soberly believe.

	This is the faith that inspired the wondrous humanity and integrity of that man whose name and life we honor this night.  This is the faith that shines in the memory we cherish of one who came out of poverty on New York's East Side to remind a free nation of the richness of its heritage.  This is the faith that sings out its happy promise of peace and freedom--to the east of us, to the west of us--all around the world.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESCHRISTIANITYDEMOCRACYEUROPEHISTORY--SOVIET UNIONJUDAISMTHIRD WORLDCOMMUNISMSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)      n Ãm ∆m ¬m ∏m
 ™m •m †m òm êm ém xm nm	 v 	 f 	 Z 	 Q 	 K 	 6 	 /  $   e: