Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1101.006.txtDemocratSTEVENSON (D)11/1STUMPLIMAOHIOOH1,969 WORDS 
     Mr. Reiser, my friends of Lima, I don't know how long those beautiful girls can stand on one leg out there.  I have been trying to stand on two feet for six months, but even that's a little difficult.  I like everything I see about Lima.  I even like these two pretty girls who have Ike signs down here.  I remember not long ago, in the State of Washington, we were driving through the streets and a little boy rushed out through the crowds and shouted at the top of his voice, "Hurray for Stevenhower."  I thought that was the ultimate in diplomacy.

     I was not aware of the fact that this was Mr. Reiser's birthday.  I don't know whether we ought to interrupt the proceedings to sing "Happy Birthday" or not.  It looks very much to me, thanks to the presence of so many of you, for which I am so very grateful, as though Lima was coming back to the Democratic fold.  Well, I shall be immensely pleased but not surprised, because most intelligent people are.

     Whenever I ride through an industrial city like Lima--and I have visited many of them in the last six months--I am always exhilarated and pleased by the sight of smoke rising from the factory chimneys--and I see one right over here.  That's a sign of national good health.  But, I must say I feel quite differently about the black clouds that the Republicans have been sending up to screen their nakedness--you didn't have to applaud.  It's not compulsory, it is entirely optional with everyone--their nakedness of ideas, of consistency and, I am sorry to say, of positive principles.  By now I think the people have had a good chance to penetrate this smoke screen and get a good look at the party behind it.  And there it stands--the same old GOP--wearing nothing but the same 1900 celluloid collar and its birthday suit.  But I wouldn't feel sorry for them, because they've got an awful lot of money.

     I came here today to talk about a subject that I take very seriously.  But first I thought you might like a brief and slightly modest report of one candidate's morale on this fourth day before the election.  Well, the fact of the matter is, I feel fine.  I've had a wonderful time, and I don't even worry about the election, because whichever way it goes--whatever the American people decide--is all right with me.  Now you know, I probably feel that way because I think I know what they are going to do.  Thousands and thousands of them have switched over to the right side--and I might say I have been expecting them--and they are very welcome, indeed.

     But, I wanted to talk here about one group of Americans who rarely get their just share of attention in a political campaign--and I mean businessmen.  I don't think you should--that they should be neglected--by us politicians.  Not merely because their vote isn't large, but because they are important to America, and just as important as anyone else, or any other group.  I have been bothered for a long time by the intensive propaganda which represents the Democratic Party as anti-business.  It has misled a lot of businessmen--intelligent men who should know better--and it has manufactured a harmful hostility between some segments of government and some segments of business.  It is a noisy, wasteful and largely unnecessary war.  If destiny takes me to Washington I should like to bring these hostilities to an honorable end--not an armistice, but an end.  And then we will be able to get on with the all-important business of making our country stronger, more united and secure in this very precarious world.

     Now, I have had an opportunity in my career to see both sides of this coin.  As a lawyer for many years before I entered public life--and believe you me it is certainly public--I used to do work for businessmen and corporations, both large and small, and I think I know something of their problems and I think I know something of businessmen.  I have never had any conscience trouble whatever in representing their reasonable points of view.

     I have also had a considerable public life in Washington and in my own State of Illinois.  I have learned that long since, as I hope most of you have, to treat with contempt the propaganda that all business is reactionary, that all government is bureaucracy, that all labor is radical, or all farmers selfish.  It just isn't so.

     We Democrats are for private and we are for profitable business.  We know America could not survive with any other kind.  We are for the dynamic system of enterprise which has grown out of the great partnership of public and private initiative in this country.  We are against socialism--creeping, crawling, loping, galloping, or even the make-believe kind that takes up so much space in the Republican oratory these days.

     I may as well repeat here some of the other things that I am against.  I am against socialized medicine--(someone screams)--I am--was that a surprise?  And I am against socialized farming.  Well, doesn't somebody want to jump up and scream?  Or socialized banking, or socialized industry, or even socializing my own profession of the law.  And I think most all of you are too.  And I am puzzled that that there are so many men in business who don't seem to understand and appreciate this.  After all, the Democratic Party in the past 20 years has not harmed business; it has helped to grow to a healthiness and robustness unparalleled in the history of our country.  The Democratic Party rescued industry from nearby collapse in 1932; restored faith in our banking system, and built up a nation's purchasing power.

     Certainly the misunderstanding cannot be laid to lack of profits.  Today profits are very large indeed--and I mean after taxes as well as before.  Today more new businesses are being started than even during the boom days of the twenties, and a businessman does not start a new enterprise when he is afraid.  And I don't think businessmen and industrialists ought to go on fooling themselves that it is the Democratic Party's approach to labor legislation which gives cause for this unfortunate hostility.  We Democrats don't believe that labor laws should be vindictive toward business, but neither should they be vindictive toward labor.  And that's why I am in favor of replacing the Taft-Hartley Law with a new law drafted and enforced--a law drafted and enforced in a spirit of reconciliation--a law designed not only for labor, or for business, but for all of the public.

     The Taft-Hartley Law, as we so well know, was not conceived in this spirit.  It was dedicated to the proposition that the only good union is a weak union.

     Now, during this campaign I have outlined in detail the kind of a law that I believe should replace the Taft-Hartley Act and the principles on which the new law should operate.  I fail to see how any intelligent person in the business or the industrial world can find in these proposals anything that bodes him ill.  The trouble with so many people is that they react without reading and they speak without studying.

     It seems to me that the businessman has been unhappy, not by lack of profits nor lack of conditions for expansion and for new enterprise, but for lack of understanding, from some feeling that there is in government no knowledge of his problems and no sympathy for him.

     The nature of business in America has changed much since the beginning of this century, since the days of the trusts, the industrial oligarchies and so on, when industry was welded into old-fashioned trusts with water in their stock and monopoly in their hearts.  I am frank to say that I don't believe these changes in the nature of business have been adequately recognized by everyone in Government.  I think that we must eliminate from government at all levels, national, state and local, all lingering suspicions and prejudices which are a holdover from that earlier and less enlightening time.

     Now, I don't bring up this matter here this afternoon casually.  It concerns me very deeply, for Government and business must learn to live together in harmony before an era of bad temper turns into something infinitely worse.  We have one terribly dangerous cold war to contend with in our international affairs, and we cannot--we shall not--have one at home which pits class against class, which leads inevitably the extreme left or to the extreme right, and that is the way toward a dreadful destiny, as you all know toward the police state with all of its terrors which grew out of Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Russia.

     I have kept myself, as I think you also know, free throughout this campaign, and I can go to Washington as a servant of all the people without obligation to any class or interest.  And that is what I intend to do.  I have done my very best to talk sensibly to the people, in the firm belief that you want straight facts from a straight candidate and honesty which is the only rock on which we can hope to build the unity and the mutual trust which is the true strength of democracy.  As long as the people can have a government they can understand and trust, then they will trust one another.

     Now, before we go--and I suspect I have talked much too long as I usually do--

(Crowd shouts, "No.")

     That is the most musical thing you can say to a candidate, to say, "no."  I should like to ask one favor of you.  In view of the fact that I am confidently expecting to move my address next January, I should like very much to have some good company down there, some agreeable companions and also some useful colleagues and allies, and I hope very much that you will send to Washington my good friend, Mike DiSalle, to the United States Senate.  And I hope you will also send Carlton Reiser to the United States Congress.  If you do that for me, I shan't ask much more.  I mean I am not even going to make any recommendations to you as to what you should do on next Tuesday--I am entirely too modest for that.

     Before we go along, perhaps, you would let me introduce to you my youngest son, John Fell Stevenson, who has joined me on the train for a day or so; in spite of the fact that he needs a haircut, he is doing all right in school.  Could I also introduce my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives, and my Aunt Miss Letitia Stevenson.  We also have two famous ladies aboard this train, the Vice-Chairman of the National Democratic Committee and the head of the Women's Division, Mrs. India Edwards of Washington; and Mrs. Edison Dick, the National Co-Chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson; she is a reformed Republican.  We seem to be in the process of reforming a lot of them.

     I don't know whether you remember that story about the little boy who asked his father what a convert was, and his father said, "Son, a convert is any Republican that votes for the Democrats."  And then he said, "A traitor is any Democrat that votes Republican."

     And we also have Dorothy Vredenburg, the secretary of the National Committee from Washington.
BUSINESS--GENERALCONDUCT OF LIFE--BUSINESS EXPERIENCEORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOCIALISM     ›+ •+ ù+
 ê+ å+ á+ É+ + }+ }+ r+	 V 	 E 	 ! 	 	 e: