Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1008.007SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/08STUMPSEATTLEWASHINGTONWA1,898 WORDS

	Since coming to your state, I have been told that another campaign train preceded me here by a few days.

	You have been told by an expert in political demagoguery that I want to turn this great Northwest back to the prairie dogs and the sagebrush. You have been told that these people who are going to supplant the present shopworn administration will never permit another dam in the reclamation program. You have been conducted through an underworld of imaginary devils. You have had a course in nonsense fiction.

	This evening, I shall try to bring the discussion back to reality, back to truth, and back to responsible consideration of how we may best plan for the Northwest's glorious future.

	The sly apostles of Fair Dealism try to make us think that they invented the idea of federal participation in natural resource development, sometime within the last twenty years. How do you suppose they square that with this year's celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Bureau of Reclamation, founded under Teddy Roosevelt?

	The Washington bureaucrats would like you to think that the idea and plans for Grand Coulee sprang full-grown from the imagination of their brain trusters. But it is obvious that this great project would not have been ready for construction in the early thirties, if government engineers had not dreamed of it and planned for it many Republican years before.

	Need I point out that Hoover Dam, the first of the great multiple-purpose projects, with all its power and irrigation, was authorized by Republicans in 1928? I believe you know, too, that the much maligned 80th Congress of four years ago appropriated more money for western projects than any previous Congress in history.

	What, then, is the real difference between ourselves and this administration in the matter of resource development? The real difference is that something new has been added during the last twenty years by the party in power. This new feature is an idea--the idea of whole-hog federal government.

	This idea permeates everything the present administration plans or does. It is the hard core of the difference between those power-seeking politicians and the rest of us who still believe in basic American institutions. The whole-hog theory is that the federal government must do everything for us and to us. It holds that state and local governments are basically incompetent and behind the times.

	Because the important projects are too large to be done locally, it holds that all projects must be accomplished by the federal government and by the federal government alone. By deliberate design, it seeks to freeze out the initiative and energies of local, state, and private agencies, whenever it thinks that they are doing anything that infringes upon the swelling federal empire. Thus, the whole-hog mentality proceeds toward the creation of a more extensive and stifling monopoly than our country has ever seen.

	To gain their own ends, the whole-hog advocates obscure the issue by shouting accusations of "special privilege."

	But you folks know that the greatest special privilege, the greatest lobby, the greatest concentration of power ever known is now operating full-speed ahead, right down on the Potomac to perpetuate itself in power.

	The whole-hog federal government believes that it must own and control just as many of our resources as it can lay its hands on--by fair means or foul. The people must not control them. The states must not control them. The federal government must go whole-hog.

	We Americans of all or not parties who are forming together to throw out this administration do not want a whole-hog federal government.

	The whole-hog method is not the way to develop western resources. These resources cannot be effectively developed without a regard for local initiative and local knowledge of local needs. Nor can it be done by the states alone. Nor can it be done by free enterprise alone. All have a share in the task.

	We need river basin development to the highest degree, but not at the expense of accepting super-government in which the people in the region have no voice.

	A prime example of what I mean is the proposal to establish a monopolistic federal authority over such a vast area as the Columbia River Basin.

	The whole-hog idea is all wrong on another ground. It is a corruption of the federal-state principle on which our nation was built. It seeks to make the sovereign states into subordinate branch offices or provinces of an all-powerful central government. It destroys the right of the people back home to rule themselves.

	I have talked a good deal lately about corruption of the tax collector kind and of the kind that gives special privilege to political favorites. I speak now of a different kind of corruption, one that goes to the roots of our American system. The apostles of the whole-hog idea are interested not in money for themselves, but in power for themselves. They thirst to govern. And in the long run, they can do more harm to you and to your families than a hundred tax collectors dipping into the till.

	The whole-hog idea has intruded into countless phases of our national life, but nowhere more greedily than into this field of natural resources.

	The Reclamation Act was passed to hasten the development of the West, not to confer perpetual power on the political bosses of the Interior Department to control the resources of the West. The law was never designed to reduce the people's rights under state water law. It was designed to help provide water, not to control people.

	The Federal Power Act was adopted in 1920 to encourage hydroelectric development. Under the guise of this law, the Department of the Interior is seeking a monopoly over hydropower production and distribution. It seeks this monopoly not just in the West, but throughout the nation. Here we have the real whole-hog.

	Water and power are the life blood of the great Northwest. In stepping into this problem, the federal government has been far more interested in empire-building than in the conclusions and convictions of responsible officials of the regions where all these facilities should eventually be owned and operated. So a real working partnership has never existed.

	The Northwest must have all the power it requires for the effective use of its vast resources. Certainly, more upstream storage is needed--new dams to impound flood waters and increase the continuous power output of existing dams. Power development in the Northwest must and will go forward. In this continuing program, the federal government will play its full part.

	Now, how can we do better in the future, on this very big undertaking? I am convinced, out of my experience with some very big jobs, that the way to do it is by sharing it, rather than by its concentration. That means the full use of private resources plus a local-state-federal partnership here in the state of Washington and the Northwest rather than dependence upon a daily directive from Washington, D.C.

	We need to get away from the idea that we can do only what the federal government will do.

	In federally-financed projects for development of resources, we don't want the federal government to take a perpetual lien or mortgage on the area.

	Just as we would not remain perpetual vassals of the money power of Wall Street, so we don't want to become perpetual vassals of the grasping power of Pennsylvania Avenue.

	And that goes also for the Department of the Interior.

	The first thing a new administration should do is to bring our state governments more into the picture. One of the worst things about our national administration has been its unwillingness to recognize the great progress that has been made in able state administration. We need in Washington, D.C. an understanding that the states are not federal subsidiaries, but the sovereign agencies which created the federal government.

	Local and state governments should assume a greater influence in the planning, in the execution of plans, and in the administration of resource development projects. And when federal projects have demonstrated that they are paying for themselves, local and state governments should have an opportunity to take over the financing, take over the projects for their own people, and get their region out of hock to the federal government.

	To do this we need an administration which believes in keeping government close to the people. We need an administration made up, not of whole-hog men, but of men who are eager to see that the states and localities are allowed and encouraged to do their jobs.

	The present administration's answer to further resource development is the valley authority, a kind of super-government blue-printed in Washington, D.C. and manned from there. You don't need more super-government.

	We need resource development, and we need it on a river-basin basis. We need resource development, not to the limit of the whim of any administration in power, but to the limit of the capacity of the region to benefit. And to do that, we need partnership to the limit of everyone's ability.

	I am aware that my opponent in his public speeches is deploring federal encroachment in fields which rightfully belong to state and local governments. But did you ever hear him repudiate the Columbia Valley Authority? How could he, when allied with him stand crafty men who seek to expand through his project their vested interest in the federal concentration of power?

	How can the administration candidate have it both ways? How can he honestly deplore centralization of power, and accept the support of the whole-hoggers who want a Columbia Valley Authority, a Brannan Plan, and socialized medicine?

	I have no pat and detailed answer for the mechanism we need to carry out river basin development. That's up to the partners.

	As one beginning, I propose that the planning, management and coordination of all present and future public projects for Columbia basin development be vested, not in a federal Columbia Valley Authority, but in a new interstate body. Its state members should be freely chosen in accordance with state laws. These members should have full equality with the federal members who sit in to advise and assist, to arbitrate conflicts of interest between the states, and to safeguard the national interest in navigation and flood control.

	Such undertakings will require genuine cooperation, but I have no doubt that the job can be done with an administration that is devoted to the principle of decentralized government and to the full development of our resources.

	I have unbounded respect for what can be done by men and women and nations who are willing to work as partners. What others can do, the states of the Columbia River Basin can do as well.

	They need a friendly administration--one that will help, not hinder, one that will not try to hand them a blueprint from the headquarters staff of a Bureau in distant Washington.

	A great future lies before us if we can make certain that opportunity is not stifled by monopoly, private or public, and that government--whether it be local, state or federal--is not the master of the people, but their servant.

	There is no limit to a free West.

	There is no limit to a free America.

GOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTREGIONALISM--NORTHWEST     J- - - - -
 ô, ï, ê, ã, Ù, ×, ×, Ì,	 Œ 	 w 	 \  3   e: