Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0910.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/10STUMPHOUSTONTEXASTXRICE HOTEL1,691 WORDS

	Thank you very much, Mr. Bentsen, and, of course, a special note of fellowship and friendship to the gentlemen when you honored tonight, the one who has carved out a record of civil service and of great citizenship as a jurist, lawyer, Democrat.  Gee, what a combination!

	I am so very pleased, having mentioned that honored word Democrat, to see that Congressman Casey is here and Congressman Eckhardt and, of course, Will Davis is here and Ben Barnes and all the others who have gathered around the threshold tonight for this family gathering, and I am particularly pleased that Mrs. Humphrey and myself and our son, Douglas, could be invited to this occasion.

	When we planned our visit here we heard that this wonderful party and reception was being tendered your fellow citizen, Judge Blanton, and I don't know how we were able to finagle it around, but I have some good managers somewhere around the land and they said the best thing going now or any time to come is now at this reception for Judge William Blanton.

	I like what you had to say about our good friend, Mr. Bentsen, because it is true that he does have a lovely wife.  I will tell you, if you ever have any doubt why you ought to be a Democrat, just look at her and you will join us right away.

	It was suggested that I might want to say something about Chicago.  The truth is that any man that came to Houston and didn't talk about Houston ought to be run out of town, and I prefer to talk about Houston.

	I do this despite the fact that on the way in there I met several people who said, "We are from Los Angeles."  And I just left Los Angeles and we had a wonderful day and it was a full and very busy day at that great city of Los Angeles.  And despite what some of you good Democrats may say, I think I ought to let you in on the news early, because there is nothing, may I say, that destroys your vitality more than a day of worry.

	As somebody once said, "A week of work is less tiring than a day of worry."  And I don't want you to worry about this election at all.  I am not worried about it.  I think the people are going to do what is right and I think they are going to do for me what the governor did for the Judge and they are going to put me in a new job, and both of them, I approve of.

	Somebody said, coming in here, "We have to take the 'vice' out of that fellow."  I think there is some truth to that.

	Enough about that.  I want to say how very pleased we are to share this hour with you, this brief moment of fellowship.  We have a busy evening with you and tomorrow we have a busy day.  We go to Michigan and then the next day to the Eastern Seaboard.  For some reason or another, I have decided to travel around this country a good deal, and we are seeing some good people and what I see in this country, in the main, I like.  I see people in America that have great faith in our country.  I see hundreds of thousands of people in this country that believe that this country can do what it needs to do, when it needs to be done.

	I know that there are some very loud and articulate voices that seem to be heard over the quiet of reason and judgment, but I do not believe that that raucous and harsh and, at times, angry voice really represents the heart or the conscience or the will of the American people.

	I believe that whether you are Conservative or Liberal, whether you are from Minnesota or Texas, whether you are from California or you are from Maine, I really believe that most of the people in this country would like to have a way to do what is right.  I really believe that most of our people are willing to give the other fellow the benefit of the doubt.  I believe that the vast majority of our people are not infected with bitterness and hate but would like to be inspired and motivated by a sense of community and fellowship, by being fair and just and by waging whatever effort they can against any form of inequity or deprivation.

	I know that the man that you honor tonight is one whose life has been characterized by service and, believe me, there is no higher calling than to serve someone else, to be a man of tolerance, to be a person of reason, to be one who has patience, or understanding, not only of the needs of others, but a need and understanding of his limitations, his own great assets, and of his own service.

	I have a feeling that if we can get the American people to listen in this fateful year of 1968, to listen and to think, to reason to reason rather than to just be caught up in the passions of the moment, that we are going to come out all right.

	I am not unmindful of the conflicts and of the tensions and, in some places, the bitterness that erupts into violence.  But you know and I know that none of that will provide an answer to anything.  There is no problem in this nation that will be solved by uncontrolled passion and emotion, by violence, either of the mob or of an individual, by hate and bitterness.

	Every problem we have will be solved, if it is to be solved at all, and I think they can, because there is a sense of prudence, judgement, or restraint, of reason, of faith in our institutions, confidence in our people.  And I believe the life of the man you honor tonight exemplifies many of those characteristics.

	Now, I didn't ask his wife, Elizabeth, as to all of this biography, but I think that she would agree with me that he has exemplified these qualities.

	Our judiciary is, in a sense, a protector of our rights and those who serve on it at the local, the county, state or federal level are worthy of our respect and, might I say, that in the long perspective of history that America is what it is today in terms of our liberties, not only because of our congressmen and presidents, but more significantly because we have invested in the fidelity of the Courts, who have made it possible--the Courts had Judges who have made it possible for this nation to live in law, a government of laws, not of men, a government of civil order and civil justice; the one and inseparable fact of a free society and a democratic society.

	I didn't intend to be quite that serious with you because this is a happy occasion.  But I believe, in these troubled times, and even this moment of parties and receptions, that it is good to think about what it is that has made this country what it is.

	What has made this country what it is, is a great depth of consciousness about people, consciousness that motivates men and women throughout the many generations of our history to do something just a little bit better than was done before, and this nation is characterized by leaders who came from the ranks of people, not an elite born to ride herd on others, but, rather, the people who raise up out of their own ranks their own leaders, so that we have government by the consent of the governed, so that we have government of law, not government of edict, so that we have government that is compassionate, on the one hand and firm in its justice on the other.

	I think that is what we exemplify by this meeting tonight.  I think that is what you come to pay your respects to, and am I ever glad to be there.  I always like to be where there are good people. I go away feeling just a little better.

	Somebody asked me the other day if I was leaning to the left or to the right or was I in the center, and I said, "Really, it is hard enough to walk these days without leaning."

	I think those are old, hackneyed expressions.  We don't need people today that lean to the left or to the right and we don't even need people who try to find a comfortable center, but we need people who tend to lift us to high ground.  And I come to Houston where the great Space Center is and I can't help but think that if we just lift our eyes a little from the Earth on which we walk to the stars and try to get a broader and bigger horizon, to try to get a glimpse of eternity and the affinity of space, maybe we will be better and maybe we will be able to lift this country out of its troubles, because I don't think that its troubles are going to be overcome by either the ditch of the left or the ditch of the right, or in the center, because I think it will be overcome by which you stand a little higher, like you say in Texas.

	And, if I may, I am going to ask you to stand just a little taller and I am going to ask you to lift your eyes to a new horizon and ask you to pull down the shades on the midnight of the past and then to walk to the door and open it up and see the dawn of a new day, because I think it is ours, if we but welcome it in.

	Mr. Bentsen:  We all want to thank you for this.

	They tell me I have another meeting to go to.  I hope I am going to see plenty of you there.

CIVIL DISORDERJUDICIARY     …" ï" è" ã" É"
 w" r" m" f" a" _" U" J"	  	 	 e: