Speeches\1968\rep\S68R1022.002SPEECH1968RepublicanNIXON (R)10/22STUMPCOLUMBUSOHIOOH3297 WORDS

	Chairman Bill Schneider, all of the distinguished guests here on the platform and this huge audience here in Columbus, as you can imagine, as I stand again at this place where I have stood before, I am deeply moved by the size of the crowd, by the enthusiasm of the crowd.

	As we came in Bill said, "Dick, because you are about fifteen minutes late some of the people had to leave." Well, if anybody left, we are going to win bigger than I thought.

	And in response to Bill's introduction, I can only echo what Senator Bob Taft said about Bill Schneider. He is probably the best County Chairman in America. He told me that when we came to Columbus he would do what he did in 1960, and he has done it again, and I am most grateful to you for coming out in such great numbers.

	There are other reasons why as I stand here, this meeting has a special meaning beyond even those that I participated in earlier today and will be participating in later in the day. Because here in the capital of this state of Ohio I know that I am in the presence of a man who in the field of state government has had such a splendid record in running his state with the fiscal responsibility, that he has been a teacher to the new governors of other states. Jim Rhodes can teach us all something in that respect.

	And also because it gives me an opportunity to stand here on the same platform, with a man who will be in the United States Senate in the great tradition of Bob Taft and John Bricker, I refer to Bill Saxbe, your next United States Senator. And to your two congressmen from this area, Sam Devine and Chalmers Wiley, two fine congressmen, let's send them back. We need that whole team.

	And then I must tell you of a little interlude that occurred as I was walking up through the row here of Nixon girls and Nixonettes and teenagers, one girl grabbed me by the arm and she said, "I am from Ohio State. We are number one and you are going to be number one." Now, I think you should know that tomorrow I am going to Michigan, and I will have to be in other states. But I simply want to say this, that my interest in Ohio State and its football teams goes back, as some of you may remember, quite a few years.

	I will never forget when John Bricker brought me to one of the great games of all time, the Ohio State-Iowa game in 1958. Iowa came into the game undefeated. Ohio State won it 17 to 14 and a quarterback by the name of White carried the ball twelve times through the same hole scoring the winning touchdown. I remember it very well.

	And I was thinking of that game and I was thinking of how Ohio State had done so well this year, how they had become number one, and what I could learn from Woody Hays, what I could learn from Ohio State. And I think I've got it figured out. They play rockem-sockem football, and that's what we are going to play for the balance of this campaign.

	As I know, and I am sure you know, you have seen some of the claims of our opponent. As we enter these critical last two weeks, of course, both campaigns are stepped up, and he is trying to tell the American people, well, maybe he is behind but he is going to pull a Truman, he is going to do what Truman did in 1948. I don't think it will work, my friends, it's one thing to give them hell but it's something else to give them Humphrey.

	And I've got news for him. If that's what he is going to give us, we can put it in a little more polite and perhaps up-to-date language. From now on we are going to sock it to 'em with everything we've got. And the reason we are going to sock it to them, my friends, is that America cannot take a chance this year, 1968, can't take a chance on continuing for four more years the leadership of the last four years, because let's consider what the great choice is.

	It's a choice, my friends, that is clearer than the one that we had in 1960, and I thought that was a clear one. But today as I compare those two campaigns I realize that never in the history of this country or at least in my political lifetime have I seen a clearer choice that Americans could make. That choice is between one man who helped to make the policies of the last four years, who has never disagreed with any of those policies, who pledges to continue them and who tells Americans that we must continue for four more years what we have been doing for the past four years.

	And my answer, my friends, to that question and to that proposition is just as clear. My answer is that when an administration has struck out on the great issue of peace abroad, when it has struck out on the great issue of peace at home, when it has struck out on maintaining the value of our dollars, when it has struck out in handling the problems of our cities, then it's time to get them out of there and get a new batter up to the plate, and that's what we are going to do.

	Putting it in football terms, they have lost the ball and we need some new ball carriers, and, incidentally, Woody, as Woody told me earlier, this year not only are we going to rockem-sockem, but we can throw the ball to them. We are going to throw it a little, I can assure you.

	And, my friends, that gives me an opportunity before this great audience to summarize what I have been saying today as we moved up the tracks, that railroad track. We have been working on the railroad because we are trying to get America on the right track.

	And I can say to you, my friends, that as we look at the issues, they are very clear. Here's the choice. The choice abroad and the choice at home that you in this county, which gave me the biggest majority of any metropolitan county in America in '60, my friends, here is the choice you will help to make in Ohio and in the nation this year.

	First, foreign policy. On the one side a man who says he is satisfied, he has nothing new to offer. He continues the same policy for four more years that we have had for the last four years. That's his answer.

	Here's mine. I say to you that when America has been tied down in war for four years in Vietnam, when we have had no peace for four years, I say to you when the strength of the United States has been allowed to go down until our superiority is threatened, when from nine to one we are practically even with the Soviet Union, I say to you, and listen carefully to this, that when nobody in this great audience can name one place in the world today, leave Vietnam out of it, you can't name one place in the world where America isn't worse off today than it was eight years ago, where the chances for peace are not less, where the danger of war is not greater, and I say to you that when respect for America has sunk so low that a fourth-rate military power like North Korea would dare to seize a naval vessel of the United States on the high seas, then it is not time to continue with the old policy, it's time for a new foreign policy from top to bottom, and that is what we offer to the American people. I pledge to you that policy.

	I pledge to you a policy that will restore the strength of America. I pledge to you a policy in which your new president will negotiate with the leaders of the Soviet Union as we must, but from a position of strength. And from that position of strength avoid the war which otherwise might not be avoided if men with less background, with less experience, and with less strength were negotiating.

	I pledge to you the new foreign policy that will restore respect for America around this world, not just because America wants to be proud, as we do, not just because we are interested in prestige and popularity as we may be, but because unless a nation has prestige, unless it has respect, it cannot lead.

	And I pledge to you that in our administration, my friends, the American flag is not going to be a doormat for anybody at home or abroad. I pledge to you a new policy after Vietnam, a policy that will deal with the problems that we confront in the Mid-East, which could explode into war; in Latin America which could explode into war; in Eastern Europe and Western Europe which could explode into war, and in the balance of Asia.

	What we need is a new man on the scene, a new president, a new secretary of state, looking at all these trouble spots, defusing them, and defusing them--why? So that the young men, the teenagers that I see in this crowd today won't be fighting in another Vietnam four, five years from now.

	I pledge that kind of leadership. I say to you, my friends, as I look back over the last twenty years, America has been generous in its aid, $150 billion; we have been generous with our men in Korea and in Vietnam, but the world has changed. Other nations are able to do more, and they can. And I say that we need a new foreign policy which recognizes this fundamental fact.

	There are 200 million Americans, there are two billion people that live in the free world, and we need a foreign policy in which other nations in the free world bear their fair share of the defense of freedom around the world. And I know you want that.

	And in this field, my friends, I cannot tell you that it is easy, because to preserve the peace, as I know from experience, is more difficult even than waging war. But I had a pretty good teacher. I am proud to have served in an administration and under a president in which we ended one war and kept the nation out of other wars for eight years, and that's what we are going to do in this administration.

	My friends, if we are going to have peace abroad, however, we've got to remember a fundamental fact, and that is that there is no ground more important than the ground we stand on. I refer to the ground of America in this heartland of America, I refer to this great and good country that we all love. I do not refer to those in this great audience who obey the law, those who respect our institutions and our flag. But I refer to the fact that was brought home to me a few days ago when Governor Scranton came home from Europe and reported that American respect in the capitals of Europe was the lowest in history. And I asked him, "Why?" And he gave me this troubling answer. He said not just our foreign policy, but, he said, every night on the European television screen are pictures of crime in America and violence in America and burning in America, Americans hating each other and fighting each other and killing each other. That's the picture of America.

	It's not a true picture. It's only a small part of America. But, my friends, we are going to change that picture. And here's the other choice. On the one side a man who says that he will continue the same policies of the attorney general we presently have, that he has really nothing new to offer in this field.

	And I say, my friends, we cannot continue for these reasons. I say to you, and look at the record over the past four years, when we have seen crime going up nine times as fast as population, when we have seen riots in 300 cities which have killed 200 Americans and wounded and injured 7,000 more, and when the time has come, as a recent poll indicated, that 43 percent of every American--all the Americans are afraid to walk in the streets of their cities at night, then it is time not to continue with the old policies but to get a new attorney general, a new team and to reestablish law and order in the United States of America. I pledge that.

	I pledge that we will do that and that we will maintain the justice without which you cannot have true law and order; that we will have the promise of progress without which you cannot have the order that all of us want.

	And in another field, my friends, we need some new leadership. And now I refer to one of Jim Rhodes' favorite issues. Let me call it, for lack of a better term, the pocketbook issue. It's one that isn't as exciting as the other two, but it's one that touches every American home, old Americans, young Americans, working Americans, everybody in this great audience.

	Look what has happened. You hear it said you never had it so good. But now to every wage earner in this great crowd, let me ask you a question. You will answer if I ask you this question that you have found that your wages on an average over the last three years have gone up by $11 to $14 a week. And now let me ask your wives a question, and they will say, "Oh, no," they will say that because of rising prices and higher taxes they have two dollars a week less to spend today than they had three years ago.

	I say that's wrong, and I say we are going to stop the rise in prices and stop the rise in taxes in the United States.

	I say, my friends, to the older people, and they have had no increase in their income; millions of Americans, they are the forgotten Americans, over 65 on Social Security. Send us to Washington, and we will provide that if there is an increase in prices, social security will automatically go up. That's the right thing to do by our older citizens.

	And, my friends, one other point that I make. When we talk about wages, fundamental to it all is the word that is Jim Rhodes' word, "jobs." And I noticed a very interesting and troubling report in the papers just yesterday. Listen to this. The top economist in the present administration said that because of the increase in prices, run-away inflation, with which we were confronted, that we would have to have a regrettable--and I quote him--"upcreep" in unemployment. And that that would mean that probably as many as 370,000 workers would lose their jobs in America if their policies continue.

	This is my answer. The American working man should not be the one to suffer for the reckless spending policies of this administration. I say to you, my friends, the spenders in Washington caused inflation and they are the ones who will be unemployed in January and not the American working man. I pledge to you a new policy, a policy that I announced in a major radio address two days ago, repeated in Cincinnati last night.

	We pledge 15 million new jobs in the next four years, real jobs, with real income, because it can be done, my friends. We can have progress without inflation, we can have prosperity without war, we can have 15 million new jobs, but we can only have it if we get a new team in Washington. Give us the chance and we will provide that kind of leadership for you.

	There are many other problems that I would like to discuss, but briefly, these issues, differences between the two, you ask.

	After Vietnam I say that it's time for a new look at the draft. I say, as Robert Taft said twenty years ago, that when we come to peace, let's have a volunteer army and not a draft for the United States, and I think Americans want that. I say that after a period of twenty years, thirty years, in which power has flowed from the states to Washington, DC., it's time to reverse the trend. Let's have the power flow back from Washington to the states and local government. Let's have home rule and not federal rule in the United States of America. There is a new way to progress. Rather than more millions on welfare rolls, we say more millions on payrolls. That's the answer that Americans want, and that's the answer that we bring.

	And now, if I could conclude with one very personal note, that would only be appropriate in this city. My father, as you know, was born on a little farm in Ohio, in Vinton County. And he came to this city of Columbus as a teenager and later in his early twenties and he was a motorman on the old streetcar line that they used to have in Columbus. They are gone now. And after he was on the streetcar for a few years, he went to California where he met my mother who was born in Indiana. They were married, and when they were there they raised a family, five boys. There was a lot of sickness in that family, two boys died with tuberculosis. My father also and my mother in their late years were ill. But I remember my father's attitude about America. I think it's yours, and it's certainly mine. He was not a rich man, he was not a man that somebody would call a big man, but he was a very proud man, proud of this country, proud of his Ohio roots, proud of the dignity which he had earned. And my father always used to talk not about his difficult past, because his mother died when he was in the sixth grade, and he had to quit school and go to work, but he always used to tell us, the boys, that in America what we all lived for was to develop in this country a better life for our children than we had for ourselves. That's the American dream. That is what my public life has been dedicated to. And I tell you today, as I stand here in Columbus, here breathing the same air that my father so many years ago was able to breathe, I realize the heritage that I have, I am proud of it, I hope I'm worthy of it, and I pledge to you that the new generation, if I can have this opportunity to serve, I trust, will not have to fight three wars as did my generation; that the new generation will not have to go through a period of rising crime, as has mine; that the new generation will have opportunities such as mine never dreamed of. It can happen. I need your help to make it happen. Let's get the biggest majority ever from Franklin County and we will carry Ohio and America.
CIVIL DISORDERCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHCOST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALMILITARY RECRUITMENT--VOLUNTARYPRESTIGE, INTERNATIONAL     •D aD [D WD MD
 DD ?D :D 2D .D ,D ,D "D	 – 	 ˆ 	 j 	 \ 	 N 	 6 	  e: