Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0910.004SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/10STUMPREDONDO BEACHCALIFORNIACATRW8,324 WORDS

	Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Mr. Downey.  And I am so pleased to see two of our fine congressman here with us today, Congressman Charlie Wilson and Congressman Gus Hawkins, and a gentlemen that aspires to be a Congressman, Glen Anderson.  And I see, Glen, that you  have the crowd.  There are a few of mine here, too.

	Every time you hear one of those boos, that is just to be translated in the Sioux Indian language that means three cheers for Humphrey.

	You know, for a long time I was worried about those signs, and all that noise, then one of my good friends said, "Don't feel that way".  Just because you are only an honorary chief in the Chippewa Tribe, you ought to know in Sioux language what they are saying is we are for you.  We are for.

	I don't sense it that way, but that is what they say it means.

	I want to compliment the TRW Systems on their creative art.  I see some of the finest painting that I have seen for a long time.

	I am glad to know what Mr. Nixon is going to do over there.  Isn't that great?  Get those signs up good.

	What that really means is that he is going to save our family drugstore, but he really doesn't need to.  We have got it all taken care of already.  Nixon is the one.

	You know, I hope for those of you that have good fishing, I think you can maybe see or at least, I should maybe tell you about the vice presidential seal.  It is different than the presidential seal.  It is a little skimpy.  Vice presidents really don't have very much authority.  They have a lot of responsibility and the eagle is a little short of both feathers and fur and holly branches and arrows.  The presidential seal shows the presidential eagle, the American eagle, strong and vibrant, clear-eyed, confident, and it shows its wings uplifted and it shows in one set of claws a cluster of olive branches representing our desire for peace, it shows in the other set of claws a cluster of arrows representing the strength of the nation.  And the vice presidential seal shows a poor old eagle looking like he has been on a starvation diet with his wings cast down like he is ready for a crash landing with one set of claws, with one little olive branch, so for those of you who think I have not worked hard enough for peace, remember, I have been short of olive branches.

	And, now, if that fellow will just put up that Nixon sign again, I will appreciate it, because let me tell you what to do with that other little item.  Somebody once asked me, what are going to do with that one arrow, Mr. Vice President?  Nixon is the one, I want you to know.  I don't mean to be unkind to him but I am afraid he will just have to take it.

	I come to you today in the spirit of gratitude and appreciation for this opportunity to talk directly to you, to express my views in what is the way we ought to express our views: in peaceful assembly, respect for the other man's right to hold a view that may be contrary to yours or contrary to mine.  I believe in the right of every man to be heard and I believe that no man that believes in freedom or democracy should ever deny any man to have the right to say his piece.

	Indeed, I believe in the right of every man to be heard.  That doesn't necessarily mean that you have to take them seriously but they ought to be heard, whether it is myself Mr. Nixon or Mr. Wallace or whoever else it may be.  And, I deplore any condition or any situation at any time that would deny any man in this country his right to be listened to, his right to speak, our right to assemble peacefully, our right to cast our ballot peacefully, and our right to live in peace in this country.  There isn't a single problem that affects us today that is going to be solved by violence, chanting, booing, or frivolity.  Every single problem will have to be solved by reason and by people thinking together.

	I don't believe that anyone has monopoly on truth.  We are all searching for the truth.  I do not believe that any one of us can safely predict what all the tomorrows will bring.  I believe that you must judge those whom you will ultimately elect on the basis of their record and on the basis of what you believe from your own personal assessment will be their stewardship of this nation in the future.  And I want to talk to you about the future and this is the place to do it.

	TRW Systems, their Good Government Group here today, this industry, this great system that you have, great corporate entity of which you are a part, is designed and built for the tomorrows.  I don't think you are examining a thing about the yesterdays except possibly what little you might learn from our mistakes.  I know, for example, that this great company has been involved in work with which I have had a little something to do, our space program.  I serve as chairman of the National Space Council and have done so now for four years.  I was there for the christening, so to speak, of the first communications satellite and I know that you are designing and you have developed the international telecommunications satellite system and as I understand it, within the next few days the first of the six synchronous satellites will be launched, and this will improve the communication between men and nations.  In fact, what you are going to be doing here will have a great impact upon making this world of ours a safer and better place to live.

	I see the day when our great institutions of higher learning will be connected on an international worldwide basis through the communication satellite, so that the finest minds of every country can be promptly and currently shared with the students of every country.

	What a great day that will be.

	But, this is not far off.  This is not far off.  We are talking about the next decade.  We surely are not talking about any period of time beyond the year 2,000.  Many of us may not remember that most of the people that are living today, a majority of them will be alive in the year 2000, so that what we do and the decisions we make, the achievements of science and technology between now and let's say the next ten years will affect the lives of all of us and will also affect the lives of people yet unborn.

	So, this company represents the future, and you do.  I know that you have contributed greatly to the hopes of peace in this world, greatly, may I say, in the Project Elam, which is the eye in the sky which makes it possible for us to have a nonproliferation treaty, which makes it possible for us to stop the spread of nuclear weaponry, which makes it possible for us to supervise and inspect potential programs of arms control and disarmament, and I can stand before this audience and say that as chairman of the Senate committee on Arms Control and Disarmament some twelve years ago I called upon my government and your government to undertake this great project of science and technology, to develop a satellite that could be an eye in the sky, that would give us the open skies and give us the view of this Earth and give us a chance through the sensitive monitors to be able to determine whether or not a nuclear explosion had taken place, whether or not a new arms race was secretly underway.  This is why I have said that the next president of the United States must give of himself to halt this arms race before it halts humanity.  He must do everything within his power to prevent the spread of nuclear weaponry.  He must do everything within his power to crush the development of new systems of weaponry which can literally consume our resources and lift that danger level to a point where any erratic act by any world leader could lead to total destruction.

	This is the cause of peace.

	And this is the cause for which we should work.

	I want to say that this great TRW Systems and this group of employees and management personnel are not dedicated to the destruction of this world.  You are dedicated to its salvation.  You are dedicated not to war but to peace.  You are dedicated to trying to make a better society right here on Earth, even as you develop the machines and the mechanisms that can explore the wonders of outer space.

	Now, let me say briefly that I think the space program has served this nation well.  I believe that the fringe benefits, so to speak, the spin offs from the space program, have made American industry the most modern in the world, have made it competitive, that the spin offs in science and medicine and the new battery cells, the new materials, covering materials, the whole new method of dealing with our problems called the systems analysis approach, every bit of this is more than worth all that we have invested in our space program, and if I am president of the United States, I have no intention of letting our country become second in the exploration of the universe because a nation that is second in anything today is last.  We must be first.

	Our space program has upgraded the quality of education.  It has placed a premium in this society upon excellence.  It has brought forth hundreds of thousands of new trained and educated people--the Ph.Ds, the men and the women with Master's degrees.  It has lifted the standards of higher education in this nation to heights that no other country has ever even dared aspire to, and we must continue.  It isn't just that there is an object orbiting in space.  What that represents is but the accumulated knowledge converted into technology and with technology and science and engineering of a people who are venturesome and of a people who know that there is so much more to learn, so much more that we all need to know.  

	I want to see the depths of the ocean, the waters of the seas, laboratories for a better life and I serve as chairman of the Marine Sciences Council and have had the opportunity to advance our nation's work in the field of oceanography and I want to see the skies, I want to see the vast stretches of space as we call it, to become not another battlefield but to become a laboratory for man's aspirations yet unknown.  And it was my privilege as senator to introduce the resolution which committed this country to seek in the United Nations a treaty which would ban an orbit, which would ban the orbiting of weapons of mass destruction in outer space, and that treaty today is a reality and it is another building block in the cathedral of a better world and a peaceful society.

	Yes, and I take some justifiable and humble pride that when others were saying that it was incredibly foolish and dangerous, that is exactly what Mr. Nixon said of the nuclear test ban proposal; he called it nonsense, incredibly foolish. there were some of us like Adlai Stevenson and Hubert Humphrey that didn't think so and I stuck with it as a Senator and it was my high privilege to be a sponsor of the resolution that committed this country to a test ban treaty and I was sent by the late President John Kennedy to Moscow to be one of those that participated in the signing ceremony, and as we signed that treaty in the nation's Capitol, the president of the United States said to me, and I hope you won't think it is immodest, he said to me, Hubert, this is your treaty, and believe me, those are words of praise from a great man that lives in my heart and in my mind.

	I yield to no man in the quest for peace in this world.  I yield to no person--I yield to no person in stating that no nation in our time or in the history of the world has done as much to help other people in such a spirit of compassion and generosity.  No nation has done as much to protect the liberties and indeed, the sovereignty and the independence of other people at such great sacrifice as this nation, ours, the United States of America, and I am proud of what we have done.

	I come to you asking you to help make us make some basic choices for your country this year, 1968, because this is a very important year, just as 1948 was important, deciding what would be the future trend of American policy at home and abroad.  So 1968 is particularly important as we face the development of new weapons and new dangers in this world and as we sense the strife and the conflict and the bitterness that all too often pervades the American scene.  We have choices to make about the direction that our country is going to make and going to take.  We have choices to make about the kind of an America that we are going to build right here at home, and the basic choice which I have stated as the central theme of my campaign is this: is this to be one nation, a family of Americans, united in common spirit, even though we are different as individuals?  Or is this to be a divided America, divided rich and poor, black and white, urban and rural, poor and rich, and I think that decision, a faithful decision, is going to be at least in part decided by how we vote and what we do in this election year of 1968.  

	The choice is this, to put it another way.  Are we going to accept, are you going to accept as inevitable the conflict, the hatred and the violence which are becoming a part of the everyday life of our country?  Or are we going to do what I think we want to do?  Are we going to stand up together as citizens proud of our citizenship, as Americans one and all with all of our differences, and say that this can be one America, and that we can make this country work for every individual, no matter who it might be or where that person may live.

	As I think the choice is between the America of the old era that has left many scars and the America of a new day.  It can be an America of healing and reconciliation and of reason, and of restraint and of understanding.

	In 1960 and again in 1964 the American people asked us to get this country moving again and I don't need to tell you that it has been moving.  You are well aware of it.  Jobs, education, Medicare, pollution control, consumer protection, a host of things have happened, but you know as I do that there is a lesson in history and that lesson is simply this, that when people have no hope, when they feel hopeless, they become embittered, they give up, and they tend to accept what they think is inevitable.  They tend to accept what is wrong and they survive with it and they die with it.  But, when people have hope, when they think there can be something better, when they see the light at the end of the tunnel, when they see that they too, can be a part of what is going on, they will not accept what is wrong, and I submit to you that the restlessness of this country in a large measure is because there is rising hope, high hopes for a better day.  People know that there is something better that can be theirs.  The deprived know there is no need of deprivation.  The unemployed know that they are needed at jobs.  The illiterate know that education can free them from the shackles of their ignorance.  The impoverished know that they can become productive and they are right, and I intend if I am elected president of the United States to remove these obstacles, to tear down these walls that have walled off millions of our Americans, both from the benefits of this society and from their participation in the decision-making processes.

	There are vast human resources untapped here, friends, vast areas of human potential, waiting for their chance, and I intend to see that every American, whatever his station in life, whatever his race, his creed, his background or his last name, I intend to see if I am permitted as the leader of this nation to see that every American has his chance to make the most of himself.

	And, we know it can be done.  Millions have walked out of poverty, earned their way out of it.  Black and white are standing with new dignity in this country, and it is right.  I know, of course, there are some extremists, there always are, but my fellow Americans, there are not many, and those who listen to them are really in the minority.  They are articulate, they are organized, they are loud, but I don't think that we need to let the noisy few and even the violent few become the voice of America or the image of our society.

	I warn you that there are no problems that this nation faces that will be settled in the streets.  They will be settled in our schools.  They will be settled in our factories.  Those problems will be settled in our laboratories, in our halls of discussion and debate, in the legislative assemblies, in business and labor and church.  They are not going to be settled by violence and by lawlessness and we know it.  The first credential of an educated man is good manners.  The second is tolerance.  And the third is to reach out to seek understanding.  I call upon all of those who may feel deeply the wounds of our society, the wounds inflicted by elements of injustice in this society, I call upon you to lift your voices in reason and to extend the hand of cooperation because you will be heard and your hand will be welcomed.  

	I have said I believe in the open presidency and by that I mean that every voice in the land shall find a way to be heard, that every group in this land shall have its chance to present its case, and that the president of the United States will go to the people for his sustenance with his inspiration and his strength and the people shall find in the president and in the presidency their friend, their leader, their counselor, their teacher, and even at times their follower.  

	I believe that is what the nation needs today as never before, but if we left the extremists and the haters have their way, they will drag not only themselves down but all the rest of us, but if the rest of us make up our mind that there is more good here than there is bad, that there is more greatness than there is pettiness, if we make up our minds to do something about our difficulties, facing up to them, then I submit the extremists will not have their way and no one will be dragged down.  We will all stand a little higher.

	I have been asked whether I look to the left or to the right.  I see signs of socialism and statism and, my, all kinds of signs, but let me tell you, my friends, the question is not whether you are to the right or to the left.  It is not even whether you are to the center.

	The question is whether or not you are seeking popularity or standing on principle and whether or not you are going to ask this country not to bend to the left or to the right but to look up, to look up into a new horizon, to look up into a better day, a new day for Americans everywhere, and that is what I am going to ask Americans to do.

	I say this nation is willing to pay the price, in dollars, in sacrifice, in moral commitment, to make this one America, and to do it peacefully.  We seek not only to build a safe society but I ask you to join me in seeking to build a just society, a society that is just and fair.

	Now, you would expect me at least to indulge a bit in more partisan discussion.  After all, there is not a thing wrong with party politics, and might I add that neither party, none of the parties has a monopoly on virtue or wisdom.  Maybe I shouldn't say that because I guess one is supposed to be very assertive these days, but I believe an intelligent audience knows that we have many difficulties and none of us are all that we say we are.

	Now, there is one candidate this year who based his very campaign on the idea of appealing to the yesterdays, who bases his campaign on separatism, as it was, not like it is or as it ought to be but as it was, and there is another candidate, a respected man, who does not do this but he is openly competing for the same votes as George Wallace and for the votes of people who want at best, to sort of slow things down, to kind of ease it off when it comes to the programs and the policies that offer come hopeful way out of the tension and trouble that besets us.  So, on the one hand we are faced with third party extremism and on the other, we are faced in the Republican candidate as I see it, with an old coalition and I have seen it work in Congress for years, a coalition as we used to call it, of the Dixiecrats and the conservative Republicans, which prefers to remain silent and if not silent, to bob and duck and evade when it comes to the central issue of this century, the issue that is being fought over in Czechoslovakia just as well as in America, human rights and human opportunity.

	I submit that this election year must bring a national referendum on this issue of human rights and we must turn away from the old era that all of you know too well, of segregation and discrimination which never gave us much except trouble, and we must choose the new day of community, of integration, and of opportunity, and we must turn away from the old era when an American soldier who fought in an integrated Army would come home into a neighborhood of segregation and slumism.  And we must choose a new day when that man, when he gets home, can have a job that is a meaningful job, worthy of his talents, worthy of his service to his country, and he must have training for that job and he must have equality before the law and in his neighborhood and amongst his associates.

	We must turn away from the old era when cities have grown more and more congested and tense and less fit places in which to live and for a child to grow, and we must choose the new day, which you are choosing, when the American city can be the best that our society has to offer, a place where neighborhoods are once again filled with neighbors and not angry people, where the schools are the best and where there is some green and open space and where wives and children are safe.

	Now, you here at TRW are helping on this.  The systems analysis approach as I aid, is the right way.  You are doing this now in pollution control, in communications, in transportation, and in health, just to mention a few.  I know that in your civil systems, you are designing and developing a high speed ground transportation system for the Northeast Corridor and, my how we need it.  I know that you have a land use study here of Santa Clara County under the auspices of the State of California.  I know that this is the way that we are going to meet our problems.  We can't do it the old way piecemeal.  We must do it in the mobilization of our human and physical resources.  We must do it through the systems analysis approach which you have recommended and which you exemplify.

	Finally, may I say that we must choose the new day where every American child--by the way, a child is God's testament of faith in the future--the child thinks about his or her life.  If you can't think about your own, think about what kind of a life that child is going to have ten years from now, twenty, thirty years from now, and think about whether or not what we have now is good enough, and I think if you ask yourself that question, you will have to say that the injustices and the inequities which have afflicted so many are no longer tolerable.  Once they may have been inevitable but where there is hope, they become intolerable, and that new day will be when every child that calls himself American, regardless of color or name or religion, can receive the best education that modern science and technology and training can provide, and where we can all stand together, together and equal, and be proud of it.

	That is the kind of an America I want, not an America that is separate, two societies separate and unequal, but an America of one society and one nation under God, indivisible, and with liberty and justice for all, because without it, there is no liberty and justice for any.

	So, I appeal not to your fears--I even know that what I have said here today in many of the public opinion polls, is politically counterproductive, so they say.  They tell me that the only issue is law and order, repression.

	I tell you that the issue is justice, justice for all.  Law and order, yes.  Civil order and civil justice, they go hand in hand.

	We are not animals.  We are men and women with spirit and mind and soul.  So, I do appeal to your reason and not your fears and I ask you now to vote your hopes and not your hates.  And if you vote your hopes, you are going to have a better country because of your individual commitment, you have preordained what Lincoln said of this land, that is the last best hope of Earth, that you believe it, and that in that belief you have voted your hopes and not your hates, and then, the American dream that some people call the impossible dream, has become a reality not only for you but for others that would like to have the same chance as you, the same chance as I.

	I thank you now, and if you have some questions, I am ready.

	DR. DOWNEY:  As the Vice President said he will entertain questions within the time allotted, but before we do that, we have one very charming, delightful person on the platform who was not introduced to you, Mrs. Humphrey.

	Now, for the questions.

	QUESTION ONE: Elected, would you advocate the guarantee of the minimum income?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Well, my friend, as you know, there are many forms of what we call income maintenance.  One of them is the negative income tax.  I haven't approved that or adopted that because quite frankly there are so many technical facets to it that I don't think we are quite ready yet to make an honest judgment on it.

	I just say this, that the present system of welfare which is a gerrybuilt outfit based on the old Elizabethan Code and modernized in the New Deal, patched on in the Fair Deal and the New Frontier, is not adequate for this time, and we have got to have an entire new system of income maintenance and I have asked and have set about designing a large task force of the best in the field of economics and social welfare to come up with a program for us and I will present a whole new program of income maintenance, of guaranteed income for those who cannot work, who are incapable of work, through health or mental reasons, and see to it that they have a system of income maintenance that is worthy of a human being, and we will redouble, triple or whatever is required, those programs of training and education that see to it that those who want to work, men and women, can have the training and have the opportunity to work and that will include day care centers, may I say, for working mothers, for mothers that would like to work, too, so they can leave their children in wholesome surroundings.

	QUESTION:  Do you have any idea of relief for the middle class taxpayer?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That is a popular question.  Let me just try to answer it as factually and as candidly as I can.  The Federal Government had reduced your taxes three times from 1964 to 1968, three times, three reductions in federal taxes--once in the general corporate and income tax level, twice in what we call the excise taxes.

	Then, there was added this past year a ten-percent surtax.  That surtax automatically comes off within a year.  If it is to be--yes, it automatically comes off within a year.  It is written into the law.  It will have to be, if it is to be reestablished, it will have to be repassed by the Congress.  It has an automatic date of finality or of end.

	Now, my own view is that if the war is still on and if the inflationary pressures are at work, that most likely the Congress will see fit to at least adopt some kind of continuity or continuation or some continuation of some kind of surtax.

	If, however, the economy is sluggish, war or no war, and I am president of the United States, I would recommend its repeal, because I think the greatest hope that we have in this country for what we want to do are not just public revenues, but a vital growing, steadily growing economy without too many inflationary pressures.

	Now, let's talk about these other taxes, and you folks know about them.  I pay them just like you do.  I have a little home out in Minnesota in a rural countryside.  We don't have any paved roads.  We don't even have hard-topped roads.  We have got one little strip from the corner just by my house that we got on there and it cost me quite a little bit to get it.

	The property taxes have gone up immensely and it is the property taxes all over this country which have placed an unbelievable burden upon a homeowner.  There are also sales taxes which have gone up.  In some states your income tax have gone up.  I gather that that might have happened even here.  But, since I am not the campaign manager for Mr. Reagan, would you take this up with him.

	Now, what about tax relief?  I think we have to be very honest about it.  I do not foresee with the exception of the surtax, and I think that could be repealed if the economy is growing, I do not see any major tax relief for you.  I have no control as president, if I am elected president.  I surely have no control as vice president.  I don't have any control over anything as vice president except that I preside over the Senate and can cast a vote in case of a tie and they have given me that chance three times.  Those are high-priced votes for you, may I say.  You pay a lot for these.

	I think we had better make up our minds, though, that if we can keep our economy growing, that the social dividends of that economy will make your life and mine just a little bit better.  I know taxes are a burden, and I can say that the American people with the taxes they pay, are living better now, and they are, than they have lived in any time in their history.  We have had a 32 percent increase, net increase, after taxes, after adjustment of prices for inflationary pressures, in the last eight years in a family income of four--for a family of four.  We had a nine percent increase from 1963 to 1961.  And Mr. Nixon, I will pit my 32 percent against your nine percent any time, coming or going.

	QUESTION:  Mr. Humphrey, have you rejected the possibility of an unconditional bombing halt of North Vietnam?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I don't think one rejects any of these possibilities.  The question about a bombing halt is simply this.  Will it contribute to substantive discussions and negotiations which will lead to a political and negotiated political settlement of this war?  I don't know of anybody that is--I do not know of anybody that is opposed to a bombing halt if that bombing halt will do something more than just halt bombing.  In other words, will it provide an opportunity to get a political settlement to bring this war to an end?

	Now, my own view has been expressed repeatedly.  I have said that I support the cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam when that cessation, if--I should say if there is any expression of any restraint or reasonable response that would indicate that North Vietnam is serious about negotiations in Paris that would lend itself--in other words, that this bombing halt would lend itself towards an end of this war.

	Now, let's just face up to it.  If North Vietnam wants an end to this war, and we want one, a cease fire will get it at once and we are prepared for a cease fire including all the halting of the bombing and all the violence across Vietnam and I think it is just about time that our voices are raised not only to say that we ought to do this and we ought to do that, but, we need an expression of the conscience of humanity calling upon all nations and all people for a cease fire in Vietnam including all forms of violence and settling this war through the political process called negotiation.

	Now, that is a sensible approach to it.

	QUESTION:  Mr. Vice President, do you realize perhaps that many of our children in this country are affected by the drug problem?  Is there anything that you, as president, can do?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: I think we are all indebted to you for asking this question.  Eighty-eight percent of all crime committed last year was committed by persons eighteen years and under.  Last year, the last three years, there has been no increase in adult crime in the United States.  The great problem of law--of crime in America today regrettably is to be found amongst very young people.  There were more serious crimes committed by young people age eleven to sixteen, crimes of murder and assault, battery, burglary, robbery than were committed by persons age fifty to eighty.

	It is a very serious social problem which I think tells us a great deal about our schools, our family life, our community life, and whatever we do in this country, I think needs to be resolved around how does it strengthen the family institution and what does it do to give a better sense of responsibility to our young.

	Now, the drug traffic is a cruel and criminal business and what can we do about it?  Well, first of all, we ought to be negotiating much--very, very severe ad tight compacts and agreements with neighboring countries and other countries with strict enforcement, with large numbers of enforcement officers on all sides of borders, to prevent the flow of drugs, harmful drugs and drugs of addiction.

	Secondly, we are going to have to pay the price for law enforcement.  The narcotics traffic has been generally looked upon as a federal responsibility, that is, the curbing of that traffic.  I would suggest that every governor, every mayor, every local jurisdiction of government understand that this traffic cannot be curbed by federal officers primarily.  It is going to require a great concentrated, much-intensified effort.

	Thirdly, I would hope that we would understand that our correctional institutions and our so-called institutions of rehabilitation are totally inadequate.  Ninety-five cents out of every dollar spent today on curbing crime is spent upon brick and mortar and facilities.  Five percent on rehabilitation. 

	Now, we are going to have to do much better.  Four out of five criminals who commit major crime are repeaters.  Many of our penal institutions have become institutions of learning of crime rather than institutions of rehabilitation.

	And might I add that your police forces in America today are sorely in need of upgrading both in size, quantity and quality.

	Every great university with few exceptions, has training courses for social workers and librarians and teachers.  We say we want the best teachers in the worse neighborhoods where the poorest people are to be found.  We want good social workers.  We want good public health officers.  But, that same neighborhood generally has inadequate police protection both in numbers and in quality.

	I believe the great institutions of higher learning across this country should institute at once programs of police training in law enforcement, knowledge of community relations, understanding of human relations, and the police also having an understanding of the citizen's rights as well as their own rights as law enforcement officers.

	I will leave you with this thought.  A man asked me about taxes a while ago.  Well, I am just going to tell you as one who has been a mayor of a city, and who insisted that my people pay more for law enforcement, you don't get any law enforcement on the cheap.  You just don't get it.  And police officers throughout this country have been underpaid, overworked and underappreciated far too long.  I think it is about time we gave them some help, we gave them some help, we gave them some respect, that we gave them better training, that we have better standards of recruitment, that we give them better pay.

	When I was the mayor of my city I doubled the pay of my police officers in two years.  They had a fifty-two-hour work week when I came in and in two years they had a forty-hour work week.  They were sent to the University of Minnesota in the center for continuation study race relations.  They were given modern equipment.  You can't have law and order on the cheap and I don't care who goes around and talks about it.  You can demagogue yourself about this and demagogue others but if you want a law and order program and if you want law enforcement, my fellow citizens, pay for it.  That is the way you are going to get good teachers, that is the way you are going to get good schools, that is the way you are going to get good communities.

	DR. DOWNEY:  The Vice President is on a very tight schedule and has agreed to maybe one or two more questions.

	Way back here.

	QUESTION:  (Question inaudible)

	DR. DOWNEY:  You are not coming through.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY: Would you repeat that?

	QUESTION:--violent force for aggression and the inability of authorities to handle the situation which we all saw on television.  The Vice President said nothing, made no statement, did nothing, until he came out to accept the nomination, very happily.

	In view of the fact that the demonstrations were mainly directed against himself--Dr. Downey:  That sounds like a statement rather than a question.  Have we got something else?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I will be glad to take it.  Oh, don't worry.  Don't worry.  We take them with the bark on.  We don't want any of these patsy questions.  You will get the whole answer, don't worry.

	You will have to go in training to figure up tougher questions than I have had already.

	But, let me answer your questions. First of all, I don't consider that the demonstrations were against me.  I really don't think that was true at all.  As a matter of fact, I saw some of the demonstrators even demonstrating, oh, against many things.  They were demonstrating against people that were in jail and they were--they even booed some of my friends, Senator McCarthy, Senator McGovern, and they gave me more boos.  I want you to know I got the best of the deal.  There is no doubt about that.

	But, I believe we ought to put this now in perspective.  The first thing is there is an FBI investigation of what took place there and I as one of those that called for it.  You know it.  So, don't let's--let's quit fogging the issue.  I did it the first night.

	Secondly, you know that in my acceptance speech I deplored any brutality that had taken place, and you heard it.  If you didn't you should have.

	Thirdly, you know that I have said that in some instances the police did overreact--and you do know also that I have also--that there were trained, well-mobilized, highly organized provocateurs and agitators that came there to cause trouble and they succeeded.  You know that.

	You also know that I have said and repeat to you that regrettably and very regrettably, hundreds of decent fine young people were caught up in this violence, no fault of their own.  The men and the women that staged that violence were as far behind the battle lines as some of the generals get behind a battle line.  And the kids were up in front.  And the police were coming down the street and they were being harassed and tormented, rocks thrown at them, bottles, and you know that, too.

	Now, let me just put it right directly to you.  I do not think the Mayor of Chicago condoned anything that happened there any more than Mayor Lindsay condoned what happened at Columbia University.  Now, both of these great mayors have had to see their police departments made into people with clubs.  Neither of them like it.  I have been the mayor of the city.  I have had to see my police department break up a riot.  I did not like it.  I did not enjoy one minute that we had tonight, even though on that night I received my nomination.  I was sad.  Very sad.  But, I can say to this audience that there were men that came there, and some women, regrettably, there were people that came there that were determined to cause trouble and the mayor of the city of Chicago has the responsibility to try to preserve law and order.

	Now, the way to preserve law and order is for people to meet together and talk together and not to act as if they are animals.  The way to preserve law and order--is for the people of this country that want it to speak up and say that we have had enough of these extremists and they can also peak up and say something else, that they think that our police officers and their command should be trained and disciplined in what we call riot control so that there is no overreacting, so that there is no brutality if there was some.

	Nobody is proud of that day.  All of us are sad.  But, let's quit pretending that somebody planned it out of city hall.  It wasn't planned.  You know and I know that every one of us that were there, public figures, were targeted for trouble and some of us for assassination.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, when the mayor of a city is told through the highest intelligence sources of this government and his own city that two or three of the potential presidential aspirants will be assassinated on the spot and that their families will be taken and assassinated, that mayor has a responsibility to try to see that that doesn't happen.  You had one assassination out here.

	I sympathize for every mayor in this country.  There are so many people that seem to know how to do things better.  Well, I will tell you, if you do, file for office.

	DR. DOWNEY:  Last question.

	QUESTION:  Do you believe that Hanoi is willing to cease the fighting in Vietnam?

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I think that Hanoi will be willing to cease the fighting in Vietnam when it finds out first of all, that the divisions within our own country are not going to result in concessions later on that they can't now get at the conference table in Paris.  In other words, I put it directly to you.  I want to make sure that those of us who are candidates for president right now do not offer any kind of hope to Hanoi that if they will just continue the killing, if they will just continue the infiltration, if they will just continue the war, if they will just refuse to bargain between now and January 20th that they are going to get a better deal after January 20th.

	I want this war stopped now, and it can be stopped.  And the way to get it stopped is for the participants and the combatants in this war to settle down to some serious negotiation.

	We are ready to do it, but I am serving notice today as one of the candidates that Hanoi ought not to expect that I am going to say or do anything now during this campaign or after that is going to give them an easier way out.  They can get a way out now.  They can come out with honor and with dignity.  All they have got to do is to settle down and stop the violence and we are prepared to stop the bombing to negotiate a political settlement.  I think that is what the American people want.

	DR. DOWNEY: He says he will take one more.  Right there.

	QUESTION:  What about the men on the Pueblo?  What can you do to get them back?

	VOICE:  Yeah.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Say, there is the man over there with the answer, I can tell.

	I have said, you know, if I get elected, we will have a new cabinet.  I may have to get that fellow.

	It is a very serious matter.  The men on the Pueblo--fortunately, they are alive.  I don't believe that military action on our part will save their lives or will increase the possibilities of peace in this world, and yet by the same token I know that we have to continue to demand through every possible means of negotiation and diplomacy, through every third party and every international institution that these men be returned and they be returned safely.

	Your government has left no stone unturned, and I might remind those--and I heard some of the demagoguery that has been passed around--I might remind even some contestants in this election that in the 1950s some crews of--aircraft crews--American airmen, were taken into custody by the Soviet Union.  They were accused of violating the air space of the Soviet Union.  It was false accusation but nevertheless, they were taken in and they were held for months.

	President Eisenhower didn't declare war and he didn't send Mr. Nixon to retrieve them.

	And let me say that President Johnson is not going to declare war, either, nor is he sending me to retrieve them in the instance of the Pueblo.

	But, I do say that we are using every means we have, including our contact with Communist and non-Communist countries to seek their release and we are going to persist at it until it is accomplished.

	I can't tell you when, but it is inconceivable to me that North Korea would keep these men in custody forever, and I believe that we will have them back just as we got the men back from the Soviet Union.  And maybe we can look forward to it.

	I recall that in 1961 the men from the Soviet Union came back when Mr. Khrushchev released them to Mr. Kennedy.  I would like to suggest to the North Koreans that it would be an expression of their desire for a peaceful world and for a peaceful settlement if they could release those men and if they can't do it now, it would be a nice way to start off a new term under my Presidency in 1969.

	DR. DOWNEY:  Time has really run out on us and Mr. Vice President, we appreciate you joining us today and wish you well.

	We stand adjourned.

CIVIL DISORDERCRIME--JUVENILE OFFENDERSDRUG TRADE--GENERALEDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONNORTH KOREA--PUEBLO INCIDENTNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)NUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGPOLITICAL PROTEST/DEMONSTRATIONSREHABILITATION OF CRIMINALSSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYSPACE EXPLORATIONTAXATION--GENERALTHIRD PARTY CANDIDACYURBAN AFFAIRS/AIDVIETNAM WARWELFARE      ¯² {² u² q² i²
 ]² X² S² F² <² :² 7² ,² Ú@	 ˆ	 z	 a	 N	 5	 $	 
	 î 	 ¿ 	 « 	 ‹ 	 p 	 Z 	 I 	 8 	 # 	  	  e: