Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0908.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/08STUMPCOLUMBUSOHIOOHOHIO DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION2047 WORDS

	It is wonderful to be back in Columbus again, and may I say that we are breathing more easily in Illinois now that Hopalong Cassady is no longer operating in these parts.

	Well, Mr. Cassady is a young pro now, but today I want to salute an old pro of the political gridiron, a great and celebrated Buckeye, your long-time governor and your next senator, Frank Lausche.

	It has been my good fortune to know Frank Lausche as a friend and fellow Governor. The remarkable political history that he has written here in Ohio proves once again that good government is the best politics.

	And that old truth is going to be in fine hands when the reins of office pass to my good friend, that happy warrior, Mike DiSalle. I have known and admired Mike quite awhile. And I have envied him, too, for no one else in my time has brought to public life such good humor, such zest, such warmth and good sense. It is good to like your work. He likes his and leaves only good will and good spirits behind among friend and foe alike.

	With Frank Lausche and Mike DiSalle and the splendid men on your congressional slate, this is bound to be a year of great victory for democracy--in Ohio--yes, and for the Democratic party!

	I was talking recently with one of the candidates on the Ohio ticket. I asked him what sort of campaign we should wage here this year. I got a very simple and direct answer: "Send Kefauver." Well, you are going to see a lot this fall of Estes Kefauver. I know he likes Ohio just as much as Ohio likes him. And I am happy that he is running against someone else these days!

	Of course, I never did like running against Democrats. I like to do my fighting with Republicans. And I'm mighty grateful to the Ohio delegates to the convention for helping me to indulge that taste for combat again this fall. And when they add up the score in November, you're not going to be sorry--because we're going to win!

	And we're going to make this a victory that will restore purpose to our nation, strength to the Free World, and a new hope and vitality to the American spirit.

	Senator Kefauver and I have been traveling a lot these past ten days, talking comparatively little, asking questions, listening, finding out what is in people's minds.

	If I were to summarize what we found it would be this: that there is a great restlessness abroad in this country today, a great eagerness, a very deep feeling of wanting to get up and get moving again. This a partly a feeling of having been left out of what has been going on in the nation's affairs; a feeling that the administration now in Washington doesn't know what people's problems are, or doesn't understand them if it does know, or doesn't really care when it does understand.

	The big question people are asking about the political parties today is which of them is sincere. And sincerity is something that can't be turned on just for a campaign--at least not twice in a row. It is a product of a party's good faith. The sense of sincerity comes only from a party's efforts to find out what people are thinking, hoping, feeling.

	I've said this before, but it's worth repeating: you have the most important job in this campaign. Senator Kefauver and I can shake a million hands, and we're going to. We can whistle-stop up and down the countryside, and we're going to. But the victory bells are the bells you're going to be ringin'--the doorbells of American homes. That is when, in the face-to-face talks with your friends and neighbors, you will be showing that our party cares about people.

	The message each of us is going to be carrying this fall, each in his own way, is the message of the New America--a New America that means many things, things that are to be found only in the hearts of Americans. So the message must be carried by many voices and we must listen as well as talk, for the New America is the future we are building together.

	To believe in this New America is to believe that we can make it what we want it to be, that we can overcome any forces which threaten our purposes as a nation and our hopes as individuals.

	Take this matter of the crisis in our farms, which is threatening to wipe out the family farmer. The family farm has been the backbone of American society, and when the family farmer is in trouble, America is in trouble. And the family farmer is in trouble today--and the Republicans didn't even attempt to do a thing about it--until an election year.

	I say to you that Republican defeatism toward the problem of the family farmer is a grave injury to the American people. I say to you that the family farmer can be helped--and this is exactly what we Democrats are going to start doing next January 20th.

	As we all know, the farmer is caught in a cost-price squeeze. All his costs have been rising: the cost of machinery, feed, fertilizer, and the costs of keeping his family and his home. But his income has fallen steadily, despite a small improvement this year as a result of the soil bank payments. And as things get tougher, the cost of credit goes up.

	The farmer, like the businessman, is right in the middle of the second Industrial Revolution. To be efficient, he needs to use the new machines and the new techniques, but to use them economically he needs to farm a lot of acres, often more acres than he has. Should he expand? Can he borrow the money? Should he?

	He doesn't feel secure because he is perplexed and troubled about the future of agriculture. He believes that the government can't go on piling up surpluses. He has a feeling that his present position is precarious, that maybe, like the Republicans say, he had better give up the way of life he knows and loves. Yet he realizes that while we are producing more than we seem able to use, there is hunger and want in the world. And he knows that there is something wrong about that, too.

	How has the Eisenhower administration reacted to these problems? It has decided that lower prices mean less production, and if this also means bankruptcy for a lot of family farmers, well they, are obsolete or beyond salvage anyway.

	We Democrats reject this defeatism. We know that an administration which cares can do a great deal to help the farmer help himself. Our purpose and intention is to stabilize farm income at full parity levels. This will mean restoring firm price supports and working out a combination of other measures, dealing specially with the special problems of the family farmer. We will put the federal administration of farm activities in friendly hands and restore the local administration of agricultural programs to farmers. This may well be the key to everything else, for where there is a will, there is a way. The farmer is entitled to a full and fair share of our prosperity--and we shall count it the obligation of a Democratic administration to see that he gets it.

	The Republicans think small business is obsolete, too. Their Illinois congressional candidate also said in his recent public statement that "the country is moving away from small business just as it is from small farming." He went on to say that this "always happens in a progressive country. The Republican platform," he added, "simply tells the truth on this issue."

	I say to you that this is not the truth; that it is an attempt to justify Republican inaction by saying that nothing can be done because small business has no future. You remember back in the Depression when they said that nothing could be done for everybody--and threw up their hands in despair. The first Republican head of the Small Business Administration in the Eisenhower Administration is actually reported as having said, "Let's face it. Big business is going to get bigger and small business is going to get smaller and there is nothing we can do about it. Why get excited?"

	Let me tell you that we Democrats are excited. We believe that small business is the basis of American initiative and opportunity and that it has a bright future; that we don't all have to live and work at the mercy of and as employees of a few monolithic corporations. I say to you that individual enterprise must not be extinguished; that in a healthy economic society there must be other ambitions, other goals, for young and enterprising young men than sometime to be a minor official in a vast corporate hierarchy.

	And we Democrats insist that there are things that can be done to give the small fellow a reasonable chance of surviving in the world of giants:

	Small business needs a spokesman, an agency staffed by men who believe in small business. 

	Many small businessmen need credit, and we can at least help to meet their working-capital needs by making long-term credit more readily available at reasonable rates of interest.

	We will tighten up and enforce our antimonopoly and restrictive trade legislation.

	There are changes in the tax laws needed to give small business the break it deserves.

	We will work with the Securities and Exchange Commission to make public financing easier for small business.

	We will see to it that small firms get a fairer share of defense and other government contracts

	Small business has been a neglected stepchild of the Republican administration, and we Democrats propose to bring it back into the family.

	Several generations ago, the Republican party drifted away from its liberal roots in the Civil War and has been the spokesman of the rich and powerful ever since. And in my book that is all right. Certainly as an important element of society they are entitled to a spokesman. But as the party of bigness, it watches the vanishing family farm and the vanishing small businessman with little concern and no distress. And in my book that is not all right--for the price we will eventually pay for the squeezing out of diversity, enterprise and individuality in our society is the loss of our freedom, just as conformity to standard habits of thought and behavior by..[missing text]..means a loss of our freedom to differ.

	We Democrats care about family farming and small business because they are parts of the good life. We also care about them because they are safeguards of our freedom--and because freedom is the foundation stone of the New America. Care mightily about a world--one-half taxes; draft; millions in ...[missing text]...influence.

	These are some of the things that the New America means to me and to the thousands of Americans with whom I have been talking in these past months. This is part of the message you and I and all Democrats will be carrying to the people this fall.

	It will not be easy to achieve our goals. There is much to be done, and many vested interests standing in the way.

	We can make our way to the New America only as we rally the will, the intelligence, the faith, the hope, the charity of all Americans, united in what Woodrow Wilson once called "a frightening ardor for mankind."

	My pledge to you and to Democrats everywhere is to do my best in this campaign to rekindle this fighting ardor.

	Senator Kefauver and I mean to put on the hardest campaign this country has ever seen, because we believe in what we are doing.

	With your help, we will start next January to build the New America.

	[Missing text]...of campaign "We shall not fail if we stand firm; we shall not fail."

	And I say to you...[missing text]...shall not fail if we Democrats stand still. 

AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSAGRICULTURE--SURPLUSES/SHORTAGESAGRICULTURE--FAMILY FARMBUSINESS, SMALL     •- a- [- W- O-
 B- =- 8- 0- ,- *- - -	 l 	 G  '   e: