Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1004.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/04RADIOMINNEAPOLISMINNESOTAMNFOR 9 PM RELEASE TO RADIO STATIONS AND FOR OCTOBER 5 RELEASE TO NEWSPAPERS2,211 WORDS

	One of the most pleasant occasions in a Democratic campaign is the visit to Minneapolis and Minnesota. Like the men who have preceded me, I draw strength from the will you have long shown to fight for free soil, free men, free ideas, and free politics. I know the story of your voting independence. It warns any man not to count you safely on his side. But I also know enough about you to feel confident that the causes for which the Democratic party has fought are safe in your hands, and that as long as the Democratic party is faithful to those causes you will be faithful to it.

	Far better than anything I might say, you will find your reasons for voting Democratic in what you see and feel and hope for in your private affairs and those of the nation. The Democratic record is a record, not of being against things, but of being for things. Our party doesn't believe in heckling America. It believes in building America.

	You will find your reasons for supporting the Democratic party in debt-free farms, in markets for your harvest, in your strong cooperatives, in the homes you own, in the vacations you take, in the size of your savings accounts, in your new security against unemployment and old age, in schools for your children, and in the plans you can make for your future. These things are real. They can be seen. They can be measured.

	The generation born in 1931 has no memory of what the depression was like. And some of the rest of us have forgotten the darkness that began to lift twenty years ago.

	I do not intend to run against Herbert Hoover. America is not just a past; it is a future. But I do think it is well to remind ourselves that things like the eight-hour day, retirement benefits, and farm parity programs are things that we have fought for and won in our own lifetimes. I would remind those who are impressed by the opposition's strident demands that not unknown to this rich and blessed country of ours are breadlines, soup kitchens, bank runs, foreclosures, evictions, deathly quiet in the flour mills and on the Mesabi Range, and food rotting in the fields of Minnesota while in Minneapolis there was hunger in many families.

	Just history? No. I want to take today's problems and those we know we face tomorrow--and ask whether they can be better met by a party which has steadily opposed change or by a party which has steadily advanced change. We will draw only on very recent history, and only to check the sincerity of those who play policies with promises.

	Let's start with this problem of inflation, and of depression, which is inflation's bulking shadow.

	What does it mean to meet--or not to meet--that ugly problem in the traditional way of the Republican party? We know what it means. It means a do-nothing policy of government inaction. It meant, in 1927 and '28 and '29, letting the forces of inflation go full speed ahead until they pushed us over the top into the abyss. And then it meant, in 1930 and '31 and '32, letting the forces of deflation grind us into bankruptcy and despair. They told us that after seven fat years we must expect seven lean ones, that boom and bust were the law of God and Adam Smith. They added, of course, that there was something a little weak morally about a farmer who lost his land, about a factory worker who lost his job, about a businessman who went bankrupt, about old men and women who used up their savings too soon. And then they told us we were suffering from overproduction, that we would all be well again after we had gone hungry a while. They were against depression--and against doing anything about it.

	That was the old, negative, Republican side. But there was the other side--the positive side, the Democratic side. There appeared the figure of Franklin Roosevelt--to say what we of America are for, and to halt the fantastic pageant of national suicide. He said that the men and women who composed America were not sick, that the farmer and the laborer and the businessman needed only the opportunity to earn their own keep and to supply each other. He restored men's faith in themselves. We found America's strength in a fraternity which drove out fear. We found it not in crushing dissent but in curing the causes of discontent.

	Just history? Oh no. Today we face this threat again--and the position of the two parties is exactly what it was twenty years ago. We of the Democratic party are insisting that we stop rising prices right now--that we rigorously limit government expenditures wherever consistent with the national safety, that we put ourselves on a strict diet of a pay-as-we-go tax program, that we stop excessive government and private borrowing, that we tighten up wage and price controls so long as they are needed.

	And again the Republican leadership is against every move we make. They fight our tax programs, and they bore loopholes in the price controls. They're against inflation--but they're against doing anything about inflation. We're not going to have inflation--and we're not going to have another depression-- because we're not going to listen to the siren voices of despair which put this nation on the rocks the last time we passed this coast.

	For twenty years now we have listened to their slippery slogans of opposition For twenty years we have listened to the everlasting croaking of "socialism." For twenty years we have waited in vain for a creative idea.

	If the Republican orators are right--if the policies of Roosevelt and Truman destroyed the nation--where would we have found the strength for the extraordinary achievements of the last two decades? Our personal savings after taxes increased from about $3.7 billion in 1929 to $17 billion last year. We added over $1,700 in real buying power for a family of four. We increased the number of homeowners by ten million. Since 1939, eighteen million additional homes were equipped with washing machines; 30 million more radio sets, and fifteen million television sets were purchased. We reduced the number of homes without electricity from twenty to six out of every hundred. We replaced one-half of rural one-teacher schools with modern plants and educational facilities. Formerly, nine out of every one hundred youngsters never attended school. Today, the figure has dropped to two out of every hundred, while college attendance has doubled.

	At a time when other people deserted to fascism, we rose to crush it. When other people deserted to Communism, we routed it here at home. And we are checking its inroads around the world with the faith and weapons of free men. If the Republican orators are right--if the policies of Roosevelt and Truman had crushed our freedom--where would we have found the spur to work, to sacrifice and to fight so hard to preserve our way of life? Does anyone in his right mind believe that we could have slugged it out toe to toe with the dictators if we were morally bankrupt? If we had grown soft from coddling? If we were slaves to a Washington bureaucracy? If all our social gains were an illusion?

	Today they talk about "false" prosperity. "False" prosperity, indeed! As false as money in the bank, fertilizer in the soil, a new tractor, and a new washing machine. And at every stop along this road there have been the cries of socialism, Communism, corruption, waste and bumbling and fumbling. They use all their steam blowing the whistle of opposition so that they never have any left to drive the wheels of action.

	They talk about free enterprise; but you see the same negativism, the same pattern of automatic opposition, even when people try to do things for themselves. When fertilizer went sky high, the farmers of Minnesota and Wisconsin formed their own cooperatives to produce it at a fraction of the cost. And then they organized co-ops to sell their produce in a market where they were at a disadvantage because they were small. And consumers, the lonely people of the American economy, are forming their own in the clash of the market.

	Then look, in an entirely different area, at this matter of honesty in government. We're all for that--and those of us in public office, who have to deal with the problem are particularly grateful that a nation is aroused and concerned about its public and private morals. Yet when a firm step is taken--as when President Truman proposed to put the commissioners of Internal Revenue under Civil Service--where were most of the Republicans in Congress? More than half of the Republican senators voted against it.

	Finally, let's look for the pattern of "for" and "against," in the farm policies of the two parties.

	A Democratic platform states clearly and squarely our position: A program of 90 percent parity guarantees; and continued search for practicable methods of providing price support for perishable products.

	And what of the Republican position? I don't know--and neither do you. Their platform changes according to their itinerary. It means one thing in the city and another in the country. Here in Minnesota, the Republican candidate even stated that the Republican platform meant, on farm policy, what the Democratic platform says and what the Democratic administration has done.

	But then that same Republican candidate went to New York and had his conference with Senator Taft. As you know, the General accepted the senator's ultimatum. He let Senator Taft tell the nation that the candidate agrees with him on all matters of domestic policy. And on the same day, Senator Taft stated that the present farm program was adopted when he was absent from the Senate, and that he did not like it.

	I don't know who is going to write the farm policies for the Republicans. All I know is that the record today shows that the Republicans opposed the present Democratic program in Congress, they double-talked it at their convention in Chicago, they were for it at Kasson, Minnesota, and against it in New York. You will just have to guess on this one--and Americans should not be required, in an election year, to guess on their future.

	Perhaps the basic trouble with the Republican leadership is that it is haunted by a sense of guilt. The Republican leaders seem to feel that the only way they can erase the memory of what they did in the 1930s is by repeating themselves a second time.

	They call for a crusade. But they prepare for guerrilla war against the social gains we have made.

	They declare for a new morality. But they smear the innocent, prejudge the accused, twist the truth, and make cynicism the first rule of politics.

	In short, they have dredged the long history of human deception to fish up anything that can give them victory--a victory which the American people will deny them in November.

	But I haven't even mentioned the Republican record on foreign policy, not just since the war but before the war, or speculated as to where we would be if they had had their way through all these twenty years of world revolution.

	I commend to you the policy of the Democratic party. It is not a policy of false promises nor a policy of frantic opposition. It is a policy of achievement. It is as real as time and a half for overtime, as a fair price for farm products, as the provision of tolerable security in the later miles of life's road; as the resistance to Communism, the building of the United Nations, and the search for peace.

	I like to spend time with independent voters and volunteers. This is not a campaign on behalf of any single group among the people. This is a campaign for all the people--farmers, workers, businessmen, professional men, and just plain independent people. We stand for a balanced program for all Americans. We stand for progress.

	They want to trade us even--our prosperity for their promises. We won't trade. They offer us new freedoms--freedom from security and freedom for bigotry. They want a mortgage on the house we have spent twenty years building.

	I was talking the other day with a man you and I know well and admire as one of the great keepers of America's conscience and of its liberties--Senator Hubert Humphrey. He has fought these fights for what we have and he knows what counterfeit the opposition offers now in their stead.

	Senator Humphrey was speaking particularly of our freedoms--the ones most of us didn't have twenty years ago, the ones we have now. "We talk," he said, "of the danger of losing our liberties." And then he added, putting in a phrase what I have tried to say to you this evening, "Americans will not lose their liberties, unless at some election they lose their memories."

	That will not be this year.
AGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSECONOMY--GENERALFREE MARKET ECONOMIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSINFLATIONSOCIALISMSTANDARD OF LIVING     %3 ñ2 ë2 ç2 ß2
 Ò2 Í2 È2 ½2 ´2 ²2 h2 ]2	 
	 á 	 ¼ 	 ¬ 	 — 	 o 	 F 	 $ 	  	  e: