Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1029.010SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/29STUMPWILKES-BARREPENNSYLVANIAPA1459 WORDS

	Mr. Kennedy, I am very grateful to you for coming here this morning. We had snow in Scranton, but things have cleared up. I must say I am very gratified to notice here right in front of me that the Wilkes College people are for Stevenson. We have noticed, curiously enough, all over the country that the more educational institutions there are in a community the more they favor our ticket. That reminds me of a story my grandfather used to tell out in Illinois about going to a country home way out in the recesses of the country, and asking the people what politics they had. And they said, "Well, we are all Republicans except little Mamie, and she took up reading."

	Well, you are very gracious to come here at this inconvenient hour in the morning. I should like to think that this campaign means that a new day will dawn for all of you. I shall do my best to see that it does. For the moment, I think it would be false of me if I told you things were just fine--and particularly here. I know that Wilkes-Barre has lagged behind the gains elsewhere around the country. Elsewhere labor is fully employed, but here you have been wrestling for some time with the problem of 10 percent unemployment, owing to a decline in your coal reserves and in the use of coal, I understand. In a few days from now you will have to decide which party can best deal with this problem, along with all of the other problems that you face as citizens. I think you know in advance what the Republicans will do if they get into power---and I don't think you like it. And, if some of you young people don't know, you can always ask your father. They remember, like everyone who had to live through the years of Republican inaction.

	The plain and simple lesson we have learned in the past twenty years is that the economic security and the well-being of any individual in this nation depends on the security and the well-being of all of the people. 

	Gee, if there is somebody who wants to get closer to me, I can't imagine what provokes the curiosity. I always have a distinct impression that I do far better as a candidate, the fewer the people that see me.

	Now I don't imitate the Republicans by promising you pie in the sky. You men who work deep in the earth know only too well that what we get on this earth comes only through hard, back-breaking labor. One of the cruelest things a man running for public office can do is to raise false hopes by promising things he cannot deliver. I therefore say in all candor that I have no miracle solutions for the tough problems which coal towns like this one face, but there are certain common sense things that we will try to do.

	First, we shall work hard to replace the Taft-Hartley law with a law that is fair to labor and to management and the public. The present law could be used to smash labor unions if trouble comes--and that is not fair to labor. You know, the principles, I think, on which I believe that this new law should be based, for I have spelled them out in detail.

	Second, I would encourage research on new uses for anthracite coal. My approach here would be the same as the approach we plan to take on cotton--the crop on which much of the South depends for its livelihood and its prosperity--and which is meeting competition, as you know, more and more from new synthetic products. The state in things like this can also be most helpful. In Illinois, in cooperation with private industry, the producers and also the users of bituminous coal, we have for a number of years been experimenting and have now built a large pilot plant to experiment with additional uses of coal--and a plant, by the way, and a process that shows great promise.

	Third, I should try to use the power of government to help you diversify your industry so that you will no longer be wholly dependent on coal for your livelihood. And here again the initiative of state government can be very helpful. You see, I don't want you people ever to forget that I am a governor. And I think it is terribly important to preserve the federal system. I think it would be a great mistake if we ever saw the concentration of all authority at the capital in Washington. It is terribly important to preserve all of the units of local government--to keep government as close to the people as is possible.

	And fourth, I should encourage the efforts of the Department of Agriculture to help you turn some of these lands in your neighborhood back to agricultural use. Some will say that measures like these serve only your special interests. But I say that idle skills and resources benefit nobody, and that it is in the general interest of the whole economy that these resources be usefully employed.

	The whole purpose of government in the last analysis is to serve the best interests of the people. And, if it is to serve those interests, government must have a heart--it must feel and share in the hopes and aspirations of the people.

	Here in Luzerne County I know that many of your thoughts turn often to the tragic plight of those brave peoples that are held captive by the Soviet Union. I know, too, that my distinguished opponent is making a political effort--cynical, I am afraid--to win your support by proposing to liberate these people. I have seen the ads that are running your newspapers. I should like to make one sober comment on this morning. One of the great Polish generals of the Second World War is General Bor-Komorowski, the commander of the Polish Home Army, and the hero of the siege of Warsaw. General Bor is now in exile in London. He was recently asked what he thought of the Republican proposals about the liberation of Eastern Europe. General Bor replied that he considered these suggestions, these proposals, these promises--whatever you please--a great mistake, and he said it would hurt the underground work against the Communists. He said it would sacrifice the young people who might one day be the new heroes of a new resistance movement. And he added--and these are his own words--"The Russians would probably welcome an active underground resistance now as it would bring to the attention of their agents the best elements of the subjugated peoples and make it easier to destroy them."

	Frankly I think General Bor knows more about the needs of Poland than General Eisenhower.

	There can be no real peace in Europe until the captive peoples are again free and independent. The way to hasten that day is to build up our defenses--to help our friends and allies in their efforts to build a strong and united Europe. And we are forced to match strength with strength--and that is the true road to peace and to justice and to freedom. When force and intimidation can't win, then, in the battle of ideas, freedom and self-determination will win out in the long run against tyranny and slavery. You can help--every one of you. You can help next week by voting for candidates who are dedicated to this cause--not just in October, not just before election, but every month and every year. You can help by sending Daniel Flood to the House of Representatives, and you can help by sending Guy Bard to the Senate of the United States. Their ambition is to serve, and that is my ambition too. We know our cause is just, for we know it is the people's cause.

	You have been very kind to come here. I am deeply touched and grateful to you all, and before we disembark--I understand we are going to drive to Hazleton--before we leave, I should like the privilege, if I might, of introducing to you the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, who is with us on the train today--Mrs. India Edwards. We also have another charming lady aboard who is the national vice chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson and Sparkman--Mrs. Edison Dick of Chicago. I can't describe to you this menagerie aboard, but we don't have so many charming ladies, I am frank to say. We have a good time all the same.


AGRICULTURE--GENERALCOAL INDUSTRY/RESOURCESGOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCALORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALPOLANDSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)       › ◊ ” À
 æ π ¥ ® ú ö ö ê	  	 k 	 T 	 9 	 ! 	  e: