Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1025.005SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/25STUMPPITTSFIELDMASSACHUSETTSMA1794 WORDS

	Mayor Capeless and my friends: I hope the time will never come when I believe all of the nice things that introducers say about me. In all events, I am very grateful to all of you for being here this afternoon.

	I have just had a most interesting experience. I was presented on the rear platform of the train with an enormous placard--here it is--they are all of the Ike buttons, gathered by the Volunteers for Stevenson from people who have switched.

	I also understand that it was in this town that the sign first appeared, "We like Ike but we are going to vote for Stevenson." Well, I like that sign very much because I like Ike, too, but as far as the voting booth is concerned, of course, that is entirely a private matter.

	I am happy to be here in Pittsfield and in the beautiful Berkshires again. This is not unfamiliar territory for me; I have visited here some dear friends many times. I have even been to your music festivals, and I hope that the time may come when I can come back here--and perhaps, there will be fewer people to greet me on that occasion. I have even attended commencement exercises at Williams College, and the last time was with my boss and my great friend and a great Republican, Colonel Frank Knox, the Secretary of the Navy, during the war. You see, I have never hesitated to consort with the right kind of Republicans.

	Indeed, I have another intimate connection with this vicinity because my senior partner for some twenty years in the law business in Chicago is, I believe, today the oldest living trustee of Williams College.

	So that I feel that perhaps I am not wholly a stranger in your midst. And having established, therefore, my connection with Pittsfield, let me say, if I may, something slightly more partisan.

	I am delighted to be here also in a community that produces such fine Democrats as William H. Burns, your candidate for Congress. You people know even better than I what a splendid record he has made of ten years of service in municipal government in Holyoke. I am told that this is a naturally Democratic District, temporarily represented by a Republican in Congress. When you go to the polls on the 4th of November, I trust you will take care of that temporary oversight.

	I am also very much flattered to be received here in Pittsfield by the Governor of Massachusetts, my long time colleague, Governor Dever, whom I am told confidentially is available for re-election.

	And I am also very much flattered to meet here Jack Kennedy--perhaps one of the most promising younger men in American public life.

	During the last two weeks, the distinguished general--who is opposing me, as you may have heard--has apparently decided that it is time for another change. You have all noticed, I suppose, that the general has been changing his views and his political bedfellows about every two weeks. He started--at least, most of us thought he started--as a liberal minded internationalist, and then he signed the Treaty of New York with Senator Taft in which he mortgaged both liberalism and internationalism; in September, he went out to the Midwest and snuggled up to such medievalists as Senator Jenner of Indiana.

	Now, in October, he has come back East and is playing the July record, when Governor Dewey and Senator Lodge won the nomination for him. I suppose he does this to hide Taft under the bed and to forget all about his convenient friendships of September.

	Now, if that confused you, I hope you won't blame me, because it confuses me, too, and I think it probably confuses the general most of all. I suppose that the politicians who surround him have told him that it is smart politics to talk one way in the East and another way in the Middle West, to change his convictions with his geography. But those politicians have never been very keen about these newfangled ideas, like newspapers, radio and television and all that sort of thing anyway, and because the general was trained for forty years to depend on briefings from his staff, because he has never had a chance to learn that civil and military life are different things, he seems to have fallen for this cynical advice.

	You know, someone wrote me a letter; I had it last week. He said, "I have concluded that there are three kinds of intelligence--animal, human and military."

	The truth is, my friends, that every year of progress leaves this Old Guard farther behind and also more desperately hungry for public office. They still cry out that it is time for change, blind to the tremendous changes that already have and are taking place, both in our country and throughout the world. Their strategy for capturing votes follows precisely the same pattern.

	In the summer, after the conventions are over, their candidate talks like a Democrat, to get the widest possible attention. But then the Old Guard organization, which has most of the money, and most of the political organization and, therefore, runs the Republican party most everywhere, it backs away. "We have been sold," they cry. "We will not work for any New Dealer." And then, of course, the candidate enters the second stage of the strategic plan and he tells the Republican organization what they want to hear day by day, pouring fire and brimstone on everything that the Democrats have done and on every Democrat who had anything to do with doing it. He spells out the Old Guard program with emotional invective and such careful, considered diction as one that the general uttered at Oklahoma City the other day, "hate, fears, rot and lies." You can imagine how good that makes me feel. Anything to get rid of controls, knock down taxes, squeeze the budget dry of federal taxes, foreign aid, enough of TVAs.

	I think it is sabotage. Then they say, enough of the TVAs--none of this, none of that, enough of all this nonsense. And, after a while the Old Guard takes courage again. This is a man after their own heart, they say. This is somebody we can work for. And they go to work.

	But by now it is getting on toward election day. The Old Guard masterminds read the signs clearly, and the signs are precisely what they expected. The Republican candidate has stirred up the party wheel-horses all right, but he has lost the people--if he ever really had them.

	And so, at last, comes the third and the final stage of the campaign strategy. The candidate tries to climb back on a higher level campaign while the hatchet men get ever sharper. And this, my friends, is where we are today in this year of 1952. Perhaps it all sounds a bit confusing to you, and it does to me, but the Old Guard aren't in the least confused. They know exactly where they are going. They are so sure of their technique that some of them give it a bit of a try themselves when they run for the Senate or the House of Representatives. And the sad thing about it is that it is an old, old American story of political double talk. It is based on skepticism for American intelligence and American memory. And what is more, it always fails. Memories are long, when what we must remember is important.

	We know what the issues are and we know what the record is. We don't forget those things in this welter of the general's generalities at the end of October. We do not want the GOP--I call them the gloomy old pessimists--we don't want them in August because we know what they have tried to do for our programs, for prosperity at home and for security abroad. We Democrats intend to keep on fighting for a better world, and we have confidence in America, in her faith, in her wisdom, in her ability. We have faith that she will use her great strength and use it wisely and patiently for the great tasks which have been entrusted to our hands.

	I am so grateful to every one of you for giving us this time. I know that it has been inconvenient. You have paid a great honor, and the patience and the courtesy with which you have listened to me has touched my heart. I shall always remember this opportunity to come to Pittsfield in the memorable year to revisit some happy scenes when I was very much younger. And, I hope, as we go away, that while we don't feel that partisanship is necessarily the solution of all of our problems, we do feel that the active and lively, intelligent participation of every adult American--and the younger they start the better--in the conscious and considered interest in our public affairs is essential to the welfare of this system which we all believe in--Republicans and Democrats alike.

	We think that any close and careful analysis, both of where we have been and where we are, and where we are going can lead you to but one conclusion. And we don't look forward with any exultation to the responsibility, the appalling responsibility, that would be entrusted to us. But, we feel like you do, that the cause is a good one and that the American people have a destiny which is going to be determined, perhaps for generations to come, in the next few years.

	Thank you, and before I leave may I have the privilege of introducing to you some of the people who have been traveling with me these past few days. I have my son, who joined me last night, who goes to school in Massachusetts--my son John Fell. The thing he says he likes most about the campaign is that he got a day off from school. And I have my sister, Mrs. Ernest Ives. And, I also have Mrs. India Edwards, the vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee. And because the Volunteers for Stevenson all over the United States are doing so much to win the Independents to our cause and, incidentally, to switch the faint of heart--of which I am happy to see there are so many--we have Mrs. Edison Dick, the national vice chairman of the Volunteers for Stevenson. There is also the Secretary of Labor, Mr. Maurice Tobin, former governor of Massachusetts. Thank you for your courtesy. We are now going to resume our long and happy journey.
ELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGN     i' 5' /' +' #'
 ' ' ' ' õ& ó& ó& é&  e: