Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1021.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/21STUMPLAWRENCEMASSACHUSETTSMA1646 WORDS

	My friends of Lawrence:  I hope you will first permit me to thank each individual here this morning for the great honor you do me in taking this hour from your busy day to come out here to allow me to bring you a word of friendly greeting and to express to you some of the thoughts that are on my heart and mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	Before talking about some more specific matters, I should like to make a special mention to the veterans in this audience and to those, both men and women, who now serve in our armed forces.  This morning when I got off the train, I was privileged to meet the parents of the first man who lost his life at Pearl Harbor.  Then I had the high honor of laying a wreath at the monument to the freemen after whom this park is named.  What I want to bring out this morning is what things like this mean in our hearts, in terms of our aspirations and hopes for peace.  To my lot fell the responsibility often during World War II of attempting to write words of comfort and sympathy to people who had been bereaved in the war, who had paid the cost of a son, a brother, or a husband or sweetheart.  

	If there is anything that can induce and sustain a hatred of war, I am sure it is a grave responsibility and duty of that character.  So this morning, I should like to walk through this audience, if I could, to shake hands with the relatives and parents of any who have fallen, to see all of my old comrades of the armed services and talk with them again of the reasons why we fought that war, the reasons we so earnestly pray for peace, and with them to dedicate ourselves again to the cause of peace.  It is a cause for which I shall struggle as long as I live, ladies and gentlemen, and this hasn't a single thing to do with the character of the job I may have.  I can be private citizen or public official.

	Before I leave that subject, we know, of course, that the great threat to peace is the Communist dictatorship.  We know that no one individual, no matter how brilliant, no matter how wise, no matter how experienced, can do this job of preserving peace against that kind of threat.  The free world must do it; the United States must lead that free world.  The United States must be united in our determination to preserve freedom and to oppose that kind of a threat.  For this chore we need experienced, resolute, alert leaders.  Not just one; a whole team.  From this state you have the opportunity to send back to the United States Senate one who is experienced, who is alert, who is wise in this regard.  I ask you to send back Henry Cabot Lodge to help out on this chore, and the congressman from this district, John Southwick, I hope will accompany him on that journey.

	Ladies and gentlemen, this city has had the name "Friendly City."  I sometimes wonder whether you may think it has been the forgotten city in the language and in the councils of this worn-out administration still holding power in Washington.  Here is an administration which says, "You never had it so good.  Don't let them take it away."  Has that administration come to your city and inquired after your special problems?  Now, ladies and gentlemen, this country is no greater than the sum of its parts.  When a great group of loyal, hard-working, taxpaying Americans--such as we have here in the city of Lawrence--has a special problem that, due to special reasons they are unable to solve in their individual power, it is time for somebody, if they really mean what they say, to come in and help.  Now, I am not going to pretend that for the problem of fifteen thousand unemployed and for difficulties in the textile industry there is an easy answer, but there are answers, and we can develop them.

	Now, first of all, justifying real federal concern for this problem, we know this:  We do not have a completely free economy today.  We are not operating under the free operation of the laws of supply and demand and the other laws that are so dear to the hearts of economy.  The government, due to a state of semi-mobilization, has stepped in.  It has established certain rules, certain allocations, certain other regulations that apply and affect our lives.  There are materials you cannot get, there are things you cannot develop by yourselves, even if all other circumstances were conducive to such a development.  So now, what could the government do?  What specific things might they do at this moment?

	We know this:  Under the sponsorship of Senator Lodge there was established a law which would bring about a complete engineer's survey of all the resources of this great region to see how we could bring about new industries, how the resources of this region could be used to the better benefit of all its people.  Has that law been used?  It is the responsibility of the Executive Department to enforce it, to carry out that provision.  It has not been used.

	Next, your senator has rightly sought for extra business to do war contracts for this region.  Now, a national administration does not have the job of going around and picking out particular spots normally in which they want to put contracts.  But the point I want to make is this: Unemployment is of some concern, real concern, to a friendly national administration, and therefore, in the placing of contracts, there should be some concern given to where our people are out of work--where can these contracts not only provide the goods we need at an economical cost, but where can it help the most.  That is something else that could be done. 

	But finally and more important than that, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks I have gone up and down the length of this land.  I have promised farmers that when they have problems, bring those problems to Washington.  If the United States chooses to place on me and my associates in this crusade the responsibility for conducting the national governmental affairs during the next four years, each of these problems will be solved only after complete consultation with the people affected.  I have made that promise and that pledge to farmers.  I have pledged that to labor.  On Labor Day I said, "The pledge that this crusade makes you is this:  We would be firm, we would be just, we would be fair, but we will be friendly."  Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is what I should say that a new administration could do instantly on this problem.  Not only could they bring in advice, general advisors and consultants on the whole problem of promotion of small industries throughout our country, but they could bring in specifically, from this area people of management and business and investment and labor, the men who are working and out of work, bring them in and say, "Let us find out what we can do here, what can the federal government do legitimately without interfering with your lives, but in a friendly, helpful sort of way that will [missing text] both to the benefit of the federal government and to this city."

	I promise you this, first:  That if you form such a body, and you are hereby invited to form one if I and my associates are in Washington, and to have it down there very quickly in the new year.  But I pledge you this, that committee, those people will not have to meet with some third string clerk back in a back room.  When it comes to a problem of the unemployment of fifteen thousand or more people of Lawrence, loyal Americans, you can come down to my office and there you will be put in touch with the proper people.  Ladies and gentlemen, I do not in such a statement mean to express anything to you that could sound egotistical or as if I know more than I do.  What I am trying to promise you is this: You will have a friendly government interested in these things and it will be my task to put you in touch instantly with the finest experts and professionals in the whole government to see what we can do about this problem.  And at least you will know you are not the forgotten city.

	Ladies and gentlemen, just exactly as it is with respect to your special problem, there is no easy panacea, there is no easy road to follow to solve any of the great problems of the day.  Peace is not going to be obtained by some brilliant leader suddenly thinking of a new slogan, a new idea, and that brings peace in the world.  As long as there is an aggressive, militant, ruthless Communism that has announced its purpose of ruling the world, we must be strong, we must be alert, we must be careful.  Of course, we must.  But real leadership from America can so bind together the free world that we don't have to fear the assault that those other people could launch against us.  Our total strength in the world, in the free world is so great that if we unified behind real, respected leadership, we will have nothing to fear.  That is the kind of thing that the finest men and women in the United States will devote their lives to doing:  To forming the legislative and executive government that can gain your respect, unify you and so gain respect abroad.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEMANUFACTURINGUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     )$ õ# ï# ë# á#
 Ó# Î# É# Á# ´# ²# ²# ¨#	 C 	 " 	  e: