Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1015.004SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/15STUMPKNOXVILLETENNESSEETN2463 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, Congressman Baker, and my very good friends--and I am sure I can call you that or your wouldn't give me such an overgenerous and warm reception:  Thank you from the bottom of my heart.

	I have traveled this country a very great deal in my sixty-two years, but this is the first time I have had the distinct honor of coming to Knoxville, and I have long wanted to do so.  One reason is that it is the home of your state university, and long ago I learned about that state university from my old fellow candidate and long-time friend, Bob Neyland.  I have wanted to visit that university and I have wanted to see Knoxville College and how it was working.  In late years I have wanted to come here and see this great development with so many of its headquarters here in your city.

	And then I have a special reason this evening for feeling particularly honored.  I learned that from Oak Ridge, more than fifty carloads of friends came in this evening to be here at this meeting.  On top of that, ladies and gentlemen, I learned that the "Veterans for Ike" here believe they are about as strong a unit as there is in the United States at this time.  One reason, my friends, that I am so delighted to see a veterans' organization for Ike is this:  These men, either in the Pacific or in Europe or since, in many stations of our country, have led something of the same kind of life that I did.  When I was occupying a position of responsibility in this great fighting organization of the American service, time and again I promised them that their interests would be my interests; that the rest of my life, so far as it was necessary, would be devoted to seeing that America never forget their sacrifices and remembered the great services they had rendered and acted accordingly.  So when I find them banding together to do something that expressed some faith in me, you can understand how deeply it touches me.

	Now, today after I left Memphis, someone handed me a newspaper ad that came out in your state.  I don't know who this misguided man is; I never saw him and I am sure he never saw me.  But here is a thing where he tells what I think about the Tennessee Valley Authority--and his picture of me is enjoying the dynamiting of some big dam.  Now, fortunately, before I knew what was this man's idea of what was in my heart and mind, I had expressed myself very emphatically on the point over at Memphis.  With your permission I shall read what I said over there.

	"In this region, you are deeply interested in the Tennessee Valley Authority and in the part it has played in the improvement of the agriculture and commerce in this area.  TVA has served rural areas well and has created many new industries in this section.  It has helped conserve natural resources, control floods and promote national defense.  Certainly, there would be no disposition on my part to impair the effective working out of TVA.  It is a great experiment in resource development and flood control for this area.  We should not, of course, look upon TVA as a rigid pattern for such development in all other regions.  In the Missouri Valley, for example, many officials and other thoughtful citizens are considering the possibility of a legal arrangement which would make state and federal agencies two partners in developing the resources of that great region.  We should give all such suggestions serious consideration.  This is the system I favor, in general, for new projects.  Our goal should be to work out river basin development the way the people in the region want it done."

	Now, is it a crime, ladies and gentlemen, to want the local people who are affected by these great things to be satisfied with the way they are worked out, the way they are organized, the way they are administered, the purposes to which they are put?  It seems to me that anyone who advocates the tremendous monopoly that would come about if federal government controlled over every bit of power in this whole country has gone whole-hog on this business of federal control over our lives.  A constructive job can be done in every area with the cooperation of an administration in Washington that is devoted to the principle of decentralized government and to the principle of states' rights as well as to the full development our resources.

	Ladies and gentlemen, this is merely a sample of the kind of distortion, the kind of misguided mind-reading that seems to be going on and taking the place of true campaigning in this political struggle.

	For example, another one is that I should like to reduce the pay of servicemen, that I should like to make their conditions of service more rigorous, that I should like to make their terms of service longer.  Another one is that I would like to pull the rug out from under the agricultural programs.  Another is that I should like to repeal all our social security laws and other things that place a floor of security over the pit of disaster and keep our people from falling into such a pit through circumstances over which they have no control.  All these falsehoods are brought out because there is no true program in the opposition.  In twenty-years, they have worn out their political promises and now all they know is how to make false charges.

	Ladies and gentlemen, the purposes of those who are associated with me in this crusade--and my purposes--are simple and are simply stated.  First, and in an overall sort of way, we want to substitute good government for bad government.  We want to devise and develop a prosperity that is based squarely on peace, on the possibilities of trade in the world, on the possibilities of turning all our productive power to the production of those things that satisfy human need, rather than having to pile up through the years all of those work hours and materials of ours into those sterile, negative things we call military formations.

	Now, we know in the present state of affairs that we have to be strong, and we don't mean strong merely in military power, although unfortunately that is now necessary.  But we believe we must be strong economically.  We must be financially solvent and above all things, we must be morally and spiritually strong.  We must know where we are going, how we are going to get there, and under what people in this United States we want to trust the guidance of the whole nation as we go.

	We believe in good jobs at good pay.  We believe in a stable and sound agriculture.  We believe in rising standards of living for working people and all others throughout this country.  And that, my friends, is a big job.  Take a look at this one fact of today.  This evening as we gather here, there are six thousand more Americans than there were last night at this same time.  Most of them are our new babies.  What is the first thing we hand to this new baby as he comes into the world?  I will tell you what it is.   We hand him a 1,750- dollar debt.  That is his share of the debt before he can get even with the world in this country today.  Now, as I remarked to some of my friends back down the line a way, we used to talk about the high cost of having a baby.  Now it is the high cost of being a baby.

	Ladies and gentlemen, to get this country on a sound economy, to stand foursquare before the world with a government of prestige that can command respect abroad as well as at home, to unite us behind the great principles of seeking peace, of cooperating with others, of getting on with the business of making certain that communism can't spread any further and must gradually recede because of lack of progress--that is going to take real leadership.  That leadership is going to be composed of the finest men and women this nation affords--from every section, from every walk of life, we must gather these men and women together.

	We must have people there whose prestige in their home communities guarantees to you that they are honest, they are wise, they are incorruptible, and they are devoted to America. 

	And then this fear program that they try to sell you also says:  "You allow this Crusade to win and there will be a great depression in the United States."  Here and now, and on behalf of everybody associated with me, from the millions in the combat troops right on up through the whole highest command, I pledge you this:  The full power of our economy, of our government--everything that we can bring to bear and mobilize for the purpose--will always be used to combat a great depression in which our people by the millions will suffer deprivations over which they have no control.

	Now, to bring about all these things, ladies and gentlemen, you in the Southland know how necessary it is that we have foreign trade.  The surpluses of your products have to be absorbed abroad, and in return, we must obtain from those foreign sources--South America, South Africa, Asia and other places--the materials we need to keep our economy moving:  tungsten, uranium, cobalt, tin, manganese, rubber--all of these things in great profusion we use every year.

	Southerners are not isolationists; they know too much about world trade.  But over and beyond the value of this trade in a dollars-and-cents way--even though without foreign trade our economy and even our political government would have to collapse--over and beyond that is the value of foreign trade as an agency in developing peaceful relations with the world--a powerful influence to hold free nations together, to make them work together and go down the same path toward the future.

	So sound trade relations with the world are far more than an essential part of our economic system;  they are a means of developing peaceful programs.  Peace is our supreme goal.  The present administration has not ended war or the fear of war.

	Now, let us not pretend that, with the Communist menace abroad in the world, we can have the perfect peace for which we so desperately long, but you and I have a right to hope, not fear, for the future.  We have a right to a steady, clear-headed leadership by able and devoted men and women who will work unceasingly and effectively toward a true and lasting peace.  These are harrowing times, and our hearts are troubled by the thoughts of our boys--yours and mine--now in Korea.  We have a right to be deeply worried by the terrifying possibility that the same leadership that allowed us to drift into the Korean war might bungle us into still greater conflict.  We have a right to be distrustful of a leadership that has allowed the Godless red tide of communism to engulf hundreds of millions of people who were our friends and our allies.  We have a right to be suspicious of the judgment of an administration which failed to see the red stain seeping into the most vital offices of our government.

	Ladies and gentlemen, in things human there is no perfection.  Let us not seek it among those who are set up to govern over us.  But let us remember this:  If you had a driver of your school bus in your section of town, and one day he ran into the ditch, and the next day he crashed into a youngster's bicycle, and the third day he ran through a red light--well, now, by this time you wouldn't be saying, "Well, he is a good fellow; we will trust our children's lives to him"--you would get a new bus driver.  And if you look at the record, you will realize that it is high time we were doing just that.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is something for all of us.  We must now work, all of us, to regain our lost peace.  As a start, we must establish a leadership of our ablest men and women in Washington.  We must have an administration which inspires the confidence of our allies and the respect of the world.  We must build a strong, secure, solvent United States that can and will cooperate intelligently, consistently and effectively with other friendly nations in the cause of peace.  And we must approach this all-important task with a faith in Almighty God--the faith that is rooted deep in both our religious convictions and our concepts of freedom.  It must be the same intense faith which gave vision and strength to our founding fathers.  That is the faith which, throughout our history, has made the United States a symbol of freedom for the world.

	With the renewal of our faith, we will not falter in the task.

	And now, my friends, I have, in a very sketchy and a very halting way, given you a few of the items in our bill of particulars indicating why this administration cannot be trusted with a new lease of four years on our government and its responsibilities.

	I have come before you, not to engage in any competition of promises, such as those made through the last twenty years.  Some are getting mighty shopworn, and they have been used up.  There is no hope of winning a competition in that regard.  But I do make you a pledge.

	I make you this pledge:  If you want to join this crusade and make certain that there is a change in administration next January, then that new administration would have this one single ambition:  to appear before you at the end of their four-year stewardship and have each of you look at your neighbor and say:

	"During those four years, those people tried, with everything they had, to bring us peace, to keep every pledge they made, to be fair and just, and to be friendly.  They wanted to work with us, among us, and help us.  But they never wanted just to work us."

	And that is what is happening now.

	May I repeat to each of you my very deep thanks for coming out tonight to give me this chance to greet you, to say hello, and to express these thoughts.

	Good night and good luck. 
COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALMILITARY PERSONNELNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTVETERANS     i6 56 /6 +6 !6
 6 6 	6  6 ÷5 õ5 õ5 ë5	 w 	 n 	 M 	 7 	 % 	  e: