Speeches\1988\rep\S88R1025.001SPEECH1988RepublicanBUSH (R)10/25STUMPCOLUMBUSOHIOOHOHIO ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS2178 WORDS

	We have grown accustomed in the political arena to speaking in the language of economics. We talk of gross national product, the consumer price index, and the leading economic indicators. The economists sift and tally their numbers and present us with the facts of our economic existence.

	But I want to talk today about another kind of economic fact, one that is often overlooked by those numbers, but one that is, in many ways, more fundamental.

	Imagine a computer the size of a room, shrunk down to a size that will fit comfortably on your lap. Imagine today's super computer shrunk down so that it fits on a single silicon chip--this is the kind of dramatic improvement the experts now predict. This is the computer revolution--the positive explosion of productivity at the heart of our economy.

	It is accelerating the process of discovery, of innovation and change, and has helped give America, in these last eight years, one of the most remarkable periods of creativity our economy has ever known.

	But the fundamental point I want to make today is this--these dramatic breakthroughs don't only affect Silicon Valley or other high-tech centers; its effects are spreading throughout our economy.

	It is a mistake to segregate in one's mind "high tech" from the rest of our industrial base. In fact, one of the most profound effects of this technological revolution is the revitalization of our traditional industries--not replacement, but revitalization--making our products more competitive in global markets. Technology is America's economic fountain of youth.

	We are in a new era of American industry, where the "service sector" melds with the industrial sector to create modern manufacturing. Americans are taking America's high-tech advantage and putting it to work reshaping our factories to be more competitive in the new information age. Some of the most dramatic examples are right here in Ohio.

	There are so many successes here in Ohio, it's hard to pick just a few. For example, take American Steel and Wire Corporation in Cleveland, which bought several of United States Steel's "mothballed" facilities and remodeled them with the latest steel technology. They are also paving the way to the future with an ambitious employee stock ownership plan--in my view, some of the best labor relations are when employees become owners.

	Take the Castite Corporation, also of Cleveland, whose president, Joan Lamson, personifies American entrepreneurship. Utilizing a new technology that makes metal castings pressure-tight, she decided to start her own company--and she took it to an inner-city community, hiring half of her employees from one of the roughest parts of town.

	Mead Corporation in Dayton, a maker of paper products, is also utilizing new technology in their paper mills, as well as diversifying into, among other things, information services, with their dramatically successful Lexis and Nexis. Employment at their information division has gone from roughly 490 employees in 1980 to over 2,400 today.

	It's this kind of restructuring that is putting new strength in the heartland's rebound and making the term "rustbelt" obsolete. A few numbers: unemployment, a painful 12.5 percent in Ohio during the recession, is now 5.9 percent--still too high, but moving dramatically in the right direction. Throughout our nation's heartland, in almost every state, service sector and manufacturing employment has slumped [missing text]. In Iowa, manufacturing employment is up 5 percent over last year, 10 percent over two years ago. Wisconsin's industrial employment is up four percent, Minnesota's 3.7 percent, Indiana's three percent. 26,000 new businesses sprang up in Ohio last year alone, creating many of the new jobs.

	I think we sometimes make the mistake of thinking of the high-tech, service sectors of our economy as being in competition with the industrial sectors. But the industrial revolution didn't replace agriculture. Its inventions, from John Deere's steel plow and Cyrus McCormick's reaper to the steam combine and now to today's most modern farm machinery only made agriculture hugely more productive and created new markets for its products--and, not incidentally, raised living standards for all. In the same way, the high-tech revolution isn't replacing basic manufacturing; it's creating new markets and, by playing to America's greatest strengths--entrepreneurship and innovation--it's making American industry more competitive abroad.

	I have spent this campaign trying to delineate as clearly as I possibly can the profound differences between me and my opponent. On no issue are our two approaches more profoundly opposed, than on the question of how America must respond to this historic transformation as we enter the new information age in a truly global economy. These next four to eight years are crucial. To a great extent they will determine whether the United States continues to lead the world through openness and innovation--or falls behind, retreating into isolation, economic provincialism, and destructive policies that protect special interests.

	Let me take a moment to outline some of the principles and proposals a Bush administration will adopt to make sure America remains the world's high-tech leader.

	The federal investment in research and development should focus on basic research and allow the private sector--also a tremendous source of basic R&D--to decide which technologies will have the most potential in the marketplace. Centralized planning leads only to centralized stagnation. Entrepreneurs, not bureaucrats, are going to blaze America's trail to the future.

	Despite the extraordinary pressures on the budget, the Reagan-Bush administration has increased basic research funding by over 50 percent after adjusting for inflation. I will continue our strong support of federal investments in basic research, and I will make the research and development tax credit permanent. At the same time I will seek government R&D authorizations for five years and appropriations for two years at a time--so that researchers in our businesses and universities have a more stable, consistent environment in which to plan.

	Improved commercialization is also vital. I will enhance the commercialization of new technologies by encouraging cooperation between laboratories and business.

	A Bush administration will vigorously move to protect intellectual property in the world marketplace and see that American companies have just as much access to foreign research projects as foreign companies have to ours.

	I will upgrade the president's science advisor to assistant to the president and make him an active member of the Economic Policy Council and our national security planning processes. And I will create a president's Council of Science and Technology Advisors, composed of leading scientists, engineers, and distinguished executives from the private sector.

	I will urge states and school boards to focus on science and math education from elementary grades to graduate school. Today, the United States awards about half the number of engineering degrees as Japan, per capita. It's estimated that by 1995, we will need 300,000 additional secondary-school math and science teachers.

	I've said before that I will call a conference of the nation's governors to discuss the most urgent problems facing our schools, including curricula and achievement levels. One of our tasks will be to set goals and timetables for improving math and science education--and I will encourage states to adopt alternate certification for teachers, ACT, so that science and technology professionals, among others, can share their crucial knowledge with our nation's students.

	Finally, the United States government shouldn't, through misguided policies, put United States industry at a disadvantage.

	We must realize that American industry faces global competition. We need vigorous enforcement of our anti-trust laws to ensure fair play, but when we consider the range of competition, we must take into account that the marketplace has expanded enormously and that American business is in a race with foreign competitors. A Bush administration will conduct a thorough review of anti-competitive laws and regulations and work with Congress to rewrite them as need be to give ourselves a level playing field--while still protecting the American consumer.

	Perhaps most important of all, a Bush administration will seek to cut the capital gains tax from 28 to 15 percent.

	Let's learn from history--there is nothing more crucial than cutting the capital gains tax if we want to spur investment, innovation, and jobs.

	My opponent says he wants American industry to be competitive--yet most of our major competitors don't even have a capital gains tax. Japan doesn't have one. Neither do Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, or Singapore. Perhaps my opponent can explain why he wants to shackle America's entrepreneurs and businesses with a tax many of our foreign competitors don't have to contend with.

	Does my opponent really want to put American business at a disadvantage against its foreign competitors? He's the one that would prevent American industry from competing on a level playing field--in fact, he's the one who would tip it in favor of our foreign competition.

	I have wondered if there is any rhyme or reason behind my opponent's fierce opposition to the capital gains tax cut. Every time we've cut it in the past, we've actually brought in more revenue because of increased investment and economic activity. That's history. That's fact. It's estimated that our cut would have zero revenue loss. So it's not the effect on the deficit.

	I have come to the conclusion--it is my belief--that my opponent's economic policies cannot be understood as a rational approach to economic growth and the creation of jobs. He clings, despite all the evidence of the last two decades, to the discredited policies of high taxes and big government spending.

	It is my belief that my opponent is far outside the mainstream of economic thinking, and has broken with the American traditions of entrepreneurship and free enterprise.

	He advocates what is called an "industrial policy"--which means having bureaucrats in Washington pick the winners and the losers, and that would simply make us all losers.

	Perhaps twenty or thirty years ago, I understand some people considered it reasonable to believe such things. Today, it is quite simply irrational. Those policies have been tried, and they have failed. Dramatically. Across the Atlantic, the stagnation and high unemployment caused by high taxation and overregulation was called the "European Disease." Here at home, I seem to remember when we were moving [in] that direction last time a tax-and-spend governor was in the White House; we called it "malaise."

	Around the world, governments are abandoning socialism, in all its various guises and degrees, and embracing the American model of low taxation, entrepreneurship, and individual initiative. Now is not the time to throw America's gears full speed in reverse back to the 1970s with policies that would stymie the competitive transformation of American industry taking place in America's heartland.

	I spoke of irrationality. I must say that I've been disturbed, as I've witnessed my opponent's campaign over the last several weeks, at the increasing appeals to class conflict. In my view, there is no place in American public life for philosophies that divide Americans one from another and that excite conflict among them.

	America will move forward together, or not at all. America will find her future by keeping with the traditions of her past--traditions of openness, generosity, and cooperation. We will move forward, not by succumbing to the base temptations of fear and envy, but by following, as Abraham Lincoln said, those "better angels of our nature."

	The world today is in the midst of a profound transformation--one so far-reaching in its consequences that past revolutions--political, economic, or scientific--will all be dwarfed by comparison.

	Because this transformation encompasses all three. We are entering the information age at a time of sweeping change in the economic and political spheres, the decline of communism as an economic philosophy, and the tide of democratic governments that is changing the face of the world--all based on the right of the individual to be, in Milton Friedman's resounding phrase, "free to choose."

	America is uniquely suited to lead this world revolution to a new era of peace and prosperity. Founded in freedom, our nation is imbued with the spirit of enterprise, the torch of creativity that will light our way.

	As I said earlier, these next four to eight years will be watershed years when we decide whether America goes forward as a leader, or slips back into the past. I am dedicated to expanding our economic freedom and unleashing the creativity of our entrepreneurs that is revitalizing American industry. I believe that America must lead the world in every field--economic, political, and scientific, or we will fall behind in all.

	I am proud to have worked with our great president and had the experience of helping to create six years of record setting economic growth, technological innovation, and record setting employment. I have an optimistic faith in America and the limitless capabilities of its people who will carry those policies on to the future.

	Thank you all very much and God bless you. 
CAPITAL GAINS TAXEDUCATION--MATH AND SCIENCEHIGH TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIESINVENTION/INNOVATIONMANUFACTURINGRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY     *6 ö5 ð5 ì5 â5
 Ú5 Õ5 Ð5 È5 Ä5 Â5 ¢5 ˜5	 • 	 „ 	 i 	 O 	 ;  .   e: