Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1029.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/29STUMPToledoOHIOOHUniversity of Toledo5086 WORDS
	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, President Horton . Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kaptur. If we had a few more people like her in the Congress, we could turn this country around in a hurry. I also would like to acknowledge two people who came in with me, Attorney General Lee Fisher and former Governor Dick Celeste, my friends [missing text]

	I am delighted to be back in Toledo and Ohio, glad to be part of an effort to change this country with a new approach for the Democratic party, a new approach for America, an approach that I hope will appeal to the heartland of the people in Ohio, which the Republicans have taken for granted too long.

	On Tuesday, you will be part of a country making a decision that will shape your future and the future of your children for a generation. We're going to be making a choice that is new, the first election of a president after the Cold War, the election of the administration that will shape this country well into the twenty-first century. But, when you get right down to it, the choice is as old as America, a choice between more of the same and fundamental change, a choice between those who believe we can do better and those who think things are all right the way they are, between those who have a limited view of our country and those who understand that America must, still and always, be a nation of boundless hopes and dreams.

	Two days ago, Mr. Bush--just two days ago, Mr. Bush said that the economic news is good news. Well, it's true that the American people depleted their savings by 20 percent to buy clothes for their kids to go back to school and furniture. And it's true that he went on a flurry of arms sales to affect critical states as we get toward the election, and that boosted the economy. But if you look at the long-term impacts, we are eighteen months after the bottom of this recession, and we're still doing worse than at any comparable period since before World War II. In this administration, for the first time since before World War II, we've had a decline in jobs in the private sector and a decline in personal income. So, when Mr. Bush tells us we should rejoice at our economic plight, I think we have to tell him it's time to move beyond the passivity and complacency of his presidency and of this campaign.

	This administration has set very low standards for our economy, for our leaders, and for themselves. A president who asks us to settle for less can't bring out the best in us. A president who is out of touch with the people can't take charge of our future. And when Mr. Bush looks at an anxious and frightened America and tells us this is as good as it gets, that says something worse about his presidency than anything I could ever say.

	In the face of all these problems, my opponent has chosen simply to distort my positions and my record and appeal to your fears. Just yesterday, The New York Times reported that at a rally in this state, Mr. Bush, and I quote it, "chanted derisively the word 'change'" over and over again, as if change is something that frightens rather than inspires Americans. His mockery of the idea of change sums up what this election is all about. I saw his line saying, "Well, change, change, change. If you elect Clinton, that's all you'll have in your pocket, change."

	It's a funny line, but it's not true. It's not true. Everybody who has examined his claim about taxes has come up with the same conclusion, it's outright false. He made it up. It's not true. Why would he do that? Because there is nothing new to offer in this presidency.

	But in our bravest and best moments, Americans have not run away from change. They have embraced it. They have seized it. Here in this town which has been hurt so much by the changes of the last ten years, I must tell you the hard truth. No person in public life can promise you to make America the way it used to be. I think all of us know that. No one can promise to turn the clock back. What is wrong with America today is not that the changes have occurred; it is that they have hurt us instead of helping us. It is that we have not had people who would tell us the truth and help us to embrace the changes in the world and make them our friend and not our enemy. So, every year, we continue to have a smaller percentage of our workers in manufacturing. While the Germans have 32 percent of their work force in manufacturing, the Japanese at 28, we're already down to 16.5 and dropping. Why? Because we have not made change our friend.

	That is why this election is so important. The American people have to decide that the only way to get security in this time is to embrace change, to make it our friend. If we stay with what we've got, change will continue to be our enemy and we will pay a horrible price in the years ahead.

	At our best moments as a country our leaders have not tried to lower our standards and dampen our dreams. They've invested in our people and inspired them and challenged them to do better. Today, Mr. Bush stands before us with the worst economic record since the Depression. And he tells us we can't do better than this. Seventeen million people are looking for full-time jobs and he says we can't do better.

	Since he's been in the White House we've lost 1.4 million manufacturing jobs, 250,000 jobs in the auto industry alone. And instead of coming up with a strategy to help the manufacturers control health care costs, invest in our plants here, compete and win in a global economy, he tries to convince people, falsely, that I will cost more manufacturing jobs. If I worked at it eighteen hours a day I couldn't do half the job he's done in that category.

	Today we learn that orders for durable goods, such as cars and computers, fell for the third straight month, an ill omen for manufacturing employment. And as I said earlier, we have actually lost, according to the last figures available last month, 35,000 jobs--there are 35,000 fewer jobs in the private sector than there were when Mr. Bush took office. The only jobs growth in America has been in federal, state, and local governments, the thing Mr. Bush says he so deplores.

	And for Americans lucky enough to have jobs, most are working longer and harder for less money. Ten years ago our nation had the highest wages in the world, and now we're thirteenth. In the past two years alone, the average family has lost $1,600 in annual income. And a hundred thousand Americans a month are now losing their health insurance coverage, another way of lowering their income and raising their insecurity.

	For the past three months, half the growth came from families dipping into their savings to buy health care, furniture, back-to-school clothes for their kids and other necessities of life. And most people's real income actually declined. And still, he says we can't do any better.

	One new statistic does make me believe that change is on the way. Millions of new Americans have registered to vote for the first time.

	Yesterday in Kentucky I met a woman who said she had not voted in sixteen years but she had registered. And I met a young man whose great grandmother came up to me in Orlando, Florida, to tell me she was eighty-three-years- old, and for the very first time in her life she had registered to vote. These people are not registering to vote because they are satisfied with things the way they are. They want change.

	I entered this race because I didn't want my daughter's generation to be the first in American history to do worse than their parents, because I want our children to grow up in an America where people study hard, work smart, and aim high; an America that honors work, offers opportunity, demands responsibility and rewards those who play by the rules.

	Yesterday, I talked a lot about what Mr. Bush has said in this campaign that is not true. And I quoted Mr. Gorbachev as saying that Mr. Bush told him several months ago just to disregard what he said to the American people in the campaign, that he said of lot of things that weren't so just to get elected.

	But today I want to talk about something that is true. This president sincerely and passionately believes in trickle-down economics. He really does believe the way to make the economy grow is to provide across-the-board tax cuts to the wealthy, get out of the way, put government on the sidelines, and wait for the benefits to be invested and trickle down. The difference between Mr. Bush and me is not tax-and-spend versus borrow-and-spend, that's what he's done, he's borrowed and taxed and spent. That is not the difference. My state has the second-lowest tax burden in the country and the lowest state and local spending in the country. The difference is not more government versus less government. I don't want more government, I just want government that works. And this government's increased regulation by more than any in twenty years.

	This issue for me is opportunity for the few versus opportunity for all. Mr. Bush stands for a government that springs into action whenever a special interest needs a bailout or a tax break. But, the red phone can ring off the wall for years and years from average Americans and nothing ever happens. No economic plan for three-and-a-half years, no health care plan for three-and-a-half years till the polls show trouble, and still not presented to the United States Congress.

	I don't believe in trickle-down economics. I don't believe in tax-and-spend economics. I do believe in invest-and-grow economics.

	Today we learn that our deficit is at an all time high this year, the highest it has ever been. And Mr. Bush said on just today, that is not my fault, look at the constitution that Congress has to appropriate that money. Again, an abject denial of responsibility. Look at the facts. Now, ask Marcy, don't take my word for this. I want you to consider two facts. He denied any responsibility for this.

	Fact number one: George Bush has actually asked the Congress to spend a billion dollars more than it has spent. He tried to outspend Congress. Right?

	Fact number two: His budget was so awful, so ill-prepared, so highly political this year, that three-quarters of Marcy Kaptur's Republican colleagues voted again the Bush budget. Isn't that right?

	Mr. Bush has gone all over the country in this campaign taking credit for every good thing that happened in Russia and Eastern Europe, and then he told Gorbachev it wasn't true, but he had to take credit for it in the election. I'll tell you what: I'll give him credit for every good thing that happened around the world if he'll take half the responsibility for the bad things that have happened to us here at home.

	Look what we did with this deficit. We've wasted the money on the S&L bailout and on escalating health care costs. We've got nothing to show for our big debt. We didn't borrow the money to build roads or bridges or put the American people back to work. We did it just to put food on the table, and to waste it on the S&L bailout and higher health care costs without better health care.

	I believe that economic growth starts with the genius of our private sector. And I want to create more millionaires than Bush and Quayle did. I just want to do it the old-fashioned way. When people make money in the Clinton administration, I want them to make it because they put the rest of America back to work.

	I believe the way to grow an economy is not trickle-down economics; it's to invest in our children's education, our workers' skills, our families' health care, and new factories, new businesses, new technologies. Nobody ever grew an economy without investing in the jobs, the work, and the human potential of the people who live in the country. No other nation in the world is following trickle-down economics. Everybody else knows it doesn't work. Only the United States is stubbornly hanging on to this crazy theory.

	I think we all have to be on one team: America's team. And I think we have to build this country from the grassroots up. Unlike Mr. Bush, I believe our future must be built not only on the trading floor on Wall Street, although that's important, but also the factory floor on Main Street. That counts, too. Not just in the boardrooms, but also in the classrooms. The people in the boardrooms make money because somebody's out there working for a living and doing something that makes something or provides a service that permits them to have the income they have.

	Whether you're a parent who helps your kids with homework or a worker who strives to make a better product, an entrepreneur struggling to build a business, you're a key player on the American team that I seek to build. Our working men and women haven't failed America; trickle-down economics has failed America, and it's time to junk it once and for all.

	I have a plan to create millions of new jobs, first with incentives in the private sector, and secondly by taking the defense cuts and instead of wasting them on health care increases and the S&L bailout, to invest them in building roads and bridges and high-speed rail, to invest them in water systems and solid waste recycling systems and investing in our cities and our rural areas and putting the people who live there back to work in the private sector and with public investment. Those two things together can get our economy going again.

	Now, Mr. Bush has gone all over Ohio saying I'm going to raise your taxes, but my plan calls for a tax increase on families with incomes above $200,000 not because I want to punish them, but because their taxes went down in the 1980s while their incomes went up. Middle-class incomes went down in the 1980s while taxes went up for the middle class. So what I have proposed to do is to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more, to ask foreign corporations simply to pay the same tax on the same income in America that American corporations do, not to punish them.

	Now, consider this: Mr. Bush came to Ohio and said that the foreign investment here would leave if we just asked them to pay the same taxes that American companies pay on the same income. I don't believe that. When American companies do business overseas, they have to pay taxes in those countries. They have a different tax system. It's harder to evade. Because of the complex tax rules here, foreign companies can come here and do business here and pretend that their income was earned in another country and avoid paying taxes here. I don't think that's fair. In the last ten years, their income went up 65 percent; their tax burden went down 15 percent. If your income went up 65 percent, would your tax burden go down 15 percent? If you worked for a company whose income goes up 65 percent, will its tax go down 15 percent? It is not fair. I don't want--I believe in foreign invest and putting Americans to work here. I'm all for that. But we've got to all pay our fair share.

	And then I want to take that money and give $100 billion plus of tax incentives to this economy in investment tax credits for people who start new businesses in manufacturing and buy new plant and equipment, incentives to start new small businesses, incentives to develop new technologies, incentives to get back into the housing markets and put people to work in construction. That's what I want to do with the money. I'm not going to have the government spend all of it. Most of it's going right back into this economy to create private-sector jobs. And that's what we ought to do.

	I do want to give a modest break to middle-class families, especially people struggling to raise kids. They have less of their money for their families and children than they did thirty years ago, as a percentage of their income. Now, my opponent says just the reverse. But guess what? Earlier this year he had a chance to sign a bill to get this economy going again. It contained five of the seven recommendations that he made for new investment, and it had middle-class tax relief in it, something he said he was for. But he vetoed the bill. You know why? Because the middle-class tax relief and the investment incentives to get the economy going again were paid for by asking the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more. He vetoed that bill this year. What makes anybody think that all of a sudden he's going to have a deathbed conversion and do different if he gets reelected?

	There's another change I think we have to make. We've got to put a lid on health care costs and provide basic health care to our people. The rising costs of health care can be seen in the price of every automobile, every other manufactured product in this country, every service. It can be seen in the stresses on small businesses. The cost of health care is the number one deterrent to long-term economic recovery and the reduction of the government deficit because we are spending 30 percent more of our income on health care than anybody else, and most of the difference is going to insurance companies, to regulation, to federal government bureaucracies. Most of it's going to unnecessary procedures and incredible expenses for equipment and for pharmaceutical products that are going up at three times the rate of inflation. I have a plan that will keep the best of America's health care system, bring health care costs under control, and provide basic health care to all Americans. It will permit people to change jobs without losing their health insurance. And most importantly, will enable us to be not only more secure but to strengthen our economy by bringing down the government deficit without asking older people on Medicare and poor people on Medicaid to take the whole burden and get the shaft. I think that's what we ought to do in this country.

	But I don't want to kid you. We didn't get into this mess overnight. It's been building for more than a decade, and we're not going to get out of it overnight. We're all going to have to have a commitment to change.

	Franklin Roosevelt said more than half a century ago, quote, "In the strength of great hope, we must all shoulder our common load." And now, at this time of quieter crisis, your next president should ask everyone to take responsibility for changing America.

	I'm going to take responsibility for changing our government. Mr. Bush loves to attack big government, but he hasn't done much but increase it. He increased the White House staff by 56 percent, making it a virtual empire even as he was railing against the Congress. For the first time in history, we have more workers working for government than we do working in factories in America under the Bush administration.

	We need to make government leaner but not meaner. I want to start by cutting the White House staff by 25 percent, challenging the Congress to do the same.

	I want to lower the influence of political action committees on elections. They shouldn't be able to give any more money than a person can give. I want to limit the amount of expenses in congressional campaigns. I want to require television and radio stations to open the airwaves to honest debates.

	We want to restrict the influence of lobbyists. They should have to file reports when they lobby for bills saying how much money they've given the people they're lobbying.

	And people who work in high positions in government should not be able to leave those high positions and go right out and go to work for corporations lobbying the government, or governments--foreign governments lobbying the government. We ought to have the notion that public service is a public trust.

	And you should never have to worry, you should never have to worry about whether a decision being made by your government is being made by some official who thinks that twelve months from now he'll be making a killing for the person he helped.

	I'll just give you one example. In this administration, the government, the permanent government, had a policy of imposing on multipurpose vehicles from Japan a tariff classifying them as light trucks. The Bush political appointees ordered the government to lower the tariff, giving the Japanese a $300 million trade break. And what did we get for it? Nothing. Do you know we have a trade surplus in auto parts of a few billion dollars with the whole rest of the world. But it turned into a deficit because of protectionism in Japan on auto parts. But this administration lowered the tariff and got not one single solitary thing for it. That is the sort of decision that to me is mistaken, it's erroneous. And you wonder--I don't want you ever wondering whether people who work for me are making decisions like that because they think they'll be out on the street making fat retainers from the people they're helping within a year or two. I don't want you to even consider that. So I'm going to try to help you have greater confidence in our government. I worked for ten years in my own state to reform the lobby laws and practices. I know how tough it is, but we can do it. We also know--

	I also want to challenge our business leaders and say to them, we want to give you a new challenge. If your company wants to build new plants, create new jobs, develop new products, invest in new technologies, we'll get you more tax breaks than ever before. But no more tax breaks for shutting your plant down and moving it overseas. I don't believe in that.

	If you look at what's happened to commercial aviation in this country, one of the seven key areas of critical technologies for the future, in the 1980s we did not subsidize the airline companies in modernizing their airplanes and improving their repair services, in strengthening their ability to compete in the global economy. What did we subsidize? We subsidized all these takeover artists that bought these airline companies like they were, you know, tinker toys, ran up huge debts, had to lay people off, slow down the repair schedules on the planes, undermine the quality of the service, bankrupt airline companies, and put gifted people into the street.

	And what else did we do? While we were subsidizing the takeover artists, what were our European competitors subsidizing? Making a new airplane called Airbus. So, while we let people deduct all this money from their taxes that they paid in interest on these huge debts of these scandalous financial goings-on, the Europeans were taking the tax money, the same sort of tax money, they were investing in Airbus. Result: McDonnell Douglas is at the point of bankruptcy, Boeing has lost market share, and our ability to dominate something we have always led in, commercial aviation, in the future is called into question. I will stop those kind of nutty policies. I want us to subsidize strengthening American jobs and future.

	I want to challenge the young people of this country to say we want to help you to work more successfully. Two years of apprenticeship training for those who don't go on to college, and opening the doors of college education to all, but only for those who will assume the responsibility to pay it back. Today the student loan program gives young people the worst of both worlds. Often it doesn't give enough money, often the repayment schedule is too onerous, but often irresponsible people don't pay the loans back. The taxpayers lose $3 billion a year in unpaid student loans. What I want to do is to have the government say we'll give you the money to go to college, no questions asked about your income, but you have to pay it back either as a small percentage of your income at tax time so you cannot beat the bill, or by being part of a program to rebuild America, a domestic GI bill, a domestic peace corps. Be teachers, be police officers, be nurses, work with the elderly, work with people with disabilities.

	You think about it. Think about the people problems of Toledo and Ohio. We could solve those problems and educate a whole generation of Americans if we are more responsible.

	I want to say that I think we ought to have real family values in this country. And I want to strengthen the family. I would strengthen the family in many ways. One, I would sign the Family and Medical Leave Act that Mr. Bush has vetoed twice. That's another thing where he says we can't do better, but seventy-two other countries will give you a little time off work unpaid if you've got a sick child, a baby is born, or a sick parent. Now, what does that say about the leadership of America when the leader of our country says we can't even do something seventy-two other nations can do? I don't buy it. I think we can do better.

	I believe that we can strengthen families by improving family health. The President vetoed a bill that would have improved the research on breast cancer, on osteoporosis, on ovarian cancer, that would enable us to make real progress on diabetes. All over the country I see people like me who have family members--my mother is a recovering breast cancer sufferer. I met a young man in North Carolina whose seventeen-year-old son, the apple of his eye, has serious diabetes. They don't know why the family values president would veto a bill that would have invested this money just to appeal to the right-wing extremists in his own party. That's the thing that I don't understand. But I also know that we need government policies for people of modest means. No more something for nothing. We need more responsibility there, too.

	Look what we ought to do with the welfare system. I want to end the system as we know it, make it a second chance, not a way of life; say to people on welfare, "We're going to invest more money in you, in your education, your training, support for your children in terms of child care and medical care, but then you've got to go to work--and if there's no private-sector jobs, you've got to do public service work."

	And again, I want to say to people who beat their child support enforcement obligations, we are going to do our best to give America the toughest system of child support enforcement we've ever had. We're not going to let you cross the state line and beat your obligation to take care of your kids. We do have records through the tax system on most of these people, and if we followed them through the tax system, we could collect a lot of this money. You are spending billions of dollars of your tax money every year paying for the children of somebody who didn't pay for them under a court order that they could afford to honor, and I think we need to do better.

	I guess what all this amounts to is we need to change trickle-down economics. We need to change the way the government works. We also need to be willing to change ourselves, all of us together. But none of it will happen unless we vote for a change on Tuesday. In the final week of the 1960 election, President Kennedy said this: "You must make your judgments not merely on the two candidates, but you must make your judgment about yourselves--what you believe, what you stand for, what you see as your obligations to this country, what you see as your responsibilities as citizens of this country."

	I believe with all my heart that Americans want to be part of a country that's coming together, not coming apart; part of a nation that brings out the best in us, not the worst. I believe we want leaders who challenge us, not just make up charges at election time to suit the moment. I believe that we want to be told again that the only limit to what we can do is what we are willing to ask of ourselves and what our leaders are willing to insist on from themselves.

	The fact that you're here today tells me that you believe this, too. I want to change our economy and abandon trickle-down economics. Will you join me? I want to change our health care system. Will you join me in that? I want to change our government. Will you join me in that? I want to make this country work again and be more responsible. Will you join me in that? I want to change the presidency. Will you join me in that?

	Together we can make this victory not a victory of party or for a person but a victory for you and the American people. Let's go out and do it on Tuesday. Thank you very much.

AIRLINE INDUSTRYCHILD SUPPORTECONOMY--GENERALFAMILY LEAVE POLICYFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESJOB GROWTH/CREATIONMANUFACTURINGMEDICAL RESEARCH/ADVANCESSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--FOREIGN COUNTRIESWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWEALTH DISTRIBUTIONWELFARE     åp Xp Rp Np Fp
 ;p 6p 1p +p 'p %p p p	 j	 Z	 M	 =	 *	 ˝ 	 ‚ 	   	 ∞ 	 ù 	 ê 	 w 	 ` 	 0 	  	  e: