Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1021.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/21STUMPCHAMPAIGNILLINOISIL2007 WORDS

	I see a sign down there--I think there must be somebody from Princeton in the audience. I tried to arrange this trip so that I might pass through here next Saturday and take off a couple of hours to see Illinois wallop Purdue. I have missed my Saturday afternoons this fall. You will remember how I used to, in the past, have the privilege of coming up over here on Saturdays, and this year, thanks to this campaign, I haven't seen a football game yet. There are a couple of games that happened over here that I didn't want to see.

	I have heard it said by some people that Harvard University humanizes the scientist and that Massachusetts Tech simonizes the humanist. Well, I have always thought that the University of Illinois could do both. My ties here, as many of you know, are long and very precious.

	Campaigning for the presidency is a tough job, but it is a rewarding one, too, sometimes. I had through the mail yesterday a note announcing the birth of a baby to a couple whom I didn't know and it was the most--I am going to show it to you, or rather, I am going to read it to you--and I won't give their names, but they say, "Mr. and Mrs. announce the birth of James Frank on October 12, 1952." In it was printed, "Was only born yesterday but I am for Stevenson," signed Jimmy. Well, there is a young man who has the utmost wisdom and discretion and discrimination.

	As I have traveled over the country in these recent weeks talking to so many, many people, it has been very apparent to me that the people are taking this election very seriously indeed. And, it should be taken seriously, for it is going to determine the future of this country perhaps for many years to come--and perhaps the future of the whole world. From what people have been saying--what they have been telling me and what they have been writing me--I judge that what most people want is quite simple. It is the same old thing. It is honest, clean, economical government that will work for the interests of everyone. That is the kind of a government we have been trying to give you in Springfield for the last four years and it is the kind of government I would break my heart to give you should you honor me with the great office of the presidency this year. I think you want that kind of scrupulous and progressive government in Illinois to go on. That's why I should like to ask you to give the utmost and sympathetic consideration to the candidacy, for governor of our great state, of Sherwood Dixon. He has been my friend, my colleague, my intimate associate in the work of reform and reorganization of the state government of Illinois in these past four years. That's why I should ask you to also vote for the other Democrats who have constituted this team with me in Springfield--a team that I wanted to stick with, as many of you know. I had ambitions myself to run again for governor of Illinois.

	I would ask your sympathetic consideration for Eddie Barrett, who has been so far as I know the best Secretary of State our state of Illinois has ever had; for Ivan Elliott, our Attorney General, who has been my associate in all of our law enforcement activities in these past four years; for Ben Cooper, our candidate for auditor of public accounts; for Herbert Paschon, an old friend of mine from Chicago--a distinguished lawyer who has agreed to run as candidate for lieutenant governor on this ticket; and also for Fred Cain, who, I can assure you, will be a better treasurer than the present treasurer of the state of Illinois--their candidate for governor.

	These people will keep the government of Illinois running the way you want it run. They will not let it slip back into the rut of waste and inefficiency and of "politics first," which I inherited when we moved in there four years ago.

	Now, there are some very big problems ahead of Illinois--ahead of our whole country--and you need a government in Springfield, and in Washington, too, that will meet those problems with imagination, with courage, and that will preserve the work that we have started here in Springfield.

	One of our big problems is education. There has already been a large increase in the number of young people in our schools, as you know. We need to build more classrooms and train more teachers. In addition I have heard some competent authorities say that our college enrollment in the next ten years, even here at the University of Illinois, may be nearly doubled. That, of course, is the maturity of the bumper crop of babies that will start descending on the universities in another ten years. It means that there must be some very far-sighted planning to meet our educational needs both statewide and nationwide.

	I am proud of what we have been able to do for education here in Illinois in these past four years. As many of you know, we have almost doubled the total contribution of the state toward aid for common school education and in higher education too. Not only have we met these vast problems of accommodating the thousands of veterans who wanted to enter college, but we have moved ahead in building the larger university and college plants which will be needed in the future.

	Actually, in the last four years the appropriation by the state for its colleges and universities have exceeded those of the prior four years by some $6,500,000.

	Our Democratic candidate for governor, Sherwood Dixon, will see that this educational progress is continued. He'd better, actually, because he has got seven kids, and I don't think they will ever let him forget it.

	The federal government has very large responsibilities for education, too, as you know. Our country faces a long-term crisis in the world, and we seek to overcome Communist aggression and to build a secure peace. These are hard, tough problems. They require brains and sweat and sacrifice to solve them. One of the reasons for our great strength today is our magnificent educational system which has given us by far the greatest number of skilled workers, expert technicians, trained professional experts, of any country in the world.

	And if we are to move ahead successfully in our quest for peace, we must continue to improve our educational system so that every boy or girl in our country can get the training at the highest level and the highest development of his or her potential skill that they may want. Our country is teaming with eager, ambitious, critical young men and women, and they are the hope after all for our future and we must see that they get the education that they want. Above all we must preserve the freedom which has made our country great--the freedom of the individual as well as of the nation. This is the hard goal of our policy for peace and that is why we are fighting today in Korea for as you know full well, we had to call a halt to Communist aggression or it would only be a matter of time before they took over the rest of Asia and of Europe and we in the United States would be besieged in a garrison state. We are fighting in Korea because our own freedom is at stake. That is a harsh fact, but it is true and I will not compromise hard truth in any political quest for easy votes.

	The General said right here--my distinguished opponent, General Eisenhower said right here.

	[Booing from the crowd.]

	Well, I will agree he is a good General.

	He said right here in Champaign-Urbana a couple of weeks ago that we should train South Koreans and put them in the front lines and let them do the fighting. I was amazed--I was shocked to hear him say that for that is exactly what we have been doing for two years. We have been training South Koreans as fast as we could, as fast as our resources of training personnel and of facilities have permitted, and they have been steadily taking on more and more of the combat jobs and they have been fighting gallantly as we have seen in the newspapers in just recent weeks, and what's more, they actually outnumber in the front lines all of the U.S. forces put together. But General Van Fleet, our commander in Korea, said recently that he saw no prospect that we could replace all of the other United Nations' troops while the Communists kept up their present scale of efforts. Let us not kid ourselves and I hope General Eisenhower isn't kidding himself. Even if he is trying to kid you.

	If we should pull our troops out of Korea, if we should cut down on our defenses, if we abandon our friends in Asia and in Europe, that would save money and lies in the short run but only at the expense of much more money and many more lives in the long run.

	I say to you, my friends, here in Champaign-Urbana and of the university there, there is no easy out. There is only the painful, sweaty, slow way of standing up to aggression, of helping our friends build up their strength, of standing everlastingly alert to repel Communist attacks wherever they come and in whatever form. There is nothing magic or spectacular about such a course, but it can bring us peace and it is the only course that can bring us peace.

	Now, I know this isn't pleasant to hear. But I think honesty and common sense and faith in God Almighty must be our reliance if we are to come through safely. I also think that the American people are mature enough to face the facts, to understand the problems of our times, and it is on that conviction that I have tried to talk sense in this campaign and I will continue to do so.

	I am deeply grateful to all of you for coming here on this lovely autumn afternoon. It has been a great experience, this running for president. Traveling all over the United States. It has been a great honor. It has been more than an honor and an experience. It has been a great adventure to meet countless thousands--to meet and look and see countless thousands of our fellow American citizens.

	Everywhere I have had warm and friendly and courteous receptions. But nowhere before has my heart been more deeply touched than it is here this afternoon in this place that I love so well, and among so many of you whom I know. You do me great courtesy and I am everlastingly grateful and indebted to you, come what may.

	Now if I may, I should like to have the privilege of introducing to you my aunt, Letitia Stevenson, who traveled along this way sixty years ago this year, when my grandfather was inaugurated as vice president of the United States. Having none of my boys with me today, who are all busy in school--and I hope they are not taking off time there like you are--and I should like to introduce to you my sister, who keeps me out of trouble.

	Before I say farewell, may I once more remind you not to forget Mr. Beggs, our candidate for Congress from this district; and also my friend, Sherwood Dixon, who is standing here on my right, and who will carry on the work we have started so painstakingly in Springfield. And, may I also introduce Mrs. Sherwood Dixon. I wish I could spend the afternoon here. I wish I could stay a week.
EDUCATION--FACILITIESEDUCATION--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSILLINOISKOREAN WAR     Â+ Ž+ ˆ+ „+ |+
 o+ j+ e+ \+ T+ R+ R+ H+	 V 	 A 	 / 	  	 
 e: