Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0914.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/14STUMPPITTSBURGHPENNSYLVANIAPADEMOCRATIC WOMEN'S PICNIC4,994 WORDS

	Well, well, well, well.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

	Well, that was good Democratic music.  I want to thank that band.  They really tuned it up.  Marvelous. 

	That is Joe Morone's band over there and that was Dave Lawrence's favorite band, I have been told, and that is right. 

	Well, my dear friends, if this isn't a Democratic gathering I have never seen one.  I can tell by looking out, the women are so beautiful, the men so strong, and it's nice and noisy. That is just the way it ought to be.

	This is a good old-fashioned family picnic out here in beautiful North Park, and I want to tell you I have heard about North Park from two of these great commissioners.  They have been telling me about it.  I thought the streets were paved with gold.  And I thought there were diamonds hanging from the trees and I heard there were fish in that lake that were ten times bigger than anything we have seen in Minnesota. 

	Now, that is the truth as expounded by Lenny Stacy and Tom Forrester.  That is the way they described it, and it is every bit as beautiful.

	Joe, and I mean Joe Clark, Senator Joe Clark, you honor me by your introduction.  You honor me by your friendship.

	My fellow Americans and my good friends of Pennsylvania, my fellow Democrats, there is one thing I want you to do above everything else, above me or above anyone else, because he is a remarkably gifted man and a man of great courage:  I want you to see to it that you re-elect Joe Clark to the United States Senate. 

	And, I will tell you, you sure do grow them big and strong and good looking. Take a look at that Bob Casey.  Now, isn't he some man?

	Stand up again, Bob.  Let these women get a look at you.

	What a man.  And there isn't a bit of doubt but what you are going to elect them and I know that.

	Now, let's get on the stick, as we say.  Let's get on the job and get it down.  And we have--I don't believe my friend, Gracie, got here today.  She is in Lebanon?  Well, she is down there converting a few, and that is good.  Every time you convert one Republican you get two votes.  They lose one.  We gain one. 

	I am sure you heard that story about the fellow that was told by his doctor, an old life-long Democrat, never voted anything in his life but the Democratic ticket--he was told by his doctor he didn't have another thirty days to live and it was just before election, so he went down to the courthouse and he changed registration from Democrat to Republican, and somebody said, Michael, why in the name of common sense, why did you change your registration from Democrat to Republican?  Well, he said, I just thought if we was going to lose one, I was hoping it would be one of them, not one of us. 

	So, Grace Sloane is over in Lebanon doing a little conversion work for us.  And, then, I want to call to your attention, and I do this as a party leader, as one that is asking our fellow Democrats to work together, Bill Circone, your candidate for judge in the Superior Court--Mrs. Circone.  No wonder Bill is popular.

	Which reminds me that any of you that ever had any doubts about me just reconcile those doubts in favor of my pretty wife, Muriel.

	And she would be here today, she wouldn't have missed it for the world except that she has a full week's schedule next week and she has been out traveling around with this campaigning husband of hers and she picked up a little cold, and I said, Mom, you stay home.  You get all fixed up and don't have a cold.  I want you to look pretty.  They are just used to me looking the way I am and you get on out and you talk to some of those folks in other parts of America and talk to them about our Democratic ticket.  And she is going to do that and she wanted me to bring to you her real affection, her gratitude and her appreciation for all that you have done for the Humphreys.  And we want to thank you very much.

	Now, I imagine some of you are saying well, "Well, where is the mayor?  Where is Joe Barr."  Well, he was up with me about 1:00 o'clock last night. We solved all the problems.  We talked it all over but today Joe is taking his daughter, Candy--Candy Barr, isn't that cute--taking her to college, her first year, and I will tell you, that is quite a privilege for a dad, and any time you have a choice between being a candidate and being with your daughter, be with your daughter.  That is my advice.

	Now, I have two special lady friends over here and I just want you to know that while nobody was looking I got between them and gave them a squeeze.  It is so nice to see Rita Kane and Marie Lawrence.  They have made possible this great gathering today and, fellows, let's face it, when we want something done, if you are really expecting a success, it is all right if we put our name on the letterhead, but let's have the girls take charge because they know how to do it. 

	And, I am not unmindful of the fact that there were some people out here working yesterday and last night to get this site ready and I want to thank the county crews that were out here and worked hard, every one of them that made this possible. 

	Well, somebody might say, "Now, are we just going to have a little fellowship here?  Are we going to get down to issues and cases?"  And we are.  But this is a beautiful day and in a beautiful setting, in a wonderful part of America, and public life and politics ought to be sort of mixed with family spirit and with community spirit.

	I have said a number of times that one of the reasons that I am a Democrat is because we Democrats enjoy politics.  We even enjoy fighting about politics in the Democratic party. 

	And I want to make it very clear that we always have our differences.  No doubt about that. We have never asked a man or a woman to join this party so that they could walk in goosestep or lockstep with us.  We don't expect everybody to agree with every word and every comma and every semicolon.  The reason you are a Democrat is because you are an independent spirit.

	VOICE:  Tell them about it.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  I sure am going to tell them about it, you know it.    

	And somebody said to me, how do you expect to unite these Democrats?  I said, don't worry about that, the Republicans will help us, and they have.    

	And they are working at it every day and you can rest assured that as the days go by, we will be more united and they will spread the message in this country, this opposition, that will bring us closer together, and not only bring us closer together but bring all of us who are members of this party and leaders in this party closer and closer to the needs of our people.

	Now, Joe Clark stated what are the high priorities for this nation?  And I am sure that you know that no man would ever aspire to the office of the presidency, the highest office within the gift of the American people, unless he felt he could make contribution to these objectives.

	I want to make it very clear to you.  As I came walking through this crowd, I met a mother and father with their son that had just returned from Vietnam, and I said to that young man, I said, "Thank God you are home."  But, I want to salute him also for his courage and his willingness to serve and to do his duty.

	But I want you to know that as the candidate of your party and as one that, with your help, can become the next president of the United States, that I put at the top of the list of the things to be done by the next administration, if it is yet to be done, in other words, if it is left undone, the next thing to be done will be to seek and secure through very honorable and every effective means that I can possibly conceive of a just and an enduring peace in Southeast Asia and end that war in Vietnam.

	Your presidency today is trying to do that.  Your vice president prays and hopes to do it.  But I stand before you now as the leader of your party, the nominee of our party, and I pledge to you that I will do everything that I within my power and is within the bond of honor and is within the bond of the security of this country to not only try to bring peace in that troubled and torn part of the world called Southeast Asia but to try to work to reduce the tensions in this world and to prevent the spiraling danger of the nuclear arms race from getting out of control and to prevent destruction and war.

	Every man and woman in this audience believes in peace and loves it.    

	But every man and woman in this audience knows that our country has great responsibilities and it must be strong and it must be firm and yet it must be just and it must be compassionate.  And that is the kind of an America that we are going to work for.

	Now, I want to talk to you a little bit about the choice of this country in the years ahead.  What direction are we going to go?  That is what elections are all about.  We are going to have to choose the direction our country is taking in this world.  Is it going to be a direction of the hard line, with no spirit of understanding and reconciliation or is it going to be the direction of seeking to heal, seeking to bring people together and at the same time recognizing that there is no peace in weakness, but that there is peace in the constant pursuit of it?  And we have to choose here at home the kind of a society that you and I are going to build here because let me say to you right now--and I am going to loosen my collar so that we can get down to work here.  Let me say right now that we are going to have to decide in this election year what kind of an America we are going to have.

	You know this country of ours is torn and troubled today.  You know there are voices of fear and doubt and suspicion being raised across this land.  And we are going to have to see to it that those voices do not prevail, and that is why I say to you that the Democrats that have exemplified a government that cares and a government that wants to help--that is why I say the Democrats must win this election in November. 

	And the basic choice, the one that is at the very heart of my campaign relates to people and relates to what kind of an America we are going to have.  Is it going to be a divided one?  Is it going to be one divided between the rich and the poor, the black and the white, the city and the rural?  Or is it going to be one America, one citizenship, the kind we see right here?  Look around.  Look at your neighbors around you today and it can be this kind of an America. 

	And that is what I mean by the America of the new day.  I said in my acceptance speech that there is a difference between the America of the old era and the America of the new day and we have to build that new America of the new day and we have to build it to make our cities safe and attractive places in which to live and to work, and we have that choice.  

	And we have to build a new America, my friends, in education, so that every boy and girl will have the chance to develop his or her talents to the utmost.  And we can't do that with just ordinary average schools.  We have to do it with the best.  An American should settle for nothing less than the best and when we say average, it is not good enough.  When we say it is the best, that is the way we live in this country.

	And we have to build a better America of greater safety for our families, and, ladies and gentlemen, let's get right down to cases, now. Everything we are talking about is about the basic institutions of this country, the family, and every plan we make for our cities, for our schools, for our hospitals, for our parks, whatever we do should relate to what does it mean to a family?  What does it mean to a family's health, education, safety?  What does it mean to a family's happiness?  And I think one of the mistakes that we possibly have made throughout the years is we thought in terms of brick and mortar, we thought in terms of slum or highways, we thought in terms of hospitals and we haven't thought in terms of what does this mean to a family, and I want you to think today with me that everything that we talk about, everything that we think about, and everything that we plan in this government of ours in this society should be directed towards what is it going to mean to mother and dad and the children?  What is it going to mean to our families? 

	And so that any day that I speak of does mean better health care and much more of it, especially for our children, and it means consumer protection, and especially for our housewives.

	And it also means an all-out war on something that is infecting this national scene of ours far too much, and that is called crime.  And let me make this very clear.  You don't fight crime with wild empty attacks on the Supreme court or on the attorney general.  You don't build respect for law and order that way. 

	Let me say to every working man and mother here, let me say to every family, I know who I am talking to, the kind of people you are.  You represent the great majority in this nation.  Let me tell you that the courts of this land, whatever may be their weaknesses at any one time over the perspective of history, have protected our liberties.  The Founding Fathers in this country had what we call separation of powers, the executive, the legislative and the judiciary.  And the courts have been set up--state, local courts, federal courts--to give you due process of law.  And every man that has ever had anybody that ever sued him any man that ever sued anyone else wanted to be sure that he had due process of the law.  And don't you downgrade the judicial processes of this country because if you do so, you do it at your peril.  The countries that lose their liberties first are the ones that lose the independent judiciary first. 

	I don't think that you prove yourself a qualified candidate for the office of president by denouncing the chief justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. 

	So, I say to you:  don't fight crime this way and you don't fight it with epithets and you don't fight it with slogans; you fight it with support, federal, state and local support of your local police forces and help for your courts and trying to make our penal institutions something that are correctional institutions.

	Four out of every five criminals in this land are repeaters.  Most of our jails and penitentiaries are schools for crime rather than places where you try to rehabilitate the human spirit.

	So we have some choices.  We have the choice of more personal safety or less.

	Now, I say support our police the way it counts:  with money, with better pay. 

	And support them with professional training and recruitment of highly motivated and prepared men and women, and let's see to it that our police forces are as integrated as our country and then some.  Let's see that every man has a chance to serve on these forces. 

	Now, when it comes right down to families, one of the most important things is your income.  You know, somebody said what do you think is the best thing in the war on poverty?  I said, "Money". 

	There is nothing better to cure poverty than a good paycheck.  Nothing better. 

	And there is no better way to get a good paycheck than to get a good job.  And there is no better way to get a good job than to be trained for it and to be equipped for it so that you can perform the job.  And that is what we are talking about.    

	And there is no better way to have all of that than to win the election on November 5th.   

	Well, now, let's see what the Nixon Republican did.  You know, the other day Mr. Nixon said we have just got to compare the present vice president with the previous administration.  He said you can expect more of the same.  That is what he said of me. 

	Well, I gathered he thought that, in other words, if you are vice president, you can expect to happen under my administration the same thing that happened under--when he was vice president.

	Well, now, let's take a look and see.  Let's just take a look and see.  Let's just use his own arguments.

	VOICE:  Give him hell, Hubert.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That is right.  That is what that middle initial is for. 

	Let's take a look at their performance record.  Let's see what they did during the eight Republican years.  Now, they had a chance.  You know, it is a good idea once in a while, about once in twenty years, to look and see how they perform.  It is rather expensive.  

	VOICE:  No. No.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That is a good thought.  I just wanted to see if you were on the ball today.

	Well, let's take a look at their performance record.  During the eight Republican years, and I was in Pittsburgh those years on many a visit, I was in Allegheny County, and you had three job-killing recessions.

	Somebody said the other day there isn't a dime's worth of difference between Humphrey and Nixon and I said that is right.  There is $175 billion worth of differences. 

	Because those three Republican, Nixon Republican recessions cost this country $175 billion in lost man-hours and work.  That is how much you paid for having that nice polite administration.  

	Khrushchev even said in those days--you heard of Khrushchev--Khrushchev said that he would bury us economically.  Well, you know what happened?  After that Khrushchev went out of office and so did Nixon. 

	And I think we ought to keep them both out of office. 

	We have had ninety consecutive months of continued economic growth in this country without a single recession, ninety consecutive months in the last eight years since John Kennedy said, let's get this country moving again, and we have kept it moving, with Kennedy and Johnson and Johnson and Humphrey and we are going to keep it moving even better with Humphrey and Muskie.

	Now, what happened to your family paycheck?  I can tell--if I would go down and talk to the ladies--they keep pretty good tabs on that, fellows--I will tell you what happened.  Let's talk about that take home pay.  Never mind all those fringe benefits for a while.  Let's talk about take home pay and we take out of that now, that is the taxes out and that is with inflation out of it and here is what happened.  Personal income and paychecks for a family of four went up three times faster during Democratic years than during the Nixon Republican years when Mr. Nixon was a part of that administration, and the difference was $3000 per family per year. Now, that is too much to pay for Mr. Nixon.    

	That means that you could buy a new car and if you do, you can put a Humphrey bumper sticker on it.    

	Or it means you could send your son or daughter to one of the finest colleges in this land out of the increase in that family paycheck, and it is not just the difference in wages, either.  There is a difference in jobs.  

	During those eight Republicans years unemployment rose two million.  During these seven and half Democratic years employment has risen two million and the lowest rate of unemployment that this country has known since the end of World War II is right now with us today, the lowest rate. 

	So, friends, this is what the record is like and it is not accidental. Democrats have believed in working people.  They believed in family people.  And we have arranged things as best we could to work with this great free enterprise economy. We have poured money into job training and it has come back a thousandfold.

	The only thing that is costly in this country is welfare.  What is not costly is education and training and jobs.  That is when you start to build the resources of this country and that is what we have been trying to do and we have been doing it. 

	Ten million people have come out of poverty in the last five years in America under this administration and Mr. Nixon says he is not sure whether he is for those poverty programs.  I know about it.  He doesn't need to try to kid me.  I know he is not for them. He never voted for them.  There wasn't any war on poverty when he had something to say about this country.  There wasn't any Federal Aid to Education.  There wasn't any medical care for our elderly.  There wasn't any consumer protection.  And you know it.

	So, when you ask, "Is there any difference between the Democratic nominee, is there any difference between the Democratic nominee and the Republican?", the answer is, all the difference in the world.  The difference in education, in health, in jobs in the economy. 

	And I just want to say to you, my friends, that if we turn this economy over to them, they have already told you what they are going to do.  He has said we are going to do it like we did it before.

	VOICE:  Mess it up.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  You betcha.  Mess it up, that is right.  Give that young man an A.  He has--he just said the right thing.  Mess it up.  And they have.  I think that is why the American people are not going to go for this man that says I am for it, but.  I want to tell you this is really getting to be something.  You mention anything to the Republican nominee and he will say, he will look at you--now, they say there is the new Nixon.

	VOICE:  Tricky Dicky.

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Now, my friends, listen.  I don't mind a fellow getting a little new; he called it new.  I just want to tell you something so that you won't be misled.  I am just the same old Hubert Humphrey, that is all.  Just the same old one you have known.

	Some people say there is a new Nixon.  Some people say there is the old Nixon, and what you need to be worried about is the real Nixon.  That is the one you need to be concerned about. 

	What you need to be concerned about is a nominee that decided in order to get that nomination he had to go into the back room and work out an arrangement with the number one Dixiecrat of this nation, Strom Thurmond, and I think we ought to ask him what kind of an arrangement that was, what kind of an arrangement. 

	I told the American people if I were nominated as the presidential nominee of the Democratic party that I would give to this nation in my vice presidential selection, at least in the man that I recommended, as fine a man as we could find.  I said there will be no deals.  I said, I am going to deal with the North, the South, the East or the West.  I am not going to deal with anybody.  We are going to make a suggestion and a choice to the convention, and I didn't go around looking for a stand that had a lot of electoral votes.  I happened to have known a United States senator. I happened to know a fine man, a gentleman that has had experience in local government, two times governor of his state, two terms United States senator, a distinguished student in the law school, a Phi Beta Kappa, a man that served his country in peace and war, a person that has a remarkable record of public service, the author of the Model Cities program, the man that has become the expert in terms of our pollution control of water and air.  And I said I am going to select a man that has the character and the quality and the intelligence and the background and the ability to be the president of the United States if anything befalls the president, and it could easily.  We know that.  We live in dangerous times.

	I said I am going to give the American people, so help me, if I am the nominee of this party, a man that can serve in the highest office of the land and serve with distinction and I did in Ed Muskie, United States senator. 

	And by the way, he is going to come to Pennsylvania and what a man you are going to find in that fellow.  A remarkable man.

	This is a team.  This isn't just one man running.  We have a team.  We are partners.  We are friends.  It is the team of Humphrey and Muskie.  It is your Democratic team and I want you to spread the message.  I want you to tell your neighbors and your friends.  I want you to talk about it after church and before church.  I want you to talk about it in the lodge and the labor halls.  I want you to talk about it in your fraternal order.  I want you women to talk about it, and oh, boy, if you just talk about it--and I want that band to talk about it over there, too.  And I want everybody around here to take the message of the new day of the Democratic party, a day where we welcome the young, where we honor the elderly, a day in which we put the confidence of the people in our country.

	These two candidates of the Democratic arty, the nominee for president and vice president, are not running this country down in order to get us to look a little better.  We are talking this country up.  We happen to believe in this great America of ours. 

	And, I will tell you something else.  We believe we can do better than we have ever done before.  We have done well.  We build more schools and more hospitals.  We have more young people in college.  We have done many things, but every man and woman in this audience has a feeling deep down in your heart that you can do better.  We can have a better country.  We can be neighbors.  We can be friends.  We can build this country better, and what we are trying to tell you in this campaign is that we will not settle for the achievements even of our party.  We are not basing our campaign on the record of yesterday, as good as it is, proud as we are of it.

	We are basing our campaign on the hopes of tomorrow and I am not going to come to you, my fellow Americans, and ask you to vote for me out of fear, I am not going to come to you and ask you to vote for me because there is racial tension.  I am not going to come to you and ask you to vote your fears and your suspicions and your hates.  We all have a little something wrong in us.  You know that.  None of us are without sin or blemish.

	I am coming to you to ask you to vote your hopes and your aspirations.  I happen to be a man that believes there is more good in the American people than anybody ever dreamed of.  I happen to believe that the American people have within them a great reservoir of goodness and a great spark of greatness.  I intend to draw on that reservoir of goodness and I intend to ignite that spark of greatness and, my fellow Americans, we can do anything that we need to do at home or abroad if we stand together.

	Thank you very much. 

COST OF LIVINGCRIME--GENERALECONOMY, RECESSIONARYFAMILIESJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONPOVERTYRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)UNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMECRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERAL     %h Òg Îg Ág ﬂg
 ”g Œg …g øg ≥g ±g òg çg	 ﬁ 	 – 	 ¬ 	 ≠ 	 • 	 é 	 t 	 m 	 O 	 : 	 /   e: