Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0913.002SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/13STUMPWATERBURYCONNECTICUTCT2303 WORDS

	While wage-price increases have been strictly limited, the Price Commission has been using a rubber stamp on practically all of the requests for price increases. Out of 5,000 price increase applications, the Commission has turned down fewer than one in ten. In a single three-month period it approved $2 billion worth of rate increases for gas, telephone, and electric rates, and every time you turn on a light or pick up a phone, you pay more to the utilities, which raised their profits by almost 12 percent last year under the so-called wage and price controls of the Nixon administration. And it is as easy for most price increases to pass through the Price Commission as it is for water to pass through a sieve.

	Fellow citizens, I realize that here tonight the crowd is so large that it may be hard for some of you to see and difficult for some of you to hear, but we want to make one pledge at the very outset--that after we have won this election we are going to be able to hear the people of this country and we are going to be able to see you, and we want to serve the needs of every citizen of this land.

	Senator Kennedy, who just introduced me so generously, and whom we all love and admire, has been traveling with me during the last three days--we have been to Minneapolis, Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and Albany, New York, and now here tonight to this magnificent meeting in Waterbury, Connecticut--and I think Senator Kennedy agrees with me that we feel very strongly on the basis of what we have seen and heard and what we have felt in our hearts this past week that no matter what Dr. Gallup may say, the people of this country are going to have the last word and we are going to win this election in 1972. 

	That means that we are going to take the government out of the hands of the special interests that have dominated this present administration; it is no longer going to be government of the special interests by the special interests and for the special interests but we are going to realize the dream of a great American president who challenged us 100 years ago to remember that in this country, democracy functions only when it is of the people, by the people, and for the people. Now, we readily admit that we don't have everyone with us yet. We don't have John Connolly with us, and we don't have very many of his billionaire oil baron friends. The Republicans have most of them and far as I am concerned they are welcome to them as long as we continue to have the people on our side. And I was handed a message of good news here a moment ago that in Weathersfield, Connecticut there is a group called "Republicans for McGovern" and they outline about fifteen reasons why they are for me and I am just going to read you the last one. It says "we are for him because we look to him for sensitive leadership as we seek solutions to the problems that beset our nation to close the credibility gap between the government and the governed. Confident he can strengthen the allegiance of the poor, the young, certain he can ease the suspicion of ethnic separatists by meaningful social progress and believing in his ability to inspire Northerner and Southerner, farmer and laborer, city dweller and suburbanite, young and old, man and woman, to close ranks and to work in harmony for a better America starting right now." So I think we have 95 percent of the Democrats with us, and if we can pick up Republicans like this for the handful of Connollys that we lose, I think that is a good trade any day.

	But we are counting basically on the great heart and strength and muscle of the Democratic party to win this election and don't forget that I am proud to be on this stage with some of the great figures of our party here in Connecticut with Senator Kennedy, Senator Ribicoff, Congressman Monagan and all of the others, and together, I am confident we are going to score a great Democratic victory on November 7th.

	Now if there is something worthy of note--at their recent convention in Miami Beach the Republicans took up a chant that I personally think was a very bad slogan. And that chant which we heard coming from the Convention Hall was "four more years." I want--yes I agree with "four more months" over here--we will accept that. But I ask you to think tonight about young Americans who are still dying in Indochina and others who have been sitting in their cells in Hanoi--some of them for six or seven years--I ask you to think about these little people in Southeast Asia--many of them who doubtless wonder what this tragedy is all about, and who are being killed day after day by the bombs that fall from these planes ordered out by our President. I ask you to remember that while they have a different skin color than we do, and while they are smaller than most of us in stature, I ask you to remember that each one of them is also a child of the same God that created us. And then I ask you to recall the tragedy that we all want ended, and I ask you if you really believe that the American people want four more years of that? 

	Senator Ribicoff told me as we were flying in here from New York tonight that here in Waterbury, when Mr. Nixon took over the White House in January of 1969, the unemployment rate in this area was 4.9 percent--and I think that is too high--but we ought to remember that tonight as we meet here the unemployment rate in Waterbury, Connecticut is more than 10 percent--10.7 percent--and I ask you if you want four more years of that. At a time when we go to the grocery stores and each day we discover that the price of everything we buy has gone higher under Mr. Nixon's so-called wage-price controls I ask you if we want to continue this system which depresses the income of the working people while the cost of living goes through the roof and whether we want four more years of that.

	And then there is another question that every American who believes in the Constitution, who believes in personal liberty, and who believes in personal privacy ought to think about. We ought to recall that agents linked directly to the Committee to Reelect the President were arrested in the middle of the night wiretapping the Democratic National Headquarters. I ask you to remember that the same kind of people who will invade the headquarters of a major political party are not likely to hesitate if they decide they want to wiretap your law office, or your home, or your university, or your union office or anything else. 

	And I ask whether in this country that believes in freedom and the dignity of the individual can afford four more years of that. Many in this audience tonight are young, but there are others here who are older, and one thing all of us have in common to the youngest child to the oldest person is that some day all of us are going to be old if we don't die from pollution, or war, or accidents or something of that kind. And we ought to remember that this is the administration that did everything in the power of the White House to deprive the older people of this country of an increase in their Social Security and old age benefits.

	And we ought to think about our own parents, our own grandparents and the fact that all of us will some day be older. We ought to ask whether we want an administration that turns its back on the older people of this country, whether we want another four more years of that. So we come here tonight to call this country to a better standard than that. We ask us to lift the flag of this country to higher ground because we love America enough that we want it to live up to the great ideals with which we began. So as I have said so many, many times in all parts of this country in recent years, let us bring America home to the great ideals with which we began. This is not a plea for isolationism. As a matter of fact, we have never been more isolated in the eyes of the rest of the world than we are in this unilateral intervention into the affairs of the people of Southeast Asia. This country must play an active international role on behalf of peace and on influencing the life of the world toward [missing text] and what we are calling for here tonight is a blunt recognition of what Mr. Nixon told us when he was seeking the presidency four years ago and this is what he said on October 9, 1968: "Those who have had a chance for four years and could not produce peace should not be given another chance."

	So let us then resolve that we are not only going to elect a new president--and a new vice president by electing my great running mate, Sargent Shriver--but we are also going to end this war. We are going to end it without delay, and restore our prisoners and our troops to their homes, and then we can get on with the real business of America. Now right at the top of the list--priority number one here at home--is to set in motion those economic policies that those Democrats have always believed in and to refine those policies so that we can guarantee a decent job for every man and woman in America who wants to work--that is pledge number one; and then let us launch the kind of a successful and practical attack against the problems of inflation that President Kennedy and President Johnson carried out so well from 1961 until 1965, and let us make sure that we have some dependable guidelines on profits and prices and interest rates and an evenhanded inflationary policy that will protect the people of this country against the unconscionable cost of living that now confronts every citizen in the land. 

	And then let us do one other thing--let us remember that this country began with the cry "No taxation without representation." We ought to modify that to read "No taxation without justice." And that means doing something about these preferences and shelters and loopholes in our tax laws and those which permit those who are best able to pay to get by without paying any tax at all. Certainly there is something badly wrong with a tax system that will permit a $200 thousand a year corporate executive to deduct his $20 martini luncheon and the working man can't deduct the cost of his baloney sandwich. Now we don't need the sales tax--the national sales tax--that I believe Mr. Nixon has in mind for us after the election. The most vibrant reactionary--the regressive, the most unfair tax it is possible to devise. But if we close off these loopholes at the very top of the income scale we are not going to hurt the corporations we are not going to hurt the rich--they will still do well and, as a matter of fact, the country will be a lot safer and happier place for them as well as for all of the rest of us. But if we close off those loopholes as I have recommended--some $22 billion total--it is not going to be a hardship on anyone but it will give us the revenues that we need to return to the states to reduce our property taxes, to take up some of the burden on the schools and at long last to establish a system of tax justice in this country. 

	I want to conclude on this note: I want us to understand that there is nothing wild or radical about the proposals that the Democratic Party brings to the American people in 1972. What we want are such conservative and respected values as the preservation of life, the establishment of peace, justice for all of our people, dignity for every citizen, and this means calling the country home to the ideals that were formed here in Connecticut and Massachusetts and those early colonies that laid the basis for the American republic. Some quarter of a century ago, along with many other Americans, I was caught up in World War II. In my case I was a bomber pilot and we were hit pretty badly over a dangerous target and it appeared for a few minutes that we would have to abandon the plane, but we assessed the damage and I decided that we could make it back and I issued this order: "Everybody resume your stations, we are going to bring this plane home." And I want to say tonight to all of those here and to Americans everywhere who share our cause and our love for peace and justice--resume your stations we are going to bring America home.

	I just want to say to you that this is not a baloney sandwich; it is a magnificent grinder which Ted Kennedy and Abe Ribicoff are going to help me eat.
CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICEINFLATIONTAX REFORMUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALVIETNAM WARWAGE AND PRICE POLICYWATERGATE     1 å0 ß0 Û0 Ó0
 Ç0 Â0 ½0 ´0 ©0 §0 §0 0	 r 	 Q 	 H 	 > 	 ) 	  	 	 e: