Speeches\1976\dem\S76D1007.002SPEECH1976DemocratCARTER (D)10/07STUMPSALT LAKE CITYUTAHUT2494 WORDS

	Thank you, everybody.

	Madam President and Senator Ervin, Mayor Wilson, my good friend Calvin Rampton, Senator Moss, Elizabeth Vance, and all the great people of Utah who have come to comprise what Senator Moss and Governor Rampton tell me is the largest political gathering that's ever been assembled in the state of Utah. It's a great honor for me and I thank you for it.

	The political debates kind of grow on you. I enjoyed the one last night, much better than the first one. And I'm looking forward to the next one. This gives the American people a chance not only to make an assessment of the candidates but also to make an assessment of what our country is, and what it might be in the future. My first participation in public affairs was as a member of the Sumter County School Board. I later became the chairman of it. I ran for the Georgia Senate, to prevent the destruction of the public school system in Georgia. When I got to the Georgia Senate my own request was that I be placed on the education committee. I was chairman of the University Committee in the Georgia Senate as a freshman senator and helped to write the comprehensive minimum foundation program for education in Georgia.

	I've been close to young people. We've had eighteen-year-olds voting in Georgia since 1945. During the Second World War, we felt that if a young person was old enough to fight he was also old enough to decide who his political leaders ought to be. 

	Many in this country, as you well know, can't speak English at all. But they are crammed in the classroom with the same hopes and dreams and aspirations and fears as other children, and they must be treated as individuals. And whatever public officials can do at the local, state, and federal levels, whatever teachers can do, and administrators can do in the education system to deal with children as individuals, different from one another, will help us have a better chance for all of them in life.

	In Georgia, if a child can't read and write, we have special remedial reading programs for them, to take them out of the regular classroom, teach them to read and write, before they're put back into the competitive system of the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh grades. There is nothing that destroys a child more than to sit in a classroom day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, with other children, learning about civics, history, social sciences, mathematics, English, literature, and that child not being able to read and write.

	We give the children another test--every child in Georgia at the seventh grade level--so that they can prepare to shape their own career instruction among the optional courses in high school. And again at the eleventh grade level, all children in Georgia have a comprehensive test given to them to decide what kind of post-high school career they should follow.

	We need in our own country to have a much closer correlation between the analysis of jobs that are available, and the educational process that's given to a person as they prepare to graduate from high school, a vocational school, or college course. We have very little opportunity now to have jobs matched with talent. Among young people these days the unemployment rate is about 20 percent. Among young people who happen to be of a minority group, the unemployment rate is quite often 40 percent.

	This hurts our whole society, in many different ways, in crime escalation, in the breakdown of the family structure, and also in the respect of citizens for our own government. We've shown a great growth lately in the cost of education. In the last eight years the cost of education has almost doubled. But the portion of educational costs paid for by the federal government, with the progressive income tax structure, has dropped from 10 percent of the total down to about 7 percent of the total.

	We've also seen a proliferation in federal programs. We now have about 400 different programs at the federal level of government, administered by seventy different agencies. And we've had kind of a merry-go-round in Washington recently with administrators. We've had six different commissioners of Education, three different Secretaries of HEW, in the last four years.

	This matches, as you know, three vice presidents, two presidents, with only one election. We need to change this, stabilize our government, and approach the future with more substance and confidence.

	Our country has suffered in many other ways. In the last few years, the people of this nation have been deeply hurt. In the aftermath of Vietnam and Cambodia, Chile, Pakistan, Angola, Watergate, CIA, FBI, our people feel that we've lost something precious. We've lost a stability in our lives. We've lost a standard of morals and ethics. We've lost a commitment to excellence, and greatness. We've lost the inspiration of government. We've lost the participation and openness that lets us control and make decisions for our nation. But this is not a permanent aspect of American society. It's a temporary aberration. And there's a thrust in politics this year, [and] in the minds and hearts of millions of Americans, to restore those precious things, tear down the walls that have separated us from our own government, and tap the tremendous strength that exists among the more than 200 million Americans who haven't lost our idealism, who haven't lost our patriotism, who haven't lost our commitment to strong families, who haven't lost our commitment to stretch our minds, to stretch our hearts, to learn more about God's earth, to learn more about our fellow human beings. [They] can only be provided to us in a good, comprehensive education system.

	When we have difficulty in our society, education is much more valuable. We now have 7.9 percent of all our people unemployed. In the last two years, two-and-a-half million more people have joined the unemployment rolls. In the last three months, 500,000 Americans have become unemployed. This is the worst unemployment record of any developed nation in the world. But we need not despair because within us there is still the capability to learn and to work. It's been derived from an educational system that hasn't been damaged, as has the economic system of our country.

	We Americans are fair. We don't have a fair tax structure. Our income tax structure in this country is a disgrace to the human race.

	The surest income to be taxed is the income earned from manual labor. There are not any hidden secret loopholes for someone who draws a paycheck every two weeks, or a retirement check every two weeks. But there are hidden secret loopholes for everyone else. This is not right; it must be changed. In the last reporting period there were 3,200 Americans who made over $50,000 a year in income and paid not a nickel in income taxes. There were over 800 Americans who made over $100,000 a year, over 240 Americans who made over $200,000 a year and paid not a nickel in income taxes. When they don't pay their taxes, you know who pays it for them. So we need comprehensive all-inclusive income tax reform. That's what we're going to get next year, because that's what the American people are ready for.

	I believe in a competent government, and I believe in a compassionate government. I come from an area that is very poor. Perhaps more poor than any community in your own state. I believe in a good welfare system. We don't have one. We now have about 12 million Americans who habitually draw welfare payments. About 1.3 million of those are fully able to work. There's nothing wrong with them physically, mentally, they're not too old, they're not blind. They ought to be removed from the welfare system altogether, placed under the responsibility of the Labor Department, the Education Department, given job training, literacy instruction if they can't read and write, the services of private and public job placement services, and matched with a job, offered a job. If they're offered a job and don't take it, I would not pay them any more benefits.

	The other 90 percent can't work full-time. We ought to treat them with respect, and we ought to treat them with compassion. There ought to be a fairly uniform nationwide payment to meet the basic necessities of life. We ought to have a built-in incentive for part-time work, and we ought to remove the aspects of the law that force or encourage a father to leave the home, or pretend to leave the home. The present welfare system is anti-work and anti-family. It ought to be changed. It must be changed. Next year, it's going to be changed.

	I just want to make one other point. I come from a state in many ways like your own. We are fairly conservative. We believe in hard work. We believe that anybody who's able to work ought to have a chance to work. I grew up on a farm. I managed my affairs very carefully. My family budget was kept in balance. When I ran my farm my farm budget was balanced. I was governor of Georgia four years, the budget was balanced. And we had a substantial surplus every year. If I'm elected president, and I intend to be, a major commitment of my term will be that, before the first four years are finished, the budget of the United States government is going to be balanced, and I am committed to that.

	I believe that if a choice exists between the government performing a function and the private sector performing that same function, that the choice should be with the private sector. I believe that if there's a choice between the federal, state, and local levels of government having responsibility, the responsibility ought to be placed as near as possible to the individual citizen. I believe that if there's a choice between work and welfare, the choice ought to be work. And I believe that we ought to meet the legitimate needs of our people in every possible way. We ought to have a minimum government secrecy, a maximum of respect for personal privacy. This has not been the case in our government in the past, and as I pointed out in the debate last night, I believe our foreign policy ought to be one to make us proud and not ashamed; it ought to be predictable; it ought to be honorable; it ought to be truthful; it ought to be compassionate; it ought to be strong.

	Let me just say one more thing in closing. I don't claim to know all the answers. I'm just an average American citizen like you. I've had a good education because I was lucky. My people have lived in Georgia two hundred years, two hundred and ten years now. No one in my family ever had a chance to finish high school before I did. But I had a chance to go to the Naval Academy at public expense, and to learn. Twenty-one months ago, I began to campaign for president. I didn't hold public office, I didn't have very much money--I had $43,000 to run a presidential campaign. I didn't have a nationwide campaign organization. Not many people knew who I was. I doubt if 1 percent of the people in this auditorium had ever heard my name before last January, 1975. I come from a small town, 683 population. But I and my wife and my children and a few volunteers began to go from one home to another. We would invite everybody from the neighborhood to come in. Maybe three or four people would show up. We'd go to a labor hall that would hold two or three hundred folks; maybe twelve people would come. So we began to stand in factory shift liens, and go to farmers' markets, to livestock sale barns, to walk up and down the street, to go into barber shops and beauty parlors, and restaurants, to stand in front of revolving doors and shopping centers, to meet people, to talk a little, to learn a lot. I'm proud of this country. I believe in its future. I believe we have a strength that hasn't been permanently damaged. Our economic strength is the greatest on earth. Our system of government is still clean, decent, a basis on which we can predicate answers to complicated questions, and bind ourselves together, correct our mistakes, face the future with confidence, [and] stand on our own feet, not ever deviating from the principles in which we believe. So our country's strong. But the strength must come from you.

	I'm running for president; I believe I'll be elected. But it's just as much your country as it is mine. And if there are things that you don't like about it, if we've made mistakes that you never want to see made again, if there are hopes or dreams or aspirations, in your own lives or in the lives of your children, that you would like to be realized, I hope that this will be a time of testing and commitment and even sacrifice for you. To help shape the opinion of those who look to you for leadership. To bind ourselves together in a spirit of unity and purpose. Unselfish, yes; idealistic, yes; committed to unchanging principles, yes; strengthening families, yes.

	We've always seen in our country a dependence upon the educational process when changes are required.

	When the social changes took place in the South, it was not the churches, it was not the business structure, it was not the political structure that made those changes. You know who made the changes? Schoolteachers. That's what happened. And it was made well.

	Because in the classroom we not only learn about the history of our nation, we not only learn about economics, we not only learn about the beauty of art and music, and we not only learn about government, but we learn about each other. And as we know each other better, it lets us set a standard for the future. I believe in my country. And I hope you will join with me in the next four weeks, hopefully in the next four years, to tap the tremendous resources of our great nation and to try once again, as I said often in the primary years, to have a government that's as good and honest and as decent and truthful and fair [and] as compassionate and as filled with love as are the American people. I believe we can do it. The time has come for it to be done.

	Thank you very much. God bless all of you.

BUDGET, BALANCEDCONDUCT OF LIFE--EXPERIENCE/QUALIFICATIONSEDUCATION, VOCATIONALINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESLITERACYTAX REFORMUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWELFAREEDUCATION--GENERAL     8 Ø7 Ò7 Î7 Æ7
 ¼7 ·7 ²7 ¤7  7 ž7 ž7 ”7	 § 	 — 	 m 	 X 	 @ 	 8 	 . 	    e: