Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1028.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/28STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYCOMMODORE HOTEL, LUNCHEON FOR WOMEN VOLUNTEERS2866 WORDS

	Mrs. Roosevelt, Mrs. Levy, and Mrs. Dick, and ladies: I was going to say "and one gentleman," I think I saw coming in. I am deeply flattered--and I might as well confess at the outset that I am terrified. I have never talked to so many women at the same time and in the same place before in my life. I was going to say I hope I never do again--I hardly dare risk that.

	I am very much gratified by your introduction, Mrs. Roosevelt, and certainly as the foremost authority on the subject of electing presidents, you mentioned one thing in your introduction, Mrs. Roosevelt--you said something about withstanding strains as one of the qualifications and conditions of, shall we say, servitude in that office. I should like, if I could, before I leave, to have you tell me how you can try to get the president's hair cut during his campaign. That appears to be my most important and insolvable problem in this campaign. I am impressed all over the country with the interest and the participation of women in the volunteers for Stevenson. It is as heartening and encouraging as anything that has happened to me. I don't know how to account for it; I think it is probably the basic interest that women have. I think it is probably something that has been manifest for the past several years in our country--the growth of women's interest in public affairs.

	If my father were alive, he would tell me it is probably for another reason. He used to tell me a story about the early days in my home country of McLean, in Illinois, down in the prairie in solid Republican territory, that a census taker went out to take a census and asked--and found a remote farmhouse in the recesses of the county--the woman of the house "How many children?" and she said, "nine." "And how many at home?" And she said, "Well, they are all away except Mamie." 

	It should be Sally.

	Finally, he said, "Well, what are the political affiliations?" "Oh, we are all good strong, staunch Republicans down this way, all except Sally." And he said, "Well, how does that happen?" "Well, Sally was the youngest, and she took up reading."

	I am very much flattered that you want me to go into the other ballroom on the way out, but I am suspicious. I have been suspicious all during this campaign that perhaps the worst disaster that could befall me would be to be seen by too many people. In all events, we have to expose ourselves, and the graciousness and the courtesy with which I have been treated all about the country--and particularly with volunteer groups--is very heartening.

	We had, by the way, a volunteers' meeting--maybe Mrs. Dick told you about--in Springfield not long ago, and I think the newspaper page expected that it was going to be the usual old line political sort of gathering and rushed out of the door after he had seen this group swarming over the executive mansion, and he said, "My gosh, it looks like a parents' meeting of a progressive schoolroom."

	It is gratifying to be invited here for lunch just one week before the election to talk to the women volunteers of New York State. I am conscious--I think if not fully at least partially conscious--of the incredible amount of work that you have done.

	Please don't anticipate my jokes.

	Or maybe I should say I am also slightly conscious of the work that you have done, but I am deeply grateful, both on my account and on account of my distinguished teammate, Senator Sparkman. We have traveled the length and the breadth of this land, trying to discuss issues and to talk sensibly, and one of the greatest satisfactions I have had has been the support of people like yourselves--people who may wear a party label over their hearts but never wear a party label over their eyes--but most of all, and most important of all, who want nothing for themselves. This is something that touches the heart of every man who goes into political life, and it is the greatest satisfaction that I have enjoyed in my brief experience as governor of Illinois--the loyalty, the support, and the confidence of people who don't want anything.

	It is particularly gratifying to have an opportunity to talk directly to the women of New York, the women of America, about some of the things that are on my mind. There are some areas of political life about which women, I believe, feel more keenly than men.

	Being a mere man, I may be unwise to try to analyze what it is that prompts this deep concern on the part of women. I suspect, however, that anything that strikes at the security or traditional teachings of home and family is a matter of deep--if unconscious--concern to women, even more than to men.

	The great and overriding issue, of course, is peace, peace which is no easy solution, as we all know, and it is a national issue, not one that by any stretch of the conscience should be used for purposes of partisan vote-getting. Yet to imply quick and foolproof solutions to the war in Korea, to propose to solve this problem by making a trip to Korea when we all know that the root of the trouble is in Moscow, to guarantee the increase of our armed might while proposing substantial tax reductions--these propositions, I must say, are partisan in the most brazen form.

	I can't promise you any of these things and no one can and no one should. I can only tell you that if you should do me the honor of entrusting the conduct of the direction of our country's affairs to me, I shall use every proper resource of heart and mind and diplomacy to bring this ghastly conflict to an honorable end. But I shall not and cannot do it at the cost of abandoning our commitment to arrest Russian aggression. Upon the outcome of the stand we have made in Korea depends the fate of the whole concept of collective security now manifested almost for the first time in history by collective armed might. As a parent, with one boy in uniform and two nearing the age of service, and also as an ordinary American citizen, I too, long for a world at peace as passionately as every other parent and citizen. Indeed, I worked in that field for several years after the war, and I am happy to say that part of that time in the closest collaboration with our distinguished and beloved Mrs. Roosevelt. But the only kind of peace worth having is one that offers some promise of stability and some assurance that the countries on this side of the Iron Curtain are not buying only temporary relief and will remain free to develop their social and economic institutions along healthy democratic lines, for we certainly have discovered--if nothing else--that Munichs don't pay.

	It seems to me that only thus can we discharge our heavy responsibilities; only thus can we build a strong and a free society of nations, proof against the Communist menace both within and from without, and only thus can we hope to secure to ourselves and to our children the promise of a world in which no one rattles a saber and no one drags a chain.

	Another subject I would like to discuss for just a minute is that of corruption in public office. From the time children are old enough to know right from wrong, parents--and particularly mothers--start the age-old process of teaching their young that the worst sins are lies, deceit, and dishonesty.

	So it is no wonder that when these and other corrupt practices make their appearance at the adult level and in public life, women are particularly indignant, and it is a very healthy thing for our society that this should be so. I have often said that honesty in government should be an issue in every political campaign, at every level of government--not just occasionally.

	There is always room for improvement in the ethical and moral level of public service. Your indignation is a powerful force in preventing these practices and in helping to root them out when they crop up. For my part, I say with some pride that I have dealt ruthlessly with misconduct where I have found it in the state of Illinois, and I shall continue to do so without fear or favor--and I might say, with the greatest satisfaction. Delicacy forbids me to tell you what kind of an administration--Republican or Democratic--I succeeded in the state of Illinois. But I can say that when I took office, I found heavily padded state payrolls, a police force mired in politics, practices and traditions in state purchasing and in contracting that were intolerable, and a host of chiselers and thieves on the public relief rolls, and so forth, and so forth, and so forth.

	Well, we took the state police out of politics and put it on a merit system for the first time in the history of the state. We cracked down on gambling by the use of state police to enforce local law for the first time in the history of Illinois. We cleaned up all of the other departments, one by one, and it has been a most satisfying work. Aside from whatever else we have done, I shall always have the satisfaction of having raised, a little at least, the moral level of state government in the state of Illinois--and I pray, permanently.

	If I should be elected, I shall continue to fight, not just corruption, which is so obvious, but the less obvious things--that is, the shoddy, careless, ethically opaque practices which are the greatest evil of public administration in our country at all levels. They never attract as much attention; they are never as dramatic as the simple case of corruption, of cash on the barrel, but they are much more elusive and they cost the taxpayer in the long run many, many times as much. This is the big job in public administration, and one of the strongest weapons I shall have, I think, will be the moral indignation of women all about the country; I just hope it persists. Of course, that sentence didn't sound right, did it? I don't want you to be indignant about me. I just want you to be indignant about bad government when and wherever it appears, and there are many other things that should provoke your indignations besides simple, crass, brazen corruption.

	I could lecture on this all afternoon; maybe, I will come back.

	There is one other issue I should like to touch upon today, and that is the basic principle upon which our country is founded--equal opportunity for all regardless of race or color or creed. We say those words over and over again, and yet after two thousand years of Christianity, more than 150 years since the Declaration of Independence, we still have a long way to go. In this connection I should like to talk to you about my running mate, John Sparkman.

	I have been surprised to find that in some of the northern sections of the country there is a certain suspicion of Southerners. There is a provincial assumption--and fortunately not very widespread--that any man in public life in the South is bound to be a reactionary, or worse. If anyone can dispel this illusion, once and for all, John Sparkman is the man to do it.

	Like many of you, I have known Senator Sparkman's work in the Congress and in the American Delegation to the United Nations, and I have come to have the deepest respect for him, both as a dignified quiet man and as a liberal of profound conviction and of fearlessness.

	He started life as the son of a sharecropper, one of eleven children. He got his education the hardest way, and he has never forgotten the troubles and the hopes of these millions of people--white and Negro--who work a patch of cotton. For many years he was the strongest champion of the Roosevelt farm tenancy program and of the Farmers Home Administration which has helped hundreds of thousands of farmers to get land of their own. When the Untied Nations debated land reform--and I think Mrs. Roosevelt could bear witness to this--John Sparkman was the only man there who could speak about the sharecroppers' problems from firsthand personal knowledge--and I am proud to say that he gave the Soviet spokesman in that debate a lot of trouble.

	John Sparkman has fought for the people on every other economic issue which has come before the Congress in his time. He fought for soil conservation, for rural electrification, for social security, for full employment legislation, for TVA, and most effectively, for small business. He had been a valiant spokesman for migrant laborers--perhaps the most ill-treated group in our whole society--and he has led the struggle for slum clearance and for low rent housing.

	The Negroes of the South know their true friends, and their leaders--which some people in the North don't realize--have given Senator Sparkman their wholehearted endorsement.

	I should like to predict that he will become a bridge between the forward looking people of the North and the South, helping to close this tragic gap in understanding, which has persisted ever since the Civil War.

	Well, I fear that perhaps I have talked too long already--either I have detained you or my prosecutors will be late to New Jersey--or wherever it is I have to go and spread light this afternoon. Never was there such an itinerant missionary in his own behalf as I have turned out to be.

	I have barely touched on matters which I should like to have discussed with you. There are many more. I am proud of our record of economy in Illinois. Despite almost doubling state aid to common schools in the past three years--and that is an enormous amount of money--despite state aid for tuberculosis hospitals for the first time, of salary increases of more than twenty percent, we have not raised general purpose taxes under my administration, and the second biennial budget that I submitted was actually smaller than the first.

	I wish I had the time to tell you of the progress we have made in the welfare of the people. Mrs. Dick, who is here, is one of the Board of Public Health Commissioners in Illinois and she could tell you even more than I. I take particular satisfaction in the strides that we have made in the care and treatment of our 48,000 patients in our hospitals for the mentally ill, by increasing both physical facilities and the ratio of attendants to patients. And even after that, I am proud to say that Illinois is third from the lowest of all of the states in the Union in the ratio of state employees to the population of the state, and we are the second from the lowest in the ratio of the cost of government to the state income. You see, if I were running for governor, I've got more things I would like to say.

	I enumerate these accomplishments simply to illustrate the sort of government I think you want and that you are entitled to. Certainly, I should never promise miracles--I leave that to someone else--but I can promise that we will do our best in the next four years to maintain our progress at home and to work for peace in the world. If I am elected, I am determined to make this nation and the world--make this a nation and a world where our children and grandchildren can grow in peace and dignity. I can't do it--but with our help and your support, I believe we can make some further progress toward this goal.

	Speaking without the extremes of political license--and we usually get pretty extreme about this time during a campaign--I didn't hear the gentleman from Wisconsin, last night, but I understand that he wasn't as extreme as some expected, and I hope you are not all disappointed.

	That is all you can hope to do and I think that is all you can expect of me, and I think that is all I can promise, the dedication of all of the talents, such as they are and limited as they are, and all of the heart and the mind and the physical strength that I possess.

	I am deeply grateful to you for being here and affording me this opportunity to come here and have lunch with you, and I apologize if I was late. I am now going to get a haircut.


GOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSILLINOISPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--WOMENRACE RELATIONSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)     ½> ‰> ƒ> > w>
 j> e> `> X> P> N>  > >	 o 	 R 	 J 	 , 	  e: