Speeches\1972\dem\S72D0907.004SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)9/7STUMPROCKFORDILLINOISIL2,629 WORDS

	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you very much. Many, many thanks to each one of you--to the Chairman Jim Simorian, to the mayor of this City of Rockford, Mayor Slipher, and to Pat Greathouse, the gentleman who just introduced me, and to all of my fiends of the Rockford, Illinois area. 

	I want to say first of all that it is a special privilege to be introduced by a man who has the remarkable name of Greathouse. And I think with your help that we are going to see to it that America becomes a great country once again. This election, after all, has to do with the kind of a country we are going to be and the kind of people we are going to be. And I think everyone here can agree that, first and foremost, we want America to be a country that stands not for killing and violence and destruction and death, but we want to restore this great land of ours to peace and justice for all of the people of this country. But we are faced not only with important choices in the world around us. Even more profoundly, we are faced with fundamental choices here at home, and if I had to describe the one central theme that I see emerging from this presidential campaign, it would be the struggle between those who would control the government of this country by special interests and those who think the government of this country belongs to the people of America. And we have to confront the fact that we are engaged in a struggle with men who are so desperate that they are even willing to invade the Democratic National Headquarters with their tools--where they were caught in the dead of night with their rubber gloves, their burglary tools and their wiretapping equipment. And my answer to that is that I think it is in very bad form for a president to be elected on a platform of law and order and then permit that kind of outrageous conduct to take place. And I regret to say that the great White House of this nation that should be a symbol of the people's interest has been filled these last three-and-a-half years, not with civil servants of the people, but with public relations experts who seek only to manipulate the people of this country. And these are the people who have done what the forces of special privilege have always done: they seek to ensure the status quo. They seek to ensure their own power, not by coming out into the open and debating great issues, but by hiding behind the labels of radical that they hurl at everyone of us who advocate change in this country. 

	Remember; those of you who are young, recall your history. In 1932, the Republicans called Franklin Roosevelt radical, not because he wanted to damage the interests of this country, but because he believed in such simple things as a decent job for every man and woman in the country who wanted to work. And they called President Truman a radical in 1948 because he believed, even then, that every citizen in this country was entitled to decent health care and that is what I believe. And in 1960, John F. Kennedy was called a radical simply because he believed something that we would now regard as very conservative, that the minimum wage ought to be at least $1.25 per hour, and for that he was branded a radical. And even Lyndon Johnson, in 1964, was called a radical because he believed in improving Social Security and he believed that every boy and girl in America was entitled to a decent education. Now, in 1972, Mr. Nixon has managed to line up John Connolly and his oil billionaire friends and they are going around the country telling both Republicans and Democrats that George McGovern is a radical. Well, I don't mind being called a radical by that crowd. If these selfish interests, these men who use government to feather their own nests rather than to strengthen our nation, if they ever came out for me, I would really know I was off the track.

	Fifty years ago a great Republican president died--Theodore Roosevelt--and Gifford Pinchot, a brilliant, remarkable conservationist, delivered a eulogy at his funeral and among other things he said this: "Theodore Roosevelt was loved by the people who should have loved him and he was hated by those who should have hated him." And I hope you will think about that, because it is one of the highest tributes that can be paid to a man in public life. If you can find a politician that no one ever criticizes then I will show you a politician that has no great convictions on the issues facing out country. And so I welcome the opposition of those forces of greed and privilege and I seek instead the support of the ordinary people of this country--of the young, the old, of the workers, the housewives, those who have earned their living by honest toil. And these are the people who are going to decide this 1972 election.

	I am willing to leave Mr. Connolly and the special interests for Mr. Nixon. They are in love with him and they should be. The Nixon administration has the coziest relationship with big business that we have seen in this country since the administration of Warren G. Harding, back in the days when they talked about a scandal a day. This year these special interests are expressing their love for what Mr. Nixon has done for them and they are doing it with a $45 million campaign fund. Richard Nixon is planning to return that love by turning your government over to his privileged friends for another four years and I say that this is something that America can't afford.

	Let's just listen for a moment to a few of the most shocking facts--not all of them, by any means, but just those that will illustrate what I believe to be the central point that America ought to be thinking about if we are going to do what this song called on us to do tonight, and that is to call America home to the great principles with which we began.

	Fact number one: ITT offered to contribute upwards of $400,000 to the Republican Convention and, mysteriously enough, ITT then received a $1 billion antitrust settlement from the Nixon Department of Justice. Do you really think that this was just a matter a coincidence? And then Elmer Bolst, the retired chairman of the Warner Lambert Company, contributed $52,000 to the 1968 Nixon campaign and then the Nixon Department of Justice, against the advice of its own antitrust division, approved a merger that had the effect of enriching Mr. Bolst by $18 million. That is a pretty good return on a $52,000 campaign contribution. Maurice Stans fought for the interest of big business as Mr. Nixon's Secretary of Commerce and then he resigned to collect these campaign contributions for the Committee to Re-elect the President and I don't think that this was just a coincidence. Now we read where the executives of the General Motors Corporation are giving tens of thousands of dollars to the Nixon campaign and they said that they expect a price increase on automobiles later this year. My guess is about the second week in November. All of this means that the government of the United States, far from serving the interests of the kind of people who are in this audience tonight and many perhaps who are too old to be here tonight, or too sick, or too poor, that their interests are not going to be adhered to by the Nixon administration. This means that your grocery bills, your milk bills, the price of every pound of hamburger you buy, the price of your automobiles, the price of all of these things in these heavily concentrated controls industries will continue to go up. It means that the petty bureaucrats will continue to serve, not the interest of the people, but these great interests that bankroll Mr. Nixon's campaign. And it is that fact, above all else, that makes me determined to do everything in my power to see that the Democratic party is restored to office in 1972.

	Now, if you have any doubts about the central point that I am making here tonight, let's just look at the Republican record of what they have done for big business compared to what they have done for you. Since President Nixon announced his new economic policy, we have seen more months of the same old favoritism that has characterized this administration from the very beginning, and when I hear this cry coming from Republican campaigners--"Four More Years," I say to you--the ordinary people of this country simply cannot afford four more years of this administration.

	Yes, I like this better: "Four More Months." But while the pay increases of the working people of this country, no matter on what level they are, have been frozen at around 5.5%, prices have been allowed to skyrocket, corporate profits have climbed by 20% and in some cases by almost 50%, and the signal is clear now that, once again, interest rates are going up. Mr. Nixon would want you to give him four more years so that they can do this to you for another four years and I say that is what we must prevent. Sources inside the government say that if Mr. Nixon is re-elected in November, his wage board will more than likely hold the increases of the working people of this country to 3.5% a year--not 5.5%. And so, at a time when inflation hits us at every grocery checkout counter in this country, you would have even less to live on, while the giant corporations have even more profits to bank from your skills and your labor and your income. Now, if that is not Richard Nixon's plan for your wages and for the income of this country for the next four years, I challenge him to come out on platforms like this one and stand here with me and debate these issues.

	Illinois has played a uniquely rich role in the political history of this nation but one of the great glories of the political history of Illinois were the great debates--the great face-to-face debates between Steven A. Douglas and Abraham Lincoln in this state. And what a travesty it is that Mr. Nixon, who claims to stand in the tradition of Abraham Lincoln, is afraid to go on television or on radio or on the stages across this country and defend his position against the criticisms that I am leveling here tonight.

	He always talks in terms of secret plans or what is going to happen after the election. We heard about that secret plan to end the war four year ago. What has happened to it? Twenty thousand young Americans have died since that secret plan was pledged four years ago. And now we hear hints, implications about some kind of secret plan for taxation. I say let's have those plans made public before the people go to the polls on November 8th. Richard Nixon's first term was very clearly mortgaged to the special interests of this country. I think the time has come to restore the White House to the people of the United States and to a commitment that all of the citizens of this country will have their voices heard and their concerns heard by the next president of the United States. I believe that this election is not going to be decided by ITT. I don't believe that it is going to be decided by General Motors or even by General Thieu out in Saigon. I think this election is going to be decided on the basis of the commitment that you bring to your own best interests. Of course I am here speaking for my own candidacy, but I believe in the very depth of my soul that I am speaking for you and for millions of other Americans across this country. 

	I have people ask me, from time to time, if I don't get discouraged about the public opinion polls and about the obvious advantage that the Republicans have over us in this election. And the answer is of course, anybody has moments when he is discouraged in an uphill fight of this kind. And I know it is uphill. I know we are short on money. I know we have made some mistakes. But I want everyone here to know that I have been in politics almost twenty years and there was never one moment, in all that twenty years, when I didn't have to fight uphill for every victory that I have ever scored. So whenever I get a little bit discouraged, I think of those young men of ours out in Vietnam who have sat in their cells in Hanoi for six or seven years. And I think about that little Vietnamese girl that I saw burning with napalm running right into the camera lens. And that picture ought to be on the conscience of every man and woman and every boy and girl in this land. So when I think of that, we don't have time to be discouraged. We don't have time to look back and we don't have time for four more years of that kind of senseless destruction and death. I think of men and women who are without jobs and I see it on the faces of people in all parts of this country who want to work--some are trained engineers and scientists and they can't get work. Then I think--we can't stand four more years of that kind of unemployment in this country. I think of young children right here in Illinois suffering from hunger, and young GI's coming back from Vietnam, some of them hopelessly hooked on heroin, and I think of young mothers who can't pay their grocery bills. And we can't stand four more years of that. I think of the wiretappers and the war mongers and discrimination. And I know we can't take four more years of that. I think of millions of these older people living out their lives in loneliness, many of them at the poverty level or below; the education bill; the child development bill and some of the health bills. And I know we can't take four more years of that. I don't think we can take four more years of the harassment by this administration of the free press in this country. I do not think that we can take four more years of the leadership that has no real vision of the greatness of America, because it is still true that where there is no vision that people perish. And I have been with the people of this country and I say to you--let us not be discouraged tonight. Like Franklin Roosevelt, I love a good fight. My spirit is high and in the words of the song--let us think about the great unfinished business of this country and let us grow on the great historic, spiritual, moral and sources of the strength of this nation and remember that old hymn of the faith that goes back to the days of the black slaves when they sang, "Sometimes I feel like a motherless chile."
BUSINESS, CORPORATECAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSCOST OF LIVINGDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--PRESIDENTSSPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSVIETNAM WARWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWATERGATE     ¾8 Š8 „8 €8 x8
 l8 i8 d8 \8 T8 R8 R8 G8	 ¼ 	 © 	 † 	 x 	 c 	 A 	 * 	  	 	 e: