Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0917.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/17STUMPROCK ISLANDILLINOISILSPEECH AT ROCK ISLAND ARMORY2398 WORDS

	Mr. Chairman, and my fellow Americans: I am learning a great many things these days, particularly about political campaigning.  Yesterday afternoon, late, I was in St. Paul, Minnesota and left there for New York City.  This morning I was called upon to make a speech.  I left New York at 6 o'clock this evening, and now I find myself in front of this magnificent audience.  On top of this, only ten days ago, I was in Kasson, Minnesota, addressing a great congregation of farmers.

	This morning, my address was before the representatives of the largest labor organization in our country, The American Federation of Labor.  Now, I like to meet these special groups and discuss with them their special problems, to learn from them what it is that interests them most, what kind of special programs they believe are needed from our government.  But I find this:  I find that always these special groups do not really want what we would call special treatment.  They want to be treated, first of all, as Americans.  And so with them, I always have the most enjoyable kind of meetings, because my one criterion, my one index about any kind of policy that I desire to discuss or to see instituted in the United States is this--what is good for the United States of America.

	I have found, of course, that the Federation wanted me to talk specifically about certain of our labor problems, programs that they thought were necessary for their protection and necessary in the settling of labor-management disputes.  I agree with them, of course that we should have no law that can authorize or make legal any kind of union busting processes, and we should have strong unions in order that we may have responsible unions.

	I agree with them also that volunteerism and not compulsion is the key to labor peace.  Now, I found that when I asked at that convention whether they wanted me to discuss the Taft-Hartley Act they laughed and said, "yes," and so I told them what I thought, which is: I believe that the Taft-Hartley Act should not be repealed.  I believe, with many other people, that it should be amended, amended in certain important particulars, and particularly I believe this one thing very definitely: if labor leaders, before they are allowed to bargain collectively for the unions they represent, are required to sign an anti-Communist oath, then the industrialists with whom they deal should sign exactly the same certificate.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I think with respect to that particular point I represent the average American viewpoint.  I think that there is not a single one of us who would not be proud each morning he gets up to hold up his right hand and swear allegiance to the Constitution of the United States.  Before we go to bed each night we would be quite ready to swear that we are anti-Communists, but if any one of us was required to do that because of a special job we had, that we were--in my case a university president--or a veteran or because I were a labor leader, then I would resent it.  There is no justice in singling out any group or any individual and requiring him to make such an oath when somebody else is excused.

	In the revisions of the Taft-Hartley Act, whatever else they are, they must never weaken the essential rights of American citizens who are in Union Labor.  They must have the complete right to join unions of their own choosing, the right to bargain collectively, the right to strike--when we lose the right to strike we have lost freedom and those are merely basic American rights, and labor is in a very definite sense American because any one of us who earns his living by his hands, his brains, or his skill is, after all, a part of labor.

	Now, I said before that I was struck by the fact that these special groups first of all are American citizens, so regard themselves and want to talk about American problems. 

	Here, it seems to me, in this great region you symbolize the essential union between all parts of our economy and, indeed, between our economy, and many of our foreign friends.  First of all, you not only have industries that depend upon prosperous agriculture and, in turn, farmers who depend for high prices upon full employment upon the part of labor, but here you actually make the things that the farmers must have, particularly tools.  So here you have symbolized this essential junction and it certainly is not difficult in such an audience as this to realize that none of us can prosper unless all of us shall prosper, and then when we stop to think that these tools that you make for the farmers in your industries, speaking generally, we can't make a single one of them without imports, and speaking again generally, there can be no prosperity for the farmers except that we have a prosperous foreign trade that will take off some of our surpluses.  We have right here complete evidence of the impossibility of the United States living alone.

	I have heard this country called the heart of isolationism.  It is just not so because it is not intelligent to be isolationists, and I have never seen a group of Americans of this size who didn't have intelligence.

	I have talked just a bit about this interrelationship between industry and our agricultural activities, a relationship that symbolizes all of the similar ones among different parts of our economy.  Now, I want to talk for just a few minutes about the problems that I found all of these people interested in, farmers and workmen alike, every place I have gone and by actual count I think yesterday I had been in something like 17 towns in two days, making 17 talks.  For you that may not be much.  For me it is a record.  I found that one thing that everybody wanted to talk about was peace--how do we end Korea; how do we stop or avoid any further Koreas; in short, how do we get to pursuing programs that will more surely lead to international peace and security and get away from the fumbling and bungling that led us into Korea?

	This is a problem of the most serious import to every family in the land.  Not only the families that have sons already in the service, younger sons who may go, unless we can find answers to some of these problems.  We must pursue it with integrity, with courage and with strength and when I say strength I don't mean mere bullets, planes and guns.  I mean with the spiritual strength of America, its heart, its intelligence, with the utmost it can produce in diplomacy, political connections with other countries, with its trade, with every peaceful means that is possible to influence countries to learn that war is not only destructive and tragic--it is foolish and stupid.

	The second point that I find all of these people interested in is honest government and a determination to have it.  I find that people are a bit sick and tired of reading in their papers about scandals in the Department of Agriculture, the arrest and conviction of an internal revenue collector in Boston or St. Louis or San Francisco, the dismissal of 177 internal revenue collectors out of the Bureau of Internal Revenue.  They say, "Why can't we have a government of which we can be proud?"  And we can have!  In fact, we are going to have it: It is merely a matter of establishing integrity right in Washington through which we will draw into that capital and into all of the federal government the finest brains and the finest men of the highest standing that there are in all of this broad land.

	The third big question that they wanted to talk about and that they wanted some answers on is waste in government, extravagant spending.  They want to know why our only answer to excessive expenditures, 85 billion dollars a year, deficits of 12 or 14 billion dollars a year, is bigger expenditures and bigger deficits.  Through that process they want to now why our money becomes cheaper and cheaper and we now see our dollar spoken of in the paper every day as a 52 cent dollar.

	What is going to happen to it in the future?  What is going to happen to your life insurance, your savings in the bank, your government bonds, all of those fixed income certificates that you have put away to help you in your old age?  We have got to do something about it, and now.  The first thing we need in a stable economy is stable money.

	The fourth thing they talk about is taxes.  Taxes is a subject about which one can get very emotional.  I could talk here for the next half-hour about taxes.  I wonder how many of you know that every time you put a boiled egg on your table for breakfast you are paying one hundred concealed taxes.  The president of the Retailers' Association of the United States visited me a few days ago and said, "Do you know what the retailers have become?"  And he spoke quite sadly, like he wanted some sympathy.  Well, I thought being a storekeeper was a pretty good job so I said, "No, what is it that you are now?"  He said, "We are Uncle Sam's collectors for every tax that people think they do not pay."

	We hear our taxes talked about, excess profits taxes, corporation taxes and a lot of other taxes all the way down the line.  Who pays it?  You do and I do.  The person who uses the things that are produced by our economy pays these taxes.  And that is one reason that this dollar is cheaper when with all those taxes we can't meet our expenditure programs in the nation, because all of that tax is added to the price of the things you buy.  Taxes must come down.  Many economists have stated that a free economy such as ours cannot long exist unless total taxes taken by the government at all echelons and all levels are kept within the 25% bracket.  Today that is what the federal government takes and all other taxes are another charge upon you, so that the average worker in the United States today, the average individual who is earning, works four months a year for government and eight months for himself, his family, the future of his children and for his own old age.  That is the kind of taxes you are paying today and that is the reason I say they must come down.

	Men and women say to me, "General, we read in the paper that last year the average city family spent four hundred dollars more than was earned by that family."  They say, "What is going to happen to us?"  And if that continues, who has an answer?  I ask any of you.  Certainly we are not going to be prosperous on that kind of a financial diet.

	The fifth question that people ask me is this, in general: what are we going to do about this mess, these taxes, these expenditures; where are we going?  What are we going to do about them?  The answer to them seems to me to be obvious.  We are a free people.  We have the great and glorious right of self-government.  Every single one of us possesses those great rights guaranteed by our Constitution that include freedom to think as we please, to speak as we please, to worship as we please, and finally to earn and to save.  If government can take away all of the savings that we make, which we would otherwise have, all of our other freedoms will soon be gone because these freedoms are a single bundle, ladies and gentlemen.

	It is not hysterical to say that it is high time we waked up and looked right square in the face at what is happening to us and began to exercise our responsibilities and discharge our responsibilities as individual citizens, as well as remembering these rights that are endangered.  The greatest right and at the same time the greatest responsibility we have is to vote. 

	I did not come here and I go nowhere to ask specifically for your vote.  I have come to you as a candidate for the highest office in the land, and I have tried to give to you as honestly as I can what is in my heart and what is in my mind.  Such time as is available to an individual under these circumstances I have tried to use touching on some of our basic problems and to bring out salient facts concerning them that each of us should bear in mind.

	The responsibility for making up your mind is yours and the responsibility for voting is yours.  I merely remind you as to these things that are going on, that are troubling the hearts and minds of America today, if each consider them as serious as I do; if you believe that it is high time for free-born Americans to stand up and take back their government into their own hands; to quit lining the pockets of crooked tax collectors; to clean out our government; to pursue reasonable programs with our allies abroad and get expenditures within the capacity of our income; to stop taking such an unconscionable portion of our wages in taxes--if you believe all those things, then it is high time we were all doing something about it, and we know exactly what it is we must do.

	I have been a soldier a long time and I know there are in this audience a number of my old comrades to whom, with your permission, I bring special greetings.  They, as well as I, know that to win a fight you never go into battle with long faces.  You put on a grin and you go after it.  The one thing I tell you this evening that I know is true is this:  America is on the march, and we can do it.
BUSINESS--TAXATIONFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT WASTEMANUFACTURINGORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALORGANIZED LABOR--SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSSAVINGS, PERSONAL     ª4 á4 Å4 }4 s4
 e4 `4 [4 P4 H4 F4 *4  4	 ≤ 	 † 	 à 	 k 	 [ 	 N 	 6 	  e: