Speeches\1988\dem\S88D0906.002SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)09/06STUMPCOLUMBUSOHIOOH1,561 WORDS

	Twelve years ago, we celebrated the 200th anniversary of the American Revolution.  Twelve years from now, we will celebrate the beginning of a new century.  And if we are to begin that century strong and confident; if our children are to look forward to a life of pride and opportunity; if America is going to be number one and stay number one; those 12 years must be years of investment.

	The time has come to stop ignoring foreign competition and start beating it.  To stop settling for second-best schools and second-rate skills and make our schools and universities the finest in the world.  To stop hiding our heads in the sand, and realize that we've got a fight on our hands; that we're in a battle for the economic future of this country.  To roll up our sleeves and go to work and make America once again the most powerful and productive economic force on the face of the earth.

	I'm running for president of the United States because I want to bring prosperity home, to every home in America.

	I want to be the president who stands up for the families of this country.  I want to build an America where your kids can go to college and afford a new home; where your parents can get decent health care and enjoy a secure retirement; and where every American family is a full shareholder in the American dream.

	I want to be the president who works to create opportunity for EVERY citizen in our country.  

	But that's not all.  Last Friday, the monthly unemployment figures came out.  Rising unemployment for the second straight month; 226,000 more unemployed Americans.

	And what did Mr. Bush have to say about that?  He said it was "statistically irrelevant."  [Missing text] coming as it did from the standard bearer of the party that thought ketchup was a vegetable.

	My friends, those unemployed Americans are people.  They're neighbors; they're friends.  And on November 8, he's going to find out just how relevant they--and we--are.

	I want to be the president who creates good jobs at good wages in the good old USA.  Jobs you can count on; jobs you can support a family on; jobs with a future.

	And I want to be the president who builds a strong America--an America that's as strong economically as it is militarily; an America that knows its values; that defends its beliefs and that commands respect throughout the world.  I'm running to bring prosperity home to every family in America.

	For the past seven years, as the Census Bureau told us this past week, the rich have gotten richer; the poor have gotten poorer; and those in the middle--and that means most of us--are getting squeezed.  Together, we can do better.

	Over the last eight years, average weekly wages have actually gone down - not up.  Benefits are down--not up.  High-paying jobs are being replaced by low-paying jobs.  In fact, jobs in growing industries are paying an average of $10,000 less per year than jobs in declining industries.  Together, we can do better.

	All across the country, families are running harder just to stay in place.  We [missing text] before.  We see fewer families able to afford a home now than eight years ago.  We see families unable to afford quality childcare.  We can do better.

	We see the cost of basic health care placing a terrible strain on the family budget.  And we see 40 million of our fellow citizens--most of them members of working families--without a dime of health insurance.  I'm not satisfied with that.  I don't think you are.  Together, we can do better.  Together, we can bring prosperity home to every working family.

	But we're not going to do better when an increase in interest rates puts another Republican tax on middle America.  A thousand dollars more a year for families with adjustable rate mortgages on their homes.  Three hundred dollars on every car loan.  Over a billion dollars in new burdens for farm families who have already been put through the wringer for the past eight years.

	I'm running for president because I want to strengthen both our basic industries AND our high tech industries.  Last year, for the first time, America, the nation that brought high-tech to the world, ACTUALLY RAN A DEFICIT IN HIGH-TECH TRADE--the type of trade that often creates the highest paying jobs for American workers.

	My friends, in a Dukakis-Bentsen Administration we're going to turn that around; and we're going to make the label "Made in America" a symbol of quality and durability and value all over the world.

	And what do our opponents intend to do about it?  They want to give those who [MISSING TEXT] average teacher makes.  That's enough to send your son or daughter to Ohio State for four years.  The downpayment young couples could use to buy their first home.  And who do you think is going to pay for that new tax break?  Look at your kids.  Look at your parents.  Look in the mirror, and ask yourself, can we afford more years of that?

	Can't we do better than that?  You better believe we can.  And we're going to begin on January 29, 1989.

	We can do better by bringing workers and management together, not by pitting workers against management.  We're going to get business and labor working together to make shared decisions, shared profits, and shared progress for America.  We can do better by bringing out the best in American workers and American business, not by blaming them.

	Mr. Bush says that Russian mechanics should be sent to Detroit because "we could use that kind of ability."

	Then a few days later, Mr. Bush explained, "Quality, we've got to have more of it.  If it hurts when I say that to somebody, too bad."

	Mr. Bush, I agree we do have to pay attention to quality--from the assembly line to the executive suites.  But do you really believe we in America have anything to learn from a society where workers have no rights, consumers have no choices, and even Mr. Gorbachev admits their economy is in a shambles?

	[Missing text] in them with the kind of education and training programs you have right here in Columbus.  The Enhanced Training Opportunities Program is proof that when we invest in the skills of our people, we bring job security to our workers, profitability to our companies, and prosperity back home to America.

	I've seen what happens in my state when business, labor, and government and the educational community work together as partners.  We've strengthened our families and our economy by creating childcare partnerships that have become a model for the nation.  We've created a partnership for affordable housing that is making home ownership a reality for thousands of young couples, while helping to end the shame of homelessness.

	We also have one of the only state plant closing laws in the country.  It was supported by business as well as labor.  And it has helped us save over 200 companies while helping over 20,000 workers to keep their job or find a new job at a decent wage.

	Thanks to the leadership of Lloyd Bentsen, we passed a national plant closing bill and a trade bill that gives workers all across the country at least a few weeks and the resources they need to gain new skills and plan for the future--to become the catalysts and not the victims of change.

	My friends, Lloyd Bentsen and I aren't going to settle for an America where all we do is flip each other's hamburgers and do each other's laundry for $3.35 an hour.  [Missing text] are written off as inevitable casualties of change.  We're not going to sit back and relax while American ideas and American money are creating more jobs overseas than in Youngstown or Akron or Cleveland or Cincinnati or Columbus.  We're going to roll up our sleeves and get to work.  We're going to outhustle, outwork, outproduce, and outcompete every nation on the face of the earth.

	You know, when the smoke clears after a fight over an issue like plant closings or the minimum wage or requiring employers to provide health insurance for their employees, it doesn't help our country to be able to say, "Well, business won," or "labor won."  We want to be able to say that America won.

	For our task, as John Kennedy once said, "is not to seek [just] the Republican answer or the Democratic answer, but the right answer.  Let us seek not to fix the blame for the past.  Let us accept our responsibility for the future."

	Yesterday, we sent our sons and daughters off to the Olympics in Seoul.  We hope and have confidence that they will bring back the gold.  I wish I could go with them and watch the great Olympic spectacle that first began in Greece so many centuries ago.

	I wish I could be with them also to take a look at Munsan-Ni, the little village where I spent sixteen months of my life as a GI.

	Our thoughts and prayers are with them--while we work together to win this presidential marathon.

BUSINESS--GENERALHIGH TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIESJOB TRAINING/RETRAININGMANUFACTURING--PLANT CLOSINGSMINIMUM WAGEUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWAGES/HOUSEHOLD INCOMEWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     ›# g# a# ]# U#
 J# E# @# 8# 4# 2# 2# '#	 ¹ 	 ¨ 	 Ž 	 w 	 Z 	 N 	 9 	 # e: