Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1010.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/10STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYWALDORF ASTORIA1,866 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Muskie and I are very, very pleased today to be--to share this platform with some of the great stars of stage, opera, the drama, the performing arts.  As a matter of fact, Senator Muskie was over in New Jersey and when he heard that I was going to have such a good party as this, he broke off all engagements and said, "I am coming on over to get in on the act, too.  I am very happy that he has."

	I believe I can--I believe you will bear with me if I repeat once again what I have said in many parts of this country.  One of my singularly important contributions to the American public is a--was the recommendation to the Democratic convention of the nomination for the office of vice president of Senator Edmund Muskie of Maine.  I believe that it has meant a great deal to the American people and I know it has meant a great deal to me.

	And we are surely very happy that he could find the time today to come here.

	I do want to express to the entertainers, this National Entertainment Committee, our sincere thanks for their willingness to help us, but more importantly, to help their country.

	I have before me a copy of the advertisement that appears in Variety for Wednesday, October 9th, and I thought that the copy on the masthead, so to speak, the quotation from Dante, was so appropriate to the times and to the occasion.  It says:  "The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who in a time of great moral crisis maintain their neutrality."

	The entertainers that are here, the artists that are here, are not maintaining a neutrality.  They have been willing to make a choice.  And in our free society, the freedom of choice is at the very heart of what we call democracy.  I know that many of these distinguished performers, artists, have had many questions to answer for themselves and undoubtedly some of those questions still remain not fully answered.  They have made the choice, and this is what we want the American people to do.

	Today we were informed from the Congress of the United States that our efforts to get legislation that would permit all three candidates, the third- party candidate, the Republican candidate, and the Democratic candidate for president, as well as the three vice presidential candidates, to engage in public debate over network television, that this legislation has been stopped, that the minority leader in the Senate said that he would not permit its passage, and the legislation has been set aside.

	I regret this because I do believe that it is important for the American people to hear and to see the three candidates, and I emphasize the three because whether we like it or whether we don't, the fact of the matter is that one of the candidates, the third-party candidate, has made an appeal in this country that I think is most unfortunate in its consequences and in its thrust and direction: an appeal to some of the more undesirable aspects of human nature, to the emotions, to the passions, to the senses, to the sense of bitterness and frustration and a racial appeal.

	The Republican nominee has not been that direct but by silence on all too many issues and by equivocation on others, has aided and abetted this development, a development that I consider to be very unhealthy for the American people.

	Senator Muskie and I are determined to carry the message of our--of national unity, of tolerance and understanding, of a--of work toward a genuine brotherhood in this American community to the American people.  We believe that it is utterly impossible for this nation to realize any of its major goals or to fulfill its dream or its ideals if our country is torn by dissention and strife or if it is the victim of discrimination and bigotry, segregation and division.

	I happen to believe that the major responsibility of the candidates in this election is to try to find ways of reducing tensions abroad and hostilities at home, or to put it another way, to search relentlessly, courageously, daringly for peace.  And not only peace in Southeast Asia where we want it and where we as candidates are pledged to get it, but the conditions of peace throughout this world--arms control, putting a halt to this arms race before it puts a halt to humanity, and building the great institutions of peace such as the United Nations, strengthening the UN and its peacekeeping machinery, strengthening the other great national bodies that can contribute to economic and social development throughout the world.  Senator Muskie and I are committed to this program.  We will bring to you on January 20th, if you will help us gain this objective of the election victory, we will bring to you a new team with new ideas, a willingness to act in the American tradition of daring and courage and adventure, where adventure is needed, exploration where exploration is needed, a reassessment of our national priorities at home and abroad, and the mobilization of the human and physical resources that are needed to achieve our goals.

	We believe that we can do this.  We come to you with open mind and open heart, seeking your help and your counsel and your advice as well to the American people.  We believe that the young in this country have a message for us and we want to listen and to learn.  We want them to know that they will have a president and a vice president that welcome their concern, welcome their thoughts, welcome their idealism, welcome and need their energy, and welcome their participation in every process of our government and our democracy.

	We will make the White House the home of the American people, with all of the vitality and youthful spirit that characterizes the American people, and also with all of the responsibility that this great nation carries.

	Now, I want to thank our friends in the entertainment world.

	You have a way of communicating to the American people, that few of us possess.  Your talents are unique.  You are respected in your different areas of entertainment, art, and we want you to carry the message not only of the theater and the stage, of the performing arts, but we want you to carry the message of humanity to the American people and you do.  Because you are artists you are sensitive, or should I say because you are sensitive, you are artists.  I think they are one and the same.  And we need today people that are highly sensitive to human wants and human need, and to human aspirations.

	Both Senator Muskie and I have shown our interest in the performing arts and humanities by our work in the Congress on the National Council of Arts and the Humanities.  I am happy to tell this distinguished assemblage that I was the original author of the National Council of the Arts and again may I say it was at a time when it wasn't very popular.  It took us several years to get it but we got it. 

	I have always felt that a government that was willing to invest in making an atom bomb or putting a man on the moon ought to be willing to invest in making it possible for people to see the soul and the spirit of the American nation and, indeed, of the world, invest in the theater, invest in the ballet, invest in literature, invest in music, invest in poetry, invest in all of humanities, because after all, what is important is the spirit of man, not the machines of man.  And we think that that investment is wise and prudent and good, and I want you to know that when we are elected we intend to see that what we have started flourishes.

	We need the arts, not only in New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Cleveland, Detroit, the great cities, we need the arts and all of the dimension of the arts, we need these all over America.

	I would like to see every county courthouse literally an art museum unto itself so that the people can display what their talents are, and I would like to see every community bring forth not from its sandlots alone the competitive and dynamic spirit of our young but from its classrooms and its schoolrooms the esthetic and artistic spirit of our people.  And it is there.

	Finally, I want to say that I think most of it, much of what we want, is yet to be discovered in people that have been for all practical purposes for a long period of time left behind, left out and lost.

	It is my view, and I believe I have the empirical evidence to prove it, that the greatest talent of America is yet to be discovered.  It will be found n the valleys of despair in Appalachia.  It will be found in the ghettos of our cities.  It will be found in people that are white and black.  It will be found in all kinds of people that never had a chance.

	The truth is that today some of our greatest artists come from the families of the poor and possibly it is out of that refinery's fire of anguish and pain that a true sensitivity is born.  And the true spirit of communication comes forth.

	So, I happen to believe that if we can help people lift themselves, that when they come out of the darkness of their despair and of their frustration and even their bitterness, that there will be a revelation of tremendous talent, of great spirit, and really a new light in our country.  And it is to these things that we are dedicated.

	A nation shall be not--shall not be known by the goods that it produces, but rather by the quality of people that it produces.  And we are interested in the quality of our people, in the excellence of their performance, in their sensitivity to one another.  And we are interested in the people that are here that are willing to help us convey that message.

	Now, on a lighter note, and I thank those who have brought a note--who have brought some cheer to audiences, who have helped us--helped me. At least, and helped, I know, Ed Muskie--pave the way, so to speak, for our message.  Some of them are here today.  Robert Merrill will never be the same after my having joined him in a duet over at Newark.  I must say that I have had no bids from the opera, but possibly those that are responsible for the Met, for the Metropolitan Opera, just haven't heard the tape recording of that rendition.

	I want to say, however, that if things don't work out well in this election, my friend, Bob, better look out for his laurels because I may be looking for work.

	Thank you very much.  
ARTS AND HUMANITIESDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALPERFORMING ARTS     ) „( ›( Ÿ( —(
 ≈( ¿( ª( ≥( ´( ©( ö( è(	 7 	 $ 	  e: