Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0919.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/19STUMPBOSTONMASSACHUSETTSMAWASHINGTON & SUMMER STREET1,733 WORDS

	Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much, Senator Kennedy.  Thank you, Ted.  Thank you very lovely Joan, Mayor Kevin White and his lovely Katherine.

	I never realized that Mr. Nixon and Mr. Wallace had so much support out here.  I have been hearing about the great crowds of Mr. Nixon.  I think today, Senator Kennedy, that you have surpassed anything that Mr. Nixon has seen when it comes to crowds. And Mayor White and my good friends in Cambridge, you have surpassed anything that Mr. Nixon has seen in administrations.

	Now, my good friends, we are here today in the district that has elected to us a great congressman and senator. We are here in the district of Robert McCormack, Speaker of the House of Representatives and we are here in the district of Tip O'Neill, one of the great congressmen.  And I come here today to bring a message to a city that always welcomes Democrats.

	On November the 7th, 1960, a gallant young senator closed his campaign for the presidency of the United States in this city.  And that night Senator John F. Kennedy addressed a closing rally at Boston Garden and he stated the issue of the 1960 campaign, and he stated it this way:  "This race is a contest between the comfortable and the concerned, between those who believe that we should rest and lie at anchor and drift, and between those who want to move this country forward in the 1960s."

	Now, that was the message of our late and beloved President, the gentleman that honored this state, this city and this nation; and it is the same message that I bring to you today:  move this country forward!

	We shall not move this country forward if this nation of ours is to be plagued by those who are denied free speech, if it's to be plagued by those who are denied freedom of assembly, if it's to be plagued by those who seek to shout down those who express the voice of reason.  I must say that I think this is anything but convincing.  It's hardly disturbing, and frankly it's ridiculous.

	Now, we have raised a new standard of life in our America, and we have raised it not just for the poor but for every American:  for the wage earner, for the businessman, for the farmer and the school child; and we have raised the standard for all future progress to be judged by.

	We know the man Jack Kennedy defeated in 1960, and we know what he stood for then, and we know what he stands for now.  And so eight years later the American people must decide what they decided once before.  Do we have the courage?  Do we have the common sense?  Do we have the sense of decency to keep this country moving forward.  I think we have.

	And I come to this great city of Boston to speak to this crowd of decent Americans that wants to see this country moved forward, and I raise the issue before the American people.  And when the American people understand what's at stake in this country, understand it by the candidates that run for office as well as understand it by those who seek to prevent us from bringing our message.  I think that the American people will make the right decision.  I think they will vote Democratic in November.

	In 1963, John Kennedy and I fought for and won, as some young people are talking about today, the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty to stop the nuclear explosions in the atmosphere, to stop the spreading of deadly radioactive fallout; and we took this world one forward step.  We took it away one step from the brink of nuclear destruction.

	In 1956, Mr. Nixon called Adlai Stevenson's proposal for a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty a "cruel hoax" and "catastrophic nonsense."  But John Kennedy, like Hubert Humphrey, believed otherwise, and together we achieved this great step towards peace.

	Today, Mr. Nixon, just as he did twelve years ago, refused to support the Senate ratification of a treaty that could be a landmark in our effort to gain peace, a treaty to stop the spread of nuclear air weapons.  I know where Senator Edward Kennedy stands on this issue.  I know that he stands as I do for the ratification of that treaty to help promote the cause of peace.  And when Mr. Nixon says he opposes the ratification this year, let the American people know and let them understand that the failure to act now could mean the death of this Treaty forever.

	And may I say to those out here that are demonstrating for peace:  why don't you ask the Senate to ratify that treaty, and do something constructive for your country?

	We cannot afford to play Russian roulette with anything as serious as nuclear war.

	In my campaign in 1960 and in the campaign of John F. Kennedy, we proposed for the American people the Peace Corps, which became one of the great achievements of this nation.  Nixon called it fast and flashy and charged it with what the state has for draft dodgers, blinded by partisanship upon this constructive idea.  Nevertheless, John Kennedy said we will have a Peace Corps.  I said we will have a Peace Corps.  The Democratic party said we would have one, and today we do have one.

	The Republican nominee opposition, regardless whether it was for the young or for the old, his answer was no.  He attacked Medicare, saying it would do more harm than good.  He opposed Federal Aid to Education when millions of our young people were being denied a decent education. These are some of the issues, my friends, that divide Democrats from Republicans.  These are the issues that divide Humphrey-Muskie and Kennedy from Nixon-Agnew and Thurman, and that's what the issue is. 

	This week the United States Senate has been working as well on gun control legislation attempting to stop the spread of weapons in this society that could lend themselves to violence.  I know where your senator stands.  Your senator has been one of the courageous and eloquent spokesmen for firearms control.  But Mr. Nixon, despite calls for law and order, has avoided the issue of gun control.  And I say the American people have a right to know, Mr. Nixon, where you stand and where you stand on every one of the great issues.

	Mr. Nixon goes into North Carolina and says he supports the Supreme Court's 1954 desegregation decision but opposes implementation of that decision by the federal government.  And then he goes up North and he has another message, and he says it's perfectly proper for the federal government to act, when the action of a local school board is subterfuge for segregation.

	Mr. Nixon, I ask you where do you stand?  Where do you stand on the Treaty?  Where do you stand on gun control?  Where do you stand on civil rights?  Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon?  The public has a right to know.

	My friends, I run on the platform of the Democratic party, a platform that looks to the future, a platform which points the way if we cannot have reason and judgment for a political settlement in Vietnam, a platform that points the way for free election.

	I pledge as citizens, as vice president, and as candidate, and I pledge here in the presence of a dear friend and a great senator and a man who has worked his heart out for peace, I pledge that I will do everything in my power when I am elected president of the United States to bring this war to an end.

	If there is one lesson that we have learned, it is this lesson, that the policies of tomorrow may not be limited by the policies of yesterday.  And if I am president, I shall apply that lesson to the search for peace in Vietnam and all other areas of our foreign policy.

	Let me say to our friends here today, no one has a monopoly on peace; and may I say your actions here are going to disgust the American people, that a vast majority of the American people are men and women of good will, men and women with security, men and women of peace.  And I speak to that vast majority of the American people.

	We have a fundamental decision to make, and that decision will not be settled by shouting.  It will be settled by reason.  Shall we as a nation move forward toward an America of opportunity and justice, or shall we move forward toward a more peaceful and secure world, one where we abandon this commitment of fear out of emotion and move towards a divided society and toward a world increasingly threatened by nuclear war.  I think the American people know what the decision must be.  Some day men will look back at what the American people did in this tormented autumn of 1968, and they will look back at the Democratic nominee for president; and I hope that they will say that the American people faced their moment of truth despite fears and frustration and came through that moment affirming more clearly than ever before their faith in the country where all men and women, all humans can be treated equally in a country where many races, many colors, many creeds decided to live together as a family in community, in brotherhood and in understanding.

	And I want it said, regardless of the outcome of this election, I want it said then of Hubert Humphrey, that in an important and tough moment of his life, he stood by what he believed, and he was not shouted down.

	My fellow Americans, the politics of this nation is too important to have this interrupted, to have it harangued and harassed by those who no longer have any faith in the Democracy of this nation.

	We cannot tolerate the racists or the bigot, and we cannot tolerate the extremists, white or black.  And we are not going to.  But we can and we should encourage honest dissent, honest debate, honest discussion.  What's my stand?  Dissent, yes; disorder, no.

	Let's go on now and win this election for the people in November.

	Thank you very much.

EDUCATION--DISCRIMINATIONFOREIGN SERVICEGUN CONTROLNUCLEAR ARMS TESTINGRACE RELATIONS     ¥& q& k& g& _&
 S& N& I& C& 6& 4& & &	 U 	 < 	 - 	 " 	  e: