Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1027.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/27STUMPTampaFLORIDAFL3202 WORDS
	Thank you. Wow. One more week.

	Ladies and gentlemen, it's great to be back in Florida and wonderful to be back in Tampa. Mayor Friedman reminded me that it was just about a year ago that I was here on my first trip where we went to one of your schools and there were four people there. I'm glad to see a few more people today. I thank you for being here.

	I want to thank Lieutenant Governor MacKay for leading my campaign in this state. I want to thank your mayor for her help. I want to thank Governor Lawton Chiles, and I want to thank all the members of Congress and the candidates who are here: Congressman Sam Gibbons; Congressman Jim Bacchus; your retiring wonderful congressman from South Florida, Danny Fascell; my friend from Oklahoma, Congressman Dave McCurdy. And we have some candidates here who want to part of a new and better Congress, Sharon Davis Knapp and Karen Moffitt , Brad Snell and Tom Mims.

	I want to thank my long-time friend, Stephen Stills, for singing here and keeping you occupied. And I want to thank Jimmy Buffett for not running for president against me here in this area. And last but not least, I want to thank my colleague and friend of many years, your senator Bob Graham, for all the wonderful things he's done for Florida.

	There are some people on this platform today who don't come from Florida, who come from Dade County. They are Cuban Americans for Clinton and Gore. I asked them to come here today for a simple reason: they worked for a long time for a freer Cuba. And Congressman Bob Torricelli from New Jersey and Senator Graham along with your delegation worked hard on a Cuban Democracy Act that was a bipartisan event without any support in the beginning from President Bush. But the other day, Mr. Bush came to Florida to sign the Cuban Democracy Act as if it were his idea all along--and somehow he forgot to invite the people who did all the work on it, Congressman Torricelli and your senator Bob Graham. Somehow he forgot to mention when he signed the bill that he wasn't for it in the beginning and they did all the work. He didn't even acknowledge that they did it. That is the kind of thing that has happened in this administration over and over and over again.

	Last Sunday we were in Michigan together, and Mr. Bush shows up and tells some law enforcement officials in Michigan--big issue in Florida--"I got the Congress to sign a bill making carjacking a federal crime." It turns out he testified against it twice, and the Congress passed it anyway. Then he goes to Michigan and tries to take credit for it.

	He went to South Dakota and told the farmers there "I'm going to give you some money for exporting your wheat." It turns out he let wheat drop a dollar a bushel and tried to abolish the program. And at election time when he needed their votes and he was worried his job, not theirs, all of a sudden he's born-again convert to a farm program.

	Last night your agriculture commissioner, who's here with me, was in North Carolina along with agriculture commissioners representing a total of seventeen states endorsing the Clinton-Gore ticket and dealing with a totally made up charge they're running against me on farming in North Carolina.

	Why do I say this? This is an administration divided against itself with no firm convictions and total disarray. For the first time in my lifetime--can you believe what's going on in Washington? It's like reading sort of the comic strips on the front page every day now. They've got the Justice Department investigating the FBI, and the FBI investigating the Justice Department. They don't have any time for crooks any more. They're investigating each other.

	They've got a federal court case going on in Atlanta where they're arguing over the corruption of American taxpayers' money used to build up Saddam Hussein before the Gulf War, and the CIA and the State Department are fighting about which one of them lied to the federal court to cover up the truth. And now--and, of course, he was out of the loop on all this. And now, in the last few days, in what looked like a replay of an old Three Stooges movie, the administration has had to admit that their political cronies in the State Department actually spent your money on your time investigating not only my passport records, but my mother's passport record.

	Now, I tell you all, this is the guy that wants you to trust him with your future? Can you imagine this? I mean, it's like a comedy. At 6:00 at night, after the government office is closed down, these three political appointees, fairly senior officials, in their expensive suits, sneak into this little government document room and bang around with each other for four hours looking for dirty information on my mother? There was a good side to it, you know. It's the only time since Bush has been president that those three hacks worked till 10:00 at night.

	My fellow Americans, four years ago Florida gave George Bush an enormous majority, more than 60 percent of the vote. Since then, unemployment has gone up, airline companies based in Florida have been bankrupted, the elderly people have seen no attempt to control health care costs and every attempt to do it by cutting Medicare to those least able to pay. The economy of Florida is in a shambles, and yet they say if there's one big state in America we can depend upon, it's Florida, they'll just knee-jerk and vote Republican. This president promised you no drilling off the coast of Florida and then tried to back up on that. But he said it doesn't matter, the people in Florida couldn't bear to vote for a Democrat for president, we'll get them anyway.

	You know what I think? I think there's a tired, old Republican party that's run out of energy, ideas, direction, and compassion, and they ought to be run out of town. I think--One more week.

	And I believe there is a strong, new Democratic party that has attracted the support of Democrats, Republicans, Independents, former Perot supporters, from coast to coast, because we offer a new direction for America, because we have tried to take the national party and the nation in the direction that the Democrats you have elected in Florida have advocated for this state. We are building a base that is a new majority for change. In Oregon, the Portland Oregonian for 142 years had endorsed only Republicans for president. They broke their tradition this year and came out for Bill Clinton and Al Gore. Across the other part of the country in Hartford, Connecticut, the Hartford Courant in nearly 200 years had never before endorsed a Democrat for president, but they came out for the Clinton-Gore ticket for a change.

	In this state, where national defense is so important, twenty-four retired admirals and generals, including the deputy commander-in-chief of Operation Desert Storm and a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket for a change. Ten Nobel Prize-winning economists, hundreds of business people, including Republicans who had never before voted for a Democrat, and the man who developed Perot's economic plan endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket for a change.

	But most important of all, as we see on these bus trips, the one I took through Florida where an eighty-three-year old woman in Orlando told me she had never voted before but she was going to vote for us; in Ocala, I met a couple in a rodeo arena who gave me a picture of their son who had died of AIDS, and they said they wanted me to be president because they wanted a president who would deal with this not at election time but all the time--every day in every way. Yesterday in Durham, North Carolina, a woman put her arms around me and wouldn't let me go. She said, "I've got a master's degree and I'm dying to work, and I can't get a job. Don't they know the best family value is work for parents so they can support their children?"

	My fellow Americans, we have a chance not to win a victory of party but to give the American people their government, their country, and their future back, and that is what I challenge you to be a part of for the next week and the next four years.

	We have given the American people a chance to be more than spectators in politics this year. More Americans are registering to vote. More people watched the debates. More people are reading our plan, attending the rallies, and discussing their issues with family and friends. This year, when the history of this election is written, it will not be about politics and manipulation; it will be about how the American people took charge of their future again.

	You know, there's been a lot of talk about change in this country, but let me just tell you, of all the people you could vote for, there's only one who's ever balanced a government budget, only one who's never been part of the Washington insider establishment, only one who's ever done anything to make the political system less responsive to lobbyists and special interest groups, only one who's ever passed a tough program through a legislature. That's the guy who honored the American process by making the best appointment for vice president, Al Gore.

	I advocate a new course for America. We've got to bring an end to trickle-down economics. Most people in Florida are working harder for less money than they were making ten years ago. Unemployment is up. And our economy is losing much of its critical advantages. But we don't need tax-and-spend economics. We need invest-and-grow economics. In my state, we rank first in the country in job growth, second in low tax burden, and we have the lowest state and local spending in the country, but we increase investment in education and jobs and the environment every year, and that's what America ought to do. And we can.

	My fellow Americans, look what trickle-down economics has brought to you. For twelve years, taxes have been lowered on the wealthy, raised on the middle class. Just this year, the President vetoed a bill that would have lowered taxes on the middle class and increased investment incentives for new industry in America. He vetoed because it was asked to be paid for by a modest increase on the wealthiest Americans. So, now, for the first time since the Roaring Twenties, the top 1 percent of our people control more wealth than the bottom 90 percent. That would be all right if it worked for the rest of us, but in 1980, we led the world in wages, and now we're thirteenth. While Mr. Bush has been in the White House, we've lost 1,400,000 manufacturing jobs. Indeed, last month, there were 35,000 fewer jobs in the private sector in this nation than there were on the day he took office. He has increased taxes, increased regulation, increased spending, but decreased investment in what makes the economy go, jobs, work, technology, the kinds of things that will build an economy for the twenty-first century.

	My fellow Americans, here are my priorities.

	First of all, replace trickle-down economics with investment economics. I want to create more millionaires than Bush and Quayle, but I want to do it the old-fashioned way. If you want to make money, you want to lower your tax burden, fine. Invest in an American factory, in American business, American technology, America's future.

	Two, I want America to be the last country, but I hope we'll still be the best country, to finally put a lid on health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans. One hundred thousand Americans a month are losing their health insurance coverage. Elderly people on Medicare all across this nation every month choose between buying food for themselves and paying their medicine bills because we have no strategy to control health care costs, to restrain the amount of money that's going to insurance, to regulation, to government bureaucracy, excessive costs in drugs. We are not trying to control these costs.

	I have offered the American people a plan that a bipartisan commission says will save your family $1,200 a year more than the Bush plan by the year 2000; take care of all the Americans who don't have health insurance, while his leaves 27 million behind; and get this, best of all, frees up over the next twelve years over $2 trillion we're going to waste on health care to invest in jobs and incomes and a future for the American people. We've got to do it.

	But let me say this. No president can be a dictator and no president can succeed without the support of the American people. I love this rally and I love these cheerings, but I want to say one thing in all seriousness. You and I know we didn't get into this mess overnight and we're not going to get out of it overnight. What we have to do is to work together to rebuild America from the grassroots up. What we have to do is to shoulder the common load. What we have to do is to all accept more responsibility even as we ask for more opportunity.

	As president, I'm going to take some responsibility for changing the way government does its business. George Bush likes to attack big government, but he's increased the White House staff by over 50 percent, increased government spending and government regulation more than anybody in 20 years. I will cut the White House staff by 25 percent, challenge Congress to do the same, and limit the influence of special interests, political action committees, and lobbyists on the political process.

	I will challenge the wealthiest Americans to pay a little more in taxes, but then to reduce their tax burden by investing in our jobs, in our future. I will say to American corporations, you want a tax break? Buy a new piece of equipment here, modernize your operations here. But I'll be darned if I'm going to continue these programs that subsidize shutting plants down here and moving them overseas.

	I want to offer young people in this country a real future. I say we ought to open the doors of college education to all Americans. But to pay for it, to pay for it, we ought to challenge people either to pay the loans back as a small percentage of their income after they go to work, at tax time so you can't beat the bill, or, even better, by working to rebuild our country.

	Consider this. What if every person in this crowd and every person in Florida borrowed the money to go to college and then paid it back by giving two years of their lives as teachers, police officers, working with people with disabilities to help them be independent, working with the elderly to help them live at home, working to help children in trouble, working on housing programs? We could solve the people problems of this country and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever invested. We need more new ideas like this.

	We need tougher child support enforcement. Why should people be able to cross the state line and get out of the obligation to pay for their children? We need to liberate people from the scourge of permanent dependence on welfare with more investment in education and child support and requiring them to go to work.

	We need to do something for first-time non-violent offenders, put them in community-based boot camps where they can work for the community, get drug treatment and education. We need new ideas. We do not need more government; we need government that works, that is effective, that invests and holds people accountable.

	My fellow Americans, on election day, you will chart the course of America for a generation. You will have to decide not only between the candidates, but about yourselves. If you look at what you're going to be hearing in the next week, it's just amazing. All they do is run up the fear flag. This is really a race of hope against fear, of new ideas against proven failures, of the courage to change against the comfort of the status quo.

	Most of the people who came here to Florida came here because they believe in change, in promise, in opportunity and prosperity, and working together. This state is a state of rich racial and ethnic diversity, of different ages, of different incomes. This is a state which more than any other should understand that if we don't change, if we don't move away from trickle-down economics, if we don't provide more opportunity and more responsibility, if we don't act like one American community again, we cannot turn this country around. But if we do--if we do--I am convinced that the end of the post-Cold War opens up opportunities for Americans that we have never dreamed of.

	I got into this race because I did not want my child and our children to grow up to be the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents. I got into this race because I thought my country could come together, not come apart, that our diversity could be a source of our strength, that we did not have a person to waste. I got into this race because I did not believe in trickle-down economics and I got sick and tired of seeing people work harder for less. And I got into this race because I know that America for 200 years has stayed around because every generation, when we had to have the courage to change, we have remained forever young.

	And I ask you for this last week to think of this: if we carry Florida, it is over for trickle-down economics. If we can carry Florida, it is over for cynical politics. It is over for the politics of people who promise you things at election time and forget about you as soon as the election's over. If we carry Florida, it is a new day for all of Americans.

	This state has always been on the cutting edge of change. I ask you to be in the vanguard. Give me seven days of your time and your effort and your spirit. Reject the politics of division and denial and diversion and destruction. I did not get into this race to run down my opponents. I entered this race to build up America. Lead the way, Florida. We need you. Bring us home on November 3rd.

	Thank you, and God bless you all.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     WG #G G G G
 G G ¸F ˜F F ÓF ‰F	 ê 	 p 	 [ 	 . 	  e: