Speeches\1980\rep\S80R0907.001SPEECH1980RepublicanREAGAN (R)09/07STUMPPHILADELPHIAPENNSYLVANIAPASuper Senior Sunday1447 WORDS

	Philadelphia is proud to be known as a city of neighborhoods.

	I think all of them must be here today.

	It is fitting that we should meet here. Philadelphia's museum of art is a symbol of the great cultural heritage you are so justly proud of. And, of course, these steps have been made world-famous by "Rocky." They symbolize determination, hope, a belief in a dream.

	The new dream we all have for a better America can begin soon--this November.

	In Ben Franklin's city, where our nation first announced its independence to the world, we are reminded in a special way that older Americans want and deserve the kind of compassion and effectiveness and responsiveness from government that the Founders envisioned.

	In 1776 when, in this city, the Declaration of Independence was proclaimed, only one out of every fifty Americans was sixty-five years of age or older. In 1980 one out of every nine Americans is sixty-five or over.

	In 1776, in this city, the Founders gave us a Declaration of Independence. But in the past four years, we've been given something different. We've been given a Declaration of Indifference--indifference to the plight of the homeowner; indifference to the worker; indifference to the young just starting out, and especially indifference to older Americans whose happiness and peace of mind depend on a strong, sound economy.

	The Carter record is a litany of despair, of broken promises, of sacred trusts abandoned and forgotten.

	Eight million people out of work. Inflation running nearly three times as high as four years ago. Black unemployment at about 14 percent, higher than any single year since the government began keeping separate statistics. Four straight major deficits run up by Carter and his friends in Congress. The highest interest rates since the Civil War--reaching at times close to 20 percent--lately down to more than 11 percent but now going up again--productivity falling for six straight quarters among the most productive people in history.

	He promised he would not increase taxes for the lower and middle-income people--the workers of America. Then he imposed on American families the largest single tax increase in history.

	Directly and indirectly, this crushing burden has fallen heavily upon you and other Americans who have contributed so much to building your country into a dynamic nation, proud to be "Number One." 

	I am particularly aware of what the Carter policies have done to women over sixty-five. They are the fastest growing group of poor in America today. (According to testimony before the Pension Subcommittee of the Senate Finance Committee, April 3, 1979.) They are tragic victims of the Carter Declaration of Indifference.

	Our older Americans are an important, vital part of the community that makes America strong.

	Our older Americans want a government that will keep its promises to them and meet its commitments to them. Today I pledge such a government to you.

	If you want to take a look at the future as it would be if the present administration is continued, let me quote what Candidate Carter was saying four years ago. In 1976 he said: "Older people with fixed incomes fear the day that their lives are squeezed. An elderly person on a fixed retirement check buys inferior food, maybe has to leave one's own home."

	That's what Jimmy Carter thought of inflation when it was below five percent. What in the world does he expect us to think of it today, when--because of his policies--it is three times that high?

	But he doesn't want to talk about his record. He doesn't want to talk about what his policies have done--certainly not in this election season.

	But I'm here today to tell you that, together, we can have a new beginning.

	A few months ago when the inflation rate reached 18 percent, the President called back his own budget and said he was going to reduce it. Well that's fine--it ended up not being reduced--but I think it's significant that one of the cuts he suggested was in the way social security payments are adjusted for inflation. A study he authorized also called for an income tax on social security benefits. That would be double taxation because you paid income tax on your payments into social security. You shouldn't have to pay again when that money is returned to you.

	As governor of California I found there were things that could be done about your problem:

	I approved cost of living increases in senior citizens aid and provided $46 million in new property tax relief for senior citizens, ranging from 32 percent for those at the $6,000 a year income level to more than 80 percent at $3,000 a year and below, and up to 92 percent in the lowest income bracket. Remember this was before the runaway inflation we have today.

	And in case I need any reminder of what we owe to older Americans--and I don't--I have the example set by Nancy when we were in California.

	She has been and is today this nation's most ardent supporter of the Foster Grandparents program. This program brings together the elements that make up a sense of community for all Americans: those in need, those who can help, and an awful lot of love. The experience and the tenderness, the love and the wisdom that only older citizens can bring to the care of children is at the heart of this program. Nancy saw this program work in California and through her help, we have seen it expand into other states and is part of a federal program as well.

	So we will bring to Washington a commitment to the need and the hopes of older Americans, a proven record of accomplishment.

	And it is on this record I intend to build a growing commitment to your needs. As president, I will defend the integrity of the social security system, the foundation of the economic life of millions of Americans. That system will be strong and reliable and protected under a Reagan administration. I will see to it that the promises made by government to every older American under the Medicare and other programs are kept. I will institute real tax reforms that can help older Americans retain their dignity, their self-respect, and their self-reliance as productive members of society. I will not tolerate, and will fight with all my strength, the inexcusable waste, fraud, and abuse of government programs--many of which are aimed at older Americans.

	A May 31, 1979, Congressional Joint Economic Committee report cited a Justice Department estimate that deliberate fraud and abuse accounted for one to ten percent of the federal programs. "That excludes waste," the report noted. Including waste would give a much higher figure.

	This waste is not only economically unacceptable, it is an insult to millions of older Americans who have to scrimp and save and watch every penny while the federal government squanders tax dollars.

	You know where those tax dollars come from and you are tired of hearing the same old excuses about how it can't be helped. It can be helped and we know it.

	It's time the federal government started watching every penny and older Americans started getting their money's worth out of taxes and their full value out of social security and pensions!

	That's the spirit of Philadelphia; that's the spirit I'd like to bring to Washington--a spirit that older Americans want to see once more in government.

	 And so on these steps, on Grandparents Day, I say to you, in that great spirit: "Yes, we can!" Let's get on with the job.

	 With your help, with your vote--and I need and want both, and do not hesitate to ask for them--we will start that task in January 1981.

	Every generation is critical of the generation that went before. In recent years our generation has been blamed for much of what seems to be wrong in the world today. Well I will not apologize for our generation. We have known four wars in our lifetime and a Great Depression that changed the face of the world.

	No people who ever lived have fought harder, paid a higher price for freedom, or done more to advance the dignity of mankind.

	I would like to quote a line from an address that was never given; an address John F. Kennedy intended to make in late November of 1963. His unspoken words are appropriate today: "We in this country, in this generation, are, by destiny rather than choice, the watchmen on the walls of world freedom." 

ECONOMY, RECESSIONARYFOSTER CAREGOVERNMENT WASTESOCIAL SECURITYTAXATION--GENERALVOLUNTEERISM--SENIOR CITIZENSSENIOR CITIZENS     ª! v! p! l! b!
 X! S! N! B! 6! 4! !! !	 | 	 g 	 \ 	 L 	 = 	 ,   e: