Speeches\1956\dem\S56D0923.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/23STUMPTULSAOKLAHOMAOKEXCERPTS FROM REMARKS1501 WORDS

	Night before last the Republican candidate for the vice presidency spoke in Colorado. He said among other things that under Republican leadership "We can look forward to a future in which poverty will be a forgotten word in the United States."

	It seemed to me I had heard these words before--and from a similar source. So I did some checking. And I found what I was looking for.

	Listen to this: "We are nearer today to the abolition of poverty from the lives of men and women than ever before in any land." That was Herbert Hoover. The date was October 22, 1928. And in a later speech Mr. Hoover said again that, "given a chance to go forward with [Republican] policies--we shall soon be in sight of the day when poverty will be banished from this nation."

	Now I don't mean for a minute to discourage Mr. Nixon from his conversion to the ideal of abolishing poverty. And what Mr. Hoover said twenty-eight years ago is in itself a matter of little or no concern today. But one of the central issues in this year's election is which party means what it says and which party is only talking. We are entitled to know, as best we can, which party means to back up what is said with action, and which party doesn't.

	And I say that the record of the twenty-eight years between Mr. Hoover's declaration of war on poverty and Mr. Nixon's hollow echo last Saturday night is a record of consistent Republican opposition to every Democratic effort to end poverty in America. Let's skip the fact that twelve months after Mr. Hoover uttered his ringing call to end poverty, this country, under his administration, plunged into a depression that put over ten million men out of work. Let's look only at the history of these twenty-eight years, which comes right down to date. Let's see who fights poverty in America, and who only talks about it in election years.

	A Democratic administration pushed back poverty in 1933 and 1934 with a farm aid program. The Republicans opposed it. And they have opposed farm legislation in 1953 and 1954 and 1955--and come along now reluctantly only in an election year.

	A Democratic administration pushed back poverty in 1935 with a Social Security program. The Republicans called it a "cruel hoax," charged that every American was going to be dog-tagged with what they called a "New Deal number," and opposed the program to the bitter end. And this year in Congress the Republicans were still opposing it, for they voted even against reducing the eligibility age for women and granting benefits to those totally and permanently disabled.

	A Democratic administration pushed back poverty in 1938 with a minimum wage law. The Republicans opposed it--and last year the Eisenhower Administration was still opposing any reasonable increase to reflect the general price increase.

	A Democratic administration pushed back poverty by establishing collective bargaining as the law of the land twenty years ago. The Republicans opposed it--and they still oppose eliminating the inequities in our labor laws.

	A Democratic administration pushed back poverty in the Tennessee Valley twenty years ago. The Republicans opposed the action. And still the Republican President of today has called TVA "creeping socialism" and ordered the Government to enter into the Dixon-Yates contract.

	I could go back to the eight-hour day and the child labor laws of Woodrow Wilson's time and thence forward to Democratic proposals for aid to education, which is the greatest enemy of poverty, and point to Republican opposition and hesitation every step of the way.

	If the Republicans want anybody in this country to believe their election year talk about a war on poverty, let them say what they have done in the past twenty-eight years about poverty--except to oppose Democratic action against the forces of poverty.

	These are the national leaders who talk between elections about kennel dogs and about the right of the unemployed to suffer being one of the joys of a free economy.

	These are the politicians who boast of prosperity today, although they know that families of thirty million Americans have annual incomes of less than $2,000 a year.

	Well, they can't have it both ways. When they brag of our prosperity in one speech and declare war on poverty in the next one, they do a grave injustice to the intelligence of the American people.

	I believe with all my heart that we can abolish poverty. It is at least a goal worthy of our ideals as Americans. And I accepted the Democratic nomination in Chicago in terms of a pledge to put my every effort to this end.

	And I think there are a great many other equally big problems before us today. I don't mean for a moment to suggest that there are simple and easy answers to all these problems, or that if there are, I have them.

	I don't think the answers are easy or that any one man can have them. They must come from the people, from all the people.

	They will not come, I am convinced, from an administration made up of only one group in our society. They will not come from limiting the service of government to the service of the strong, the rich, and the big, making them richer, stronger, and bigger, and relying on their brimming cup to flow over and nourish the rest of society. These answers for our future will not come from a party, a leadership and a philosophy, which has produced no answers in the past.

	These answers will come from a government which trusts the people, all of them; which relies on the people, all of them; and which seeks to serve all the people, and no lesser group; and no lesser group than all of them. They will come from restoring the government in Washington to the faith of Democratic liberalism. The Depression fell under the hammer blows of the Democratic party, and misery and want in peace time will be met by the courage and resourcefulness of Democratic leadership.

	And the abolition of poverty is a full-time job, not a part-time job, not an election-year job.

	Our party believes in our country's future. On the record, only our party possesses the creative imagination and the boldness to go forward with those great public works--highways, dams, housing, schools, and other projects--that meet the needs of our people and at the same time provide the jobs we need. Of course they cost money; every great social advance does. Yes, and every one has expanded our demand for goods and services, our productivity, and therefore, our profits and our prosperity.

	We are determined that the splendorous future of the atomic and electric age will not be marred by unemployment.

	We are dedicated to the principle of foreign trade and to assistance to our friends abroad--and trade and aid mean jobs at home.

	And we foresee for our country, if we can regain the leadership of the world, an age of plenty heretofore unknown, a time when it will take the best efforts of every worker to meet the rising needs of rising humanity.

	But first we must establish a firm and lasting peace. I could not close my remarks to you this morning without saying a word about the overriding issue of achieving peace in this troubled world.

	We must have a foreign policy that is firm, consistent, and also comprehensible. We must stop bluffing our enemies, boasting to our friends, and misleading our people here at home.

	We cannot stop this dangerous drift in foreign affairs by pretending that all is well while Communist influence is spreading everywhere, while North Africa is in rebellion, while the guns are loaded in the Formosa Strait, and when the Russians have a foothold in the Middle East for the first time, when the Suez lifeline of Western Europe is in peril for the first time, when Arab nationalism is rampant and Communism its ostensible protector.

	We must regain the moral leadership of the world. We must export our goods, our cotton, fruit, grain, vegetables, our chemicals, manufactured goods to South America, to Asia, to India. But more than goods we must export confidence in the United States and faith in freedom.

	Freedom is a mighty river. It flows around the world and its symbol has been the United States of America--the symbol of anticolonization at its birth, the symbol of human freedom in the fight against slavery, the symbol of world order under law in the days of Wilson, the symbol under Roosevelt and Truman of a generosity, a magnanimity bursting the bonds of history and the frontiers of nations.

	We must restore the bright image of America that once made our country beloved everywhere, and we can do it--for the hope of abolishing poverty depends on the certainty of survival.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESPOVERTY     ›" g" a" ]" U"
 H" C" >" 9" 1" /" " "	 H 	 0   e: