Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0909.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/09STUMPPHILADELPHIAPENNSYLVANIAPAJFK PLAZA2,239 WORDS

	Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Congressman Green.  Thank you for, thank you for a wonderful, generous introduction and thank you for bringing me to your city today to see this amazing crowd, one that will live in my memory as the crowd that wants us on the road to the White House from Philadelphia to Washington.

	That is the way this country got started and that is the way this country is going to move forward.  May I just take a moment to pay my respects to a great United States senator, a friend of mine for many years, a former mayor of the city of Philadelphia, and a man who works for peace and progress at home and abroad, the man that will be elected United States senator from Pennsylvania--re-elected--Joseph Clark.

	And, Mr. Mayor, it is always good to be with you in your city, but today I think we all take second place.  It is one thing to run for president, it is another to be mayor of a great city.  It is yet another to be a congressman of great distinction.  It is yet another to be a great United States senator but Joey Bishop has been running for king.

	And I will tell you, Joey, if you make it, just make me your prime minister.

	Joey Bishop has earned the love and the affection of millions, and I want to pay him my respects today for what he has done here for the Children's Hospital in Philadelphia in this tremendous telethon that was launched.

	And by the way, for all of you that come to these gatherings and say, well, I don't know about that fellow, may I ask you to resolve your doubts about me when you see my wife, Mrs. Humphrey, Muriel.  Stand up, Muriel.

	And Jim Tate, just in case you think you got elected strictly on merit, I want everybody to see Mrs. Tate, too, and you will see what happened,

	And King Bishop, I like Queen Bishop, too.

	Well, my friends, every time I come to Philadelphia, and it is very often--in fact, Mrs. Humphrey tells me I come here more often that I come home--I see a tremendous transformation in this city.  Look at this amazing Penn Center.  Look at this great new municipal building here.  Look at what this place was only a few years ago and think about what it means today.  This shows that we can do things in our country.  It shows that when you have leadership at a local level, leadership in Washington, congressmen that fight for your community, senators that speak up for your country, you can do almost anything.  You have replaced...  you have replaced the old Chinese Wall and the railroad tracks and you have shown that you can build a whole new city and that is what we are going to do all across this country in the next four years, rebuild our old cities.

	With men like Joe Clark in the senate, and I will tell you there is none better,  a man of peace, a man of progress, and with men like Bill Green and Bill Barrett and Jim Byrne and Bob Nix and Joan Eilberg in the House of Representatives, you will get things done here in the state of Pennsylvania and we will get things done in this country.

	Yes, I am an optimist about our country and I am an optimist about the world in which we live because I think the people in this world and in this country not only want to survive, I think they want to have what the Founding Fathers proclaimed right here in the city of Philadelphia on the birth of our republic.  I think every one of us want those great God-given inalienable rights of life--life that is protected, life that is secure--of liberty, not license, but of liberty for each and every one--and of the pursuit of a better life and, as they put it, the pursuit of happiness.  Those goals were not for our forefathers alone.  Those goals are for those of us of this generation and generations yet unborn.  Those goals are the American revolution stated simply, and that American revolution belongs not to us alone but it belongs to all of humanity.  

	We have some basic choices to make in this year 1968 and I want to talk to you about them.  What direction will our country take in the world?  Will it be the direction that Mr. Nixon talked about yesterday when he said to you and to  me that he had doubts as to whether or not we should stop the nuclear arms race and called upon the congress to hesitate in the adoption and the ratification of a treaty that would prevent the spread of nuclear weapons?  Is that the kind of a world we want?  I think not.  No, my friends, we are going to pursue, and may I say to every person that carries a peace sign, may I say to everyone that says stop this war--I say to you that if I am elected your president, I will literally give my life for the peace of this world and for the peace of mankind.

	Yes, we have some choices to make here at home, the kind of an America that we are going to build right here at home, and that basic choice and the one at the heart of my campaign is this; is this to be one America?  Is this to be one America under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all?  Or is it to be  three or four Americas, a nation divided against itself, black and white, poor and rich, slum and suburb, North and South?  The choice in 1968 is simply this: are we going to accept as inevitable the conflict and the hatred which are becoming a part of our everyday life, or my fellow Americans, are going to stand up together as one people and say that this can be one America, one family, one community, and that we can make this country work for every man, woman and child regardless of race, color or creed?

	Yes, my friends.  The angry voices that seek to divide us, they must not be listened to.  The haters and those that would divide us do not speak the heart of America.  We have a choice between one America and an America of apartheid or separatism. We have a choice between the America of the old era or the America of a new day.  In 1960 and again in 1964 the American people asked us to get this country moving again and this plaza today is named after that young man, brilliant and courageous, that reminded us that peace and freedom are not cheap and that we are destined to live the balance of our lives in danger and peril and challenge.  John Kennedy saw the realities but he was not afraid.

	And, my friends, I see the realities too, and I am not afraid.  And America sees the realities today and the American people are not afraid and we will rebuke those voices that seek to divide us and frighten us.  Will we not?


	We know the lessons of history.  When people have no hope they give up.  They accept what is wrong and they live with it and die with it, but when people have hope, they will not accept what is wrong and the people today have hope and they want something better and they want it now and they are right, and I am going to help them get it now if you will permit me to be your president.

	Yes, my friends.  The hopeless now have hope.  Young people are lifting their eyes above the tenement fire escapes and the rural slums all over America, and people in the suburbs are asking, "Must we be walled off from the people who live in the cities?"  And people in the cities are asking, "Where are the schools, the jobs, the neighborhoods, that my children need?  How shall we answer those questions?  Well, my friends, you can't answer them by the kind of clack and noise that you hear here today.  You answer it by reason; you answer it by action.

	Shall we let hope become frustration, impatience become violence?  Shall we turn things over to those--shall we turn things over to those who say they are going to burn this country down and then build things up their own way?  I think not.  There aren't many extremists in America, not many at all.  They are loud but they are few.  And those who listen to them are a minority, and if we let the extremists and the haters have their way in America, they will drag us all down.  But we don't intend to let them have their way.

	Dissent, yes.  Dissent, yes. Disorder, no.

	I say that this nation is willing to pay the price in dollars, in sacrifice, in moral commitment to make the one America, to make it a reality, and to do it peacefully.  And that is why I seek to lead this nation, to lead it in peace, to lead it in justice, to lead it in hope, to lead it in opportunity for every American across this land.

	Now, there is one candidate this year who bases his entire campaign on the idea of separatism and segregation.  There is another candidate who does not do so.  But he is openly competing for the same votes as George Wallace, for the votes of people who at best seek to slow things down when it comes to programs that offer a way out of tension and trouble in America.  So, we are faced on the one hand with third-party extremism and we are faced on the other in the Republic party with the age-old coalition of the conservative Republican and the Dixiecrats, the Nixons and the Strom Thurmonds who prefer to remain silent when it comes to human rights and human opportunity.  I say that this national election must be a referendum on your part and mine on human dignity, on human rights and human opportunities.  That is what we are going to be voting for on this election day.

	So, I say to all Americans, Republicans and Democrats, regular Democrats and dissenting Democrats and Independents, to Southerners and Northerners, who want one America and one citizenship, to all Americans who believe in what was begun here in Philadelphia two centuries ago, I say to you, turn away from the old era.  Choose a new day.  Turn away from the old era when an American soldier can live in an integrated barracks overseas but was sent back home to live in a segregated neighborhood.  That is not good enough for America.

	I say choose the new day when the man can come home to a job, to training, to education, to equality before the law and live at peace in his neighborhood.  Turn away from the old era when our cities grew tired and congested and more tense.  Choose the new day when the American city can be the best that our society has to offer, a place where neighborhoods are once again filled with neighbors, where schools are the best, where there is green and open space, and where our wives and children can be safe.  Turn away from the old era where separate and equal meant separate and unequal and where generation after generation, the same family ended up in poverty and on welfare.  Choose the new day, my fellow Americans, where every American child regardless of his color or his last name or his religion can receive the best education in the world and where all of us can stand together, proud together, free and equal as Americans.

	My friends, I have come here to Philadelphia to state my case of an America that is joined together as one family, as an America that has faith in its future.  I appeal not to your fears and I appeal not to your hates and not to your emotions.  Nor do I appeal to the chance of those who chant as if they had learned it by rote, but think not.  I appeal to thinking people.

	I appeal not to your fears.  I appeal to your reason, my fellow Americans, intelligent, sensible fellow Americans.  I ask you to vote your hopes, not your hates.  I ask you to join me with faith in the essential greatness and goodness of this country because it is a great country and my fellow Americans, let's never be ashamed to stand up and say I love my America for all that it is.

	And I ask your help.  I ask your help, my friends, to help us build an America so strong and so free that no one will ever be able to tear it down.  I ask you to help me build an America that will offer hope not only to our own people but will offer hope to people all over the world.  That is this campaign.  That is my program.

	Thank you very much.

CIVIL DISORDERCONSTITUTIONDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALTHIRD PARTY CANDIDACYCIVIL RIGHTSRACE RELATIONS     È. µ. Ø. ´. £.
 ó. í. ç. Å. u. s. j. _.	 f 	 X 	 L 	 /     e: