Ads\1976\dem\A76d000g.024.txtAD1976DemocratCARTER (D)GENERALDiscussion with Carter4,430 WORDS


PRESIDENT CARTER: Tonight we're going to be discussing some of the things on this program that show that a President, a Governor, a Member of Congress, a Mayor, can't solve these problems which are difficult, without the full participation and encouragement and involvement, without the hopes and the dreams of the American people. And when the election comes on November 2nd, the responsibility will be yours--the people of America. If I'm elected President, then January 20th the responsibility will be mine and yours. But let's don't give up on our country, on its government, just because we've been embarrassed or ashamed or disappointed in the past. Americans have never done this. We've been tough. And really our strength has come forward in the most vivid way--when the difficulties were greatest, like they are now, we can change things. And we've got to do it together, all of us.

MAN: With the United States not being involved in any wars whatsoever, what would be his initial steps in creating a, a thriving economy?

MAN: What can you do if you're elected President, to bring up the economy of this country and get us out of this recession?

WOMAN: Food prices are high--the gas. It's really hard with children. You have to--plus my husband's feeling on working. I can't work. So it's rough.

WOMAN: How far more prices can go up for average people with average income, what could a change in government really bring?

MAN: The economy, I believe it needs to be changed more than anything else--I mean, it's been, well, been kinda bad for the past ten, twelve years. And I kinda feel like it's on account of Republicans that have been in office. And I think it's about time for the Democrats to have another shot at it.

CARTER: This is a question I get more than any other question around the country. This Republican Administration has been absolutely terrible. They brought us the first $200 billion budget, the first $300 billion budget, the first $400 billion budget, the highest deficits in the history of our country, the highest combination of unemployment and inflation that we've ever seen since our country was founded. The statistics are terrible. In the last two years we've had two and a half million more people become unemployed in the last four months alone. 500,000 American families have become unemployed. But the most important thing is that these are people, human beings, families, and it's a devastating blow to a person who's able to work, not to be able to work. The Republicans have always felt that the best way to control inflation is to put people out of a job. So our top priority has got to be--to put our people back to work. We will never have a balanced budget which I intend to see--we will never have an end to the inflationary spiral, as long as we have 7.5 or 8 million people out of work looking for jobs. There are many things that can be done - our housing industry needs to be stimulated. It won't cost much money, but it will put enormous numbers of people back in homes and also back to work. Research and development funds, pollution control, transportation--the emphasis has got to be in the private sector. Government jobs as a last resort but as a main thrust people having the right to work in private jobs, permanent jobs, but the taxpayers' money doesn't have to be involved very much. But the emphasis has got to be on restoration of people's right to work. 

MAN: Mr. Carter, I'm a sailor and I can't get a job.

WOMAN: More than half of my friends and acquaintances are out of work and have been out of work for a period of time which leaves them out of the statistics.

MAN: Mr. Carter, I'm worried about unemployment in general.

WOMAN: How is Jimmy Carter going to be able to offer more jobs through government programs without escalating the economy.

MAN: And I'm very curious to know what President--I hope President Carter, will do in the way of unemployment.

CARTER: Well, I've met people like these all over the country in the last two years. As a matter of fact one third of all the families in this country have experienced unemployment recently. That's hard enough on people that don't have jobs. But one thing that we tend to forget is that the ones who still have jobs are the ones who pay the bills. Every time the unemployment rate goes up one percent, then the government loses $16 billion in welfare payments and in unemployment compensation. In the last two years alone, since Richard Nixon left office, we've added $23 billion to the cost of unemployment compensation and welfare payments. And the one that pays the bill is the American who's still at work. That's where the relief needs to come. It's not going to be easy. But if government and business and industry and labor and agriculture and education and all the entities in our society can work together, we can start making progress. And as we cut down the unemployment rate, it will help everybody. That's what I intend to do.

MAN: Governor Carter, my question is, what do you intend doing about the mess we have in the welfare program?

CARTER: Well, we now have twelve million people in this country who are permanently on welfare. Ten percent of them, about 1.3 million, are fully able to work full time. They ought to be taken out of the welfare system altogether and placed under the responsibility of the Labor Department, Education Department, give job training and literacy instruction if they can't read and write. The services of private and public job placement agencies--matched with a job, offered a job. If they are offered a job and don't take it, I wouldn't pay them any more benefits. The other ninety percent need to be treated fairly. We've got about a hundred different welfare programs. The present welfare system is both anti-work and anti-family. It's time for a change in the welfare system. To have a simple system that treats people fairly, yes. But it ought to be designed for work pro-family. 

MAN: Mr. Carter, I would like to know how you are going to cut the taxes as you say that you are going to cut when you become President of the United States--

WOMAN: I'd like to have a little bit more information about how he's going to put into effect the tax cuts that he's recommended.

MAN: My question to Governor Carter would be, how he would make taxes fair for everyone?

MAN: All I can say is what about the guy with a wife and three or four children? He has to support them. He needs that break in taxes. He has to educate the children. He's got clothing, food. With inflation what it is by the time you get done buying your groceries, paying your rent, boy you're really hurting if you're not making a whole lot of money.

MAN: I've heard that you're considering removing the exemption on interest payments for home mortgages. Is that a true position of yours or is that something that the Ford camp is just pumping out?

CARTER: Well, I want to answer Bob's question first about home mortgages. That is not my position. That's just something the Republicans are using to distort my position and try to gain votes in an improper way. I would never increase taxes on the homeowner who's been using the deduction of his interest payments on mortgages. Now taxes is a serious question with the American people. The American people don't mind paying their taxes if they feel that it's fair. But the present income tax structure is not fair. It's a disgrace. The surest income to be taxed is the income earned from manual labor. There are not any hidden secret loopholes for someone who draws a paycheck every two weeks or a retirement check every two weeks. But there are hidden secret loopholes for all the big shots, the special interest groups and that's got to stop. In the last reporting period there were over eight hundred people in this country that made more than $100,000 a year and paid no income taxes. There were eleven corporations supported and friends of the Republicans who made over $100 million on the average in one year and paid not a nickel in income tax. And when they don't pay their taxes, do you know who pays it for them? The average working American family in this country. Now if we can remove the loopholes and just have a fair and simple tax system we can reduce taxes for the low and middle-income families. The American people are ready for this change. The Congress is ready for this change, and I'm ready for the change. And I'm ready for the change. And next year we're going to have comprehensive tax reform to make our income tax structure fair for a change. 

WOMAN: Ford has vetoed several things on senior citizens and I don't think it's right. I'm sure he's got a mother. I mean, she has to be taken care of, but he doesn't care about anybody else's.

MAN: Living on social security--I, I'm all right because I managed to save a little money. But I think if people were like, making, I'd say the average person--these older people that started to collect social security earlier, that are getting minimum payments--I don't see how they can do it with the cost of living.

WOMAN: I'm a social worker. I have been for a long, long time and I don't work in the welfare system. I'm for the other one. And I can't see people who've spent, you know, all their lives doing the prescribed thing and then lose their homes because they can't pay their medical bills and have nothing and they never deviated, you know, they voted, they paid their rent, they bought the little house, they paid off the mortgage. They own the place free and clear and then they have to sell it and there isn't even enough subsidized housing for them to move into something else.

WOMAN: I'm wondering, when I get to be the age to draw Social Security, will there be any left?

CARTER: Well, my mother Lillian is 78 years old and Rosalynn's mother is over 70 also and they never let us forget about the special problems of the elderly people of this country. There is a deep concern and I think a legitimate concern about the future stability and soundness of the social security system among those that are paying social security now who are quite young, and among those who are old and who are depending on it for their security in the years to come. We must have confidence restored in government, in particular social security. And we must have an assurance that never changes, that when the inflationary costs go up, the social security payments will go up enough to take care of it. This is something that's so important to our people--we've worked all our lives, we have a lot to offer. I want to be sure that when I'm President, that within the White House, at my shoulder, would be a full time counselor, just speaking up for elderly people, so that every time I make a decision about housing, social security, taxation, welfare, health care, transportation, I never forget the fine retired people of our country who have already given so much to make America great and who still have a lot to offer.

MAN: I think the overall situation in the United States--I think other countries are looking at us as, you now--with a sort of down attitude.

MAN: It stinks the way it is right now. I wonder if he becomes President, if he's going to try to cut down on some of the overseas spending with the other nations, the billions and billions of dollars that go over there--see if he can do something with our own government.

MAN: Another thing that concerns me, Bob, is the two major grain deals with the Russians, the, the grain that was purchased at $1.55 a bushel or $2.55 a bushel and then resold back to the United States or else--on the world market for at least a dollar per bushel increase in cost. That's the thing I just can't understand how we can be giving our grain and our grain supplies. Why can't we use this as a lever--and instead of armaments and selling armaments, why don't we sell our, our crops?

MAN: What substantial way do you differ from President Ford as far as foreign policy is concerned?

CARTER: These are the kind of questions that I've had all over the country about our foreign policy? How would we change it specifically? Well, one is--I think in the field of foreign policy that the President ought to be a spokesman for our country and not the secretary of state. Also, every time we made a serious mistake in foreign affairs it's been because the American people have been excluded from the process. We need to return to the proposition that the President and the Congress and the people ought to understand and make decisions on foreign affairs. Another thing that we need to do is to make sure that in the field of foreign aid we want to be humanitarian about it. But I'm tired. I've seen the poor people in this rich country taxed and the money sent to the rich people in the poor countries. As far as the grain sale to the Russians is concerned, that was a terrible mistake but President Ford has compounded the mistake lately by having three different grain embargoes, which has robbed the farmers, at the same time has seriously hurt the consumers of this country. So we need to have an open foreign policy, understood and supported by the people and the Congress, with the President expressing accurately the moral tone and the ideals and commitments and the character of the American people. We ought to have a foreign policy once again to make us proud and not ashamed and through these specific changes we can have that kind of foreign policy in the years to come.

MAN: I'd like to know how much Governor Carter planned to cut the defense budget.

CARTER: I was in the Navy for eleven years. I'm a graduate of the Naval Academy and served as a submarine officer and I've seen the terrible waste in the defense department. Also, I've been governor for four years and I've seen the waste in the social programs. I intend to be tough on both of them. The number one responsibility of a President, above everything else, is to guarantee the security of our country, a freedom from the fear of successful attack or blackmail and the ability to carry out a foreign policy. But I'm in the peculiar position in debating with my opponent, that I'm trying to cut out waste and he's defending waste. We estimate that we can save $5 to $7 billion just by proper management. I'll give you just two or three quick examples. The average service family now stays on a post only fifteen months. If we could just increase a time of service in one place to eighteen months, we could save over one half billion dollars. We now have only two students for every instructor in the military. High schools and colleges have fifteen to twenty. The ratio is increased to three students for every instructor. We could save more than another half billion dollars. We could standardize our weapons in NATO alone and Europe and save our country two billion dollars. So we need to have tough management in domestic and foreign affairs, maintaining a strong defense at all times--that's number one, but also giving our people proper services. It's not going to be easy but I've had enough experience and I understand the American people well enough and the system of government to know that working together we can have both. 

MAN: Governor Carter, if I had a chance to meet you face to face, I'd sure like to tell you to straighten up this country after you get to be President and, and get this crime and viciousness off of the streets, especially the hard dope.

MAN: I'm personally concerned and as well as every American is the narcotics programs which I doubt that the next President of the United States would be, have the guts to take any, any precautions.

MAN: Mr. Carter, I'd like to know what you're going to do about crime in the streets. It seems to be the most important issue as far as New Yorkers are concerned and I hope you come up with a good solution.

CARTER: Crime is one of the major concerns about people all over this country, particularly in the urban downtown areas where it's growing by leaps and bounds. I couldn't adjust a system that's just not working. The constant delays in bringing a criminal to trial and conviction and getting him off the streets really concerns me and everyone else. When I became Governor of Georgia there was a man who had been indicted 52 times, primarily for drug charges. He had never served a single day in jail. And not until I put the pressure to the public opinion and until a young person died in the drug pusher's home from an overdose of heroin did that criminal ever spend his first day in prison. We also have a dual system of justice. For those who are powerful and influential, they never go to prison. But the average American family member faces tough penalties if they do commit a crime. Let's take drugs as a specific example on what is causing a lot of crime and where we can do something about it. During the Vietnam War period a lot of our heroin came from the Far East. But now 90% of it comes from Mexico. And with close cooperation between ourselves and the Mexican government, through infrared photography we can identify the poppy fields where the heroin is produced and cut down drastically on the inflow of heroin to our country. We've got to also set a good example at the top. In recent years our government has been disgraced. We've had two attorney generals convicted of serious crimes and we've seen a President of the United States and a Vice President of the United States resign from their high office in disgrace. So from the top all the way down to the bottom we can have a more effective way, through cooperation and deep commitment to cut down on the crime rate in this country. I'm determined to do that if I'm elected.

MAN: Mr. Carter, I'm really concerned about food, and as a family man I'd like to know what effect your administration will have on the cost of food in the market.

WOAMN: Ever so often I hear a comment in the news that the government is saying there is good news for consumers--food prices are going to go down because farm prices are down. And I know people that are raising cattle that tell me right now they are losing $100 every time they sell one and they, you know, they're going broke. And I wonder if people really understand that if all the farmers go broke we won't have anybody to feed us.

WOMAN: What the farmers would like to know is what our new administration would do for them. Everybody promises the farmers the world. We know the farmer is the backbone of the nation, but we want to know what you can do for us. Everybody knows what we can do for you.

CARTER: Well, I know that, uh, the price of food has gone sky high. As a matter of fat in the last years things like sugar and bacon have gone up more than a hundred percent. But as a farmer I know that it hasn't helped us. We've seen farm prices go down drastically. Wheat prices now about half of what they were a year ago. And it's absolutely correct that cattle ranches are now losing $50 to $100 every count. As a matter of fact the farmers are going broke trying to produce food that the consumers can't afford to buy. We need a comprehensive agricultural policy--maximum production--we also need maximum exports which help us all. We need to have in the White House in the Secretary of Agriculture's office someone who understands what's best for the family farmer in the long run is exactly what's best for the consumer. Stable production, stable prices. This will help us all because when the farm prices go down it really is catastrophic for farm families but it doesn't show up at the marketplace to help consumers.

WOMAN: If your wife got an offer for a job that was very well paying and very exciting but would take her, you know, a thousand miles away from your home--would you approve, would you let her go? What would you say to her?

CARTER: Well, Miss Harvey, I had to face this question about two years ago when I decided to seek the new job in the White House. I asked my wife to go out away from me and campaign around the country, sometimes thousands of miles away. So far that assignment has been very successful. And I might say this--it hasn't pulled our family further apart but it's brought us closer together. But in bringing our family together in the mutual understanding of what our country is, I hope we can bring the country together in the next four years.

MAN: I have a question for Jimmy Carter. I am a Jimmy Carter fan in the first place and I am going to vote for him, but what is he going to do for the minorities in the states, especially the Latin Americans?

CARTER: Well, Mr. Mulligan, everybody in our country in recent years has been hurt with unemployment, inflation, unbalanced budgets, mismanagement, crime increase--but I think it's accurate to say that quite often the minority groups get hurt worse--those who don't speak English well or those who happen to be black or those sometimes are elderly or who've been out of work for a long time--many kind of minorities. Since you are Spanish-speaking, let me say "Necessito su Ayuda en de comprehende para Presidente este gran oportunidad de comear este Pais. Necesito su Ayuda."

MAN: I suppose the thing I'd want to know most from Governor Carter would be does he really intend to keep his promises to change the atmosphere and the attitudes of our country?

MAN: Basically we've gotten away from, we've gotten away from people and we've gotten into government. That's why when you said, did I have a question, I said no. Because I, I think there's too much government--and right now I think that politics in this country is mostly a game. That's basically it. I, I know this doesn't help you much but that's my attitude.

WOMAN: I, I think that the American people have confidence in our democratic system, but I think the problem in the last few years has been that we have lost confidence in the bureaucrats and the politicians that are in that system. And what I'd like to know, Governor Carter, is what you could do as President not just to give us confidence in the system again but to give us reason to have confidence in our government again.

CARTER: Like many other Americans, including the ones you've heard tonight, I've worked all my life. I know the government quite often is incompetent, insensitive, that the people don't feel that they're part of it, that they're turned of by the failures. A great nation can't stand still. Lately we've been going backwards--more people out of work--inflation high, mismanagement much worse, discouragements almost, almost every day--betrayal in high office. My strength and my support and my advice and my criticisms have come directly from people throughout this country for the last 22 months. And I know that we've got to have tough competent management of government. I've worked all my life. I never have wasted my own money. I didn't waste the money of the taxpayers when I was Governor of Georgia. We need to have someone go into Washington who's not part of that establishment, who hasn't been there for the last 25 or 30 years, to weed out unnecessary programs, to save money, but to give our people a sense that we have a government that is well run, and we can meet their needs, and that we also can let the people be part of the decision-making process. The election's almost here. I hope that none of you will be discouraged. It's not part of the American character to withdraw from a tough fight but to avoid trying to find the answer to a difficult question. We've got to pull ourselves together in a sense of unity. I hope to take office next January 20th to start leading this country toward the things that we want. The answers don't come easy. The promises that I made have been very cautious and I'm going to keep them, because I believe that the people, the Congress and I want the same things. But the election is right on us. That's when you and all the people of this country will have a part to play. So participate, help me if you will, and together we can restore the greatness that we've lost and prove once again that we still live in the most wonderful country on earth. Thank you very much.

ANNOUNCER: The preceding, pre-recorded program was paid for and authorized by 1976 Democratic Presidential Campaign Committee, Inc.

AGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETS--SOVIET UNIONAGRICULTURE--GENERALCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--GENERALECONOMY, RECESSIONARYFOREIGN AID--GENERALGOVERNMENT WASTEHOME OWNERSHIP--TAX DEDUCTIONSINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESINFLATIONMILITARY PERSONNELMILITARY PREPAREDNESSSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERALWELFARE     ³` €` ~` z`    r` h` a` K` @`	 >	 	  	 ò 	 Ù 	 Ä 	 ° 	   	 ‚ 	 j 	 a 	 O 	 : 	 + 	  	  e: