Speeches\1972\dem\S72D1012.002SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)10/12STUMPMINNEAPOLISMINNESOTAMNUNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA1,527 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Lieutenant Governor Burpage, Sharon Walsh, students and faculty of the University of Minnesota: I have just been told by one of the officials here on the platform that this is the largest crowd ever assembled in the history of this university. And I must say, arriving here as I have one hour late, it is also one of the most patient crowds in the history of this university. 

	But one thing it is not, as some journalists have written about university students in 1972--it is not an apathetic crowd and I am pleased to report that from where I am standing this audience does not look anything at all like that collection of automated young people that I saw at the Republican
National Convention some three weeks ago. They were instructed that they were to laugh on cue, they were supposed to applaud on cue, they were supposed to wave their signs on cue--and they didn't have any that are as good as the signs I see here today--and then they were told to shout that new Republican slogan on cue: "four more years." Well, I have a better one--how about "three more months?" 

	I am told that there was one young volunteer at that convention who carried a sign maybe some of you saw on television--it said "I am not programmed." It was the kind of a plaintive declaration of independence by one young man who at least wanted to say as far as he was concerned, he was still master of his own soul and in charge of his own destiny. But those carefully-scripted models, those carefully-scripted demonstrators also come in older models, and Mr. Nixon has now adopted a two-prong strategy for this campaign. First, he apparently is assuming that if he hides in the White House and refuses to discuss the issues then no one is going to be able to ask him any questions about the record of these last four years. As Alan--Alan King put it this way. He says: "Mr. Nixon is standing on his record so that no one else has a chance to examine it." 

	And apparently there is a second assumption behind this Nixon strategy, and that is that if he sends out other people to speak for him and to bug our headquarters and to attack the proposals that I make to the American people, that somehow no one will blame him for what is being done in his name. So he rarely ventures out except to attend a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising dinner or something of that kind, and the rest of the time he hides behind these surrogates who are going out all around the country to attack the proposals that I have made but to say very little about what has happened over the last four years. Surrogates have been very busy the past thirty-six hours responding to the televised address that I directed to the nation on Tuesday night. We have heard from Senator Scott, we've heard from Senator Dole, we've heard from Congressman Ford and even from the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Laird. And I am not surprised about their attack because what I have done is to offer not a secret plan but an open plan for putting an end to the cruelest, the most barbaric, and the most foolish war in all of the history of this country. Now what they are saying is this: that George McGovern is offering a plan of surrender in Southeast Asia. I believe that any fair-minded person who listened to my address on Tuesday night knows that that is not the truth; that this was not a plan for surrendering any vital interest of this country, but a plan for turning America in the direction of peace and away from the tragedy of killing and destruction and violence that has cursed this country for too long a time. 

	Now I say to these critics how do you explain the surrender of 20,000 more American lives in the last four years on behalf of a corrupt dictator who does not even have the respect of his own people? How do you explain the surrender of the arms, the legs, the limbs, the faces, and the hopes of tens of thousands of other young men who have died in these past four years? How do you justify, Mr. President, the surrender of some six million South Vietnamese who have been killed or maimed or driven from their homes by the very forces that claim to be there to save South Vietnam? These are the kinds of questions that we ought to be asking. And I ask these questions not of the Republican surrogates who are speaking for the President, but I ask them of the President himself, who promised us four years ago that he had a secret plan to end this war. 

	Then Secretary Laird has claimed that my plan would harm our position in negotiations with the government of Russia, and what an incredible claim that is. I ask Mr. Nixon if he agrees with that position. Does he really think that we can prove how tough we are to the Russians or anybody else by pounding the life out of these people in Southeast Asia who have already suffered too much? And for those who talk about surrender, I ask: what about the surrender of the most precious ideals of this country that is involved in the bombing of the innocent in Indochina? 

	I do not think that we impress the strong by punishing the weak. I think it horrifies people around the world who look to us for responsible and humane and decent leadership. Does it really make this war any less immoral that we have reduced the number of white bodies and increased the number of brown bodies that are being destroyed? I think we all know in our more reflective moments that, while the people of Indochina are smaller in stature than most of us, and different, they too are created in the image of God. And the irony of those who argue that if we do not continue this struggle in Indochina we are going to weaken our position with reference to the Soviet Union and the people of China and other great powers is that the true facts are that we are weakening our country each day we continue this war. Fifty-five thousand Americans have died in Indochina, but not one single Russian or Chinese. Three hundred thousand Americans have been wounded and some of them crippled for life in this war, but not one single Russian or Chinese. We have wasted $133 billion of our resources in Indochina, and we will spend more on behalf of General Thieu in 1972 than--in just one year--than the Russians and the Chinese have supplied to the other side ever since this war began.

	I think the truth of the matter is that if there are those in Peking and Moscow who wish us ill, they must rejoice over the manner in which this great country has been so obsessed and so tied down with this struggle in Southeast Asia that we have wasted tens of billions of dollars, to say nothing of human lives, and wasted the resources that we need so desperately to build up our own land. And there is a very real sense that every bomb that falls on a village in South Vietnam or North Vietnam or Laos or Cambodia also strikes some city, some town, some river, some lake here in the United States where we desperately need those funds to build up our cities, to strengthen our land, to clean our air, to save our water, and to make America once again the great and good land that it ought to be.

	Now I see this sign out here that says "Give 'em hell, George," and my answer to that is the same one that President Truman used to give. I don't give them hell--I just tell them the truth and they think it is hell!

	But since Mr. Nixon refuses to debate, and since he refuses to appear in face-to-face discussion of the issues, about the only way we can get a debate of any kind going in this campaign is for me to reply to the charges of those who speak for him. And I want you to listen carefully to this: not one of these Republican spokesmen has yet claimed that my program would fail to achieve the goals that I set as our first priorities in Southeast Asia. What are those goals? First of all, to end the fighting and end the killing; secondly, to bring our prisoners home. And let's be clear--the only way we are ever going to see those prisoners again is to stop the bombing and stop the war that put them in prison in the first place. Now it has been four years ... [MISSING TEXT]
ELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNELECTIONS--PRIMARIES AND CONVENTIONSVIETNAM WAR     t  @  :  6  . 
 "            ë à	 M 	 / 	  e: