Speeches\1952\dem\S52d0927.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/27STUMPPADUCAHKENTUCKYKYCOURT HOUSE SQUARE1,850 WORDS

	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Berkley, distinguished guests and my friends of Paducah. I don't know what I would do without Kentucky. Well, the fact of the matter is I wouldn't be here at all if it wasn't for Kentucky. Not only do I have to come to Alben Barkley for advice and counsel and wisdom, but I even have to come to Kentucky to get my campaign manager, Wilson Wyatt.

	There is one thing, however, I want to say to you, Mr. Vice President, and that is I assume that we don't want any Democrats to die--at least before next November. Whether they go to heaven or not, I think they will all do us a great kindness if they will just stick around.

	Paducah, somehow, and November--the month of November--are names that hold a very special meaning for all of the Democrats and, in fact, for all good Americans. Paducah, it seems to me, has come to stand for Alben Barkley around this country. I am proud that I can call him my kinsman. In fact, I never neglect to call him my kinsman when I have the opportunity.

	It was only--it was exactly 100 years ago this year that my family migrated from Kentucky into Illinois. I always thought the Stevensons must be a little bit smarter than the Barkleys because the Stevensons went to Illinois and the Barkleys stayed here. I have never been able to wring a confession out of Alben Barkley that he agreed with me on that subject, however.

	November is the great month also for Democrats, because that is the month in which we win those elections that we are always expected to lose. But more than that, my friends, November is the month that also gave the United States Alben Barkley. He was born on November 24, 1877. In November 1904 he was elected prosecuting attorney of McCracken County. Four years later, in November, he was elected judge; and in 1912, November brought him election to the first of seven terms in the House of Representatives in Washington, four terms in the United State Senate, and finally the vice presidency of the United States. He has never been beaten. He is unbeatable. And, as your chairman said, for me and, I think, to tens of thousands of Americans, this man is Mr. Democrat. And I might say that the Democratic party isn't divided as to whether or not he is entitled to that honor and to that title.

	What history he has made. He first went to Congress to take up the people's fight in 1913, and even then, almost 40 years ago, Republicans were filling the air with cries of socialism and of regimentation. Alben Barkley was the strong right arm, in those days, of Woodrow Wilson. He was one of the hardy band that kept the Jeffersonian flame alight during the dark and the demoralizing days of the Harding and the Coolidge and the Hoover administrations. And, when Franklin Roosevelt took up the fight for the people, Alben Barkley was in the thick of the battle. And there, by the way, was a crusade.

	You know what the Democrats did. Over a constant drum-fire of bitter opposition we enacted a farm program that gave farmers a fair chance. We established minimum wage laws for working men and wrote into the law of the land labor's right to organize. We planted forever in our laws the principle of social security, and despite the Republican orators' cries of ruin and of socialism the Republic grew stronger and stronger--strong enough to surmount the greatest depression in our history--strong enough to win the greatest war in our history--strong enough to lead the world in the present struggle for peace.

	This is the record. This is the record of the Democratic party; and much of that record is due to your fellow townsman Alben Barkley of Kentucky.

	Now today we Democrats are in a new battle--a new battle for the people's welfare--a rough and a rousing battle. A few short months ago I had expected that this campaign would turn out quite differently. I had expected the General to recognize the seriousness of the issues before our country and debate them seriously. But day by day he has adopted more and more the standard campaign practices. I can hardly blame him in a way. I noticed last night--and thank heaven he wasn't injured--that the platform on which he was speaking in Richmond collapsed. That didn't surprise me a bit. I have been telling him for two months that nobody could stand on that platform. Now it looks to me more and more as though it was Senator Taft who is riding the elephant and not the victor in that sanguinary conflict in the Chicago stockyards which will be known historically as the Republican Convention of 1952.

	I suppose it is the first example in history of the vanquished dictating the surrender terms to the victor.

	The General is talking about what he calls fumbling and bumbling by the Democrats, when everybody in the country knows that the Democrats have fumbled and bumbled us into 62 million jobs. The General is saying the Democrats have made inflation a way of life, when everybody in the country knows that it was the Republicans led by Senator Taft who wrecked price control in 1946 and who have also opposed most every effort to do anything effective about inflation and the high cost of living ever since. I had expected something different, but I guess I should have known better. The real crusade is to destroy the last vestige of the New Deal, as Senator Bricker said in so many words right after the General was nominated in Chicago.

	Now Senator Taft and the General and all of the others want to destroy farm price supports and minimum wage laws and flood control and power projects, and all of the other things that have made our people richer and our nation stronger than it has ever been before. That is what we have to fight against, and that is why I am here--and that is why Alben Barkley is here--and I might say, that is why Senator Earle Clements is here, and why you must send Tom Underwood back to the Senate in Washington.

	This is the people's fight and this has been Vice President Barkley's fight for a lifetime. It is 75 years now since he was born. At the time of his birth the steamboat traffic on the river was still in its prime. The river has always meant much to Paducah. It has been a blessing, bringing trade, and it has been a curse, bringing floods. From the beginning men loved the river, and they feared it. You were here, many of you, in 1937, and you saw the muddy waters rise in the streets, and you know very well what I mean.

	Well, to remove the fear of the river, that river has been damned and walled in. We have shackled its mighty energy and harnessed its power to our own purposes. Your flood control project right here in Paducah, built with federal funds, since the 1937 flood, and now turned over to the city, has already prevented the loss of millions of dollars in property values. And dozens of other cities along America's mighty rivers can tell identically the same story. I suppose this sort of flood control is what the Old Guard calls waste, extravagance and socialism. I wouldn't be surprised to hear them say that when the United States' barges had to sail right up Broadway here in Paducah to rescue people out of the second story of the Irvin Cobb Hotel during the 1937 flood, that it was government interference with the free enterprise of the river. Well, we know better.

	I am told that Paducah lost a thousand population between 1940 and 1950--and some people said this town was on its way out. Well, it doesn't look that way to me now. I can't tell you how many people live here today--nobody seems to know. I guess they are all too busy to find out. People have come here from all over our country--thousands and thousands of them--and the inconveniences are many. And I know that many of you citizens of this town are making great sacrifices--the newcomers and the old residents as well. But I would remind you that you are opening here a new frontier on the riverland of America. No frontier in history, from the Klondike to the TVA was ever opened without growing pains. There are no gains without pains anywhere. And when you have finished your work you will have laid the foundation for a new and a richer civilization here in old Kentucky.

Here almost before our eyes we can see the promise of atomic energy, and we labor for the day when the atom will mean not death, but life; when it will bring to mankind relief from endless toil riches we had never thought existed.

	It is entirely appropriate that this new frontier is being opened here in Kentucky. A hundred years ago a great American, Henry Clay, crossed the Cumberland Gap on the Wilderness Road, paused in the saddle of the gap and stood silent. And a companion asked him why he lingered there. He replied, "I am listening to the tread of the coming millions." And just as Clay foretold, the American people have come in millions. We have grown and prospered, and we mean to go a long way yet, thrusting forward the progress we have already made; making our land rich and fertile, our cities fair and bright.

	Henry Clay was a Kentuckian. It is no accident that he came from Kentucky, for Kentucky is the place where the streams of the American civilization meet and merge. There are no sectional lines drawn here and there are none drawn in the heart of Alben Barkley. Barkley is a greater Clay--I say he is a greater Clay, a greater pacificator--yes, as Clay was, but more a friend of suffering humanity everywhere. Under his leadership and that of our great presidents, Harry Truman and Franklin Roosevelt, we have remade the face of America.

	And with your help--with the help of all of the people--the Democratic party will press forward with its great purpose to fulfill the promise we now behold about us everywhere. And I say, long may we benefit from the service and the counsel and the advice of Alben Barkley, and long may we heed his wisdom.

	You are so good to me. I am deeply touched by your coming here to listen to me this afternoon, and I thank you from the bottom of my heart, both for your courtesy and for your patience.
HISTORY--UNITED STATESHYDROELECTRICAL ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESNUCLEAR ENERGY INDUSTRY/RESOURCESPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSSTATESPERSONS--KENTUCKY     Q( ( ( ( (
 þ' ù' ô' í' å' ã' Ñ' Æ'	 Œ 	 v 	 M 	 , 	  e: