Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0926.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/26STUMPSAN FRANCISCOCALIFORNIACACOMMONWEALTH CLUB5,455 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen, I come to you not only as the
vice president of the United States, which is a high honor
for me, one for which I will be eternally grateful, but I trust
that you will also permit me to speak to you as a candidate
for the highest office within the gift of the American people, the
presidency.

	The Commonwealth Club has offered spokesmen--Americans spokesmen
and spokesmen throughout the world, an opportunity to state their
views in an atmosphere of understanding, confidence and tolerance
and forbearance.  This great club that has been the forum for the
statement of high national policy and international goals.  I come
here today hopefully to be able to discuss with you some of the
thoughts and observations and my hopes and dreams of a new strategy
for peace.  First of all, the highest goal of mankind should be
peace.  Statesmanship is not measured by the victories won on the
battlefields, but rather the achievements of peace that are won in
the hearts of men and the achievements of peace that are
accomplished through the fine art of diplomacy.

	Peace is the crowning glory of civilization.  War is the throwback
to man's primitive nature.

	A political campaign ought to challenge the best that is in us. 
Sometimes it is rather difficult to see that.  It ought to.  This
is why I have said from every platform where I am privileged to
speak that it is nothing short of tragedy for this country that the
major political candidates seeking the highest office of president
do not appear on the same platform at the same time before the same
audiences.

	I know this does not always appeal to partisans.  I am an old hand
at party politics and I think I understand what it means to address
a partisan audience.  But we have been admonished through Scripture
and through philosopher to seek the truth.  And truth is not always
sought nor is it even the prize in a political campaign where all
you do is to address the partisan group.

	And I once again say in all respect for my opponents in this
campaign that we really owe it to this nation as mature citizens,
men who at least some people thought were capable of handling the
difficult assignment of the office of the presidency.  We owe it to
the American people to let them hear us speak thoughtfully,
understandingly, with mediation, with knowledge.  I know how to
address an audience with bombast and oratory.  But I also think
that because of the difficulties that beset this country, this
period of crisis that we face, the dangers that are evidenced in
this world, that this campaign above all others should be one of
sobriety, of responsibility, of reason, of judicial judgment, of
ideas.  The noise of a campaign does not determine its quality. 
Every political campaign in a period of crisis above all else
should be a period of education, inspiration, meditation.  And we
face such a crisis today--with conflict at home, with some voices
trying to divide this country into separate camps--black against
white, rich against poor--with some voices once again being raised
to tell us that the Cold War is again upon us, with some voices
telling us that there is no way out except [missing text] for the recent America.

	I think that at this period of time, we need rational discussion of
the issues.  Democracy has many qualities.  Winston Churchill once
said it is the worse possible form of government except all others.
Maybe he was right.  But I know that democracy for its survival
requires discussion, debate, and also the ferment of dissent.  It
also requires decision.  But there can be no national decision
without discussion, without debate, dialogue, and even the
challenge of dissent, which is the fresh breeze that comes into the
intellectual arena.

	I have a simple formula for my idea of democracy: dissent, yes;
disorder, no.  And I think that is the formula that is needed now,
or the standard that is needed now in our nation as never before.

	So I want to talk to you about peace and I want to make it very
clear that the making of peace is the work of giants, not pygmies,
physically or intellectually, morally or spiritually.  I want to
talk to you about our role in achieving peace and maintaining it, 
because during the next decade, we Americans will continue to have
a major responsibility for preserving world peace.  There is no
escape from it.  But how we fulfill that responsibility will
change, because it is a changing world.  Today we face new
conditions and tomorrow will--there will be another set of
conditions.

	So for those that want simple, dogmatic doctrinaire answers, there
are none.  The first sign of a civilized man is that he understands
that change is inevitable.  And he learns how to adjust himself to
it and to direct those forces of change in the constructive
patterns.  Though the tragic events in Czechoslovakia of recent
days remind us that the Cold War period regrettably is not over, it
is giving way, nevertheless, its central role on the world's stage
to a global movement for its individual freedom and human
emancipation.

	The central fact of our time is not despotism and tyranny, but
Emancipation, participation, individualism, here at home and
throughout the world.  The communist countries no longer are a
monolith and no longer do they pose a monolithic threat.  The
breeze of freedom and emancipation is sweeping over Central Europe
and other parts of the world.  There is a need and a new chance,
therefore, to accelerate our efforts.

	In one area of the peacekeeping, the control and the slowdown of
the arms race, new nations are moving into a period when they look
more toward self-development and less toward ideological conflicts. 
Western Europe and Japan, just to mention a few areas, are today
better able to stand on their own two feet and they want to do just
that--not by excluding us but in their own spirit of pride and
strength.  And a new generation in the United States and other
industrialized countries rejects the old premises of war and cold
war diplomacy.  They want to see more emphasis placed on human and
personal values, such as having enough to eat, being able to have
the opportunity to learn, and living free from fear.

	And it is for our generation--my generation--to help this new
generation realize its hopes of a world free from the tyrannies of
war and oppression, to help realize what Franklin Roosevelt laid
down as a hope and as a promise: the four freedoms.  And indeed,
two of them above all--freedom from fear, freedom from thought,
freedom to speak, freedom of conscious.

	Now, our world role in the next ten years will be different from
the last decade.  This is not to repudiate the past, it is merely
to accept the future.  There are pressing problems here at home
which cause us to place careful priorities on the allocation of our
resources at home and abroad.. Revival of strength in other free
countries does enable them to assume greater burdens for self-
defense and for international cooperation, and for us to be wedded
to the idea that only America can stand guard and help save this
suffering world is to show that we are the victims of addiction to
a generation gone by.  The experience of recent years does, and I
repeat does, suggest areas in which our foreign policy-making
should be changed and could be improved.  I have said as a
candidate, and sometimes I am questioned a great deal by the media
about it as to what I mean, that my first objective when I am
permitted to serve this nation as its president will be to
reassess, to reevaluate, to restudy all of our commitments abroad: 
in Southeast Asia, Europe, Latin America, wherever it is.  This is
not to say that we abandon what we have already committed.  It is
merely to take inventory, and any man that takes over the management
of a concern, business or public, the first thing he ought to do
if he is a sensible man and a prudent man is to take inventory, to
assess the situation in his eyes, with his eyes, with his
observance, with his advisers; not necessarily to abandon anything,
but if need be to abandon what needs to be abandoned; not
necessarily to turn your back on the yesterdays but, if need be, if
the times of tomorrow require it, to have the courage to do it, in
other words, to live for tomorrow and not to worship the
achievements of yesterday. 

	Now, I welcome this period of debate and review and I regret that
it is a sort of one-man debate.  I welcome this opportunity to join
in the scrutiny of policy, policy that I helped make as senator,
policy that I have at least advised on as vice president.  I was
privileged to be brought up by a father who was a good merchant. 
We changed our merchandising practices a dozen times in the life of
our business without ever taking the name off the store. 


	I want to say that if you ever plan on staying in business, you
never accept the other fellow's inventory; you make your own.

	Even if he is your best friend [missing text].

	So I welcome the opportunity to define a new strategy for peace. I
only wish I had a few more participants.  First and fundamental to
this strategy is the rejection of those proposals which rely
exclusively on American power as the guarantor of security in areas
of the developing world where we are now involved.  And Southeast
Asia is a good example.  Our nation has been deeply involved and
concerned about Vietnam, and as a result of that concern, there is
a temptation today on the part of too many to pull back and to
withdraw from further responsibility outside the familiar Atlantic
world.  Asia seems so remote to some.  And yet it is half the
population of this Earth.  For us to ignore it, for us to pretend
it is not there is to me not only ridiculous but dangerous.

	But then, what do we do about it?  The lesson of Vietnam is not
that we should turn our backs on Southeast Asia or on other nations
or peoples in less familiar parts of the world neighborhood.  The
lesson is rather that we should most carefully assess, in that area
as in other areas, our national interest, carefully define our
goals and priorities.  And within those interests and priorities,
then we should formulate policies which will fit new American
guidelines.

	Remember that on January 20, 1969, a new president, a new man will
take the office and take the oath of office for the presidency of
the United States.  I have said from a dozen platforms and in my
acceptance speech for the nomination of my party that we are coming
to the end of an era and entering the dawn of a new day.  I believe
that.  Therefore, we must design goals and programs and policies
and objectives for the new day, building on that which is good and
sound, having no hesitation whatsoever as a great people and a
great nation to cast aside that which may have served its purpose
or may have had no useful purpose at all.

	In Southeast Asia, I believe that we should follow three basic
future guidelines as follows:  first, self-help.  People want to be
free, they have to demonstrate it--regional and multilateral
responsibility; selective American assistance.  The self help
principle should apply both to national security and to economic
and social development.

	Regional and multilateral responsibility will be the only way in
which small and medium-sized nations, particularly those living
near the borders of the great powers, will be able to gain the
collective strength that is necessary both to withstand the
pressure of internal subversion and indirect aggression and to
muster the economic and social resources which few have within
their own limited means.  Not only should we continue to encourage
regional cooperation such as we see in the Alliance for Progress,
the Asian African Development Banks and the Regional Security
organizations, but we should also avoid where possible unilateral
involvement, either militarily or economically, where multilateral
means are available.

	Now, what does that mean in simple terms?  We cannot remake the
world in our design.  Let's try to make this world safe for
diversity, not a world of uniformity..

	Selective American assistance--let's define that.  That will be a
necessity as we carefully measure just what is and what is not in
our national interest.  For example, were all of the commitments
made by the late John Foster Dulles in our national interest?  If
they were, then regardless of the author, we should underwrite
them.  If they are not, regardless of the author, we should no
longer underwrite them.  It is just that simple..

	This is to abandon no one, but it is to think of our national
interest, and the president of the United States has a primary
obligation:  he takes an oath of office to defend this country from
enemies foreign and domestic.  He takes an oath of office above all
to think of this country and its well-being.  Now, that does not
mean isolationism.  It most likely means the most sensitive and the
most clearly defined kind of international cooperation.  But just
as the son of a successful father seeks to live his own life and
build his own career, so each new generation of Americans must do
the same.

	This is not to downgrade the achievements of the family.  It is
only to add a new dimension to the importance of the family.  That
is the way I see it..

	So the time is certainly past when we alone were the only reliable
source of assistance to nations under pressure from aggression or
from poverty.  The task now is not to march alone but to march in
such a way that others will wish to join, to follow us, to be the
leader and not the solo player, to be the leader in a new strategy
for peace, broadly based and shared by many nations.

	Now, there will be no peace for any American or any person on this
Earth until nations stop piling up these weapons of mass
destruction and the spreading of these weapons around the world. 
I am simply saying, and I will repeat it from every platform that
I am privileged to hold:  we must halt the spread of nuclear terror
before it halts humanity.  Now, I have devoted much of
my public life to these ends, as the sponsor of the Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency, as the chairman of the Senate Special
Subcommittee on Disarmament, as the principal Senate supporter of
the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, and as vice president, I traveled last
year to Geneva and to six European capitols to encourage the
signing and the development of the so-called Nuclear Nonproliferation 
Treaty designed to stop the spread of nuclear
weaponry, technology, and the spread of weapons themselves.  I
can't help but have, well, deep concern and fear when I think of
what might happen in this world if nuclear weapons were to fall
into the hands of the competitors and the enemies in the Far East,
if nuclear weapons were to be in the hands of Mr. Nasser, of Ho Chi
Mihn, of the government of South Vietnam, the government of North
Korea, the government of South Korea, Castro in Cuba.  And yet,
ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly where we are now.  We are at
that point where at least eight to twelve nations at this hour have
the technical and scientific and engineering capacity to develop
nuclear weaponry and their means of delivery.

	I think that is a dangerous situation.  Time is running out and
there are superpowers that would be more than happy to spread
these weapons amongst others if the arms race goes unhalted.  Every
time a nation gets these dangerous weapons, the level of danger is
raised.  One erratic response by an erratic leader or a leader that
has no judgment could precipitate a total nuclear confrontation. 
This is the issue above all others that will affect the lives of
children yet unborn and the young of this generation.

	As president, because as senator and vice president, I felt the
same way, I will be dedicated to the effective control and the
immediate slowdown of the arms race.  And I will seek to implement
that treaty that stops the spread of nuclear weaponry which I
believe should be promptly ratified.

	I remind this great audience that we failed once to ratify the
Versailles treaty and we lived to see a Hitler.  We saw the death
of the League of Nations.  We contributed to the seeds of World War
II by our inaction, by our failure to ratify a treaty..

	I shall repeat as long as I am strong enough to say it that the
Republican nominee, a respected man in public life, has a moral
obligation to call upon the Senate of the United States, along with
myself calling upon that same Senate, to promptly ratify that non-
proliferation treaty as a means of peace..

	To frighten the American people by the memories of the darker days
of the Cold War, to drag out the old speeches of communist peril--
all of that has no relevance whatsoever to a treaty that is in our
national interest, a treaty that does not curb our strength, that
does not deny us the means of self-defense, but a treaty that will
stop the spread of this dangerous weaponry.

	Mr. Nixon, you owe it to our country, you owe it to your sense of
decency and conscience, to rise above the political advantage which
may momentarily come by rattling the skeletons of fear of the Cold
War and communist peril and joining with me in calling upon the
Senate of the United States to act as statesmen rather than men of
doubt and indecision.  And I beg of this audience today 
to call on him.

	Now, the choice is clear:  we can have a president who equivocates
on these matters of life or nuclear death, equivocates on matters
like seeking an agreement with the Soviet Union on offensive and
defensive missiles, which I shall do, an end to nuclear testing
under adequate safeguards, the control of chemical, radiological
and biological weapons, and a halt to regional arms races in the
Middle East and elsewhere.  I will seek an agreement, I will seek
to find ways of agreement, pursuing relentlessly every known way of
diplomacy to gain these objectives.  There can be an end to these
deadly arms races and I mean to exert the leadership of this nation
to put it to an end.

	Your defense budget now is $80--$80 billion.  How much more do you
think you ought to spend?  Well, let me make it clear, there will
be no end to the spending unless we expend ourselves in a constant
pursuit of the means of diplomacy and negotiation to arrive at a
mutual understanding and agreement, halting this dangerous arms
race.

	So I say that we need a man who understands the prospects of
success in this area and the consequences of failure.  We can have
a president who equivocates on these matters or we can have a
president how will act to turn back the arms race and save mankind
from self-destruction.

	Now, new conditions will require improvement in the institutions
for peace, and I want to pledge to you here in San Francisco, where
the United Nations was born twenty-three years ago, that one of the high
priorities of my presidency will be to strengthen the peacekeeping
and the peacemaking capacity of the United Nations.  I have served
in that United Nations.  I have served in it, studied
it, and as senator been chairman of the subcommittee that dealt
with it.  I think it has the hopes of mankind for peace in its very
makeup.  Therefore, the third step for the new strategy for peace
is to make the United Nations the instrument for controlling
conflict it has failed to be.

	Now, the United States cannot play the role of global gendarme.  We
not only should not, but we cannot.  The American people don't want
it and the rest of the world won't accept it.  And we know better
today than yesterday that "the illusion of American omnipotence", in
D.W. Brogan's phrase, "is an illusion."  But the alternative to
American peacekeeping cannot be no peacekeeping.  It must be
peacekeeping by the United Nations for regional agencies or
regional groupings.  The basis of any world peacekeeping system
must be a commitment to non-interference in the internal affairs of
other countries, but this policy will only work if it is respected
by all states, large and small, and if there is an effective
instrument in the United Nations to serve the interest, not of
individual nations but of peace itself.  A policy of mutual non-
interference is not just an ideal, it is also a way to preserve the
peace.  But it will work only if the pledges of non-interference
are backed up by the United Nations forces which can control
borders and supervise free elections.  And United Nations
peacekeeping efforts have produced practical results in Cyprus, in
the Congo, and in Kashmir.  And as president of the United States,
I will do everything in my power to place the international
peacekeeping soldiers in troubled areas, rather than American
soldiers.

	And nowhere would a United Nations peacekeeping force be more
welcome than in Vietnam to administer free elections and to verify
the withdrawal of foreign troops when the time of cease-fire and a
negotiated political settlement is arrived at.  But the
peacekeeping capacity of the United Nations can only be enlarged if its
members, particularly those who have no responsibility for peace as
great powers, will earmark and train units of their armed forces
for international peacekeeping assignments.  And therefore, to be
practical and specific, I propose to use our military assistance
programs to help less-developed countries prepare units of their
forces for the United Nations and regional peacekeeping
assignments.

	I propose to launch a new effort to resolve the United Nation's
financial and constitutional crisis.

	I propose to call for a United Nations Peacekeeping fund, beginning
with a contribution from this nation of $20 million to help the
United Nations launch emergency operations without delay.

	If we want peace, we and all nations must be prepared to pay for it
and we ought to take the lead.  One of my first steps
as your new president will be to call a new San Francisco
Conference, Mr. Mayor, to rededicate the United Nations on its twenty-fifth 
anniversary, right here in San Francisco, Mr. Mayor--and to seek new 
ways of making it work for peace.  I will appoint
early in 1969 a national commission for peace, to be composed of
leading American citizens representing many different points of
view who will have a mandate from me as your President to develop
specific proposals for the new San Francisco Conference and to work
with similar commissions which we shall ask for from other member
nations to plan for the twenty-fifth anniversary Conference in April 1970. 
It can be done.  We must dare to try..

	Now, there is a fourth element in the new strategy for peace.  It
must be global--a global effort for economic development; as Pope
Paul called it, "the new name for peace."  I have visited many of
the new nations and I have talked to their leaders and their
people.  As President Kennedy said, "If we cannot help the many who
are poor, we cannot save the few who are rich."

	But today the time has come for a new approach to world
development.  We have known that national burdens can be lifted if
international burdens can be shared.  We need not merely a new
level of foreign assistance effort, but greater emphasis upon
international multilateral cooperation.  This will be a new
philosophy of aid for me, where we help nations through development
without facing what has been called the temptation to do good, the
temptation to insist not only that virtue be done, but that our
particular version of virtue be implemented in our particular way. 
The new approach to aid-giving will not relieve us of the need to
play our full part.  Indeed, the action of the Congress this year
in mutilating the foreign aid bill was outright irresponsible and
will only make it--mind you, my fellow Americans--will
only make it more likely that some day people will try to do by
force and war what we now fail to do of peace and economic
development.  We must therefore reevaluate our priorities so that
a $70 million defense budget to work for peace today does not
eclipse these modest programs to provide for peace tomorrow.

	There is something wrong in this country, my friends.  
But we are not alone.  New efforts should be made in the coming
years to enlist the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe in the global
war on poverty.  Development should mean cooperation, not
competition, because the peace it provides is in our common
interest.

	The fifth element of this new strategy for peace should be new
efforts to promote international understanding through the exciting
developments in communications technology, including communications
satellites.  Through those satellites, man can transmit between
central grouped stations and can broadcast directly from village,
home, radio and T.V. receivers.  I therefore will propose
reciprocal radio and T.V. exchanges with other countries, including
the countries of Eastern Europe.  Let's dare.  Let's be
adventuresome.  We have nothing to lose.  In the competition of
ideas there is no danger that the stale stench of totalitarianism
can in any way outwork or in any way overcome the fresh breeze of
freedom.  I see no reason to be afraid.  Let us offer the leaders
of the Soviet Union the opportunity to talk to the American people
on T.V. and radio in return for the same privilege of our leaders
in the Soviet Union.  You say it won't work?  Well, let's try it and
let's keep at it..

	Some countries may have difficulty with these proposals, but we are
an open society and we should lead in the quest for an open world.

	I have spoken to you today of several aspects of our foreign
policy.  It is a serious speech and regrettably, I suppose, an
extended one.  But this is serious business.  But none of these
things will of course be effective unless we as a people first make
the decision that America should and must continue top lay an
active role in the world at large and that we should not, despite
our frustrations and our problems at home, draw back within
ourselves.

	Over these past few years we have come to regard our power and
strength almost with a sense of guilt, and there has always been
with us that old instinct to avoid foreign entanglement.  But I
believe that we should regard our strength and our power not as
something for which we should apologize, or to be cast aside, but
as an active instrument for peace and human betterment.  NATO, for
instance, provides a necessary shield for the Western Alliance. 
And today, after the tragic events in Czechoslovakia, we are once
again compelled to recognize its vital importance to peace and
security.  But the power that lies within NATO need not only be
military power.  It can also be coordinated economic and social and
political power to be exercised on behalf of bridge-building to the
East and lessening of world tensions.  In our alliances and
international institutions, therefore, we must foresee the
possibilities of pushing forward the forces of freedom and human
emancipation that are now sweeping the world.  But we must
understand that our vast power must not be too easily and readily
used, that it must not be used in any way which might lead this
nation to become overbearing or to be enamored of its power.  That
would be dangerous.

	Yet at the same time, we must understand, that the absence of the
use of power, when such is needed, can be equally dangerous. 
Therefore, we must be judicious and thoughtful, and to turn within
ourselves or to stand aside and in the face of rapid and tumultuous
change would be to leave ourselves the helpless victims of history
rather than progenitors.  So I call upon this nation and this place
to stay at this business of international responsibility.  It is
one world and it is the world of mankind.  There is no way to get
off or get out except through death.

	So I call on you, my fellow Americans, not to become disillusioned
with the troubles that we find in the world at large, but rather to
see the enormous possibilities that are still unmet.

This above all will require something that America has always found
difficult--patience, persevering patience.  It has been said of
this nation that we are not a long-distance runner but a nation of
sprinters.  I hope not.  But in the year twenty-five of the nuclear age, we
must finally learn that peace will never be a short-run game but
always a marathon.  A new strategy for peace will be the work of
many years, but it is worth it.

	Ordinary people in this country and throughout the world are
turning to leaders how offer them programs for cooperation rather
than conflict.  I ask of you today which presidential candidate,
which political party is best equipped therefore to lead in the
quest for peace.  Which presidential candidate, which political
party, is best equipped to turn back the arms race, to strengthen
international peacekeeping, to accelerate development through
multilateral agencies, to move with courage through reconciliation
for world understanding?  Only if we can inspire this new
generation of Americans who are new to the nation's political
process.  That new generation will, in the long run, determine the
success or the failure of American policy at home and abroad.  And
our search for the new strategy for peace will succeed only when we
find an honorable end to the tragic war that now besets us.  And as
president, my first priority, if that war is still with us, will be
to find and end to the war--not by yielding to aggression, which
violates every principle of peace, but by pursing relentlessly,
with creativity and innovation and daring, the processes of
negotiation.  And I do believe that the platform of my party, which
recognizes that the search for peace involves risks, is a sound
document.  It points the way to the goal of an honorable and
acceptable peace in Vietnam, and as a candidate, I shall be guided by
that platform.  And in pursuing that goal in Vietnam, as in all
other areas of that policy, I will repeat for you today my
commitment:  the policies of tomorrow will not be limited by the
policies of yesterday.  I believe that we can pursue a new strategy
and succeed.  President Kennedy thought so, too, and I worked with
him as I have with President Johnson in those objectives.

	Here is what he said in that memorable address at American
University, and I leave you with these words:  "Let us examine our
attitude toward peace itself.  Too many of us think it is
impossible.  Too many think it unreal.  But that is a dangerous,
defeatist belief.  It leads to the conclusion that war is
inevitable, that mankind is doomed, and that we are ripped by
forces we cannot control.

	"We need not accept that view.  Our problems are man-made;
therefore, they can be solved by men.  And man can be as big as he
wants."

	President Kennedy was right.  We can have peace if we work for it,
if we sacrifice for it.  And we shall have peace if we have the
strength and the courage to relentlessly pursue it.

	I say to you that this is my pledge to the American people in this
campaign.  A president must be an apostle of peace.  He must give
his life if need be for the cause of peace, because there is no
greater cause and there is no greater honor.

	Thank you very much.

ALLIES/ALLIANCESDEBATES, PRESIDENTIALFOREIGN AID--GENERALSATELLITE TECHNOLOGIESSOUTHEAST ASIAWEAPONS PROLIFERATIONFOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALNUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL/DISARMAMENT (COLD WAR ERA)UNITED NATIONS     d{ 0{ *{ &{ {
 { { { ûz ñz ïz Þz Óz Š		 Ç 	 · 	 ¢ 	 Ž 	 x 	 j  U  =   e: