Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1029.002SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/29STUMPQUEENSNEW YORKNYLOST BATTALION HALL2262 WORDS

	Governor Dewey, Mr. Klein, Mr. Kenner, and my very good friends--and I am certain you are my friends and that I may call you that else you would not turn out here this evening, crowding this great building like this, to give me a chance to greet you, to say a few of the things that are on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	Before I take up some of the thoughts I should like to express to you, I am sure that everyone here will understand why an old soldier would want to make special mention of the great number of vet caps I see here tonight.  Between me and those who have worn the uniform of our country, I have always felt a very close kinship.  I have served with them in many regions of the world, many areas, and in World War II, some of them, of course, were in the Far Pacific.  Some had duties here at home.  But more than three million Americans were with me in Europe.  I did my best to see them, to talk with them, to discuss with them the reasons why we were fighting that war.

	Now, my friends, do you realize that today you are the combat troops?  Generals propose, but it is the fighting troops that take care of the battle, and that is what you are doing.  You are going to reach your first objective on next November 4.  Let me point this out.  That is not the end of this battle.  That is the beginning of a campaign.  This campaign is not merely a contest like another football game to be read about in Monday morning's paper--and give our ideas of who was wrong and who was right and how the quarterback lost the game.  Not at all.  And again, my veteran friends will understand me when I say on November 4, we are going to win the line of departure.  That is what we are going to win. From there on, the true campaign starts, the campaign to root out everything in government that is incompetent, extravagant, useless, wasteful and dishonest.

	And now, my friends, when this campaign started, we were promised--a very high-sounding promise, put in very nicely-flowing words--that the United States was going to be given the spectacle of a political contest conducted on such a plane, the opposition said that we would be all educated and elevated.  It was a very, very wonderful promise.  I sincerely appreciated it, but what has happened?  If you are going to educate, you have to start with the record, with the facts.  Who among you here would like the job of defending the record of the government of the past seven years?  Well, I don't have to ask that one again.  Of course, they can't defend that record, a record in which, with all of the assets and resources of this great nation with which we came out of World War II, they have frittered them away--as they have struggled and fumbled and stumbled and fallen in the foreign field.  They have brought us no closer to peace.  We have had these emergencies after emergencies.  We have lost China.  We have lost souls, human souls, to the Communistic dictatorship in the Kremlin at the rate of 100 million per year.

	That is what has happened.  Then we have Korea and a war, and they say, "Why, you shouldn't criticize anything about this.  It happened and, of course, we are there."  That is exactly what American boys are fighting for.  But did they have to do it?  That is the question.  Did they have to do it?

	Now, with a record like that and a record of expenditures that is so staggering we can't even comprehend it, we do know this:  It is a record of expenditures that--in spite of the highest income rate in dollars that we have ever had and in spite of the greatest rate of taxes put on that income that we have ever had, they can't meet the bills.

	What does this deficit mean to you?  It means this.  It means that your money goes down and down, which is another way of saying prices go up and up.

	Today, when the housewife goes down to the corner grocery store to buy a bag of groceries that she bought for ten dollars in 1939, she has to lug along twenty-four dollars and fifty cents or she has to leave something out of the basket on the way home.

	Now, that is another part of the record.  And then with all of these expenditures and taxes, most of which could not be helped, we have even had "Pinkos" in the government.  We have had red agents called "Red Herrings" and that is a new name.

	Finally, we have a long record of sheer dishonesty.  Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to over emphasize the great loss to any one of you of what those 180-odd people out of the Bureau of Internal Revenue have stolen out of your pocket.  I suppose, possibly, for each one of us, maybe it amounts to a few cents.  But let us remember us.  You remember the old quotation, "Who steals my purse steals trash; but he who steals my good name takes that which enriches him not and leaves me poor indeed."

	So what has happened?  As you read these scandals a day about your government, you are robbed of your pride in government.  Now, America well knows that when 155 million people are united behind a great purpose, this is the mightiest force that God has ever allowed to exist on his footstool.  But how are we going to unite?  We look to Washington.  Our whole tradition, our whole system of government, means we look to our national government.  There we have our leadership; there we have our example.

	Ladies and gentlemen, I think my friend back there has finished my speech for me.  In any event, they take away from you the power of uniting among yourselves, because there is no leadership to inspire you, no leadership in which you can take pride and to which you can give your trust.  Until we can do that, how can America lead toward peace in the world?  Our morals, intellectual, and material strength are the things that are absolutely necessary to peace in this world.  We must have a government that we can trust.

	Now, my friends, the opposition, knowing that they would not defend a record such as that; has decided to change, and they are selling to America a bill of goods.  It is labeled "fear."  They are trying to sell America fear.  Let me say at the outset, I could not imagine an any more futile idea than trying to sell America fear.  On a thousand battlefields we proved it can't be done.  We have proved it in many crises here at home--of every kind.  So when they undertake to sell America fear, they show that they are at last getting completely desperate and have no program of their own except hoping that, if the American people will be fooled for just a minute into buying this bill of goods called fear, maybe they can hang on to their jobs another four years.  That is the one thing they cannot do.

	They have feared many things, my friends.  They have feared that I wanted to abolished social security.  My associates and I in this crusade are dedicated to the extension and improvement of social security, and we are the ones who have pointed out that we are not satisfied merely with the certainty that a human being, after passing the age of useful employment, can get a bare living.  We have tried to say social security laws are merely the floor we are trying to place under every living American so as to protect him from falling over into the pit of disaster that he himself could not avoid.  Now that having been done, we want him to build and build on top of that floor to the extreme limit of his ability.  Every talent that God gave him is to be exploited so that America may profit from the individual initiative and the enterprise and the ambition of 155 million people.

	Social security is what we demand as the certainty that we will never suffer as we go on to greater and greater heights in scientific, agricultural, every kind of avenue in the world--spiritual and intellectual; because the future of America, my friends, is something that is so bright, we ourselves cannot imagine it even in our wildest dreams.  Everything is here to produce it--all these people, these resources--everything.  Only do we need the leadership, the feeling that I belong to my neighbor on my right and to my neighbor on my left, and with me he is working toward this.  They have tried to divide us.  They try to tell us when we go down to the store to buy our groceries it is the farmer who causes our high prices.  What a calumny that is.  The farmer today is making a lower income than he did five years ago.  He is caught with rising prices of products and high taxes.  He is a victim exactly as you and I are when we go down to buy these things.  We are all caught in this double squeeze of high prices and high taxes.

	Now, my friends, I am going to give you the simple answer that the crusade proposes for all these troubles.  It is this.  Let us send to Washington, as our representatives, the finest men and women that we know--men and women who are well known in their localities, their own communities, their own home cities and towns and counties for their integrity, their honesty, their devotion to public service, their dedication to America.

	Each of them will be the guarantee of the American people to the American people that corruption cannot get into government, that communism will be stopped before it gets in.  Now, of course, we know that this kind of man and woman exists.  You have them in your own community.  You have a lot of them in Queens.  They will be there.  You people will say, "That man comes from my home.  I know him.  He is my guarantee that there is honesty, integrity, dedication and devotion there."

	If you will bear with me, I realize I am talking a little longer than I had planned.  You know I am due downtown rather quickly, because as the governor said, I am on a television show tonight.  Of course, I don't want to miss a chance to get my picture taken.  But I want to read you something about the kind of man that is today put in the prominent positions of government.  Here is an extract from a statement made by Dean Irwin Griswold of Harvard University, one of the prominent tax lawyers of our country, a man whose name is known as widely as lawyers extend in this whole country.  They know him, and here is what he says:

	"As one who has been proud to be a government servant, the decline in such a great office as the Department of Justice has been disheartening.  Let us take Lamar Caudle.  For four years or more, he was Assistant Attorney General of the United States in charge of the tax division of the Department of Justice.  Now, that is an area that I know something about.  I have spent most of my professional life in tax work.  I know a great many of the tax lawyers of the country.  I do not know anyone who ever heard of Lamar Caudle before he became head of the Tax Division.  He has no standing as a tax lawyer.  He had no qualifications as a tax lawyer; and even after four years as head of the tax division, he had no ascertainable qualifications as a tax lawyer.  I could go on and name others, not forgetting Mr. McGrath, the one-time Attorney General.  I am not talking to you about bribery and fraud.  Where they exist, they can eventually be found and the violators brought to book.  They can be found if Republican committees in Congress help them out.  I am talking of something of much greater importance.  What I have in mind is the general standard of professional competence.  As one who has served for four years in the Department of Justice when it had great leadership and high standards, it has been a special tragedy to me to see the state to which it has fallen, and this decline is by no means limited to the Department of Justice."

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is to throw out twenty-two-caliber men who are trying to fill forty-five-caliber jobs that we have to devote our attention during this next week.  You look over the scene--you look at what has happened--and you decide where you can get people who are honest, who believe that public service is something to which they should dedicate themselves and not try to use it for their own benefit, and where you can get people who are friendly because they are part of you.  That is what the crusade aims to give you.  You will make the decision on November 4.  For one, I have complete confidence in that decision.

	Thank you very much.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS--GENERALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSINFLATIONSOCIAL SECURITYVETERANSTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     1 Ë0 ‚0 ﬁ0 ‘0
 ∆0 ¡0 º0 ∂0 Æ0 ¨0 ô0 è0	 § 	 å 	 o 	 P 	 G 	 8  0 e: