Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1025.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/25STUMPSterling HeightsMICHIGANMIAdlai Stevenson High School2121 WORDS
	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Wow. Thank you.

	Nine more days. Thank you very much. Also let me say how very grateful I am to my friend, the great governor of New York, and the greatest orator in America today, Mario Cuomo, for being here.

	I want to say in the beginning, thanks to the people from Stevenson High School who invited me. Months ago, I got a letter from Eric Karl and Bob McBroom and Robbie Dargan . They said--in very nice ways, they said, "Governor, if you've got any sense, you'll come to Stevenson High School during the presidential campaign." And here I am. I want to thank the band for being here and all these people here in the drill team--because I know they're cold, and it's hard to play in the cold, and they've done a good job. I want to thank your senators, Don Riegle and Carl Levin--Governor Jim Blanchard and Congressman Hertel.

	And I want to thank--yeah, he was a good governor, wasn't he? I want to thank Congressman Hertel and wish him well as he leaves the Congress.

	And I want to say a special word of thanks to my long-time and close friend, Congressman Sandy Levin, for being here. He is one of the most thoughtful people in the entire United States Congress, and I hope you'll send him back to work on a new America with the Clinton-Gore team.

	And before I get into my remarks, I want to say a special word of appreciation for the remarkable poise shown by your student leader, Linda Hutchinson. Didn't she do a great job? Give her a big hand. I'm glad she's not running against me, but I hope she'll be running for something someday.

	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the case made by Governor Cuomo. I'm glad to be back in Macomb County for the third time since I began this campaign for president to tell you that you do represent America. As I look across this sea of faces, men and women, people of different races from all walks of life, as I look at all of the children in this crowd--and I'm so glad to see them all here, because they're what this election is all about--I see the face of hope. It is so strange to look at what is going on in Washington today and put it against the real problems of real people. It's impossible to figure.

	We've got a president who came into Michigan today one more time saying we ought to trust him with four more years. And I look at the government over which he presides. I mean, can you believe it? He's here talking about law enforcement, and in Washington the FBI and the Justice Department are so busy investigating each other, they don't have any time for crooks anymore.

	He talks about obeying the law, and the CIA and the Justice Department are fighting about which one of them lied to a federal court about the Iraq scandal. He used three political cronies in the State Department to investigate my 23-year-old passport files, which is okay, but then those people started investigating my mother. I'll tell you this. Now, you don't have to worry about my mother. She's handled a lot tougher people than George Bush in her life.

	And I do want to say this--there was one good thing that came out of that stupid scandal. They had these three political cronies who went out to the place where the State Department files were kept, and they got there at 6:00 at night and worked until 10:00. Now, that's the only time those political hacks have worked until 10:00 at night since George Bush has been president.

	And now we hear that on a television program tonight, Mr. Perot is going to say that Mr. Bush was investigating his children. Mr. Bush has already said that Mr. Perot investigated his children. They're worried about investigating each other's children. I'll tell you what I want. I want to investigate your children--their future, their problems, their promise--and to make a new America.

	You're right; nine more days is right.

	Mario Cuomo said that the four-letter word "work" was the best social program we ever had and the embodiment of the American Dream. I got into this race for president because I've worked for a dozen years as governor of a state of wonderful people. I've seen economic deprivation. Michigan's just full of people from Arkansas who came up here to find good work in the thirties and forties and fifties and sixties. I've seen our people, even when we developed jobs, work harder for less money. And I began to think there was no way to turn their situation around unless we got rid of trickle-down economics.

	I got into this race because I didn't want all the children in this audience, and my twelve-year-old daughter, and all the kids in America to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than their parents, to see the snuffing out of the American Dream. And I got into this race because I don't believe it has to be that way. I think the end of the Cold War offers these young people and those of us who are no longer young an incredible opportunity to live in a peaceful, rich, and diverse world if we have the courage to make the changes that will make it happen. But I know this: If we go along with four more years of the same old thing, we're going to get the same old thing. And I don't think you want that.

	Folks, I cannot believe that Mr. Bush is going around saying that I'm going to destroy jobs in Michigan. You know, if I worked at it eighteen hours a day, I couldn't cost you as many jobs as he has the last four years--if I made a steady effort, because I could not go to sleep at night with the kind of policies that they have visited on the American people. You know here in Michigan, you know what they did. The White House overruled our own government and gave the Japanese a $300 million trade break on multipurpose vehicles, costing American jobs. And what did we get for it? Nothing. We didn't ask anything for it. We just gave away the jobs and didn't ask them to open one single market in Japan. It was a scandal. That's the kind of thing I will not do if I'm president of the United States.

	You know--we now know that this administration actually spent American tax dollars--your money, your hard-earned money--to give low-interest loans to companies if they would shut their plants down in America and move them overseas. They couldn't get the money to modernize their plants here. They gave them over $150 million to retrain workers--to train workers in other countries, but we couldn't get the money to retrain workers here.

	They spent your tax money to hire people to encourage Americans to shut their plants down here and move them to Central America, and your tax money actually paid for an ad showing a picture of a woman saying, "This woman will work for 57 cents an hour. Come on down." And you know what's really cruel about it? When they were cornered, they said, "Well, we're trying to build up the people of Central America." That's not what happened. A year after they ran the ad and they shut a bunch of plants down in America and spent your money to finance their moving to Central America, that same woman was working for 33 cents an hour.

	Their policies have driven down wages in America and in Central America. They've spent your tax money to take your jobs away, and they have given it to people who are exploiting people in other countries instead of lifting them up. Let's lift up the people of America and we can lift up the people of Central America.

	Let me tell you something. My running mate, Al Gore, used to say that if they made a movie of George Bush's administration, it would be called Honey, I Shrunk the Economy. Well, let me--I got an even better idea. I have worked for twelve years to be a job creator. I will not be a job destroyer. If you made a movie of Bush's administration, you might call it The Terminator, and we don't need Terminator II. We need somebody who will build up this country.

	Folks, I know what creates jobs, and so do you: Investment. We need investment in America. We need investment in the private sector. We need to spend more of the tax money you give us and waste less of it. We need to invest it in jobs here at home. Every dollar by which we reduce defense must be spent investing in American streets and roads and water systems and cleaning up the environment and building high-speed rail and doing the things that will put the American people back to work.

	In my state, I made a decision a decade ago that we were not going to just lie down and let all of our manufacturing jobs go away. And while manufacturing employment declined in the United States, in our state it increased by over 10 percent. We rank first in the country today in job growth. There have been more jobs created in our state than in the country under the Bush administration because we didn't lay down and follow trickle-down economics. We held out the hand of partnership to manufacturers, to small businesses, to working people, to educators, and we put them together to fulfill the potential of people. People were meant to work on this earth, and it's wrong to have a government that doesn't give them a chance to do it and to be rewarded when they do it.

	It's not all that complicated. We've got to get rid of trickle-down economics. We can't go back to tax-and-spend economics because we don't have the money to spend. You cannot divide a shrinking pie. We've got to grow this economy and create good jobs, and it begins by preserving the manufacturing base of America.

	My grandfather told me in the Depression in Arkansas, people were so poor that literally half of them lived in abject poverty. And one time when I was a boy, I asked my granddaddy what it was like in the Depression, and he said, "Bill, people were so poor they took in one another's washing for a living." And you think about that. That's what it would be if we had a 100-percent service economy.

	Somebody's got to make something in this country, folks. The Japanese know that; 28 percent of their workers are in manufacturing. The Germans know that; 32 percent of their workers are in manufacturing. We're at 16 and a half percent and dropping because we have no strategy to put the American people to work in good jobs. I am angry about it. It doesn't have to be that way. And if you will give me a chance to change it on November 3rd, together we can do it.

	We can do it. We can do it. Let me say this. There'll be a lot of talk about change in this election. You already heard Governor Cuomo say of all the choices you have in Michigan, only one has ever balanced a government budget, only one has ever taken on lobbyists and resisted the influence of special interests. Only one has never been a part of the Washington special interest crowd. And only one made a real good choice for vice president, Al Gore of Tennessee.

	This is the race--this is the race of hope against fear, of change against the status quo, of the courage to reach for a new future. I ask you here today, leave here and dedicate yourself for nine days. Talk to your friends and neighbors in Michigan. Don't let them give in to the things-could-be-worse crowd. We want all the Democrats, all the Republicans, all the former Perot supporters we can get. We want all of the Independents. We don't want a victory of party. We want a victory for the American people, the people like those who are in this audience. Give it to us, and we will work our heart out to restore the American Dream.

	Thank you, and God bless you all.

FOREIGN TRADE--JAPANGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS--INVESTIGATIONSBUSINESS--OVERSEAS COMPANIESMANUFACTURING     þ- Ê- Ä- À- ¸-
 ­- ¨- £- “- ‹- ‰- n- d-	 ‡ 	 s 	 V  )   e: