Speeches\1968\dem\S68D1024.001SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)10/24STUMPLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACA8TH AND SANTEE STS.3,189 WORDS

	Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.

	Well, I'm glad--well, I'm glad to know you want Hubert, because Hubert wants you, I'll tell you that. 

	Thank you, Speaker Unruh, thank you for your words of introduction, but, more importantly, may I thank you on behalf of the people of the great state of California for your service as a political leader and as a liberal political leader in the state Assembly.  And, let's make sure that Mr. Unruh, that Jesse Unruh stays up there in that Assembly at least for a coupe of more years, as the speaker. 

	Now, we have some wonderful people here on the platform--just grand ones, good friends of yours and of mine.

	We have a great supervisor of Los Angeles County that is an old friend of mine, Ken Hahn.  And we have a wonderful assemblyman, Bill Greene.

	And our city councilman over here, Gilbert Lindsay, I am sure you know Gil.  And a candidate for Assembly in the 40th District, Alex Garcia--Alex. 

	And above all, one of the men that was with me last night, as we had a great rally, and that is a great congressman, Congressman Roybal who is here with us today, too.    

	And by the way, didn't you like Edie's singing--wasn't that great?  Oh, beautiful--Edie Adams and Buddy Hackett and Johnny Ricardo and the Mariachi band and all.

	Hubert Humphrey says thank you, thank you for what you do for me.  Thank you for what you do for our country.    

	And that I want you to know what you already are knowing--but let me just say to you very sincerely, and with great depth of feeling, that one of the real special gifts that come to me in this campaign, one that I will cherish all of my life, is the privilege that I have had of getting to know and being able to call friend Rafer Johnson.  Rafer, you are a wonderful man.    

	Now, to Sig Arywitz and all my friends here in the labor movement, I think it is time that I settled down with you and we start telling the truth on these Republicans and on that fellow Nixon.  And I think I'm about ready to take off and do it.

	You know, Richard Nixon--Mr. Nixon has been so confident that he had this election all wrapped up, that he had it all won, that he has been playing president.  He has been acting like the president.  He has been down to Washington.  He has even taken a look at the White House.  He has been measuring draperies.  

	But I want to tell you something, friends.  He is going to act like president for so long that by the time November 5th you are going to think it is time for a change, and you are going to elect Humphrey.    

	What kind of a man is it--what kind of a man is it that thinks that all he has to do to get elected president is to have parades and balloons and confetti, and to say nothing, and to go on down to Florida and take a vacation?  Why doesn't he come to California to take a vacation?

	Listen--you gave him a long one out here.  I remember.  You told him--I remember 1962.

	I have been trying to find out which state he is from.  And I know where he if from, because you sent him--from California.

	And I can't imagine that the state of California, that didn't want Richard Nixon in the State House at Sacramento wants him in the White House in Washington, D.C. 

	Now, my friends, this is the most serious business that we have as citizens, this election, the election of your president, the election of your senator.  And by the way, Allan Cranston is going to be United States senator from this state, as sure as my name is Humphrey.  

	But this election of a senator and a president and a congressman and assemblyman, all of these officials, is very, very important for you.

	Now, the first decision--the first decision that a presidential candidate makes, the very first one which is a test of his character, and a test of his philosophy, and a test of his ability, is the selection of his running mate, the man that he has alongside of him, one heartbeat away from the presidency--the vice presidential candidate.

	Now, you take a look at who Mr. Nixon selected, and then you take a look at who Hubert Humphrey selected.  I will put my Ed Muskie up against all of them, any time of the day. 

	Ed Muskie--friend of the labor movement.  Ed Muskie, governor, senator, expert in city affairs.  Ed Muskie--judicious, wise, mature, responsible.  One heartbeat away a vice president is from the presidency.  

	And, ladies and gentlemen, I run as a member of a team, and Muskie runs as a member of a team.  There is a Democratic team running for office.  And the team is Humphrey and Muskie.  And there is a Republican team running for office--you bet--a Republican team.

	By the way, let me just hear you a minute.  Do you want Nixon and Agnew?  

	VOICES:  No!

	Do you want Wallace and LeMay?  

	VOICES:  No!

	How would you like Humphrey and Muskie?  I accept--I accept.

	I want all you fellows--I want all you fellows to go out and buy your wife an new dress.  I'll tell you, we are going to have the best inaugural ball that this country has ever had since Andrew Jackson became president. 

	Now, listen what else goes on.  I come here to California, and I know that Allan Cranston is going to win.  And I see here that there is a senatorial contest on.

	First Mr. Nixon picks Mr. Agnew.  And then he says in California that he needs Max Rafferty--he needs him.  

	VOICES:  Boo!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  And why?  He says he needs him to back his, Nixon's, forward-looking program. 

	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you Nixon's forward-looking program is about as old as the discovery of the wheel.  Forward-looking my eye.  And by the way, I think that Mr. Nixon saying that he needs Mr. Rafferty is indicative of the kind of legislation and the kind of government you would get if the Republicans win this election, which they are not going to do. 

	Now, my friends of labor, we have been together a long time.

	I want to ask you good labor friends out here--name me--well, wait a minute.

	What has Mr. Nixon ever done for you?  What has Mr. Nixon ever done for the elderly?  

	VOICES: Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  What has he ever done for the kids?  

	VOICES: Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  Well, what are you going to do for him?  

	VOICES: Nothing!

	VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY:  That's great.  That makes sense.  That is a good--that is a good deal.  We will give him in kind.  You will give him in kind.

	Now, let's see what he did for us.

	Mr. Nixon says that if he gets to be president, he is going to give you some of the same that you had when the Nixon Republican were in power.  That is what he said going to give us some of the same.

	Well, let me tell this audience right here that there was plenty of unemployment, plenty of it, when you had some of the Republican economics in the 1950s.  Three recessions, three of them.  And there were people in this audience here today that were unemployed then.  Three recessions.  And what else did you get?

	Well, first of all, you didn't get anything called Medicare.  

	You know what Mr. Nixon said about it?  He said it wouldn't work.  He doesn't have much vision, that fellow.

	I'll tell you something, my friends--he makes a rear-view mirror look like it is a radiator on a car, that fellow.

	What else did he do?

	He had a chance for our young people.  He had a chance to help the kids in school.  He had one vote, as vice president, to cast.  The only time a vice president can vote is when there is a tie in the Senate, a tie vote.  And there was a big bill before the Congress to provide aid to schools and to kids, aid to elementary and secondary education, aid for our needy young people.  And Mr. Nixon had the chance of a lifetime.  And we saw what he said.  When the roll was called on that bill, Mr. Nixon voted "no".  He voted "no" against the kids.  He voted "no" against the grandparents.

	But I'll tell you one thing he never did do.  He just never ever fails to keep in touch with some of the big boys.  Oh, he has a nice way of touching them.  He writes up to the New York Stock Market and he says the Securities Exchange Commission that is there to protect the investor is too tough, and you that put your money in mutual funds, he says the Securities Exchange Commission is too tough on the broker.

	Well, let me tell you what the government of the United States is for, what the president is for.  The president is there as the protector of the people, and when I am your president, I am going to protect the investor, the stockowner, as well as the other fellow that sells it.  It isn't going to be a one-way street. 

	Now, my Republican friends, they like to talk about fiscal responsibility.  You know what they mean by that, don't you?  That means that they have got to have a little recession every so often, to kind of slow things down.

	Mr. Nixon says his chief economic advisor--and listen ye well to me--his chief economic advisor is reported in the Wall Street Journal this last week--Mr. Nixon says a little higher rate of unemployment may be necessary in this country for price stability.  

	Whose job is he talking about?  Yours?

	You know--I--listen, I think we can stand one more unemployed person--Mr. Nixon. 

	Ladies and gentlemen, it is dangerous economics, when a man who seeks to be president has only one way that he knows to keep this economy on the move, and that is to have a higher rate of unemployment.

	Your job, sir; your job, lady; your children that will go without money, your mortgage that won't be paid, your furniture that will be reclaimed, your car payments that can't be made.

	We have gone through that before, Mr. Nixon, and we are not going to let you take that kind of economics into the White House.  It doesn't belong there. 

	And what about the consumer?  Republicans had eight years--eight years to do something.  They never passed one bill to protect a consumer--not one.

	During those eight years they fought Medicare everyday.  During those eight years they voted against the labor movement every time.  During those eight years they never trained one unemployed worker, not one.

	During those eight years they never had a preschool program for the little kids.  During those eight years they didn't pass any meaningful civil rights legislation.  During those eight years they forgot the people.  During those eight years they neglected the needs of this country.

	And John Kennedy came to this city, and he said to you we have got to get this country moving again, and Kennedy became president, the country started to move; Johnson became president, the country started to move; and we are going to continue to move. 

	And what have we been doing?

	Take a look at Project Head Start--little kids, for the first chance--not only getting a little education--getting something good to eat.

	Take a look at Project Upward Bound--200,000 young men and women, kids from the slums, getting a chance to go to college.  Three-quarters of a million boys and girls in America today on student loans and scholarships; colleges being built with federal aid.  

	Nine million deprived boys and girls--nine million of them, getting help under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act.

	Seven million of our elderly citizens last year--Medicaid, Medicare, hospital care, medical care, nursing home care.

	Ladies and gentlemen, more consumer protection legislation, truth in packing, truth in lending, truth in labeling, more passed in the last four years than in the preceding 150.

	You have had a government that cared about you, a government that cared about the people.  And I am going to continue that kind of government, if you give me a chance.

	Now, you know, I came walking in through here, and some young man gave me a silver dollar.  He said it is a good-luck piece.  Boy, I am going to hold onto it, I'll tell you that.

	And let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen.  Let me just tell you one thing.

	This campaign is a campaign between Republican advertising, Republican money, and Democratic people.  And you know it.

	Who have I got? 

	Well, I'll tell you what I have got.

	I have got some workers out here, union members.  And I have been with you a long time, and I am going to stay with you, too--don't you worry about that.  I was there early and often.    

	Who else have we got?

	Well, we have got our friends in the black community, and I have been with them all of my life, and I am going to continue to be with them, my fellow Americans, and they are going to get a chance. 

	And who else have we got?

	Well, Ed Roybal will tell you.  We have got the good folks here from the Mexican-American, the Spanish-surname community, that need a break, and I am going to continue to stay with them--they are my friends.    

	And who else do we have?

	We have young people by the hundreds of thousands, and they are coming to us by the hundreds of thousands.  

	And why?

	Because they want a president that will listen to them, they want a president that will understand them, they want a president that is with them in heart and in spirit.  And I am going to be that way.    

	And who else do we have?

	We have the mothers and the fathers of this country that are worried about their families, worried about their jobs, mothers that need--that need a job to take care or their family, and need a place to put their little children, a child care center, a day care center, when they go off to work.

	And who else do we have?

	We have the grandparents that are not going to forget that it was Hubert Humphrey who introduced the first Medicare bill in the Congress of the United States. 

	So the line is drawn.  The battle line is drawn.

	Mr. Nixon has bought four hours--four hours on national television four hours, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday before the election--nationwide TV networks.  That is more television time then my campaign has had for the whole campaign.  You know how much it costs?  It runs into the millions.

	And they think that the White House is for sale.  They think that the presidency should go to the man with the biggest advertising budget.

	I think the presidency ought to go to the man with the biggest heart, and the best ideas.    

	Now, I can't win this election alone.  But we can.  This is our country.  It is your country, neighbor.  And it is your country out there.  It belongs to you.

	We built this country together, black and white, Catholic, Protestant and Jew.  We put these buildings up together.  We built this great America together.  And we have got demagogues that go around trying to divide us.

	We have a third-party candidate that practices the crudest form of politics--racism, demagoguery.  And we don't want any Alabama politics in the White House.

	And then we've got a Republican candidate who isn't that crude.  He is the new Nixon.  That is, my friends, he was until I started to rough him up a little bit.

	Now you know what he is doing?  He is starting to swing.  And I tell you something, friends--that fellow has missed the target so many times we can feel absolutely secure within range.  Don't worry about it a bit.

	I have told him to come up here and debate.  I have asked him a hundred times to stand on a platform alongside of me, before a television camera--and he won't do it.  And I will tell you why he won't debate.  Because I will ask him some questions he doesn't want to have to answer.

	His managers--his managers tell him "Don't get near that fellow Humphrey."  And they are right.  And they tell him "Let us manage you."

	Ladies and gentlemen, you do not need a president that is managed--you need a president that knows how to manage.  That is what you need.    

	So the hour is late.  You have got to go eat lunch.  Now only that--I'm hungry too.  And I'll tell you, if we Democrats don't win, we will miss several lunches.  So let's not waste any time.

	I leave you with this message.  Look at this platform up here today.  Look at who is standing here.  We want an America in which every one of us can trust each other. We want an America in which every boy and girl, regardless of race, creed or color, has the best opportunity that we know how to give him.  And we don't care what the color of his kin is, or what church he goes to.

	What we care about is: does he love this country, does he have something to give, is he willing to do it, is he willing to work, is he willing to be a good citizen. 

	So let's--let's get on with the job.  I need you, friends.  I need you.  My friends, don't--don't let California--don't let California elect Richard Nixon.  Don't you dare do it out here.

	You people can be the difference in this election.  You people right here can win this election, if you will go out of this place--we have got material around here, we have got pamphlets.  We finally got some money to buy some pamphlets.  I don't know where the devil we got it, but we got it.  We got some money.

	I want you to go out of here today commissioned by the next president of the United States, as my leader in your block, as my friend in your neighborhood.

	I want you to spread this message.  I want you to tell people we are going to build a better America.  We are not going to stand still, and we are not going to go back.  We are going to build an America where kids will be proud to say-"I'm an American"--black or white.

	All right--let's go to work now and win. 
CONSUMER PROTECTIONEDUCATION--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNEQUAL OPPORTUNITYINVESTMENT--STOCK MARKETPOLITICAL ADVERTISINGRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)UNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     åE XE RE NE FE
 :E 5E 0E %E E E E ˚D	 ¥ 	 ° 	 è 	 q 	 ` 	 H 	 3 	  e: