Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1023.005SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/23STUMPSCHENECTADYNEW YORKNY2266 WORDS

	First, my friends:  I should like to thank each of you for coming out here this morning to give me a chance to bring you a friendly and informal greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts that are on my heart and mind as we go through this political campaign.  I am honored in the presentation to you by the Speaker of your House Mr. Heck, and I am most certainly honored to share this platform with the great team of political leaders who have just been introduced to you.  It is a great privilege to come to your city that is known as "The City of the Electric Miracle."  And now we understand that you have added to that the atomic miracle.  Our city is going to be known in the future as the founder of many of those things that are going to make life worth living, even to a greater extent than has come about through the development of our civilization over this past century and three quarters.  I believe most firmly that we are on the threshold of new discoveries, and that the problem of man is to turn those discoveries to peaceful development of all of those things that satisfy human needs, and to refuse to believe they can be used only for man's destruction.  So I congratulate this city on having an important part in these miracles that are going to come about in the scientific world to the benefit of all Americans and, indeed, all mankind.

	In this campaign through which we are now going, the opposition has been called upon to defend a record that is indefensible.  As a result, they have adopted new tactics.  They are merely the tactics of desperation.  To their earlier habit of bringing forth a scandal a day, they now have added the habit of bringing forth a slander a day, and this slander is directed not only against the entire crusade of which all of us are a part, but against the individual in it.  Some of these slanders have been directed at me personally.  I have long ago given up any idea of being bothered about them or answering them myself.  When I found that I had such great and loyal friends as Cardinal Spellman, Rabbi Silver and Bernie Baruch ready to jump into the breach and put some of these rumors and scandalous stories where they belong, I decided there was no use of me worrying about them.

	Now, let's see what some of these stories are.  They say, first of all, that this crusade made up of great bodies of Republicans and their associates, the Independents and thousands of enlightened Democrats, are against everything decent and good.  I think they would say we were against the Ten Commandments.  But at least they say we are against all the farmers.  We would like to drag out from under them all of their price supports and the other things that give the farmer a right to believe he is part of a stable industry, not subject to disaster over which he has no control.  They say we are against labor and we are against labor unions, in spite of the fact that everyone that I know of in this crusade has gone up and down the line preaching for strong labor unions that have the right and the opportunity to bargain for themselves on a collective basis and free of Washington's influence.  That makes no difference to them.  They go right on saying these terrible people with tails and horns hate everybody.

	They say we are against the old people.  We want to leave the old people destitute, forlorn, suffering--lying out in the cold, I guess; something like it was in the picture called East Lynne or that kind of thing.  Why we want to do this, they don't say.  We just want to do it because apparently we are that kind of American.  They say we want to wreck all of the Social Security programs.  Why?  Social Security is as much a part of a modern civilization as is the air you breath and the food you eat.  Those programs are necessary.  They say we are the party of special interests.  You know, the greatest special interest of all today is big government and the people who are seeking to perpetuate themselves in power by the use of the people's money to do it.

	Now, all these charges are just plain bunk, and I am going to give you a bit of truth right here from your own state.  Let's take a look at some of the things that have happened under Tom Dewey and the team that has been working with him these years.  First of all, you know they cleaned up the mess they found in the Workmens Compensation fund.  They cleaned it up and put it on an honest, straightforward basis, and it is working.  They established an entirely new system of sickness disability insurance, ahead of any state.  They have pushed and made effective programs for the conservation of your soil, your water, your wild life, again in the forefront of the states.  They are the first state to pass an effective law that assures equality of job opportunity, the kind of thing that the opposition says the Republicans and their associates can't even think about and would want to destroy.  Here they are in the forefront of actually doing it.  New York state has possibly a better record on housing than we can find.  Certainly, it has a far better record than the federal government has accomplished here.  Right here in this city, I understand, they have jumped into the business of tearing down fifteen acres of slums and bringing in low-cost housing.

	Now, this is only part of the record.  But remember this:  There are twenty-four other governors of this same belief, this same group, in the United States.  They are the people--they and their associates in government, they and their friends in business and in the professions--who would have to provide the men and women to fill all of those great positions in the federal government when this crusade takes over.  Where is the basis for all this charge that they are inhuman, wicked, indecent people who want to crucify America?  You have got the record right in your own state.

	With the few minutes I have left, me give you just a few of the things that are on the positive side of the--program this crusade is waging.  First is peace.  The overwhelming problem of our time is peace.  It overshadows everything else we do, and the influence of peace or war is felt in every problem that we have here at home.

	We maintain that the seven-year record since 1945 is bad, and anyone who can read a headline will agree that the international record of this administration is bad.  We have jumped from emergency to emergency.  We had Greece, Turkey, the Airlift in Berlin, the loss of China, and now the Korean War.  At the same time, we have been spending abroad thirty-three billion dollars not counting military aid.  All of this doesn't add up to a good record.

	Yet, as I say, the problem of our time is how to marshal in Washington the brains, the wisdom, the experience and the dedication and the firmness that will bring about friendships among the free nations and stop this Communistic method in its tracks and gradually force it to recede to where it belongs.  We must use every peaceful means to see that people in this world who want to be free have the chance to say so because without that, I want to point out that peace, freedom and liberty, are really indivisible things.  You must have concern for other things or you can't remain free yourselves, particularly when we need from so many of them the materials that make our economy run, materials that you need right here in Schenectady to produce the great utensils of war and peace that you produce.

	Under this great program, of course, the one sore item is Korea, where after fighting all this time the casualty list continues to pile up.  I am not saying that at the moment we went into Korea we could have avoided it, but I do say that we can look at the long record of diplomatic blunders that led us into it.  I can say also what we have done since.  We must in that area of the world just as in all others make it possible for local populations to protect themselves, to carry the great burden of their own defense.  Every proud nation wants to do so.  The United States cannot build a Roman Wall around the world and say, "These areas we are interested in; we will protect them."  We have got to make it possible for local populations to defend themselves and until we do we will not have the kind of allies and the kind of situation that are necessary to our peace and prosperity.

	Along with the program of peace comes this great problem:  The problem of shifting our great economy from a war base and a war preparation base to a peace base.  Now, some people look at this problem with great trepidation, and I say again that is bunk.  If we out of our great productivity can spare all these man hours, our materials, our money for war purposes, for things that do not bring us back one single thing in comfort, in convenience or in human happiness--they bring only protection to save what we have got--if we put that amount of money through private enterprise or through any other means into the things we need, into hospitals, into schools and roads, into all of those things, whether it be television or refrigerators or automobiles, that we want and need and use, or food and clothing--of course we are going to be a happy and more prosperous people.

	Remember this, ladies and gentlemen:  With each step we make towards peace, we create better relationships with others, particularly our natural friends throughout the world, those who love freedom.  With each one of these steps comes better opportunity for trade.  They take more of our surpluses.  We get more of the things we need.  And how desperately we need uranium, cobalt, tin, tungsten, platinum, all of the things of that kind that we must import.  So as this trade goes on, we not only better our living standards of today, but we insure that the increasing population of the United States, as it grows and grows always has an increasing standard of living.  That is the aim, and it is possible to do.

	This program means full employment at good wages, and wages based on a dollar that does not run out of your pockets through the hole of inflation, just through higher and higher prices.  We believe in expanded and improved social security.  We believe in better security for our aged, to make certain that they do not have fears that come about through things over which they have no control.  We believe in equality of opportunity regardless of any race, color or creed or such unimportant characteristics as that.  We believe in a stable economy and that includes our farming.

	What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is to marshal the brainpower that this country affords, to concentrate it and mobilize some of it in Washington to give us a decent, forward-looking program, and to get away from this campaign of fear and hate.  Here, with your Senator Ives, your Governor Dewey, your Speaker Heck, Congressman Kearney, and the rest of them who have been helping you here, you know what I am talking about, because you have been living under an enlightened program and one that is constantly seeking the betterment of all.  You know that I cannot come before you and engage in a competition of empty political promises.  The opposition has used up all these promises in the past years, and most of them are rather shopworn.

	But I can come before you and make this pledge.  You charged responsibility for leading the federal government to the kind of men you have known here in your state and their counterparts throughout the nation, and this is what we pledge you:  First, it will be a government that will be fair to all and will measure every proposal and every product by this yardstick--is it good for the United States of America?  They will be just, as God gives them the power to see justice.  They will be friendly.  They will not forget that they come from right out of the middle of this crowd, that you are the people who sent them to Washington to serve you.  Finally, ladies and gentlemen, they will be something that has become very, very important.  They will be loyal, not disloyal servants of America, and they will be honest servants of America.  That pledge I make not merely on behalf of myself.  I make it on the part of Senator Ives, Congressman Kearney, Speaker Heck, Governor Dewey and all the rest of them.  They can speak for themselves, but as a band, we know what we are seeking and we put this pledge before you with all of the sincerity that it is possible for us to muster.

	We say thank you again for coming out. 
AGRICULTURE--GENERALECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNKOREAN WARNEW YORKSTANDARD OF LIVING     €1 ß1 °1 ù1 ì1
 Ö1 Ä1 {1 p1 h1 f1 f1 \1	 s 	 _ 	 B 	 $ 	  	  e: