Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0911.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/11STUMPLOS ANGELESCALIFORNIACASPEECH AT THE SHRINE AUDITORIUM2,803 WORDS

	Coming to Los Angeles is doubly an occasion for me. This is, first of all, a homecoming--a return, in rather unexpected circumstances and under most agreeable sponsorship, to the city of my birth.

	I was afraid that I had lost all claim to your regard by deserting California for Illinois even at the age of five. But the warmth of your welcome, the resolution of the City Council, the affecting ceremony at the home where I was born, today, have touched me deeply and have made me very happy. I am very much your debtor and very grateful.

	But more than that, coming back to Los Angeles is a reminder and a most compelling reminder that the central fact of American life is growth. Few communities in our land provide a better ringside seat for this phenomenon of growth than Los Angeles. My memories of this city in 1900, when I first opened my eyes somewhere near West Adams Boulevard, are not exactly vivid or detailed. But I venture that few would dispute me when I suggest that the home town has changed a little in the last fifty-two years. Not only has it spawned new suburbs, new houses, new fashions, new industries, and even new religions, but today I am reliably informed its continued expansion threatens to swallow up most of the territory west of the Rockies, and even a portion of the Pacific Ocean.

	Our whole nation has undergone an unprecedented expansion in the past twenty years, but the West has shown the way to the rest of us. During the 1940s, while the total population of the country rose about 15 percent, the population of the West increased 41 percent. Industry and agriculture and government have kept pace with the demands of the growing population. And thus we move ahead. The American people--restless, inquisitive, creative--are everlastingly in search of new frontiers. As long as that search continues, so long will we as a nation continue to grow.

	I think that that search and that growth will continue for a long, long time. I know there are voices of despair in the land. We are told that the American future is black and melancholy. We are told that our people have grown soft--that they have lost their initiative, their independence, their self-reliance, even their morals. We are told that our economy is so feeble and fragile that it will collapse under the strain of adversity and the strain of growth. We are told that our free government cannot rise to new problems without the people losing their freedom. And all these wails and lamentations about the future, however, they begin, always end by a singular coincidence on a uniform note that the only way to preserve the Constitution and save the Republic and the honor of Americans is to elect Republicans in November. And I mean all Republicans--good, bad and indifferent.

	The general doesn't even want one Democrat on his team. I hate, my friends, to think that Democrats are all as bad as that. Perhaps it is heresy, but I am frank to say to you that some of my best friends are Republicans. I have induced Republicans to help me in the government of Illinois--and I might even need some in Washington. In fact, I think some Republicans are just about as good as Democrats. And, within that very limited category I include the great governor of this, my native state--Earl Warren.

	Now, I am beginning to suspect my very old party loyalty in contrast to my opponent's recently acquired loyalty. The whole thing rather reminds me, my friends, of the remark of a recently hired employee of the state of Illinois, who said, "Ever since I have had a state job I have been a Democrat all my life."

	There are two respects in which the Republican leadership have a wonderfully consistent record: They never speak well of Democrats--in fact, they don't even speak well of one another anymore; and, they have always been afraid of tomorrow. Seldom has there been a bold idea for building America bigger and stronger for the future but that Republican voices say, "You can't do that." The Republican leadership talks big but it acts small. Time after time it has underestimated the needs and the wants and the demands of this country and of its people. We have met great power needs, great irrigation needs, great resource needs in the last twenty years, but each move to meet them has been systematically opposed or attacked, or undercut by members of the party of the past--and you know whom I mean. I mean the boys whose elephant cannot figure out whether to follow its trunk or its tail.

	Now, of course, I suppose all of this government activity is what they call socialism--creeping or crawling. I am no more in favor of socialism than anybody else, and I particularly dislike things that creep. But if I don't like what they call creeping socialism, there is something else I dislike just as much, and that is galloping reaction. Let me make one thing forever clear. The Democratic party has no fear of tomorrow. We have limitless faith in the American future. And we Democrats can take a lot of satisfaction in the record of growth during the last twenty years, but we would not be Democrats if we rested on our haunches, or our laurels. You can't live on laurel leaves. We prefer rather to look forward and see what lies ahead in the next twenty years, and to start now to build for a still greater America.

	In the next twenty years the population of the United States will probably increase by more than thirty million persons. This means more than thirty million more Americans who will require food, clothing and shelter; and who will be educated and reared in the tenets of religious belief and the traditions of a free democracy; and who will demand a standard of living far higher than ours--far higher than any the world has ever known. It means that twenty years from now this country must be able to provide nearly eighty million jobs, and that means more people at work than the total population of the United States when I was born here in Los Angeles fifty-two years ago. This is the challenge of the future. Before we can meet it, we must, of course, resolve our critical day-to-day problems--problems which require immediate decision and action.

	But while statesmanship consists sometimes not so much in knowing what to do ultimately as in what to do now, it is the part of natural wisdom to look beyond this turbulent period of history, even as Los Angeles must look beyond its present to its future needs for many things--for water, for example. What kind of country will this be for our children and our children's children? How can we meet the requirements of the new age? I don't think that we will alter the basic structure of our society. Our national commitment is to a free economy--to the belief that an economic system based on freedom of choice, freedom of opportunity and freedom of decision is more productive and creative than any system devised by man. We will not abandon our free enterprise system. We will oppose all attempts to limit its freedom whether by centralized government or by private monopoly.

	Now, my friends, the foundation of any economy is its natural resources. The new technological era toward which we are moving will make ever-growing drains upon our resources. If we are to maintain our growth we must prepare for the future prosperity of our nation and we must make those preparations today while there is still time--not twenty years from now when it may be too late.

	The resources problem is partly a problem of the wise use of the things we know we have and partly the problem of discovering how to use things that have never been useful before. In the last twenty years we have recognized that our land, and what lies beneath it, is a natural patrimony. It is a reserve for all of the people, to be utilized and developed in terms of our national welfare and of the strength and of the security of the free world.

	The relationship between industry and resources development grows closer every day. Every day we are learning how the interactions of soil and fertilizer and water and power can grow more and better things that can never be permanently exhausted.

	It may not be many years, for example, before you people of Los Angeles can get your drinking water from the sea. Already our scientists have made great progress in turning salt water into fresh. And there are further miracles in the scientific test tubes--above all the exciting possibilities of new sources of energy. The extraction of oil from shale will soon create one more new industry in the West. Government and private industry both have vital parts to play in these developments which hold for the future possibilities larger and more exciting perhaps than the invention of the steam engine itself. And that is only one phase of the future. Another lies in our growing control of the power in the atom. As you in the West well know, whole new cities have risen since 1940--Hanford in Washington; Arco in Idaho; Los Alamos in New Mexico--in response to this atomic age, so far only at its dawn.

	Should we follow the elephant's tail away from these horizons? Or should we go forward?

	This new America will be a healthier America. Our children will have a vastly increased life expectancy. To attain this goal we shall need more medical research, more hospitals, more public health agencies, more medical schools, more doctors and nurses--and some system of protection against the economic disasters of severe illness and accident, so that adequate medical care will be available for all.

	I look forward to more and better housing for our people. In the past seven years more than eight million new homes have been built, and you people in Southern California can believe that huge figure because you can see so many of those new homes with your own eyes. This progress must be continued so that all Americans will have an opportunity to get decent housing--and public housing has a role to play in this problem.

	I look forward to an America with improved education. We have made great progress in twenty years which we cannot stop until we have banished illiteracy and enlarged the educational opportunities of all of the boys and girls in this land.

	I look forward to an America, my friends, which can take proper care of its aged and its invalids, and which can provide strong and expanding security for all of its workers. I rejoice in the Democratic party's record in the establishment and the development of social security; and I endorse its pledge of a stronger system of unemployment insurance.

	There are those who say that social security and protection against the hazards of life in our industrial society are undermining our self-reliance. And I agree that you can't bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. But, I don't believe that our public assistance programs have had that effect. On the contrary, they tend to stabilize our economy, reduce anxieties and lift the level of opportunity.

	I look forward to an America united in its national belief in equal rights for all its citizens. We can never stop in the battle against racial and religious bigotry, discrimination and fear. We must ensure equal opportunities of employment for citizens of all colors and creeds. Given our resources, given the productivity of our economic system, given the magic of the new technology, given the undeveloped potentialities of electrical, chemical and atomic power, given the wise use of our wealth in the service of our people, we have within our grasp the possibilities of an undreamed of future.

	The American faith has been a faith in the growth of our nation and in a just distribution of the wealth among all of our citizens. And that faith stands today on the verge of its most dramatic realization. We stand on the threshold. The question is whether we have the will to cross that threshold and move into the new era ahead. The struggle between faith and fear will decide the destiny of our nation. Today we stand bewildered and tormented by many fears, some real, some imaginary. There is the fear of war; there is the fear of depression; and the fear of Communism; and the fear of ourselves. I would not decry these fears. Without fear we would never act in time to save ourselves, but I would warn with all of the certainty that I possess against permitting fear to seize our mind, to cloud our brain and to paralyze our will. The fear of war, my friends, is a real fear, but this danger can be met if we recognize that the best deterrent against totalitarian aggression is our strength and our resolution.

	I hold out no easy solution to the problem of peace. I reject those who tell you that we can make the Soviet danger vanish by giving one-shot solutions, whether the solution is to retreat behind our frontiers, as one of the Republican parties suggests, or stir up insurrection in Eastern Europe, which seems to be the doctrine of the other Republican party. But I do say that the policy of building the strength and the unity of free nations will reduce the haunting fear of war.

	The fear of depression is a real fear. But this danger can be met if we have a government determined to pursue a positive policy to prevent depression and to control inflation. I have confidence in the capacity of the American people to steer an ever-expanding economy without running it over a cliff--if their leaders in government are prepared to combat inflation or depression by something more than moans, threats and incantations.

	The fear of Communism is a real fear. We are confronted, at home and abroad, by a vast international conspiracy. We must, at home and abroad, take measures to protect ourselves. All loyal Americans know today that Communism is incompatible with American life. We have driven them out of any places of responsibility that they may have gained in our society. We will expose and identify them at every step along the way.

	And then there is the fear of ourselves. I submit to you, it is not a real fear. The real fears of war, of depression, of Communism, have stirred up a fantasy of fear in which those who live by the fear of others have had a field day.

	Americans do not have to go about in fear and distrust of one another. At least the Democratic party does not believe so, and I don't think that the rank and file of the Republican party believes so either. We have, in short, faith in the American people and in the American future.

	I do not wish to belittle the towering problems which loom over us at this moment. In other speeches I have described my present policies in some detail; and I propose to continue to lay out these ideas in plain language in speeches to come. We cannot move into the future until we have surmounted the present, but we cannot surmount the present until we know where we ultimately intend to go.

	I could not come to the West--the region of the future--and to Los Angeles, the city of the future--without registering my ringing confidence in the capacity of our nation to cope with tomorrow. Stern and exacting moments lie immediately ahead of us. We will be still some time in a dark valley. I cannot promise easy deliverance from the perils of this anguished age.

	But I do say to you soberly and sincerely that on the evidence of science, of technology, and of our own common sense, the United States at mid-century stands on the threshold of abundance for all, so great as to exceed the happiest dreams of the pioneers who opened up this vast western country.

	Unless we allow ourselves to be held back by fear, we shall in God's good time realize the golden promise of our future. Let us reject, I say, the prophets of fear and the Party of the past. Let us move ahead, proud and unafraid--confident of our capacity to meet the challenge of today and to realize the infinite possibility of tomorrow.
BIPARTISANSHIPCOMMUNISMECONOMY--DEPRESSIONEQUAL OPPORTUNITYHEALTH CAREHOUSING AND REAL ESTATENATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTPOPULATION (UNITED STATES)SOCIALISMWATER RESOURCES     H? ? ? 
? ?
 õ> ð> ë> à> Ö> Ô> µ> ª>	 ¬ 	 ž 	 • 	 ‚ 	 q 	 f 	 O 	 2 	  	  e: