Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1021.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/21STUMPNEW YORKNEW YORKNYFIRST AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH / A CHOICE OF VALUES--THE WAR AGAINST DRUGS AND CRIME1,440 WORDS

	In just eighteen days, we'll elect a new president and vice president of the United States.

	I ask you to look at those who would lead this country; examine our records; assess our values; and ask yourself, who best understands the American promise; who can best keep that promise; who shares your dreams and will work hardest to make them real.

	The difference between George Bush and me is very simple.  He wants to help people who already have it made.  I want to help every American make it.

	He wants to give the rich a new tax break worth $30,000.  I want to collect the taxes they aren't paying.

	He's on their side.  I'm on yours.  And that's why I'm here today.

	In just eighteen days, we will decide if America stands still or marches forward.  And I need your help.

	In just eighteen days, we can choose a president who will enforce civil rights laws, not veto them; who will appoint an Attorney General who will inspire us, not embarrass us; who will take his cue on civil rights not from people like William Bradford Reynolds, but from people like Eleanor Holmes Norton.

	In just eighteen days, we can choose a president who will select judges committed to extending justice, not rationing it; who will choose people like Thurgood Marshall and Louis Brandeis, not Robert Bork for our nation's courts; a president whose standards for the federal bench will be a commitment to the Constitution of the United States and the understanding that it applies to all our citizens.

	In just eighteen days, we can select leaders who are committed to full employment--and I mean full employment--for all Americans; an administration that will create good jobs, and not export them; jobs with a future, jobs we can count on, jobs we can raise a family on.

	In just eighteen days, we can select leaders who believe in the family; who understand how important quality child care is to our future and our children's future; and who will do something about the nearly 40 million Americans who don't have a dime of health insurance.

	In just eighteen days, we can select leaders who believe that every school in this country should be a good school; that teaching should be a valued and honored profession in America again; and that we must open the door of college opportunity to every youngster in this country who is qualified to do college work.

	In just eighteen days, we can begin to provide the training and childcare that will make it possible for thousands of families on public assistance to lift themselves out of poverty and become independent and self-sufficient.

	In just eighteen days, we can have an Administration that will lead the fight to break the back of apartheid.  That will lead the fight for the Dellums Bill.  And that will lead the fight in the United Nations for international sanctions against South Africa.

	In just eighteen days, we can elect a president who will strengthen our voting rights laws, not undermine them; who will fight for the universal voter registration bill now before the Congress; and who will support the people of the District of Columbia in their struggle for full statehood and equal rights.

	In just eighteen days, we can elect a president who will end the shame of homelessness in America once and for all.

	In just eighteen days, we can dedicate ourselves to a real war--not a phony war--against drugs.  And to a future where our children will make their fortunes designing computers, not selling cocaine.

	Yesterday George Bush was in New York claiming credit for his leadership in the war against drugs.  What leadership?

	In the last eight years, cocaine imports have tripled; drug-related deaths have doubled; our neighborhoods have been destroyed and our apartment houses have become battlegrounds.

	Drugs are poisoning our children and destroying their lives.  I'm proud of my record fighting drugs.  We've cut drug use in our schools twice as fast as in the rest of the country.  We've put five times as many drug dealers behind bars.

	And beginning on January 20th, we're going to bring that kind of leadership to Washington, D.C.

	We're going to give state and local law enforcement officers the resources they need to fight the war on drugs.  We're going to hire more federal prosecutors and double the number of DEA agents over the next five years.  Because you can't win this war without the troops to fight it.

	But we've also got to understand that all the law enforcement in the world isn't worth a thing if we don't do something about the demand for drugs in this country.

	We have 5 percent of the world's population, and we're consuming 50 percent of the world's cocaine.  And it's going to take more than a six-month PR campaign or an occasional filmstrip to do something about it.

	That's why we must set as our goal drug free schools in the 1990s.  And that means drug education and prevention beginning in the early elementary grades in every elementary school in this country.

	We're going to win the war against drugs, because the streets of America don't belong to the drug gangs and the crack gangs.  They belong to us.  And in the Dukakis administration, we're going to take them back.

	What has happened on the streets of New York in the last two day is a national tragedy.  Two police officers gunned down in the war on drugs.  My heart goes out to the families of those brave men, and to all of those who have put their lives on the line in the war against drugs.

	When a law enforcement officer is killed in the line of duty, we all die a little bit.  And when drugs are the cause, that grief must be matched by determination.  Determination to fight.  Determination to wage war.  Determination to beat the drug peddlers and thugs who are terrorizing our people and poisoning our kids.

	Our grief is above politics.  And our determination to win this war should know no bounds.  But that isn't going to happen with an administration that has fought and lost the war.  That has cut aid to the police officers who are on the front lines every day and every week and every month.  That has opposed a ban on cop-killer bullets; that tried to cut the drug free schools program in half; and that left Coast Guard cutters tied up at the docks this summer because they didn't have enough fuel.  And how can this administration expect our kids to say no to drugs when they can't say no to a drug-running dictator like Manuel Noriega?

	And who does Mr. Bush now want to put in charge of the war against drugs--Dan Quayle.  We can't afford to let that happen.

	I don't need a lecture from George Bush about the victims of crime.  Like many of you, my family has felt the pain of crime.  I learned about it when a seventy-seven year old doctor was bound and gagged and beaten in his office by intruders looking for drugs.  I learned about it when a young man was murdered in the prime of life by a hit-and-run driver who was either drunk or on drugs.  Because that doctor was my father.  And that young man was my only brother.  That's why I've personally led the war on crime in my state.  We've put more police officers on the streets.  We've given them the tools they need to do their job.  And we've gotten results.  We've had the largest drop in crime of any industrial state in the nation.  And our murder rate is the lowest of any industrial state in the country.

	In just eighteen days, we can have a president who will fight to make our streets and neighborhoods safe every year, not just in election year.

	In just eighteen days, we can declare war on the drug pushers who are poisoning our kids and destroying our communities.

	In just eighteen days, we can elect a president who will provide more police AND more drug treatment.  More DEA agents AND better education.  Tougher penalties AND tougher leadership.

	In just eighteen days, we can put a Democrat in the White House.

	In just eighteen days, we can build a future for our children and for our communities that you and I can be proud of.

	Because the best America is not behind us, the best America is yet to come.

CIVIL RIGHTSCONDUCT OF LIFE--FAMILYCRIME VICTIMSDRUG ABUSE--EDUCATION AND PREVENTIONDRUG TRADE--GENERALHUMAN RIGHTSLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSION--CRIMES AGAINSTSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSVOTER REGISTRATIONVOTING RIGHTS     M! ! ! ! !
 ü  ÷  ò  ê  â  à  ‚  w 	 Ö 	 Ê 	 ³ 	 ¦ 	 ‚ 	 o 	 c 	 9 	  	  e: