Speeches\1952\dem\S52D0912.003SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)09/12STUMPTUCSONARIZONAAZ2,296 WORDS

	Senator McFarland, distinguished guests, and my friends of Tucson. I guess there is no law against being comfortable here, is there?

	After all of the nice things that Senator McFarland has said about me today, first in Phoenix and then again here in Tucson just now, I am tempted to think that if Senator McFarland and I visited another town in Arizona and I gave him another opportunity to compare me with any distinguished Americans or human beings, that I wouldn't have to run for this office--that I would just spread my wings and fly. But I suppose, Senator McFarland, that a little flattery is all right if you don't inhale--and I don't propose to inhale, sir.

	I am delighted to be here in Tucson. I don't feel wholly a stranger in Arizona. Actually, my mother and father lived in this state before I was born, at Prescott. I don't know why they moved, but my sister was brought up here as an infant in Arizona, and I have been back here many times. The trouble is that I always associate Tucson and Phoenix with vacations, and the gentleman that you are looking upon at this moment is not on a vacation.

	I am very much touched and flattered also to find in the audience here this afternoon a lady over eighty years of age who came from my home town in Bloomington, Illinois, and has come here to see me this afternoon. She traveled with my mother in Europe over sixty years ago. You do me great honor, Mrs. Reed and I should like very much to bundle you into my airplane and take you back to Illinois. In fact, we had better take somebody back to Illinois pretty soon, because they are all moving out here. Mr. Judge, we are now nearing, as you know, the end of our first campaign swing through the West. We have had a fine trip.

	Roosevelt used to say that he was an old campaigner and that he loved a good fight. Well, I can't yet make that claim because I am not an old campaigner, but I am enjoying every minute of my experience so far, and none more than this experience here with this enormous crowd in Tucson this afternoon.

	There are good times, what is more, yet to come in this campaign. During the next few weeks I expect to enjoy stalking that odd piece of political game, the old two-headed elephant, described somewhat better by political biologists as being double-gaited, blind, bad-tempered and without sense of direction except when it is going backwards. And the sad thing about it is that there won't be another opportunity very soon for four more years, so you have to make the most of this one.

	I suppose some of my good spirits results from the uplifting effect of Arizona air, sun and maybe Democratic spirit. I imagine that I also feel good because I am confident that we are going to win in November.

	Here in Tucson, of course, you don't have to send new Democrats to Congress. All you have to do is to re-elect the fine Democrats you already have there in Senator McFarland and Representative Patton. And you could also take into account the opportunity that you have to elect Joseph Alterman as your new governor.

	Coming over here from Phoenix I admired the sight that must impress all travelers when they come to Pima and Maricopa Counties. Looking out the window of the plane I saw the line where the desert meets the sudden green--these lush farms. I like this desert. To me it is a place of endless enchantment and of grandeur, but its beauty--its arid beauty and grandeur--are enhanced by the contrast with the irrigated lands. You may be sure that my response to the beauty of this scene was not diminished by my knowledge that Democratic leaders had contributed so much to making this county the garden that it is.

	I cannot guess what historians will say 100 years from now of the Democratic party. I think it will be good. But, I do know that they will never deplore our efforts to make the desert bloom. Senators Hayden and McFarland, and your congressmen, have earned well their reputations as reclamation leaders. They hold strategic positions in the Congress. Moreover, Senator McFarland has been honored by appointment--election, if you please--by his associates as majority leader of the Senate. Not only Arizona's but the entire West's reclamation achievement can be credited in large part to their enthusiasm, their skill, and their energy.

	I feel certain that the voters of Arizona will keep this winning team in Washington.

	You can see as you come in to Phoenix how the very life of this area depends on getting enough water. It is one of the finest examples in the country of what a sound and imaginative reclamation policy does. I have been told that the very first major reclamation project in our whole country was here in Arizona. And, I was interested to learn that the original pattern of cooperative membership by farmers in an irrigation district was worked out here in this state on the Salt River Project. This is an excellent example of how local people working together can organize their common efforts for the common good, in a democratic way.

	It illustrates also how the federal government can and should help with that part of the job which local people cannot do. Since 1940 farm income in Arizona has increased 386 percent. And Arizona's total income rose, or, rather, leaped 23 percent from 1950 to 1951 alone--more than any other state in the Union.

	Irrigation has nourished this productivity and this prosperity. Your extraordinary yields of long-staple cotton, melons, grapes, alfalfa, and all the other crops contribute to the well-being of all of us in the whole country. We in Illinois are better off because you in Arizona are better off. In fact, nothing is so thoroughly shared as productivity and increased prosperity.

	But, some of the opposition leaders don't seem to like it that way. Or, maybe they are just talking to each other when they complain so bitterly about the State of the Union; when they talk of gloom and despair, and predict national bankruptcy, all at the same time.

	I can't imagine why they talk to one another, because they don't show any indication of liking one another.

	There is another matter, however, that concerns me--the problem of controlling erosion, and preventing siltation of irrigation works and of reservoirs. We have not yet by any means licked that problem. One of the key points in that fight against erosion is to prevent overgrazing. I have already stated in the West that I think the public ranges should be used wisely for grazing and be open for use on a fair and an equitable basis. But I am unalterably opposed to turning over control of those lands to private interests. They are public property and they must be managed in the public interest.

	So far as anyone can penetrate the obscure language of the Republican platform it appears that they are interested in giving away these resources. To use their language they say, "We favor restoration of the traditional Republican land policy." Now that to me has a highly suspicious sound. And, I would welcome a controversy on that issue. I am for conserving the public wealth and the public property of the people just as I am for conserving the public tax dollar.

	I hope that my distinguished opponent will some time see that both of these questions involve the property of all of the people. He is appalled, as I am, at those public servants who have given away tax favors, but he is apparently willing enough to give away the land, the oil and the other property of the people.

	In this fight for the conservation of the public domain I take comfort from the support of Senators Hayden and McFarland. They are staunch allies in a good cause. The battle for conservation is not by any means the only one we face. The position of the Republican leadership on agriculture is, to say the least, highly ambiguous.

	As many of you know, the present farm price support for cotton and for the other basic crops, 90 percent of parity through the year 1954, was enacted over the opposition of more than half of the Republicans in the House of Representatives in this last session of Congress. This legislation tells the cotton farmers of this state that they can plant the cotton that they can in the expectation of receiving a fair price at picking time.

	Now, you will look in vain in the Republican platform for any firm commitment of any sort to such price insurance. The Republican candidate, to be sure, is eagerly writing a new farm plank. In fact, he writes a new one almost every week or so. But I ask you, what reliance can you place in a party which says one thing through its candidate, nothing much at all in its platform, and votes against its candidate in Congress.

	We might bear in mind too that it is Congress that writes the laws--not the candidates for President.

	Just as in the case of reclamation and of farm legislation, so in the case of labor laws, housing, social security, price controls, and many other measures that seem to me for the people's welfare. The Democrats have had to fight bitter Republican opposition to every forward step all the way along the line for the past twenty years.

	Now, I am frank to say that some of my very best friends are Republicans, and you people here in Tucson know that Republicans are fine in their place. As visitors, for example, they usually have much more money than Democrats. There are many Republicans I would trust with literally anything I have. Most trustworthy people on earth. I would trust them with everything--except public office.

	Now, this nation does not propose to stand still. We shall continue to move forward in the years to come toward greater freedom, more equal opportunity for all of our people, toward peace, toward abundance in the world. The party of faith, I am confident, will triumph over the party of fear, and this country will have four more years of progressive service for the people.

	But, my friends, it will take a little help from you on the 4th of next November. I am very grateful to you for your cordial and courteous and hospitable reception here in Tucson this afternoon. I have enjoyed it immensely. It has been a wonderful opportunity for me not only to see something of the majesty and might of this state which has grown so fast and so incredibly, and of its people, but it has also afforded me an opportunity to have some of your God-given sun--and have it directly in my eyes.

	In this state I could even learn to love Republicans.

	I am afraid that I have made one mistake in my brief experience in politics--and it is a brief experience--I am afraid I have always had a temptation to talk too much. I feel as though I had imposed upon audience after audience in my pilgrimage around the West. It is perhaps due more to the fact that there is a lot to say--that I have, I think, a lot to say--that there is a lot that I feel, and feel very deeply. It isn't just gloom and ugly selfish partisanship. I think everybody in this vast gathering this afternoon knows that I didn't want this job--but I have taken this job--and I am going to do it as best I can. I am going to do it because I believe from my heart not that I am the indispensable Messiah--that I have anything of particular consequence or value to offer to people--but because I believe from the bottom of my heart in the traditions of my party.

	I believe that the strength, the nourishment of this country, doesn't come from an overflowing cup at the top, but it comes up the mighty trunk that is America, from the myriad roots of this tree that are the people.

	But as I say, I talk too much. I thought only today, coming over here, of a story that I heard one of the great orators of this century, old William Jennings Bryan, tell under a tent in my hometown of Bloomington, Illinois, when I was a small boy. He concluded his speech--and all speeches were tiresome to me then, as they are to some of these guys down here now--and he said, "Ladies and gentlemen, I should know better. When I was a young man I invited my mother to come to hear me speak one time and I said to her, 'Mother, now you listen attentively, and when it is all over please tell me if I missed any chances.'" When it was over he said to his mother, "How did I do?" after the first burst of enthusiasm and applause. She said, "William, I will tell you later." Then she said to him later, "You did very well. It was a superb address--magnificently eloquent--but I thought you missed some chances." "Well, shucks, what did I miss?" "I thought you missed some chances, William, to sit down."
AGRICULTURE--CONSERVATIONAGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSCONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION--PUBLIC LANDSPUBLIC WORKS PROJECTSRECLAMATION PROJECTSWATER RESOURCES     H2 2 2 
2 2
 õ1 ð1 ë1 å1 Þ1 Ü1 Ü1 Ñ1	 º 	 ¡ 	 | 	 ^ 	 8 	 # 	  e: