Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0920.006SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/20STUMPST. LOUISMISSOURIMO3442 WORDS

	Tonight, before this great audience of Republican women from every part of our country, the subject I want to talk about is a strictly family matter.  It is as much a family matter as your household budget, your savings account, your husband's insurance policy, the education, the moral and physical health of your children.  It is as much a family matter as Korea and a son in the service.  It is the subject of good government.  And good government is, in the long run, essential to good homemaking.

	By that term I do not mean just better government.  I do not mean those parts of government that are manned by our great and loyal civil service.  That service is vital to our country.  Its members are essential to good government.  I do mean those functions of government which are conducted by political members of the party temporarily charged with administration in our country.

	If we are to have good government in these important areas, we are not concerned with a mere "refreshening" of what we have now, no repaint or refurbishing job will do.  when it comes to the political members of our national government, we will be satisfied with nothing less than their complete replacement.

	Yesterday, my friends in Kansas City told me that I should have made this talk there--under the shortened shadow of the Pendergast machine.  When the citizens of that great Missouri city were faced with bad government they proved what must be done about it.  What did they do.  They got rid of it.

	And to this audience of women, I want to get it in the record that when that clean-up and start-fresh job had to be done, the women had a vital hand in it.  Aroused against bad government, the women of Kansas City made good government a crusade.  They made the broom a mightier political weapon than the bribe.  They turned their dedication to honesty into honest votes.  And the impossible happened.

	That is not so surprising--at least to a man boasting of 36 years of married life.  When righteously indignant women go on the war path, the impossible almost always happens.  Those women got good government.  Against all the wiles of the machine bosses, and against all the support for those bosses from friends in high places, they are keeping it good.

	Maybe we can get some of those Kansas City women and their friends across the country to help out in Washington.

	Now, what is our program--yours and mine--for good government?  The first part of our program for good government is a moral part.

	It was not by chance or just to turn a happy phrase that the authors of our Declaration of Independence concluded that immortal document with these words:  "We pledge our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor."  It was not by chance that their concluding phrase, the climax of their dedication was: "Our sacred honor."

	Beset and hard-pressed though they were, they knew that moral stamina was a more powerful weapon in their cause than physical stamina.  They knew that our government would endure and be good government so long as good moral principles, drawn from the people, were practiced by those who governed.

	Perhaps the memories of some of you--I hasten to add, only very few of you--go back as far as mine.  If so, you will remember--as I do--some of the maxims written at the top of the copybooks we used in grade school.  They were the sayings of great Americans.  But they were much more than that.  They were the standards by which, in those days, greatness was judged; the standards by which those great Americans actually lived.

	Listen to some of them:  

	"Honesty is the best policy."  

	"A man is known by the company he keeps."  

	"He that goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing."  

	"A penny saved is a penny earned."

	"Birds of a feather flock together."

	"I would rather be right than be president."

	Where do we stand today--where does our government stand when measured against the moral principles--the sacred honor--of our founders?

	It's a shabby picture.  "Evil," writes the author of a recent best-selling book about our government, "is rotting away the principles we live by."  Who, day after day and week after week, can read the headlines and not share that feeling?

	Was there ever before a time in our history when loss of integrity in our national government could furnish material for such current books as "Morality in American Politics," "Politics Has No Morals," and "How to Get Rich In Washington?"

	Was there ever before a time when the population had any cause whatsoever to feel uneasy about the basic patriotism of any person holding an important post in our government?

	Was there ever before a time in our history when the low state of public morals moved the Senate of the United States to name a Committee on Ethical Standards in Government?

	Was there ever before a time in our history when those who govern had fallen under such wide suspicion that such a Senate committee felt required to draw a "Code of Official Conduct"--a sort of political version of the ten commandments?

	Unpleasant facts to face--but I believe that today, tonight, the American people are facing up those facts--to this shabby picture--and their wrath is growing.  I promise you that I shall do everything within my power to help it grow.

	But it is too late; it is much to late for half-way convictions and part-way measures.  To rid an orchard of trees that bring forth evil fruit, the Bible advises:  "And the ax is laid at the foot of the trees."

	That is our immediate task; to make sure--beyond the shadow of any doubt--that the ax is laid at the foot of the trees.

	The women of Kansas City found out, when they launched their crusade for good government, that you can't get good government merely by pruning or spraying bad government.  They found that you can't get it by grafting onto bad government a few new and healthy-looking branches.  They got good government by making it good clear down to the roots.

	Last May, the president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs had something to say about this question.  She said:  "The women of America have their brooms in hand and they mean business."

	I believe that.  I believe it because women know that the entire moral tone of our country is affected by governmental license and laxity.  They know that the results of bad morals in high official position sooner or later reach down into every community and into every family and influence our lives and the lives of our children.  Of course the women of America mean business and I now that a broom in the hands of a morally indignant woman can do the work of a bulldozer; that is what is on the way.

	What will we do in the wake of that moral uprising?  Well, the first thing is to call in the heads of every investigative agency of our federal government.  We will make clear to them--clear beyond any chance of misunderstanding--that the finding out and the rooting out of those who practice or condone subversion or corruption is their first, their most urgent business.

	From the beginning we will bring into government men and women to whom low public morals are unthinkable.  Thus, we will not only drive wrong-doers and their cronies out of government.  We will make sure that they do not get into government in the first place.  For an incorruptible government is not produced by mechanical formulae or congressional resolution or executive directive.  An incorruptible government is produced by incorruptible men and women.

	Is there any lack in America--any shortage--of men and women of such high order of integrity?  You and I know better--and we could go on and name them great Americans, of greater capacity, of great patriotism, of great moral stature.  After next November 4th, we will name them.

	That is the first, the moral part of our program, of this crusade for good government.

	Then we will begin to move forward.  With that accomplished, we will make these our objectives, our immediate aims for the government of the United States:  First, to save:  That means an administration which knows how to practice the wiser spending of less of the people's money.

	Second, to streamline:  That means an administration which knows how to make government the more efficient servant of the people.

	Third, to decentralize:  That means an administration which is determined effectively to bring government close to the people.  It means, also faith in the people to act more wisely in their own behalf than can a bureaucrat removed a thousand miles from the scene of action.

	Fourth, to unify:  That means an administration able to make the whole government a joint, cooperative enterprise for the whole people's benefit.

	Let us look, for a moment, at these four steps.  Is saving a part of good government?  Or must waste continue to be our government's way of life?

	I know your answer.  I know the answer of the Republican Party.  But let me quote the answer given by a great Democrat.  "I place economy," said Thomas Jefferson, "among the first and most important of Republican virtues and public debt as the greatest of the dangers to be feared."

	I would not presume to try to take over Jefferson from the Democrats, although Jefferson's Party was first called Republican and I have a strong belief that, if he were here this year, the Republicans would get his vote.

	There is nothing Jeffersonian in our more than 260 billion dollar national debt; or in our spending program for this year of 85 billion; or of federal taxes--federal taxes alone--which eat up nearly one dollar out of every four of the income of the average worker.

	Let me read for you the description of waste in just one department of our government, as set forth by the Honorable Paul Douglas, a distinguished member of the United States Senate and, may I add, a Democrat.

	Senator Douglas says:  "I think it will be found that if three men are needed to do a certain job, the State Department will employ from twelve to fifteen.  They spend a large part of their time communicating with one another.  The men at the bottom will write memoranda which will be passed up through the sub-chiefs to the chiefs.  Then there will be memoranda passed down.  So when we multiply the staff we increase the amount of internal work which is needed almost in geometric proportion, until finally the chief work of the State Department consists in its members talking to one another."

	The same senator took a look at the Department of Agriculture.  It is, he said, characterized by a "great and shameful duplication."

	The fact is, today, waste is not only an administration habit.  It has become the administration's way of life.

	The spending program and the taxing program of the government of the United States are virtually out of control.  Thirty years ago the Republican Party established the Office of the Director of the Budget.  That office was established not to lend a hand in the wasting of your money, but to take a firm hand in saving it.

	We will restore that bureau to its original purpose.  We will see that it is headed by a top-flight American who knows the value of a dollar--who even knows the value of the present donkey dollar.  We will put to work, with that bureau head, a corps of able citizens who are qualified to look at federal spending from a hard-headed citizen's point of view.  Women, who operate the family budgets of America, will certainly understand the need for this kind of procedure.

	We will review and appraise every spending program of the government.  We will judge them in terms of their service to the people and in terms of the people's capacity to pay, we will look beyond this year's budget and next years budget and work out a long-range, peacetime fiscal program.  Congress will know where we are going--and a vast majority of the members of Congress will applaud and help us get there.  The people who pay the taxes will know where we are going.  They will know that we are on our way toward a balanced budget, toward reduction in the national debt, toward lower taxes.

	These things can be done when we get an administration which is rigorously determined that they will be done.

	The second objective is to streamline; to make government the more efficient servant of the people.

	Today, nearly 100 federal agencies report directly to the president of the United States.  Some of those agencies have more employees than our biggest industrial corporations.  Their number is on the increase.  Four of those agencies alone--just four of them--maintain 6,000 field offices throughout the country.  Do they get in each other's way, do they clutter up the people's business?  Of course they do.

	We know what this confusion, worse confounded, means here at home. Moreover, I have seen close up some of its dire consequences abroad.  Let me quote the comment of a recent observer of how our hydra-headed government leads to irritation and despair.  This observer said:  "There are so many American officials dealing on so many levels with European governments on so many aspects of economic policy that very often one branch of the United States government does not even know what another is doing in the same European capital."  Do the rank and file of loyal and efficient government employees resent this duplication, overlapping and waste?  Certainly they do.  They resent the low moral which is its inevitable result.  They, like most Americans, are eager to do a good and full day's work on their job.  They will be the first to support our efforts to make our government a better servant of the people.

	What is the answer?  The answer is to reorganize, streamline, to apply to government the principles of competent, imaginative management which have helped make American industry the world's marvel.  Government is the people's business.  To conduct that business requires not only political statesmanship.  It requires businesslike operation.  We will take out of the files the unfulfilled plans of the Hoover Commission, we will dust them off, where necessary, we will ask Congress to enact them, we will put their execution in the hands of men and women who measure up to America's highest standards of good management.

	The third aim is to decentralize:  To bring the people's government closer to the people.  One of our greatest statesmen said, "Our country is too large to have all its affairs directed by a single government."

	To bring government closer to the people we will set up these principles and adhere to them:  that no federal project, large or small, will be undertaken which the people can effectively do or be helped to do for themselves; that no federal project will be undertaken which private enterprise can effectively undertake; that no project and no program will be started on the federal level which can be undertaken and effectively carried through on the state or local level.

	Because of the excesses of big business, Theodore Roosevelt, early in this century, cried out against the malefactors of great wealth.  Today we have a new breed of malefactors:  the malefactors of great power, bred and nourished by the excesses of big government.  Theodore Roosevelt's remedy for the excesses of big business was called trust busting.  Trust busting was a process of decentralization whereby big business was brought within reach of the people and the vested interests of big business made subject to the interests of the people.  But government is in need of the same treatment; the same decentralizing process that will bring government within reach of the people and make its vast octopus of vested interests subject to the people's interests.

	The fourth thing required of us for good government is to unify; to make the whole government a cooperative enterprise for the whole people's benefit.

	That means, first of all, unity--a working partnership in the executive branch of the government, itself, today, too often, the left hand of our government has no idea what the right hand is doing and neither hand can be relied on.  You may have observed that last week a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisors declared that defense spending is now leveling off, far ahead of schedule, and that new government studies show it has already reached its peak.  That would be good news for the taxpayers, if it were true, but is it true?  Two days later the Defense Department officially contradicted this presidential official and declared that peak defense spending would not be reached for some time to come.

	In your next administration the government's right hand will know what its left hand is doing and both hands will be constructive and dependably engaged.

	In the executive branch of our government there are today at least a thousand officials on the policy making level.  Is it too much to insist that those officials should not be rivals, competing for the people's favor and clamoring to spend more of the people's money?  Is it too much to demand that they work together as a team--with a single dedication to the people's interests?

	This same unity requires a new era of cooperation between the executive branch and Congress.  The Constitution of the United States does not place the president above Congress; nor does it put Congress above the president.  In the business of government, Congress and the president are co-equal partners.  We will make it a working partnership.

	A working partnership does not necessarily mean agreement in all things.  It does not mean the compromise of principle.  It does require frank and open dealings.  It requires the setting up of machinery--manned by men and women of stature--for continuous consultation.  It requires good faith.

	Most important of all, if we are to have the unity in government which good government requires--then we must take the people, themselves, into our confidence and, thereby, restore their confidence in government.  We will keep the people informed because an informed people is the keystone in the arch of free government.

	Tonight, you and I are resolved to make the cause of good government a crusade-- to make it a personal crusade for each of us.  More is at stake in that cause than our material well-being and progress.  Also at stake is the cause of peace and war in our world.

	I have commanded your sons in war.  I have talked with them along the road as they went forward into battle.  I have seen them in battle--often fighting against odds.  I know the stuff they're made of.  They and I know war's horrors, and they and I, therefore, hate war and all its evil works.  That is a hatred every one of us shares, just as the desire for peace is the desire of all of us.

	Must we despair of the future?  Must we conclude that peace is a hopeless cause?  Must we look forward from this Korea to more and more Koreas and then to a third world war?

	I do not believe it.  I believe that we can lead onward ridding the world of war.  I know that we can initiate and pursue intelligent and broad progress in that direction.  That is why, in this campaign and for the rest of my life, I have one personal dedication which transcends all others.  That dedication is to help bring lasting peace to the world; to help make sure that your sons and their sons will never have to be sent to fight in another war.

	But it is only America--an America that is materially and morally strong--that can lead the world to peace.  That is why good government here at home is a cornerstone of a good and lasting peace for the world.

	This, then, is your cause, the crusade in which you have enlisted.  For such a cause, the best we have and hope for is at stake.  In such a cause, nothing less than our best will do.  To that cause we can confidently dedicate our lives, our fortune, and most of all, our sacred honor.
BUREAUCRACYCONDUCT, OFFICIALGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEGOVERNMENT REORGANIZATIONGOVERNMENT WASTEMORAL/SPIRITUAL VALUES--WOMENPOLITICAL PARTICIPATION--WOMENGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     ‚N ÆN ®N §N öN
 åN áN ÇN yN qN oN oN eN	 ≤ 	 ß 	 ñ 	 Å 	 h 	 X 	 ;   e: