Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1004.002SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/04STUMPST. PAULMINNESOTAMN3,178 WORDS

	Two months ago, I accepted the nomination for the Democratic party. I am proud, tonight, to recognize that I am, too, the nominee of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party of Minnesota. I am glad to be assured by Senator Humphrey that my name is really and truly on the Minnesota ballot!

	I know the special meaning of the name this party bears. It tells its own story. It recognizes that one set of interests binds together the men and women of the Mesabi Range, those in the factories, mills and packaging houses of Minnesota's cities, and those in the forests and on the farms which lie among ten thousand lakes. Your party symbolizes the strength which resides in unity. It is this strength in unity about which I want to talk tonight.

	This party name marks, too, a great political tradition. Governor Floyd B. Olson stands in all our minds as a champion, not of any vested interest, not of any special interest, but of human rights and opportunity for all. It is a good tradition that has seen the torch of high purpose handed on from Floyd Olson and to men like Hubert Humphrey--and to women like our ambassador to Denmark, Eugenie Anderson.

	Nor does this tradition show any signs of faltering. I know of Orville Freeman for his fight against the forces of Communism. I like his "Plan to Build Minnesota's Future"--his program for the expansion of Minnesota's industry and the development of its natural resources. It would be well to let him show you what a Democratic-Farmer-Labor Governor in Minnesota could do--and, of course, it is my current business to persuade you that a Democratic president in Washington is indispensable--and getting more so every day as the Old Guard program and philosophy of the Republican party becomes more and more manifest.

	William Carlson stands in this same healthy Minnesota tradition. In three terms in Congress he has stood squarely for the people. He came out clearly for farm price supports, in sharp contrast to the evasiveness of his opponent.

	May I add a footnote to my mention of these two men? My opponent has so cheapened the time-honored custom of endorsements that I feel compelled to add that I really do admire Orville Freeman and Bill Carlson. And if I didn't, or if one of them had called General Marshall a "front man for traitors," I tell you simply that nothing could have persuaded me to appear here tonight.

	I recognize that a political campaign sometimes means shaking hands; you wonder what other hands have shaken before you, and I am not above smiling smiles that make me blue. And, although I do not believe that defenseless babies should be kissed in the presence of photographers, I cannot pledge I will even resist such temptation until election day.

	But I assure you that you need not be concerned that your candidate will resort to what is coming to be known as the three monkeys standard of campaign morality: seeing no evil--if it is Republican; hearing no evil--unless it is Democratic; and speaking no evil--unless Senator Taft says it's all right.

	At the beginning I had hoped that this campaign might be conducted on an elevated plane, and that out of the discussion there might emerge a greater unity on the crucial issues before us. I think the people of Minnesota did too; I think that is why they gave my opponent a sizable write-in vote in their primary.

	But he has disappointed even myself--though none of us was prepared for yesterday's melancholy spectacle.

	That spectacle can leave no doubt in anyone's mind that the general is hopelessly the captive of the Old Guard. And we all know where the Old Guard stands.

	Senator Taft is, as we all know, a man who has made opposition a matter of principle--preferably with interest at 8 percent.

	It makes no difference what forward step you have in mind, the Old Guard is against it.

	Do we propose to lengthen the power lines of REA, or to maintain farm price supports at 90 percent of parity, or to replace the Taft-Hartley law? They're against it.

	Do we propose to strengthen the system of cooperatives, and welcome such evidences of voluntary initiative in our democracy? They're against it.

	Do we propose to broaden the coverage of social security, or encourage nondiscrimination in employment, or press our housing program? They're against it.

	Do we propose to strengthen the ties between the American heartland and the rest of the world by building the St. Lawrence Seaway? They're against it.

	Do we propose to strengthen our Point Four program for building of a strong free world; do we propose to stand firm against aggression in the Far East, to arm our friends in Western Europe and to strengthen the United Nations as the best--and perhaps the last--hope of the world? The Old Guard is against it.

	They have always been against. They have always cried: "It costs too much," or "It is socialism," or "It is regimentation," or, more simply, "Ruin, ah ruin." They regard those programs of ours as something the Democratic party has devised to destroy, not to build; and, probably, just to worry them. It is only years afterward that they grudgingly accept all that has been done in these last twenty years to meet the real need of the American people. I get more baffled every day how a great party can accept everything that has been done, and at the same time condemn everything and everyone who has had anything to do with it, and suggest nothing of their own that you can get your teeth into.

	I do not propose tonight to review for you the great record of the Democratic party of the last twenty years. I don't think I need to. You know it--and you have voted for it. But I would like to recall just two things--the Democratic farm platform and the Democratic labor program.

	When FDR took office in 1933, the farmers of the Northwest were burning their wheat in their stoves because they couldn't sell it for the price of coal. The land lay barren, just gray-black dirt, and thistles blew across it, and farm wives canned the green thistles to have something to eat. And they headed out of the worst depression in memory into the worst drought. Well, FDR had been in office just two weeks when he asked Congress to act. I remember it very well; I had a hand in the early days of the old triple-A.

	In those terrible days your Farmers Union co-ops were actually sending relief trains carrying food out of the Twin Cities to feed the farmers who were starving west here--starving on the richest land on God's earth. Today those trains are running in the opposite direction--year after year they bring to the Twin cities a harvest of food greater than any ever known.

	And I want to recall, also, that when the Democrats took over, the mines were shut, the factories were dark, the workingmen in the cities stood in breadlines. And you know how it went to work on that problem. Today your industries are busy and prosperous, you all have jobs and money to buy the things your children need.

	And now from the farm program and the labor program I want to draw a conclusion.

	It is this: with these and other programs, the Democratic party wrote into the law of the land the biblical injunction that we are indeed our brother's keeper--the principle that individual men and women ought not to be required to bear alone the burdens and disasters of life--flood and drought, depression and unemployment, sickness and old age--the principle that calamity to one is calamity to all.

	When the farmer is broke, he cannot spend money in the city. And when the city worker has no job, he cannot buy food. The farmer can't sell butter to the housewife who does not have the price of a loaf of bread. And the working man can't make shiny new automobiles for subsistence farmers. And when the farmer and the worker are not prosperous, neither are any of the rest of us--businessmen, small and big alike, are in trouble, and so are their white-collar employees.

	And in the fiery crucible of the great war and in our efforts to build a peaceful world, we have learned that this principle had a wider application--that our interdependence, one with another, here at home, is matched by the interdependence of free nations in the world.

	Under the leadership of the Democratic party, America has taken the place that destiny has assigned it as the leader of the forces of peace in the world--a leadership--the Republicans rejected after the first World War. We know that the way of America in the world is with others, not alone.

	You people here know this. You knew it long before many of the rest of us. Some of you, or your fathers, came to Minnesota from other lands. You have friends abroad, and you understand their problems.

	And as one of America's great marketplaces, the Twin Cities have always been more acutely aware of the world market than much of the rest of America. To farmers, the world market can mean money in the bank--or disaster.

	So this idea that America must live and trade and cooperate with the world outside is assuredly nothing new here in Minnesota. But it still seems to be something both uncertain and questionable to a lot of Republican statesmen--so-called.

	But now let me call your attention to something rather marvelous--a thing you have done that even you may not have noticed. It is the product--the by-product, if you please--of your farmer-labor unity. What we Americans have done, in developing the partnership which has made our own economy work, is to forge some of our most powerful weapons in the world-wide struggle against Communism.

	Your unity in the cause of Democracy defeated Communism in your own land. Your labor--on the land and in the factories--has laid the foundation for the defeat of Communism throughout the world.

	Look at what American workers have done. They have driven Communists from their unions at home. And now their representatives are taking the lead in fighting Communism abroad--in exporting to the old world the idea of free American unionism.

	Look what the farmers of the Mississippi Valley have done. The best allies that Moscow has are the empty bellies and desperate hearts of the people of Asia. A starving man is not free. If we are to check the spread of Communism in Asia, we must help them fill their bellies and we must win those hearts. In reaching new levels of agricultural production, the farmers of America struck mighty blows in the cause of freedom. Wheat shipped from the heartland of America has helped keep the wretched millions of India from embracing Communism in a desperate attempt to break out of their circle of despair.

	But for American agricultural production Western Europe might well be in the hands of the Communists today.

	I say to you that one Minnesota farmer with a tractor has done more to defeat world Communism than the noisy fulminations and denunciations which pour from many of the shouters who think you can whip Communism with vocal chords.

	In the long run, there is only one solution to the Communist threat--only one road to peace. That road lies through the strength and unity and indomitable purpose of the free world. The embodiment of that unity is the United Nations--the climax of our belief in interdependence. I am proud to have played a role in the founding of the Untied Nations and in its early deliberations. Its success lies close to my heart. It represents the world's best hope for peace, because there is no other way to marshal the public opinion of the world.

	Unfortunately, the Old Guard orators have never understood any of this. And their candidate seems to be rapidly forgetting what he must have known about it. From time to time, he has professed an amiable interest in the general welfare. From time to time he has expressed a kindly concern for moving forward on a basis of national unity. But, in hard fact, he seems to have embraced or been embraced by the most reckless and embittered wing of his party--the men who have fought at every step along the way against our national agreement on the great questions, at home or abroad.

	Does not the general know who his new best friends are?

	If no one in this party is going to educate him about the facts of political life, I think it is high time someone in the Democratic party began his education.

	Woodrow Wilson once said: "I know not how better to describe our form of government in a single phrase than by calling it a government by the Chairman of the Standing Committees of Congress."

	So perhaps we'd better start the general's education by telling him of the murderer's row that would control the Standing Committees of the Senate if the general's "top to bottom" endorsement of all Republicans should carry weight with the American people.

	Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, which decides which bills are taken up, which are shelved: Robert A. Taft, political mentor of the general, who even voted against the North Atlantic Treaty, not to mention the rest of the catalogue.

	Chairman of the Labor Committee: Robert A. Taft, Champion of Taft-Hartley, with which everyone disagrees in some measure, including himself.

	Chairman of the Banking Committee which handles price controls and housing: Homer Capehart, champion of the Capehart Amendment for "built-in inflation"; champion of real estate lobby in opposing low rent housing and rent controls.

	Chairman of the Committee on Government Operations, which conducts investigations of executive agencies: Joseph R. McCarthy, defamer of General Marshall, champion of the inquisition, champion of trial by ordeal and slander.

	Chairman of Finance, which handles foreign trade matters: Eugene D. Millikin, champion of the protective tariff.

	Chairman of Public Works: Harry P. Cain, champion of the private power lobbies, the first senator from his state in twenty years to oppose low-cost public power projects.

	Chairman of Agriculture: George D. Aiken, champion of the sliding scale 60 to 90 percent price supports.

	Chairman of Atomic Energy Committee: Bourke B. Hickenlooper, champion of the abortive charges of "incredible mismanagement" against the Atomic Energy commission in 1949.

	That's what the general now stands for.

	You know what we're going to do during the next four years in Washington; you know what I stand for. And I stand on what I have said during this campaign--and I have said what I meant and I have meant what I said. I have been advised that it is not always safe to talk sense to the American people. I have even been advised that I sometimes talk above the people's heads. And to this I can only say that I think the people are wise, wiser than old-fashioned politicians think, and if it is a crime to trust their common sense and their native intelligence, then I plead guilty.

	We Democrats have "a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people"--to quote Abraham Lincoln, the first Republican president, who had more stomach for the people than some gentlemen who applaud his name so vigorously and ignore his principles--with equal vigor.

	We're going to beat off the attacks of the lobbies--who are trying to wreck the parity program and the REA and strangle your co-ops to death. We're going to beat off the Old Guard attacks on the support program and we are going to search for a practical system for supporting the price of perishables. We're going to run a decent, honest, efficient, economic and forward looking administration--and I know something about how to do it, because I've been doing it in Illinois for the past four years.

	Today, new frontiers are still opening in the great Northwest. Your iron men have only begun to exploit your taconite on the Mesabi Range. And to the west, where the good earth rolls like an endless ocean, men are damning the great river, and where once was an arid eroded wasteland, there will be a vast and richer garden, and the river's mighty power will bend to the task of lighting lamps on thousands of farms. The present is bright, and the future brighter.

	And now in this beautiful American autumn of 1952 we face a critical election--and the resolution of issues that are fateful. There may be no less than war or peace in our time. To the farmer who should know the record we say "beware." To the workman who should know the record we say "beware." We say to everyone "beware" because the dominant Old Guard of the Republican party has captured the candidate and will even torpedo your foreign police. With do-nothing, care-nothing, mindless mumbo-jumbo they will let America and the world slide into depression. And such a misery bears the seeds of another world war. They are the party of confusion, hesitation, weakness, and that is the signpost that points to disaster and war.

	We ask you to remember another moment of decision, 1920, and the great chance that was lost by those who thought the amiable Harding was their man, not the Old Guard's. We ask you to remember the words of Jeremiah: "Let other men come over to your side, but go not over to join them."

	And if you doubt what I say, this is what Senator Taft said in Columbus, Ohio, night before last: "I have talked to General Eisenhower. I know that he believes in the basic principles that I believe in. I am glad to assure you that if Ike is elected, we will have the kind of a Republican administration in which I believe."

	Well, that is not the kind of administration that I believe in, or the Democratic party. We believe in unity, in strength, in peoples' progress and we prove it by our record, not just our words, every four years.

	Our program today is a new kind of freedom. Not freedom of the poor to beg, not freedom of the rich to plunder, and not, my friends, freedom for either big industry or big unions to run this country--but, rather, freedom for every man and woman to live his own rich life, without molestation, under the guarantee of the law of the land. The world will be saved by our living proof that we are free men, free to make our choices in the democratic way--richer, stronger, wiser, than ever men were before because the people make the right choices.

AGRICULTURE--COOPERATIVES/ORGANIZED LABORAGRICULTURE--FOREIGN MARKETSAGRICULTURE--GENERALCOMMUNISMCONGRESSHISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONHISTORY--UNITED STATES--POLITICAL PARTIESNATURAL RESOURCES DEVELOPMENTORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALUNITED NATIONS     KH H H H H
 øG óG îG æG ÝG ÛG ÛG ÐG	 þ 	 Õ 	 ¹ 	 ¥ 	 œ 	 ” 	 l 	 C 	 & 	  e: