Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1007.004SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/07RADIOSAGINAWMICHIGANMIRELEASE TO RADIO AT 12 NOON EST, AND FOR RELEASE TO AFTERNOON NEWSPAPERS2,167 WORDS

	The Republicans these days put me in mind of a man back in Illinois who used to sing out in church once a year: "It's true, Oh Lord, that I broke all your Commandments. But so help me, I believe every one of them."

	And so it is with most of our Republican friends. For twenty years, they have fought against and they have broken every commandment of common sense in domestic and foreign policy. They fought against and they voted against the interests of the farmer, the laborer, the businessman, the consumer, the housewife, our children, the old folks, and our free friends abroad. But once every four years, around election time, these same Republicans rise to announce that they believe heart and soul in all the things they tried to break.

	To any ordinary son of Adam, like you and me, this is rank hypocrisy. But the Republican leaders have a higher logic which makes everything seem quite right from their point of view. It is the same logic which led another man in Illinois to pray that everyone around him would go to the devil. He knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that he was going to heaven and he wanted to have the place all to himself.

	That view of a restricted heaven--of a heaven for members only--is the heart within the heart of Republican policy. In foreign affairs, it leads to indecision and obstruction, with the risk of its grim sequel, war. In domestic affairs, it is always too little and too late, obstruction and mistrust of everything that has been won for the mass of people.

	Now I do not accuse the general of deliberately wanting these things. If the truth must out, I haven't the foggiest notion what he as an individual stands for. His views seem to change, as on tidelands oil, social security, farm price supports, foreign assistance, defense, as he learns more about life in America from his advisers. And I do know from the experience of my lifetime, that Republican high policy for generations has been aimed at abundance for the few with indifference for the mass of people who make up America.

	Right now, for example, they talk a great deal about restoring the "integrity of the dollar." I'm all for that too. But I also want to make sure that the wage earner, the farmer, the businessman and the consumer have enough dollars to buy the goods and services they all need. I remember that the dollar was very sound in the depression. Of course, there were not many of them around. But at least the dollar was very sound. And every time it got sounder, prices fell lower, more men were thrown out of work, more holdings were liquidated, more businessmen went bankrupt, more farms and homes were foreclosed. In fact, the dollar got so sound in 1933 that it closed every bank in this country.

	The Republican leadership has never been able to grasp the simple and sound lesson that if a man who works on building a car can't own one himself, then the man who owns the factory where the cars are built will soon go bankrupt. He will go bankrupt because the only way you can create a steady market for mass production is by insuring the presence of steady and effective mass purchasing power.

	In the economic field, that has been the main aim of the Democratic party for the last twenty years. We have raised the mass purchasing power of farmers and city dwellers alike so that each can buy an ever-increasing amount of each other's products. We are buying and selling more durable and consumer goods than ever before. Our taxes are high, uncomfortably, dangerously high, due to national defense requirements. But even after these taxes, and after we have met the current needs of our families, we have as a people put aside the largest nest egg of personal savings in human history.

	This has an enormous meaning for us. It means that as each man is better able to take care of himself and his family, demands on the government will diminish. I do not think that the way to solve every problem is by unloading it on Washington. That policy can make a big problem bigger. I believe and have often said that government should be as small and as local in character as possible. And a mighty good way of reducing the size, or at least arresting the growth, of the federal government is by making people economically independent and self-reliant locally.

	The Republican party is two parties. In the dominant Old Guard, you face a set of men who are perpetually afraid that there will be too much of something--even too many votes. They complain about planning in our economy but from the history it looks as though they had planned an economy in which a handful of insiders got the lamb chops, and the great mass of Americans get the paper jackets on the end bones.

	When the Democratic party brought all the people together so that everyone according to his due could get a break at the economic table, the men who own the Republican party began to howl. They said the Democrats were interfering with liberty. On behalf of my party, I am proud to plead guilty to that charge. Certainly we interfered with liberty. We interfered with the liberty to starve. We interfered with the monopolists who crushed the small businessman; we interfered for the farmers who had to sell when and where they could, and interfered with the exploiters of human labor, with the real estate lobbies that profited from slums. Certainly we interfered and it's a mighty good thing for this country that we did, including the Republicans who fought us every inch of the way.

	The American people are tolerant. They forgive good plans that go wrong. They forgive promises broken in the stress of circumstances. But they do not, they cannot and they will not forgive a heart in the wrong place. They will not forgive persistent, unchanging and sanctimonious error.

	As four-time losers, the Old Guard have blamed "me-too" or "overconfidence" for their failure to win the confidence of the American people. But the true and inescapable reason for their defeat has been the same each time, and it will be the same next month. And no matter how many New York advertising companies they hire to sell the American people on the misdeeds of the Democrats and on Republican virtue, their lack of sympathy for and understanding of the problems and needs of the ordinary man, makes us all distrust them.

	Here we are in America, about the last people who still retain the right of initiative and of decision. We have become the guardians of a civilization built in pain, in anguish and in heroic hope; a civilization built from the heart and sinews of men and women who dared to make true the prophecy that they were created in the image of God. What we do in America is no longer our concern alone. What we do in our internal affairs can no longer be separated from what happens in the universe around us.

 	If we creak, the world will groan. If we slip, the world will fall. But if we use our right of initiative and of decision without bombast or bluster; if we use it with clear heads and steady nerves, we shall rise in strength and grow in majesty and the world will rise and grow with us.

	All this imposes a double obligation on any candidate for the presidency. The first is to separate false issues from true ones. And the second is to come to grips with the true issues and to suggest how they can be met. For how can Americans use their right of initiative wisely unless they know what they are initiating when they vote for a presidential candidate? And how can they exercise their right of decision wisely unless they know what it is they are deciding in a presidential election?

	The Republican high command has captured a general but deserted its post of duty to the American people and to free men everywhere. They have raised false issues and beaten them to death with soap opera valor. But they have fled from the responsibility to state, let alone tackle, the real problems which beset us.

	You know by this time in the campaign that I have not ducked the hard issues of farm policy, labor policy, taxes, the high cost of living, health, social security, housing, electric power, conservation of our natural resources. You know that I have not ducked the overriding questions of war or peace. There is no need for me to repeat here all that I have said elsewhere. But in this moment I should like to pay my respects to a final point.

	There is no greater disservice the Republican candidate could do America in its world role than to suggest that our economic strength here at home is a war prosperity. Now I certainly do not believe military expenditures confer benefits upon an economy. They impose a heavy burden we must now bear in the cause of peace and security. They increase taxes, divert goods from civilian use, interrupt socially desirable programs, and absorb energy, money, and materials for purposes that are wasteful in terms of economic progress.

	But it should be said that our high standard of living has been maintained since the Korean outbreak, not because of the defense program but despite it. It has been maintained for the simple reason that our great productive power has increased total national output by more than the defense burden has increased.

	The idea that a huge military establishment is necessary for our prosperity is repugnant to every impulse I have. If it gained general acceptance, it would spell the end of every civilian concept we have. We must maintain our defense establishment for security reasons and no other. We must work relentlessly and tirelessly toward conditions of world stability which will reduce the size of this establishment or remove the need for it.

	But when the general speaks of our prosperity as being war born, who can gain comfort except the Soviets, who shout to the world that we have undertaken our defense program, not to insure peace, but to prevent a depression at home by waging war abroad? Who can be dismayed by such talk except our hard pressed allies who know that another American depression would lead to their ruin?

	We expect this kind of talk from irresponsibles and isolationists. But not from a man who was formerly looked upon as an understanding leader in world affairs.

	Our economic future is bright if only we have the will to lead from strength. Within this sixth decade of the twentieth century, apart from the prime responsibility to build our defenses first, there is room in this country for millions of new homes. There is room for an increase of tens of millions of washing machines, and all the other conveniences. There is room for new products, reflecting the inventiveness and salesmanship of the American system of enterprise. There is room for better standards of nutrition, better educational and health facilities, better roads and community facilities and services. Beyond our own shores, there is beckoning the vast demand for goods and skills of huge areas struggling to catch up.

	What markets these are to kindle the energies of business, large and small! Within these few years ahead, to service our expanding needs, annual outlays for farm and industrial equipment should rise by about 15 percent, production of railroad equipment about 30 percent, and truck production about 60 percent. We shall need about 20 percent more steel, 30 percent more construction equipment, and 30 percent more metallic ores. Production of electric power and equipment should almost double. The true problem that we face, if we are wise enough to see it, is this: how can we produce enough to meet the demands of the second half of the twentieth century--demands not arising from world tensions, but demands which will reflect the yearning of our people to forge constantly forward?

	This is the philosophy of change--change through progress and not retreat--which for twenty years has provided inspiration to Democratic leadership. And anyone who aspires to national stewardship must live by this philosophy. He must reject any thought that because much is right all is right, any feeling that we have come to some ultimate state of perfection where there is no room for further progress and no need to refine and refresh and advance.

	We have been plowing through high seas for a long time. I don't believe you torpedo a sound and seaworthy ship just because you may not see eye to eye with every member of the crew.
ECONOMY--GENERALECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANMANUFACTURINGMONETARY POLICYSTANDARD OF LIVING     j1 61 01 ,1 $1
 1 1 1 1 þ0 ü0 ´0 ©0	 [ 	 K 	 . 	 ! 	  e: