Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1008.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/08STUMPMADISONWISCONSINWIFIELD HOUSE, UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN2,912 WORDS

	After what Wisconsin did to Illinois last Saturday I suppose you are here not out of curiosity about a candidate for president, but as a mark of charity to the grieving governor of Illinois. I think your manners are very good, and therefore I will be charitable and not detain you long enough to tell you the whole Democratic story. 

	I rarely miss the opportunity of visiting a university. Perhaps I discovered, at long last, the reason for this mysterious attraction a few days ago when I overheard some of my staff talking about "egg-heads." They were quoting some newspaper columnist who said that only "egg-heads" could understand my speeches. 

	For a few minutes I took this egg-head talk personally in injured silence. But I couldn't stand it and summoned up the courage to ask them what an egg-head was. The answer, I discovered, is that an egg-head is anyone who has gone to college! So at least today I have a lot of company. 

	It makes me shudder a little to think that I graduated from college thirty years ago last June and how doddering and venerable the thirtieth reunion class looked to me then. If I look to you the way they looked to me, I wouldn't vote for me! Having uttered that sentence, I quickly comfort myself by reminding you that you haven't any younger alternatives! 

	Nothing so dates a man as to decry the younger generation. Yet this has been a favorite attitude of old fogies throughout recorded time. They were at it 4,000 years ago in Memphis and Philadelphia, Egypt, just as some of their contemporaries are at it today in Memphis, Tennessee, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

	Perhaps the solution to this aberration is to be found in the flashing epigram of La Rochefoucauld that "The old begin to complain of the conduct of the young when they themselves can no longer set a bad example." 

	Sometimes, however, such being the infirmities of these my sere and ivy years, I find myself repeating this maxim to myself so that I may conduct myself with seeming parental grace in the presence of my own young sons. Occasionally the tendency to decry the younger generation--a form of mental arthritis for which there is as yet no cure--takes on large proportions. Before we entered the last war a number of misguided writers busied themselves with telling the country that if we should go to war, all would be lost. The reason, they said, was that the young men of this generation were weak and soft, debilitated by ice cream cones and Cadillacs, for the rigors of armed conflict. 

	This, of course, was nonsense; a confection of which we are presently having an overproduction. The men of our armed forces in the last war were as courageous and enduring as they ever were in the history of this nation, and indeed they prevailed against conditions more terrible than those known to Andrew Jackson's men. They fought without hate, they griped with fervor, and they laughed at themselves with characteristic and saving American humor. And serving with them, in uniform and out of uniform, were millions of American women. 

	I have never believed that whiskers and wisdom are necessarily synonymous; sometimes indeed whiskers merely adorn blank spaces on blank faces. Going upon this assumption I have been able to persuade many young men to throw in their fortunes with me in a common fight for good government, and if I should be given a lease on the White House I shall hope to induce many young men to join me in a high adventure as I have done in Illinois. 

	Most of you students were born, I suppose, in the early thirties and do not remember the state of the world at that time. Looking back, it must be hard for most of you to realize that such a world ever existed. Your world has troubles of its own--perhaps greater troubles than those of twenty years ago. But one worry you are spared is the worry of finding a job. When you finish college and military service, you will enter a world which wants and needs you. 

	This seems a natural thing--when you have it. It is a terrible thing when you don't. As we look around our booming country, it is almost incredible to think that mass unemployment was ever a problem. Yet a short twenty years ago millions of people were engaged in a desperate search for work. 

	If you are incredulous, let me say that my generation went into the depression with much the same incredulity. I finished college in 1922. That was the era of flappers, bathtub gin, Freud--the threshold of the gay and carefree period of the twenties--the era of wonderful nonsense about which a fellow Princetonian of mine, F. Scott Fitzgerald, wrote some enduring prose. 

	This decade marked a curious pause in American life and growth--a last interlude of national self-indulgence between the testing of the First World War and the testing of depression. It was our last time of daydreams before crisis made us face the dark ordeal of the twentieth century. 

	The men who ran our country in that decade assured us that they had found the secret of permanent prosperity. Most of us believed them, and bought stocks. Then, in 1929, came the crash--and, as prosperity crumbled away before our eyes, we discovered that its copyright owners had no program against depression--nothing but wails and exhortation and whistling in the night. Our masters in Washington and Wall Street threw up their hands. Some jumped out of windows. In the face of economic disaster we were leaderless. 

	Of course modesty forbids me to tell you which party was in control of the country and had been for many years at that time! 

	It was a sullen and hostile world--a world which had little for youth of opportunity, of hope, of a future. The system was running down, like a broken clock. The wonder is, not that so many young men and women turned to socialism or to Communism, but that there were so few. 

	The election of 1932 was, in a way, a last chance for a free America. Nearly a million votes were cast against capitalism that year. That million might well have swelled to ten million by 1936 if the economic paralysis had continued. 

	But, as you all know, the election of 1932 brought Franklin Roosevelt and the Democratic party, and also the vitality and guts to tackle our economic problems within the framework of the democratic system. The growth of extreme radicalism was arrested by bringing an end to human distress and economic chaos. In 1936, not ten million but a bare 250,000 people voted for socialism and Communism. I firmly believe, therefore, that the man who was more responsible than any other for checking the spread of Communism in America was Franklin D. Roosevelt. 

	We came very near a revolution in 1932--and no place was more revolutionary in those days than our old, sober, sedate farm belt. Hunger and want were turning law-abiding American farmers into rebels. When a season's produce could no longer earn the cost of production or meet the interest on mortgages, it seemed time for action. In Wisconsin, in Iowa, in Nebraska, in Kansas, farmers banded together to resist foreclosures, to present the sale of farms for taxes, to keep surplus milk off the market by dumping it on the roads--violence and irresponsibility which we do not condone, but which were symptomatic of a dying faith in our system. 

	I remember those bitter days well, because my first government job was with the Agricultural Adjustment Administration--the old triple-A. Although a city lawyer in Chicago at the time, I came from the corn belt of Illinois and like many other young lawyers and businessmen and college professors, I jumped at the chance to work for a government which was doing something for the farmer who had not even flourished in the roaring twenties. 

	In those years, too, we began the process of the reform and reconstruction of our economic system--the process which has made our economy so much more foolproof today than the vehicle in which we careened to disaster in the twenties and which was manned by Republican chauffeurs and mechanics. 

	I go into this because it is something more than ancient history. I would have hoped that all Americans could accept the gains we have made in the last generation, and that on this basis we could move forward together. But I fear the struggle is not over. The minority which fought this effort at every step along the way is still fighting. Senator Bricker spoke for them when he cried at the Republican convention this year that the "last vestige of the New Deal" must be "destroyed." 

	I hope this was just partisan elocution, but the record is not reassuring that the constructive work which has been done is secure. And it is well for you who can't remember where we have been to know where we are. This freedom and this security are part of the landscape of your world. But they have only been part of that landscape for a short time. 

	The remaking of our country in this last generation has made America a beacon of progress on an otherwise stormy and darkening earth. I cannot say that you young men and women will go out today into a safer world than that of 1932. But I do say that you will go out into a stronger America--an America which welcomes you, which has a place for you, and in which you may live and work and serve with dignity and faith. 

	It seemed to me appropriate to discuss these great changes here at the University of Wisconsin, because the democratic impulse of the thirties owed a great deal to the Wisconsin tradition in our national politics. 

	There were a number of elements in that Wisconsin tradition. The basic element, of course was a deep and abiding faith in the American people and the American soil. No matter how much our nation becomes overgrown with the tall towers of great cities, we can never forget that our democracy had its roots in the land. It was a Wisconsin historian--Frederick Jackson Turner--who first made the nation understand that the American democracy came out of the wilderness. In our century, few have symbolized better the ancient Jeffersonian faith than the great leader of Wisconsin progressivism, Robert La Follette. 

	But the Wisconsin tradition meant more than a simple belief in the people. It also meant a faith in the application of intelligence and reason to the problems of society. It meant a deep conviction that the role of government was not to stumble along like a drunkard in the dark, but to light its way by the best torches of knowledge and understanding it could find. The La Follettes were never ashamed to call on the experts. 

	Above all, the Wisconsin tradition meant a belief in the value of the free intellectual community--the belief which has found such splendid embodiment here in this city. If we value the pursuit of knowledge, we must be free to follow wherever that search may lead us. The free mind is no barking dog, to be tethered on a ten-foot chain. It must be unrestricted in the play of its inquiry. If we insist on conclusions before the search is over, we are committed to playing the game of the mind with marked cards. 

	The Wisconsin idea--the faith in the free mind and in the application of reason to government--was one of the hopeful ideas of our century. Today we find that idea everywhere under attack. Throughout the world, the whole conception of the free intellectual community is menaced by those who fear freedom more than they love it. As darkness falls upon this earth, the area of freedom shrinks. New philosophies arise--new theories of the state--which recoil from freedom, detest it, exterminate it, and seek to found new societies upon its extermination. 

	In the Soviet Union we see the totalitarian state in its gloomy reality. The first casualty of the Communist regime is the free mind; and, once the free mind disappears, all else must follow. Thus in Soviet Russia today the last trace of freedom has been extinguished. Not only history and economics and politics, but science and art and music are enslaved by the regime. The unorthodox experiment, the unacceptable melody, the extreme painting, become evidences of disloyalty. Unorthodoxy is treason to the state. 

	This process reaches its grim climax, of course, in the Soviet courts. Here injustice, wearing the gowns of justice, stages the last act of the cruel joke. Men are accused at random of infamous and fantastic charges; they are transformed into enemy agents, spies, traitors; documents are misrepresented and falsified; past associations are uncovered and distorted, past remarks torn from context; guilt comes in the end, not just by association, but by accusation. And triumphant above all rises the figure of the great accuser whose word can brand men's lives, make falsehood true, create evidence where none existed before, and spread through all society the reign of suspicion and terror. 

	Because we believe in the free mind, we are opposing Communism with our will. We are opposing it abroad, where its relentless pressure seeks further to narrow the area of freedom. We are opposing it at home, where its agents and its dupes seek to undermine our society and strangle our freedom in its own paradoxes. 

	As president, I would use all the power of the federal government to expose and identify Communist activity, to remove Communists and their tools from places of position and prestige in our society, and to protect our free institutions from Communist espionage, sabotage and subversion. 

	But, because we believe in the free mind, we are also fighting those who, in the name of anti-Communism, would assail the community of freedom itself. The liberties of expression and conscience are the basic liberties of American society. They are sustained by our whole structure of law and justice. That structure has sufficed for us in the great crises of our past. I see nothing in the future which requires us to throw it overboard now. 

	I would call to your mind the words of a great Republican patriot, Theodore Roosevelt. "No greater harm can be done to the body politic," he said, "than by those men who, through reckless and indiscriminate accusation of good men and bad men, honest men and dishonest men alike, finally so hopelessly puzzle the public that they do not believe that any man in public life is entirely straight; while, on the other hand, they lose all indignation against the man who really is crooked." 

	And in case you have not been reading all the philosophers, I remind you that Aristotle said: "History shows that almost all tyrants have been demagogues who gained favor with the people by their accusations of the notables." Way back there! 

	Disturbing things have taken place in our own land. The pillorying of the innocent has caused the wise to stammer and the timid to retreat. I would shudder for this country if I thought that we too must surrender to the sinister figure of the Inquisition, of the great accuser. I hope that the time will never come in America when charges are taken as the equivalent of facts, when suspicions are confused with certainties, and when the voice of the accuser stills every other voice in the land. 

	So long as America is populated by Americans, this can never be the case. We shall defend the free mind and the free spirit, as we always have in the past. We love and cherish the light of freedom. We will not be stampeded into the dark night of tyranny. With faith in our great heritage of individual freedom, we can--and will--keep America the land of the free. 

	This challenge to freedom has its compensations. It has forced us to redefine our own values. It has made us restate the ideal of freedom for the complex industrial society of the twentieth century. And the process of redefinition and restatement--for most of us, anyway--has only strengthened our faith in the durability of free society. 

	We are hearing a lot today about American division, weakness, hesitation, fear. Some, perhaps, find it politically profitable to cultivate the vineyards of anxiety. I would warn them lest they reap the grapes of wrath. 

	I have said elsewhere in the campaign that this election is a struggle between accusation and fear, and confidence and faith. I say to you today that we need not dwell in fear. We have shown in these twenty years the mighty things we are capable of--if we but maintain faith in ourselves, in our heritage of liberty and in the invincibility of free men. 

	Fear begets fear, as faith begets faith. My party knows where it has been and where it is going. The opposition doesn't like the road we have traversed and is sharply divided about the road ahead. The future stretches ahead, untrodden and uncharted--but ours to take and to master. That future is mostly yours; the roads yours to choose.
COMMUNISMCONDUCT OF LIFE--AGE/HEALTHGENERATION GAPGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSHISTORY--UNITED STATESHISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONINTELLECTUAL FREEDOM     ´B €B zB vB nB
 aB \B WB PB GB EB !B B	 £ 	 š 	  	 q 	 R 	 < 	  e: