Speeches\1992\dem\S92D0920.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)09/20STUMPWarrenMICHIGANMIMacomb County Community College3526 WORDS
	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's give the Scherzon [missing text] another hand. Did I pronounce it right? Pretty close?

	I want to say to Senator Levin, and to Senator Riegel, to Congressman Bonior, and to Congressman Levin who now has this district, and I hope you will send him back to Congress. He's a great man. To Governor Blanchard, and to Sheriff Hackle, and to all of you who have come out to be here today, I'm glad to be here in Michigan, and I'll be here on Tuesday.

	I'm glad to be back at Macomb Community College. I came here during the primary, and I saw some college officers on the way in, and they said if I come back one more time, I'd have to pay tuition.

	I want to say a special word of tribute to this school. It is a living memorial to its founder, Walter Bradley, who died last Monday, the son of a working family who worked his way through college and then dreamed of making college available to all. That is my dream too.

	Last spring I had a chance to listen to people here at this community college. I had a chance to listen to the hard-working people who are the heart and soul of the American dream, who are worried about jobs, families, and future, and I haven't forgotten what I heard in Michigan last March. That's why I came back here today, and that's why I'll be in East Lansing on Tuesday.

	All across this country there are people who feel betrayed by their government, and the feeling ought to be especially acute here in Macomb County, not just because Mr. Bush refused to come for the debate on Tuesday, but because of what he has said when he has come in the past to ask for your votes; to say you are the Reagan Democrats who ought to be the backbone of his Republican coalition. He said one thing when he has come here, and then he has gone back to Washington and done quite another.

	Almost four years ago Mr. Bush went to the Clinton Township campus of Macomb Community College. That was just a few weeks after he said, "Read my lips. No new taxes." And then on September 29th at this community college's Clinton campus Mr. Bush warned that his opponent, now listen to this, would quote, "double the number of IRS agents," and quote, "put a hand in every pocket and a tax agent in every kitchen."

	Now, you know what happened for the next four years. He signed the second biggest tax increase in history, one that hit hardest at the middle class. He came here and asked to support him, and to add insult to injury, he asked the IRS to ease up on wealthy taxpayers and crack down on their audits on the middle class in every kitchen.

	After four years of lost jobs, declining incomes, and ballooning deficits, he's coming here again to say, we're just like you. We share your values, we'll bury your burdens, and put government in your corner. But trickle-down economics have had twelve years to work. Not only are they at the beck and call of every privileged, powerful special interest, it doesn't work, and it's time to scrap it and put it into the history of this country.

	The Bush economics act is an old one. It talks about honoring hard work, but worships the quick buck. It talks about family values, but doesn't value working families. How does Mr. Bush explain vetoing the family leave bill, which would help our families honor the most basic family value, our obligation to care for our newborn children and our ailing parents?

	They talk about traditional values, but they punish people who work hard and play by the rules, and reward people who cut corners and cut deals. If you assemble automobiles, you've lost out in the last twelve years, but if you take corporations apart, you're a big winner.

	If there's any place in this country that Mr. Bush should account for his economic record, it's right here in Michigan. In the last four years, more than 95,000 people have gotten pink slips, more than 80,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost, real wages have dropped seven and a half percent, and all across America average income is down $1,600 from four years ago.

	Worst yet, Mr. Bush has not tried to make it better. He has not tried to do what he told us he would do, to use his power to help the people. He did nothing while health care costs rose at three times the rate of inflation, and 100,000 people lost their heath insurance every month. He did nothing while garment workers in New York, the workers at the Willow Run Plant in Ypsilanti, aerospace workers in California, lost their jobs because of recession, competition, cutbacks, and the fact that we are the only advanced country in the world without an economic strategy to build a high-growth, high-opportunity society in this country.

	And worst of all, worst of all, he's offering us more of the same failed policies that got us into this mess. Still after all these years his most heartfelt commitment has been to a short-term across-the-board capital gains tax cut that will give the average millionaire more than $100,000, and the average family $30; enough for a millionaire to buy a Maserati, enough for our family to buy a tank of gas. And what's worst, what's worst, it won't produce jobs and income. We've tried it their way for twelve years; it does not work, and it's time for a change.

	After four years of raising your taxes, selling out your jobs, betraying your values, and violating your trust, Mr. Bush and Mr. Quayle want to do it to you all over again. They're promising--look what they're doing--they're promising the same old things.

	They're railing against government and then they're throwing money around at election time like there was no tomorrow, and they're attacking me as an old styled democrat.

	Well, let's look at the facts. Just ten days ago, with fifty-four days left to go in this election, and 1,327 days after he become the President of the United States, George Bush said in Detroit that he had an economic plan.

	Too little and too late. And listen to this, that same week, one of his, that is, Bush's, advisers told Time magazine, and I quote: "It doesn't make much difference what's in the economic plan, because he's not going to follow through on it anyway."

	That's what his people said about this plan. This is a do-nothing administration which will do nothing for four more years, if we're foolish enough to give it to them--and I don't think we're going to do it.

	Look at this. Just a few days ago, Vice President Quayle--I thought I had heard it all, but a few days ago Vice President Quayle--came to Michigan and actually tried to claim credit for releasing funds for repairing the M-1 tanks and modernizing them. Now, you ask Carl Levin, Don Riegel, David Bonior, and Sandy Levin what happened. The United States Congress pushed that tank modernization program, the Army wanted it, the Bush administration tried to kill it, and then they resisted to the eleventh hour spending the money until they were by law required to spend it. They could not avoid doing it without violating the law. So then they come here and try to get you to give them credit for doing some that your congressmen from Michigan forced on them. It's wrong.

	They went to South Dakota and promised the wheat farmers an export program that a month before the President said ought to be eliminated, and they gave it to the farmers after the markets had already been lost to foreign competition, but when it was closer to the election, in the hope that farmers wouldn't understand agriculture but would go for pork barrel.

	We do not need more of these election-year promises and buyouts. We need an honest debate on the future of this country.

	Now, why has Mr. Bush declined the offer of the Presidential Debate Commission? He says he doesn't like the rules. You see, the rules this year asked for three debates instead of two.

	The rules this year had more room for interchange and follow-up so that there was less opportunity for a politician to posture and more opportunity to hear real answers to real problems. He doesn't like those rules.

	And the reason he doesn't like the rules is, he knows that he cannot defend his economic record to the people who put him in office four years ago.

	My fellow Americans, we did not get into this mess overnight and we're not going to get out of it overnight. I do not have all the answers, but I know we have to change direction. And I have been willingly relentlessly from the beginning to subject myself to the questions of the people from the beginning of this campaign in New Hampshire, and I will down to the very end. I want to be accountable to you, I want to work for you, I want you to know that I wake up every day worrying about you and your problems and your interests--and I will.

	I have also given you a real plan. You can pick it up in any bookstore. I have written down what Al Gore and I will try to do. We call it Putting People First. It is a plan born of twelve years of hard work, not election-year promises, twelve years of hard work as a governor in which I reached certain profound convictions. Number one, we've got to create jobs in the private sector, if we want the economy to grow--the government can't lead the way, the private sector has to lead the way.

	But, number two, if you look around the world, we are ignoring our competition. Our competitors are beating us because government and the private sector, both business and labor, work in partnership in those countries, and we don't do it here.

	Number three, government has to invest more and waste less. Number four, we have to insist on personal responsibility as well as provide opportunity.

	Finally, we have to be for change and we have to be able to say no as well as yes. Mr. Bush talks all about tight budgets. I've balanced eleven, I've said no a lot of times, I've cut spending more than I've raised it in the tough years of the eighties. But we have increased investment in my state. And that's why this year it's very inconvenient for them, but, as the Bush secretary of labor said the other day, the job growth in Arkansas has been enormous: we rank first in the country in new job growth. He never says that in his speeches.

	We did raise more money for education, but we had the second-lowest tax burden in the country. We created manufacturing jobs at ten times the national average. We pioneered reform of welfare to move people from the welfare rolls to the payrolls, pioneered tough child support enforcement so people cannot cross the state line and escape their obligation to their children.

	Supported innovations in criminal justice like boot camps for first-time offenders, and provided more choice for the elderly in long-term care and for children in their public schools.

	These are things that I have worked on for a year; they're not some television ad that you're going to see for the first time in the eleventh hour of the campaign, like the Bush campaign is doing. My fellow Americans, national security begins at home. If we don't rebuild this economy, we cannot lead the world.

	And this plan has been endorsed by six Nobel Prize-winning economists, secured the endorsement last week of twenty-one heads of high-tech fast-growing companies in California, two-thirds of whom were Republican, including the man who was the head of Ronald Reagan's competitiveness task force. They have signed on to our campaign because they know that four more years of Bush do-nothing will sink this country.

	And yesterday Admiral William Crowe, who was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed me for President because he said too many problems were still unsolved and we had to face them.

	I ask you to spend the next six weeks going across this state and talking to people, whether they're Republicans or Democrats or Independents, whether they were Perot supporters or for someone else in the primary, and ask them to join our campaign to give the government back to the people--and put the people first.

	Here's the plan we offer. Give business more incentives for new plant, new equipment and new jobs in America--but not more tax breaks for moving our jobs overseas.

	Help small business with access to investment and capital, with the reduction of government regulation and the increase in markets. Do what we can to expand trade. We cannot become a protectionist country, and I have been for expanding trade--but we have to do it on terms that are fair. Last October when I started running for president, I advocated then and I reiterate today that the President of the United States should have the authority to immediately press open markets that are not open to ours. The Bush administration's trade representative said, when he went to Japan a few months ago, that if the Japanese markets were as open to our products as ours is to their products including auto parts made in Michigan and rice grown in Arkansas, it would provide $10 billion worth of income and 300,000 American jobs a year.

	I will be for free and fair trade. I will make sure that we have a chance to do business around the world.

	I want us to be the best-educated people in the world. You can't raise income unless you have skills. What does that mean? It means every adult in every workplace in America should have the chance to be retrained throughout a lifetime. It means every young person and every not-so-young person who doesn't go to a four-year college ought to at least have the chance to do an apprenticeship of two years at a community college or in the workplace.

	It means we ought to open the doors of college education to all Americans. Every American ought to be able to borrow the money to go to college and pay it back either as a percentage of their income after they go to work, or even better, by giving two years of service to our nation here at home.

	Think of this: if in America--in Michigan if every young person and every not-so-young person who wanted a four-year college degree could borrow the money and pay it off by working for two years as a police officer, as a teacher, working with children in trouble, working with the elderly, working with people with disabilities, working in housing programs, we could solve the problems of this country and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	We need to take every dollar we save on defense and reinvest in new technologies for new jobs here at home; new technologies in transportation, in communication, and environmental clean-up. There are hundreds of thousands, maybe millions, of jobs waiting to be created by the defense reductions, but only if we reinvest the money. This crowd spent it on the S&L bailout and on heath care cost increases. I'll reinvest it in your economic future, if you give me a chance to do it.

	I agree with that. Sing that song. I want to deal with one more issue that you have to hear. None of these things can be done until we become the last advanced country in the world to control health care costs and provide basic heath care to all of our people.

	Now, their system won't work. They spend more money on the same health care. It's bankrupting business. Eighty percent of the strikes in America are over health care benefits now. One of the reasons we can't keep jobs in America is because of the cost of health care that is built into every product and service we provide.

	We have got to have a tough plan to bring health care cost in line with inflation and provide basic health care to all of our people, and the only way you'll ever get that is to vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore on November the 3rd.

	And I want to bring home this one point. If you read this one more time, you'll see that we do these things, and we bring the deficit down by 50 percent in four years. Mr. Bush says you can't trust Bill Clinton. Those democrats spend money. You look at the facts. If the Congress had appropriated every last dollar George Bush recommended, the deficit would be bigger today than it is.

	They talk about cutting spending. In 1991 they increased the White House staff budget by 23 percent, 10 times the amount that revenues went up. That has grown faster than the whole rest of the government--what they want for their friends, and their perks, and their privileges.

	Vote for me. I'll give you a budget that the Democrats and the Republicans can vote for.

	Ladies and gentlemen, when I was watching these beautiful young women dance up here, I was thinking that many of your parents and grandparents came to this New World from an older world--people who sacrificed and worked like crazy to build a better life for themselves and their children; people with the courage to change and the vision to dream, and the determination to work heard. And that is what we have to do today.

	I do not promise you miracles, but I promise you this--it will change. We will stop the hemorrhage. We will start to make progress again, if we have the courage to change.

	And let me just say this in closing. You know, Macomb County has become a famous place in the annals of modern American politics. It's the place where people came because they said that modern society had left too many of their values behind; the home of the Reagan Democrats who said that their party had abandoned them and that the Democrats had paid too much attention to special interest groups and not enough to the interest of the country as a whole.

	Well, I want to close with two stories to tell you it's time for all of us to come home again. I was in Spokane, Washington, where I met with eighteen people in a town meeting before going to our rally in Spokane. These people had been selected as mostly undecided voters. They were from five different racial and ethnic groups. They were all given a copy of my plan, and we talked for an hour together. And I could tell they all really liked each other, even though they were from dramatically different walks of life--Republicans, Democrats, and Independents, men and women, businesspeople, laborers, public employees. And I said you all seem like you really like each other, and they said we do. I said what surprised you most about the last two days, and they said: We have so much more in common than we dreamed.

	When I left Macomb County the last time, I went to Detroit and spoke in a black church about welfare reform, and I got a thunderous ovation. The American people are coming together; they just don't know it yet. All the Americans have figured out that we are getting the shaft under the present regime.

	Everybody know that we're going to have to reward work and education and effort, and that no one can make it the way it used to be. We've all got to embrace change. But I say this to you as we did in March: we are going up or down together, we do not have a person to waste. In most of our big states by the year 2000 a majority of the public school students will come from racial and ethnic minorities. This is a melting pot, and we have to find a way to make our diversity a source of strength and renewal.

	And I tell you, if we can do that--if we can do that here in Michigan, if we can say we're going beyond trickle-down economics but not back to tax-and-spend; we're going forward with invest-and-educate, with opportunity and responsibility, and we're going to do it together--then we will send a thunderous message across this country on November 3rd. And we will get our future back.

	Thank you--and God bless you all.
DIVERSITY/MULTICULTURALISMECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEJOB GROWTH/CREATIONTAXATION--GENERALWEAPONS MODERNIZATION     ØM {M uM qM iM
 ^M YM TM NM FM DM %M M	 À 	 ± 	 ° 	 Å 	 T 	 9 	 & 	  e: