Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1017.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/17STUMPCLEVELANDOHIOOHTHE FIGHT FOR THE FUTURE OF AMERICA'S INDUSTRIAL HEARTLAND1,558 WORDS

	Just three weeks from tomorrow, we'll elect a new president and vice president of the United States.

	And these three weeks will be three of the most important weeks in American history.

	The Republicans want to put you to sleep.  They're already celebrating; they're popping the champagne corks in their penthouses.  But I've got news for those Republicans; we're going to be the ones celebrating on Election Night.

	Because we're in a fight for America's future, and you'd better believe I'm not going to walk away from that fight--and I'm not going to walk away from the commitments of a lifetime.

	I started this campaign eighteen months ago as an underdog; and I'm still the underdog; fighting for the values I believe in, the values that are at the core of this campaign.

	I learned those values in our public schools; I learned them in military service; I learned them in public service.  But, most of all, I learned from my mother and father--immigrants who came to these shores without much money, but with a deep and abiding faith in the American dream.

	They taught me always to keep fighting for what I believe, and to fight harder than ever when the going gets tough.

	I'm here today in America's industrial heartland because I want to be the president who stands up and fights for you.

	For working Americans who work from dawn to dusk to pay their bills, people who don't have any special friends at the bank or special interest lobbyists in Washington.

	Because your dreams and your ideals are what America's all about--and I'm never going to forget that.

	I may not express my feelings as eloquently as some.  But do any of you doubt what I would have said if I was in the room when they made those decisions to sell arms to the Ayatollah, to put Noriega on the payroll, to veto civil rights and women's rights, and to choose people like Dan Quayle, Ed Meese, James Watt, and Robert Bork?

	I would have said three simple words: "This is wrong."  And these aren't issues of right and left; these are issues of right and wrong.

	I believe in the spirit of America.

	That we're all in this together, that regardless of who we are or where we come from or how much money we have or the color of our skin--each of us counts.

	I believe in the spirit that says we won't settle for second place or second best; America must be a leader not a follower; we want America to export our products, not our jobs.

	George Bush sat on the sidelines for eight years while America got beaten in world markets; while they mortgaged our children's future to foreign bankers; while a piece of America was being sold off every day at bargain-basement prices.

	Mr. Bush says everything's fine; not to worry; this is as good as it gets.  He talks about "a thousand points of light"; he talks about "a kinder, gentler nation"; he even talks about being "haunted" by the lives of children in the inner city.

	But his record sends a very different message.

	His record tells rural America:  "The fewer family farmers, the better."

	His record tells middle class families:  "The glory days are over.  Your kids may not do as well as you did."

	His record tells the people in our inner cities:  "We can't see you; we can't hear you; stay where you are."

	His record tells America's industrial heartland:  "Let it rust."

	And his record tells the people of Ohio:  "We don't care enough about you to protect you from the nuclear weapons facilities that are poisoning your water and threatening the safety of your workers."  And I'm here to tell you that in a Dukakis-Bentsen Administration we'll have an Energy Department that makes sure that our citizens and their communities are never again threatened by nuclear waste and deadly radioactive clouds.

	I believe in the value of work.  I believe America must keep its promise to people who work hard, play by the rules, pay our nation's taxes, and fight our nation's wars.

	I'm going to be the president who works hard to create jobs in every community and every region in America.  And I mean good jobs at good wages; jobs you can support a family on; jobs that provide health insurance for workers and their families.

	And that's not just a slogan; that comes from the gut.

	George Bush says he believes in the dignity of work.  But Mr. Bush saw nothing, said nothing, and did nothing while his Republican colleagues in Congress used every trick in the book to keep the minimum wage a poverty wage.

	Ask Mr. Bush if he can look a woman in the eye who scrubs floors for a living to support her family on $3.35 an hour.  Ask him what he'd tell a steelworker who lost his job and has to deliver pizzas for a living.  Ask him why he opposed the plant closing law that will give workers and their families 60 days notice before they're thrown out in the street.  Ask him what he'd say to senior citizens about that deciding vote he cast in the Senate to cut their Social Security.  Ask him if that's what he means by "a kinder, gentler nation."

	The difference between George Bush and me is as simple as this.

	George Bush wants to give the wealthiest one percent of all Americans a tax break worth $30,000 a year.

	I want to collect the taxes that those people aren't paying.  But I want to be fair to Mr. Bush.  He hasn't forgotten about the rest of us.  He has a new savings plan to let us keep an extra twenty bucks a year.

	I want to make sure you can send your kids to college.  George Bush wants to give you twenty bucks.

	I want to make sure your kids can buy a home.  George Bush wants to give you twenty bucks.

	Thirty thousand for them; twenty bucks for you.  That's George Bush's vision of America.

	I believe in responsibility.

	I've been a Governor for ten years and I've taken responsibility for my mistakes.  But Mr. Bush takes responsibility for nothing.

	When they racked up the largest deficits in history, Mr. Bush blamed Congress.  When the American people began raising questions about Dan Quayle, Mr. Bush blamed the press.

	When they sold arms to the Ayatollah, he went to 17 meetings where it was discussed--but he said he wasn't in the loop.  When they put Noriega on the payroll, "The New York Times" knew he was selling drugs, NBC knew, the CIA knew, and the National Security Council knew--but George Bush said he didn't know.

	How can Mr. Bush be a leader when he's never in the loop?  How can we trust his values when he sees nothing, says nothing, and does nothing?  How can we make him the man in the Oval Office when, for the past eight years, he's been the man who wasn't there?

	I believe in high standards; I picked Lloyd Bentsen--the man who led the fight for the plant closing law and the new trade bill.  George Bush picked Dan Quayle.

	We're going to set high standards in the White House.  We're going to slam shut the revolving doors between the White House and those lobbying firms that represent special interests and foreign interests.

	I believe in America's future.

	Since Mr. Bush took office eight years ago, he's sat on his hands while America's industrial heartland has been fighting for its life.

	Here in Ohio, you've lost thousands of manufacturing jobs.  And just last week, we learned that we had more imports coming into the United States in August than in any month in history.

	I'm not going to sit by while we ship our best jobs overseas, and you can't buy an American made television, VCR, or compact disc.

	I'm not running for president to sit on the sidelines while America stands still.

	Yesterday, George Bush announced that he doesn't want to talk anymore about what he would do if he is elected president.  Is it because he does not know, or because he does not want US to know?

	Take trade, for example.  George Bush has not given the American people a clue as to what he would do.  Mr. Bush's trade policy is like a rerun of "Let's Make A Deal."  Letting the voters guess what's behind door number one, door number two, and door number three.

	In a Dukakis Administration, we will open the doors of foreign markets to American products.

	Because I want an America more concerned with selling American goods abroad than selling American debt abroad.

	I want to be the president who stands up and fights for American companies, American products, and American workers.

	So that working together we can make the label "Made in America" international symbol of quality and value and durability. 

	With your help, we're going to fight this fight; with your help, we're going to win this election; with your help, we're going to conquer the next frontier.

	Because the best America is not behind us.  The best America is yet to come.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--ORIGINS/YOUTHFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMFOREIGN TRADE--GENERALINCOME TAX--CLASS ISSUESMANUFACTURINGMINIMUM WAGENUCLEAR WASTE     ?# # # # ù"
 î" é" ä" Û" ×" Õ" ›" "	 Ÿ 	  	 T 	 > 	 & 	  	  e: