Speeches\1972\dem\s72d0923.001SPEECH1972DemocratMCGOVERN (D)09/23STUMPCLEVELANDOHOHIOOHIO STATE DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION SPEECH3243 WORDS

	Thank you very much Governor Gilligan, Congressman Vanik, Congressman Stokes, Congressman Stanton, Congressman Donohey, Attorney General William Brown, State Chairman Lavell and my fellow Democrats. Let me say that I am glad to be back in the state of Ohio today and to be in the company of one of the great governors of this country, Governor Jack Gilligan, and I am pleased to be on this stage with three of my admired and treasured colleagues in the United States Congress--Jim Stanton, Lou Stokes, and Charles Vanik, with whom I have had the privilege of serving in the Congress, and I am glad to be here with each one of you. I think it is fair to say that the state of Ohio could very well be the state where the Presidential election of 1972 is decided. I believe that if the people of Ohio see their way clear in 1972 to support the McGovern-Shriver ticket and to support the entire Democratic ticket on November 7th that this will be the clearest proof that we are going to win the next election and recover the White House for the Democratic Party and for the people of this country.

	I come to Ohio in the midst of what I believe is the turning point in this national campaign. I think the tide is coming in--I see it in the faces of large and enthusiastic and warm crowds that are greeting us day after day and I want you to know that ever since Labor Day morning we have been averaging visits to three or four major cities every single day, day after day. I see that Democratic tide also in something that may be more profound and fundamental and that is the steady and mounting registration records in all parts of this country. Since September first I am confident that we will have registered well over one half million votes by November 7th here in the state of Ohio, in this crucial state that plays such an important part in any hopes that we have for victory on November 7th. 

	Now this outpouring of new registered Democrats, along with the continued and loyal support of our Democratic members who have backed the party over the years--that in my opinion is what will carry the Democratic ticket in November and win us the election that is so desperately needed on behalf of all of the people of this country. I think the basic reason why we are going to win this election is that our policies are right, they are centered on the interests of the ordinary citizen of this country and the policies and priorities that are being pursued by the Republican administration over the past four years have been wrong and they have operated against the best economic and social interests of the people that make up the great majority of the United States. 

	At the same time that I have visited some thirty-six major cities of this country during the last three weeks the president of the United States has not only refused to meet in any kind of face to face debate with his opponent, but he refuses, 99 percent of the time, even to face the American people, and I think that we have a strong tradition in this country that a man campaigning for the presidency of the United States has to take his case directly to the American people and particularly if he has a four year record that desperately needs explaining and accounting for to the people of this country. And no amount of substitute campaigners or second string voices for the Presidency--no amount of that can permit him to avoid what is his obligation in this 1972 campaign and that is to go out among the American people, to confront the press, to confront the voters and ask some of the tough questions that he must put to rest between now and November 7th. 

	What are those questions? Let me raise some here this noon. What has he really done, in spite of all the rhetoric with the serious problems of crime in this country? What is his answer for the uncomfortable fact that during the last four years, crime has increased in this country and we have doubled since 1969 the number of hard drug addicts that we have in the United States? Now, it is going to take more than a celebrated trip to the Texas border in the closing days of this campaign to indicate a real commitment to the war against drugs and crime.

	What has he really done about the problem of growing welfare dependency, which he says he deplores, and how does he explain the fact that in the four years that he has presided over the country that we have added another six million citizens to the welfare rolls, not because they want to be there, but because in many cases the disastrous economic failures of this administration have forced people onto to welfare dependency who would very much like to be working? The American people have a right to know the answer to that question. They have a right to know who it was that ordered the wiretapping and the invasion of the Democratic National Headquarters. I fear that many people have tossed off that incident as kind of a humorous caper. It was not that at all. The significance is not that the telephone calls of Larry O'Brien and state Chairman Lavell and Governor Gilligan and George McGovern and Congressman Vanik and others have been taped and recorded and monitored on wiretaps--that is not the real significance of this incident--the truth is that a political leadership that will stoop to that kind of activity in order to listen in to the conversations of leading Democrats in this country will not hesitate to wiretap your law office, your bank, your union hall, your university, or even your private home.

	I appreciate that "only four more months" but actually it is only three months and twenty-seven days. The significance of what I am trying to say here today is that the most precious single right that we have in America as members of a free society is the constitutional right to personal privacy, personal freedom, and personal dignity, and all of those things are under attack from the kind of leadership we have had from the Nixon-Agnew administration these last four years. Now we have the right to an answer to some other questions. We have a right to know who kicked in to that $10 million secret fund and what did they get in return. Is ITT on the list? Are the San Diego Republican interests that got away literally with legal murder--are they involved on that secret list? Are the grain speculators who were given the gravy on this Russian wheat deal--are the big dairy interests involved? Are John Connolly's big oil friends involved? Are the anti-labor interests who are now secretly plotting arbitration and the American labor unions, are they involved in this $10 million secret fund?

	I don't know whether any or all of those special interests have contributed to this $10 million secret fund, but if they haven't, they are the most remarkable political ingrates in American history. Now, in 1952, Mr. Nixon first moved onto the national ticket as a running mate for the late President Eisenhower, and early in that campaign, an enterprising newsman discovered that the vice presidential candidate had a secret fund or slush fund. Well, he has done very well in these last twenty years; he has now built it up to $10 million, and I submit to you the odor of special interest groups and it tells the whole story--and this the most ironic aspect of the whole thing--is that it is a very strange way to run a campaign for an administration that rode in four years ago on a pledge to strengthen law and order in this country. How do they expect to teach the young people of this country respect for the institution of law and the processes of order when they engage in that kind of chicanery at the very highest levels of the government of this country? This is the first administration in history in which the paper shredders and the wiretappers were called upon to work overtime on behalf of the biggest interests in the land.

	The President last night, speaking down on the Texas border, deplored what he called a dangerous permissiveness in this country. I think if he means it he ought to be a little less permissive with the grain speculators, with the wiretappers, and with ITT, and maybe we would have a little more respect for law. Now we have had some problems of our own in this campaign, but they have been snafued by the confusion and the disturbing elements in the opposition camp. We didn't have a security chief of our campaign indicted for burglary. We didn't have our campaign manager resign under what seemed to be mysterious circumstances, but which was interpreted as pressure from his wife. We didn't have--I'm for that, let's free Martha Mitchell--it now develops that the man she said roughed her up out in California has been hired as the new security chief to replace the old one. But we haven't had the Vice President in our campaign, and of course we don't have the vice presidency yet, but we have a remarkable candidate in Sargent Shriver, and there may be a few people who are still arguing about whether George McGovern is an improvement over Richard Nixon, but nobody argues that Sargent Shriver is not an improvement over Spiro Agnew. And our vice presidential candidate has never been involved in giving orders to the FBI to investigate a Russian grain deal at the same time that the Secretary of Agriculture is saying that there is nothing wrong and that we don't need an investigation--at least we don't have that much confusion in the McGovern ranks.

	And we didn't have a Secretary of State promising a quick pre-election settlement of the war in Vietnam in the closing weeks of this campaign, nor did we have an Air Force general given a $20,000-a-year retirement as a reward for disobeying the orders of his Commander in Chief. Now, as we meet here this afternoon, where do we find the President? Is he out with the people? You know where he is. He is on a big Texas ranch with John Connolly and his oil billionaire friends. He is with a few moss-backed politicians who call themselves Democrats, but who have fallen hopelessly behind the great mainstream of the Democratic party in the 1970s. They call themselves "Democrats for Nixon." Well, that is a contradiction in terms. It is like organizing Indians for Custer. And those so-called Democrats who broke bread on the Texas ranch with Mr. Nixon and Mr. Connolly yesterday, I predict, are going to find themselves just as high and dry on November 7th as the same kind of Democrats found themselves when they deserted President Truman in 1948.

	Now in these past weeks of campaigning we Democrats have addressed ourselves to the choice between the performance of a government that is very clearly based on favoritism and secret deals and the promise of a government based on justice. We have examined a tax structure that as I have said many times now permits a $200,000-a-year corporate executive to deduct from his tax bill his $20 martini luncheon, and a working man can't deduct the cost of a baloney sandwich. We have examined a current set of economic policies in this country that have accomplished the most remarkable feat in all of the economic history of America and that is this incredible combination of high unemployment, high inflation, high federal deficits, an unfavorable balance of trade, spiraling welfare rolls and all of this at the same time for the first period in the history of our country. For the past several years I have been addressing some of those problems, and in the course of this campaign, I have addressed the others. For nine years, as a member of the United States Senate, I have been urging this nation to take steps now to begin converting from defense industries that may or may not be needed for the security of our country so that instead of throwing out of work over a million defense-related workers as we have done under Mr. Nixon that we have in place alternative jobs in the civilian sector to provide a good job for every man and woman in this country who wants to work.

	Mr. Nixon and his supporters have gone across this country saying if you support George McGovern he is going to cost you your defense job. I want to say just as forcefully as I can here this afternoon that I don't advocate cuts in the defense establishment anywhere until we have in place good, satisfying alternative sources of employment that will put everyone of those men and women to work building up our own country on things we desperately need. But what I am pleading for is this: at a time when we need our engineers, we need our machinery, we need our electronics workers, we need our construction workers to build new transit systems, to build new environmental protection programs, to clean up and rebuild our cities, to establish better drug treatment centers and neighborhood health centers, and daycare child development centers of the kind the President vetoed. What I am pleading for is that instead of permitting five or six million of those people to go idle and to remain jobless, that we eliminate the waste and the overkill, the overlap in our military sector and put the people involved to work strengthening the real sources of national strength in the states.

And there is another war-related problem that Mr. Nixon has not addressed, He not only has not a program for economic transition to good civilian jobs for our defense workers, he has no program worthy of the name for these veterans coming back from Indochina. Last January I proposed a comprehensive GI Bill of Rights that would be as least as generous as the bill I benefited from coming back from World War II. Now everyone here knows that for years I have thought it was a mistake to send our young men to Vietnam to die on behalf of a political regime in Saigon that has no respect at all for the great ideals that have brought this country to a position of greatness and respect in the world. But that does not mean that we owe any less to these young men who went over there and gave their lives, risked their lives, and as a matter of fact, coming back as they are to the difficulties of a society that now realizes that the war was a mistake, we ought to lean over backwards to see to it that those young men are given the best education that money can buy, that they are given guaranteed job opportunities if they want them, that they are given the best drug rehabilitation that we can provide. We ought to demonstrate that if we can find those young men to send them over to Vietnam that we know how to find them when they come home.

	I want to conclude my remarks here today by quoting a passage from a letter that was written by the President's chief fund-raiser early last March. And I want to show you from that letter and a couple of remarks about what I believe to be the central difference between the program that we are bringing to the American people as Democrats in 1972 and the approach taken by Mr. Nixon, Mr. Agnew and the Republicans. Listen to this letter that went out shortly after the President signed a new bill requiring the disclosure of the names of contributors to national campaigns. Remember that that bill did not go into effect until two months after the President signed it, and this is the words of the letter that went out to a handful of wealthy people in California and in other states: "We have a deadline of April 7th to meet," said the Republican fund-raiser, "because that is the effective date of the new federal law which will require public disclosure of all campaign contributions which we all naturally want to avoid... I can't emphasize too strongly that the protection of your state and my state is precisely what is at stake here." 

Now that is the letter that originated the $10 million secret fund. Those people got the message and they got the dough in fast before the April 7th deadline. And that letter spells out, as well as anything I can say, what is the central question in 1972, and whether this government is going to be run secretly, behind closed doors, for the benefit of the most powerful and the most favored special interests of our country, or will the government be run in the open for the ordinary people of the United States. That is the issue. I say to the people of Ohio and the people of the nation that the protection of your state is precisely what is involved in this election. It is not a question of whether George McGovern and Sargent Shriver are going to be elected as individuals. It is a question of whether the standard-bearers of our party, on whom rest the hopes of each one of you, are going to be redeemed and rewarded and put in a position of responsibility in 1972. 

The question we have to ask is do you want a recession or do you want jobs for every American who is able to work? Do you want inflation or do you want stability? Do you want a national sales tax, which I fully believe is Mr. Nixon's post-election plan or do you want fair tax reform where all of us pay our fair share of the cost of operating this government? Do you want good housing for all of our people--black, white and brown alike--or do you want windfall profits for the speculators paid for with your taxes? On November 7th, the people of this country are going to answer those questions and they are going to declare, once and for all, that the White House is not for sale; not to ITT, not to the oil companies, not to the grain speculators, and they are going to reclaim this government from Connolly, Kleindienst and Butz.

	And let me say at the end what I said at the beginning. Ohio is crucial to this campaign, for if the people of Ohio and the heart of America respond, then people all over this country will respond, and we will have a great Democratic victory from the White House to the court house. We will bring this country home to the people and home to the principles which can make us the great and good country that I am convinced the American people want us to be.

Thank you very much and God bless you all.
CAMPAIGN FINANCE--CORRUPTION/ETHICSECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCERUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPSTAX REFORMVETERANSVOTER REGISTRATIONWATERGATEWELFARE     vG BG <G 8G 0G
 $G G G G G G äF ÚF	 À 	  	 € 	 i 	 K 	 4 	 * 	 " 	  	  e: