Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1004.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/04STUMPRaleighNORTH CAROLINANC3254 WORDS
	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Governor Hunt.

	Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that when I was a young man starting out in public life, when I became governor in 1979, Jim Hunt was the governor of North Carolina. And I have now served for twelve years with 150 governors; he's still one of the very best I ever served with.

	I wanted so much to come here today because a great deal of what I tried to do in my state for education and for jobs was inspired by the example of Jim Hunt and Terry Sanford, and I want you to elect Jim Hunt and Terry Sanford to help me change this country.

	I also want to give one to the national press here. This is North Carolina State, the home of the Wolfpack. Now, some of these people who cover me every day, they think they're the wolfpack. But you're the real wolfpack; I know you are.

	Let me say to all of you, I have always viewed North Carolina as a state that was committed to the future, to building the future, to education, to a competitive economy, to seeing that every person got to live up to the fullest of their God-given abilities.

	A year and a day ago, I entered this race for president because I did not want my child to grow up to be part of the first generation of Americans to do worse than her parents, because I had worked as hard as I knew how for a dozen years. And you heard Governor Hunt; and my supporters will tell you that our state has the first--the highest-ranking job growth in America in the last year. That's true. We could say that we actually have created more private-sector jobs in my state than in the whole rest of the country under the Bush administration, and that's true.

	But the truth is that we cannot turn this country around unless we do it together and unless we make a deliberate decision to take a different course.

	For twelve years now, we have been in the grip of an economic theory that has had its chance. In 1980, George Bush called trickle-down economics "voodoo economics." In 1988, he pledged to implement it. In 1992, he's offering four more years of it. Now, in the last twelve years--in the last twelve years, we've had a chance to see if it works. In 1980, we had the highest wages in the world; now we're thirteenth and dropping. The Census figures show that two-thirds of our people are working harder for lower wages than they were making ten years ago.

	We just had the first year in which we had a decline in manufacturing production. It had never happened to us before. And in three and a half years, we've actually had a decline of 35,000 jobs in employment--no new jobs in the private sector; the only job growth in the government Mr. Bush deplores. We have seen the deficit double. And, according to the Heritage Foundation, a conservative group, this administration has added more regulation to the lives of the American people than any in the last twenty years. They have had their chance. It's time for them to go.

	You know, every now and then--I have to say, I want to thank North Carolina for being so kind to my wife when she's been here--and for being so good to my running mate, Senator Gore, when he's been here. And Al Gore's got a great line that I'm going to steal, since he's not here. He says when he hears the Republicans chanting "four more years," it sounds more like a threat than a promise.

	Let me tell you, I do not seek in this election a victory of party. I have been a Democrat who has not shrunk from criticizing my own party when I thought it was wrong. I seek a victory for the American people, for all the people--Republicans, Independents, Democrats, men and women, black Americans, Hispanic Americans, people all across America. And in the last few days, a stunning thing has begun to happen in this campaign. People have begun to come to the campaign and to evaluate it on the basis of the ideas I have been advocating for a year in this campaign and for years and years in my own public life.

	So just look what has happened lately. In Silicon Valley a couple of weeks ago in northern California, twenty-one of the executives of the fastest-growing companies in the country endorsed the Clinton-Gore campaign, and two-thirds of them were Republicans. They endorsed us. In Chicago, 400 business executives in Chicago, over a third of them Republican, endorsed our campaign. The American--Admiral William Crowe, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush, endorsed our campaign.

	And look at this. The other day--every time I say that we have to join the ranks of all the other advanced countries to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans, Mr. Bush says, "Oh, we can't do that." But guess what: Last week, a group of people who served in the last Republican and Democratic administrations over the last twenty years said that the health care plan that I have proposed would save the average American family $1,800 a year by the year 2000--$1,800 a year--that every American would have health insurance, and that the Bush plan--and these are Republicans saying this--and they said the Bush plan would leave 27 million Americans behind and not control costs. You tell me who's better for America's future. We've got better ideas.

	My fellow Americans, the job for us in this election is not just to make the case against the President. "What is" makes that case. "What is." This election is about "what is." The question is, what is going to happen the day after the election. And I have tried so hard to keep this campaign a campaign of ideas, of issues, of the differences of opinion and conviction and record about where we're going. I do not want this campaign to degenerate into another mudslinging contest. But I'll tell you something. When you see all these negative ads the Republicans put on distorting my record, you just remember--in 1988, they got in with Willie Horton and then they gave us the worst economic performance in fifty years. Don't be suckered again. Stand up for what's good and positive.

	Every time you hear--hold us to this standard. When we get to the debates--we finally got some debates; I showed up for two, and nobody did, but we finally got some. When we get to the debates and we're discussing our ideas, hold us to this standard: Ask yourself, "How will this affect me and my family and my children and my grandchildren? Are these people up there talking about themselves, or are they concerned about me and my future?" That's what this election's about. It's about you. It's about what we're going to do the day after the election. And there has already been too much focus on things that don't have a lick to do with what's going to happen after the election. But I'm going to give you a campaign that does.

	And so I ask you this. I ask you to take the time between now and a month from now, between now and four weeks from this coming Tuesday, not only to think about what you want, but to talk to your friends and neighbors, not only here in North Carolina, but throughout this country. We have got to move away from trickle-down economics. We do not need--and we do not need tax-and-spend economics. What we need is a new direction--to invest in American jobs, American education, American health care--a plan to bring us together and lift us up and make us competitive again.

	We need to accept some big ideas and commit ourselves to them. Idea number one: The wealthiest American should pay a little more, but should be given incentives to avoid their taxes not by buying Maseratis or vacation homes, but by buying new plants, new equipment, new business, new technologies, putting the American people back to work again. Let's lift the American people up and put them to work.

	Number two: We live in a world where what we earn depends on what we can learn. It's time we had a real education president and a real commitment to educate all our people. What does that mean? What does that mean? It means Head Start for all the kids who need it. It means that in the rural schools in North Carolina and Arkansas and the inner-city schools all across this country, there ought to be access to technology and laboratory equipment and smaller classes in the early grades and the opportunity to learn and really grow. It means we need a system of lifetime learning which includes this. Number one: Give every high school graduate who does not go on to college the guarantee of at least two years in a community college or some other apprenticeship training program. North Carolina has the highest percentage of people over the age of eighteen in two-year institutions of education of any state in the South because of the network you've built here, and that's one reason you still have such a good manufacturing environment here compared to other states. Everybody in America should have access to that, 100 percent of the [missing text] It means that in the next five years, we should teach every American who has a job but who can't read to read and give them all a chance to get a high school diploma so they can learn, too. And it means we should open the doors of college education to all Americans without regard to income.

	As I look around--as I look around this wonderful crowd today, I'm reminded of a bad statistic; the college dropout rate in America is more than twice the high school dropout rate, and one reason is the exploding cost of college education in our lifetime. Al Gore and I want to guarantee that every American would be able to go to college and stay in college by substituting for the existing student loan program a national trust fund out of which any American can borrow the money to finance a college education, no questions asked. And then any American would have the opportunity to pay it back in one of two ways at his or her choice: either as a small percentage of their income after they go to work, or even better, by being part of a plan to rebuild America, a domestic peace corps, being teachers, police officers, working with the elderly, working to help people with disabilities be independent, working with children, working on housing projects. You just think about it. We could solve America's problems and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent. And we ought to do it. We should do it. We have to do it.

	Third big idea: We've got to say we are tired of being told that we can't do this. America will become the last advanced industrial country in the world to bring health costs in line with inflation and provide basic health care to all of our people, including long-term care to promote independence for the elderly and for people with disabilities.

	Fourth big idea; big difference between our ticket and theirs: We believe that if you have a good environmental policy and you do it right, it will create jobs for America, not undermine the American economy.

	Fifth idea: No matter who wins, there'll be a reduction in defense. But we believe we ought to spend every last dollar by which we reduce defense in making America strong at home by investing it in transportation, communication, environmental cleanup, putting the American people back to work, creating jobs for our people and making our states stronger and our communities stronger.

We know we've got to reduce the deficit, but the main way to reduce the deficit is to control spending in health care. That is the biggest element in the deficit. I have offered $140 billion in spending cuts. I believe in control of spending. But you can't reduce the deficit with a big middle-class tax increase that will drive unemployment up and drive the economy down. Let's increase investment, put people back to work and bring the deficit down. That's the best way to do it.

	And finally, let me say that I think that we're all going to have to change and assume more responsibility. There will be something for each of us to do that will require us to change. People who run major companies will have to follow their best example. They can't raise their pay by more than their profits and their workers' pay go up. Instead, they'll have to be more productive in creating jobs and incomes and opportunities here. Then everybody will make more money. People who work in workplaces, no matter what kind, will have to be committed to be reeducated continuously for a lifetime and to recreate what they do every day, if that's what it takes to be more competitive and more productive. People on welfare should be given more investment in education and support for their kids, and then required to work when they can, because people should move from welfare rolls to payrolls. There's something for all of us to do.

	But two things to remember: This country never got anywhere by being divided, and we have been divided by race and by region and by income and by religion. Why, at that Republican convention they had people up there calling for a religious war, saying some of us weren't real Americans, saying our families weren't real families. Let me tell you something: Everybody's got a place in my vision of America who plays by the rules and works hard.

	And the last thing I want to say is this: We never got anywhere in this country's history by denying our problems or saying we can't. Magic Johnson resigned from the AIDS Commission and endorsed me because he got tired of denying the problem of AIDS. I'll face it. I'll deal with it. The other day, President Bush vetoed for the second time the Family and Medical Leave Act. Look at this sign: Give George four years of family leave. I like that.

	Now, that bill contained an exemption for small businesses that have a hard time giving an employee twelve weeks of unpaid leave. So with that exemption, it would give you twelve weeks of unpaid leave when there was a baby born or a baby sick or a parent sick, without losing your job. I don't know if you've ever known anybody like that, but I'll bet a lot of you have been in that situation. A couple of years ago, I was completing my morning jog in downtown Little Rock and I stopped at the local McDonald's to get a cup of coffee. And it's two blocks from the nearest homeless shelter, and there was this real attractive young couple in there. They engaged me in conversation and they told me they lived 100 miles north of Little Rock. They had a child with cancer that they brought to the Arkansas Children's Hospital. They had both lost their jobs because they wanted to be there with their child in case the child did not survive the treatment, and they were living in a homeless shelter. Now, that doesn't have to happen to you but once before you get the idea.

	Now, here's the interesting thing. Guess how many countries have family leave: This is even a bigger deal than--at least not all poor countries have medical coverage. All the other advanced countries have systems that are covering everybody and control health care costs. Guess what: seventy-two nations have a family leave law--seventy-two. And this fellow in the White House says we can't do that. There's seventy-two countries that could do something and we can't? Let me tell you something. I was raised to believe, when I was the age of the students in this audience, that this is a can-do country, not a can't-do country. And it's time to say we can again. We can.

	I ask you again for your prayers, your support, your guidance and your willingness to work for thirty days to change this country. In thirty days, the American people will make a decision that will chart the course of this nation will into the next decade. And we know now, from the texture of the arguments being made by me and by my opponents, what the shape of that decision will be. It will be hope against fear. It will be the same old ideas versus new ideas. It will be the courage to chart a new future versus the proven past of slow decline. And my fellow Americans, this country never got anywhere except by facing up to its challenges and having the courage to change.

	If you look at the whole history of America from the time thirteen republics became one country, that was a miracle we now take for granted. It took a lot of courage to do that, for all those early states to give up their independence, their armies, their currencies, their economies and come together to write a Constitution. It was a courageous thing we take for granted.

	If you look at what happened to us in the Civil War, when we were so divided and Abraham Lincoln laid down his life to keep this country together. And many people said, "You ought to give up. You lost your best general, Robert E. Lee; he's fighting for the other side. Your wife lost three brothers fighting for the Confederacy, and you're trying to hold this country together." And he literally laid down his life for this country. We take it for granted now that we're all here together. But there were plenty of times when the odds were that we'd have been divided and not an America anymore like we used to be.

	If you think about the Depression, when Roosevelt became president, you know that one in four Americans was out of work, and in my state, half the people were living in abject poverty. When World War II started, the Allies didn't win a battle for two years. We take it for granted that the Depression was going to be over, that we would win the war, that everything would be hunky-dory. That is not true. It was not foreordained. The American people had the courage to do what it took to change. And now, once again, we are being called upon at the end of the Cold War to seize a new future, to seize all these unbelievable opportunities that are out there before us. And we can. It can be the best years this nation ever had, but only if we have the courage to change. Will you help me do that? Will you help me?

	God bless you. Thank you very much.
EDUCATION--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDELECTIONS--NEGATIVE CAMPAIGNSENDORSEMENTS--GENERALHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHISTORY--UNITED STATESINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVESFAMILY LEAVE POLICY     GG G G 	G G
 ˆF ÒF ÏF ÂF ◊F ’F ÀF	 ¬ 	 ∞ 	 ê 	 s 	 ^ 	 C 	 -   e: