Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1027.006SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/27STUMPPROVIDENCERHODE ISLANDRI2015 WORDS

	Governor Roberts and distinguished guests and my friends of Providence: I asked Senator Pastore coming in here how many people there were in Providence nowadays and he said about 250,000, and that they are all here to greet me. I am very grateful to you and very much touched by the warmth and the cordiality of this reception. After all, we are counting on Providence and a lot of votes to win this election. I have been met graciously all over the country and I have been met by a lot of people and a lot of things, but this is the first time I was ever met by a camel. Now, the camel has certain properties--the camel has certain qualities that I very much admire, most of all its quality of endurance. It also has certain other qualities that I don't admire so much.

	I am deeply touched by this reception here. You have done me more than courtesy and more than justice. Rhode Island is a small state, small in area, but its record of loyalty to the Democratic party makes it look mighty big to me. And it has sent to Washington some of the best men in Congress. You have there two great citizens in the Senate--Theodore Green and John Pastore--and two in the House, John Fogarty and Aime Forand. I shall feel a lot less lonesome in Washington, where I may be living next year, if these people are all there living with me too. And I shall be very lonesome indeed unless my old friend and my fellow colleague in the mystic fraternity of governors, Dennis Roberts, is running the state of Rhode Island.

	These are the kind of men we need in public office. They are the kind of men we need in Washington--men who are experienced in civil government and who will work in Washington for your interests and for the welfare, the freedom, and the security of the whole American people.

	I have a good feeling about this election. Everywhere I have gone in the last two or three weeks I have seen the signs of victory. And that is important; not on my account, not on account of these, your local candidates, not even on account of the Democratic party--it is important because it will mean that the people are interested in the problems that confront them. They are more interested in issues, if you please, than in advertising.

	We have marvelous and unlimited opportunities in our country for jobs, for homes, for schooling, for our people--for all of our people--and opportunities for cooperation with others in building a peaceful world. We have as well great tasks ahead of us. The hardest, of course, is the struggle against the new imperialism and the new tyranny that seeks to engulf the world in which we live.

	They want one world, these Communists. They want one world and one Communist world. Many loud words have been uttered against Communism in this campaign, but too often the words have not been matched with deeds. The first thing to do to fight Communism in this country is to wipe out poverty, insecurity, social injustice, in which this dread disease breeds. For twenty years my party, I am proud to say, has been working to this end, and working with very substantial results.

	The second thing to do to fight Communism is to keep our government free of infection. I have said frequently, and I repeat, that I shall deal mercilessly with any disloyal person found in the government in Washington. And I also say--but I also say, and I say very deliberately, that the way to find such persons is by the quiet, careful, thorough police work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation--of professionals, and not by making noises and wholesale accusations for political purposes which have little or nothing to do with fighting the real Communists.

	And, of course, the third thing to do is to oppose its efforts to win dominion over the free countries of the world. And here again loud talk is found side by side with soft acts. We have been fighting Communism in Europe through the Marshall Plan, the economic aid that rescued France and Italy and Western Europe from the shattered conditions following the war.

	I know something at first hand about how badly these countries needed our help. I headed the first economic mission that visited southern Italy behind the armies in 1943 for our government, in order to make recommendations as to how we could best sustain the Italian economy and the Italian people during the combat period, and to restore Italy and to put it once again on the road to recovery. Economic and political life had come almost to a standstill, as many of you in this audience know. Literally millions of people suffered in hunger. I saw how desperate, difficult economic and social conditions assist the Communists in their efforts to increase their powers. There is no doubt at all that Communism flourishes where men have little... and no hope for the future; where a reactionary government has proved its faithlessness and where people are so hopeless that almost any change seems a change for the better. A hungry man is never free.

	With our prompt and our generous assistance, the people of Britain, of France, of Italy, of Western Europe, through their own energy and courage and determination have had a great revival of economic strength and of political freedom--and despite the objections of the Old Guard of the Republican party.

	I am sure that the American people regard the investment they have made in the future of countries like Italy, as having been wise and worthwhile, for these safeguards safeguard their freedom. We are fighting Communism also by helping the millions of people from Israel through India to the Far East who are trying to wipe out misery and poverty and produce more food and clothing for themselves. And finally we are fighting it with arms in actual combat in Korea, and by standing guard elsewhere throughout the world.

	I had not expected in this campaign that my distinguished opponent, the general, would try to make the war in Korea an issue. I had thought he knew, like the rest of us, that Korea is a terrible and a necessary thing--a fight for freedom against tyranny that seeks to engulf us all. I thought that he knew that we must stand firm until we have gained an armistice on honorable terms. But he has instead led the people to believe that if they will trust him, he will find a way out. Americans are distrustful of men who tell them, "Follow me," and won't say where they are going. His latest proposal is where he is going. He is going to Korea. But what he would do there is wholly unclear, for the source of the trouble, my friends is not in Korea--it is in Moscow. And, my friends, we must convince Moscow that we are united before we can expect Moscow to agree to an armistice.

	The general could still help if he would speak out clearly and disavow the confused voices which are creating weakness and disunity in our country.

	Our problems are not, however, beyond our borders. There are many to be resolved here at home. We must not allow the overriding urgency of foreign policy to distract us from our domestic concern. Our economic pattern in this country changes constantly, and the dislocations that result very often cause hardships. I am keenly aware that right here in Rhode Island there are thousands of men and women out of work today. Twenty years ago when men and women were out of work, they had nowhere to turn; when they lost their jobs, they were brought face to face with want. But today, as a result of the reform measures of these last two decades, the government has established the principle that people hurt by economic dislocation should not have to bear the hardship alone.

	And today, government is helping them, but it is not enough to remind you of this, for what every man and woman in this country wants is not help but a chance to do a full day's work.

	And we also believe that one of the duties of government is to see that economic conditions are maintained which will stimulate the growth of new industry, the opening of new business frontiers, and that is why we shall continue to work for good wages, for good farm incomes, for sound anti-inflation and anti-trust policies, for fair labor standards to help equalize competition between regions. Only these things mean markets for new products, a chance for new businesses, growth and progress in our national economy.

	The Democratic party is the party that proclaims an ever expanding economy, a political and a social and an economic life that is growing greater and larger, a nation whose ever increasing abundance is to be shared by all of the people.

	Here at home, we face, as I have said, hard tough problems, and the solutions to hard problems are never easy. Abroad, we face a hard, tough and persistent foe, and the only way we are going to establish peace and justice in the world is by helping justice--is by being just as determined and as persistent as the Soviet rulers are themselves.

	We can make our society ever more productive and more abundant and our people ever more free, but only if we have the purpose, the vision and the determination to do so. We can win peace in the world without a third world war, but only by dedicating our minds and our hearts, our sweat and our blood to that great task for as long as may be necessary.

	I tell you that the way to our goal is not easy, but the goal is worth the price, for the goal is nothing less than a nation fair and productive beyond our dreams and a world of law and order where men of good will can live together in equal dignity and under God. This is the future that we seek and this is the future for which I know we are willing to work and to sacrifice and to labor with all of our minds and with all of our hearts, and this is the cause to which we call you. We don't call it a crusade--we just call it, "Forward with America."

	I am afraid I have talked much too long to you. I remember one time when I was young, my grandfather told me a story of William Jennings Bryan. He said that when he was a young man and was speaking, he took his mother around with him and he would ask her to sit in the audience and then tell him afterwards if he had missed any opportunities and so on; and one time, after he had finished a long and an eloquent speech, he was riding home with her. He said, "Well, how did I do, Mother?" And she said, "You did very well." And he said, "Did I miss any chances?" and she said, "Yes, I think you missed several." And he said, "Oh, my goodness, what were they?" and she said, "I think you missed at least three chances to sit down."

	And now before I go, could I have the privilege of introducing to you the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mr. Steve Mitchell. And we also have the chairman--vice chairman--of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards. And I have my aunt with me, Miss Letitia Stevenson, and my sister, Mrs. Ives.

	And could I also introduce to you the national co-chairman of the organization called Volunteers for Stevenson and Sparkman, that has done such important work all over the country in enlisting the doubtfuls and the Independents, Mrs. Edison Dick of Chicago.
COMMUNISMFOREIGN AID--EUROPEGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION/INSURANCE     y, E, ?, ;, 3,
 &, !, , , , , , ú+	 y 	 p 	 ] 	 > 	 # e: