Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1023.005SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/23STUMPYOUNGSTOWNOHIOOH2625 WORDS

	Mr. Kirwan, my friends of Youngstown: I was sure that after that eloquent introduction, Mr. Kirwan would certainly have to introduce Benjamin Franklin at least. But I suppose a little flattery is all right if you don't inhale too much. I have had courteous and warm receptions all over the country, but I don't think I have ever seen as many people packed into the same area of ground as I am this minute.

	I don't know whether you came to see me. It has been hard for me to understand why anyone would--there isn't much to look at. Perhaps you came to see Mike Kirwan, the indestructible member of Congress, and perhaps you just came out because it was a lovely autumn afternoon--and whenever the weather is good, of course, we attribute it to the conscious efforts of the Democratic party.

	In all events, I am deeply honored and touched by the presence of so many of you here this afternoon. We, in this 1952 election campaign, are now--are in our final stages--I was going to say the final stages before rigor mortis sets in for one of us. In less than two weeks the American people will decide, not just between two groups of men who are the candidates of their parties, but between two programs for America's future--and for that of the whole free world.

	Each party has now put forth its own set of issues--that is, if you can dignify the Republican talk as issues. On the one hand there are the solid issues--those permitting a clear-cut choice between two courses of action--these issues that we talk about: like what kind of a farm price support program, for example, do we need? What changes are required in the labor relations act and the social security program? What ought we to do about the development of the nation's water and power resources? What courses we should follow in our international relations.

	These are the solid issues--so called--on which we have attempted to make our positions expressly clear all over the country. On the other hand, we have the fear issues--the fear issues--the Republican issues. A substantial part of the Republican campaign has been built around these fears. They are trying their best, it seems to me, to scare the American people, telling us that our future is black and hopeless; that our government is trying to enslave us; that our present prosperity, if you please, is false and will soon come down, crashing down upon our heads.

	Well, you know, personally, I believe in Halloween but not more than once a year. I think the trouble with the Republicans is that they have got the 31st of October confused with the 4th of November. They have been saying a lot of silly--maybe, we all say silly things--I don't know. But they have been saying a lot of silly things, telling a lot of things that bear only the remotest resemblance to what we call fact. Sometimes I thought that earlier in the fall I would make a proposition to our Republican friends and I was going to suggest this: that if they would quit telling lies about us we would quit telling the truth about them. But, I wanted to talk to you this afternoon, and quickly, about one of these fear issues. I have in mind this charge about our present prosperity as being false, unhealthy, precarious, and in gravest jeopardy. They are wringing their hands in sympathy with all of you. They say you are about to lose your jobs in another depression; and they are suggesting that they alone can prevent such a catastrophe.

	Well, the best answer I know to Republican fears is Democratic facts. These facts go back, of course, twenty years. Youngstown was not, in 1932, a pleasant place to work or to live--and Youngstown was typical of most of the cities of America. The steel mills here in the Mahoning Valley were working at 31 percent of capacity. One Youngstown working man out of every three was unemployed. There was no unemployment compensation. The other two men worked at poverty wages. There was no minimum wage law. Those men worked in silence beside the furnaces. There was no collective bargaining act. The foreman's word was law. The working man had no seniority rights in his job and there was almost no collective bargaining contracts; almost no unions. At the end of life's work when you could no longer work, there was nothing. There was no social security. You only knew that one day--and you never knew when--there would be a pink dismissal slip in your envelope, and that would be all. If it was bad at the mill, it was infinitely worse in the street and in the home. Youngstown was one of the first cities to start soup kitchens. So desperate indeed did the city of Youngstown become that the City Council...

	That must be a Republican engineer on that locomotive. I can hardly believe it--if it is, it is the only one.

	The fact of the matter is that the city actually printed $450,000 worth of paper money good only in the city, but not very good even here, I am told.

	Youngstown's story in 1932 was no discredit at all. It was one community's brave response to a nation's tragedy, and all the time--for America's rich fields and mighty factories were here, just as they are today, and men and women wanted to work in them. The whole explanation of what happened lies in the fact that the basic belief of the party then in office in this country was that government--not that it should do anything wrong--but merely that it had no responsibility to prevent such catastrophes as mass unemployment.

	They believed so firmly in the old laissez-faire policy of do nothing that when these doctrines broke down they blamed, not the system, but the American people. You know, Will Rogers summed it up in this 1932 entry in his diary, which I thought might amuse you. He said, "Passed the Potter's Field yesterday and they were burying two staunch old Republicans--both of them died of starvation--and the man in charge told me their last words were, 'I still think America fundamentally sound.'"

	Of course, it was sound. But what they refused to recognize was that it took a little help from government to unblock the obstructions which had gotten into the system. Now, if this were just an old local history, I wouldn't be bothering you with it, but it is a great deal more than that. It is the record of a dreary day in our American history. Today they still regard our prosperity as false, but I find not one single word of what their program would be if their fears should come true; and from their record of voting in the federal Congress, in the state legislatures for these past years, it looks alarmingly clear that they would do exactly what they did before, and what they did before was nothing.

	And if I could turn briefly to the other record--the Democratic record--that story I think can be summed up in the meaning a grateful nation gives to the name of one man--of Franklin Roosevelt.

	I am not going over here, of course, this afternoon the record of all that social legislation which has been enacted in these past two decades. We of the Democratic party are proud of that record; we are proud of the contributions to it of another president who has worked long and hard for the American people, and I mean Harry Truman. We are proud of our part in having helped to build into the lives of millions of Americans the freedom, the security, which are essential elements of human dignity. We don't need to talk about these things which are now a part of us, but I do want to make perfectly clear--before my hair blows off--I do want to make perfectly clear the basis upon which we Democrats face the future; that future which so fills our Republican friends with fear, with despair.

	We reject their cries of woe and of calamity as having no basis in fact. There is nothing false about the homes we live in and the conveniences we are able to put in them, about the education that we are able to give our children and the money that we have in savings accounts. There is nothing false about the fact that the steel mills in the Mahoning Valley last week produced steel at 106 percent of capacity--6 percent more than is theoretically possible. And I think that is a great achievement of management as well as of labor. As a matter of fact I wish somebody would explain this 106 business to me sometime.

	Nor is there anything false about the dams that create your Berlin and Mosquito Creek reservoirs, about the mighty projects in the Tennessee Valley and throughout the West, or about reclamation and irrigation projects across the country which have brought barren soils to flower.

	The people of America are stronger today and infinitely more secure than they ever were before. And we have unlocked forces of nature which have given to this nation a strength it never had before. And for these things, my friends, we don't believe it is time for a change.

	But they tell us that when we level off our present defense production program there will be nothing for the men and women who have been making the guns to do. Some of them tell us that we cannot keep our prosperity without war. The other people, by the way, who tell us the same thing, are the Communists. I wouldn't say that this proves that the Old Guard of Republicans are Communists--but then I don't reason like an Old Guard Republican.

	It is in its fear that this leadership reveals most clearly the narrowness and the dreariness of its vision. They tell us that arms production is the cause of our prosperity. Now, I make no pretense of being an economist--for that matter, I don't believe the General has any noteworthy distinction in that respect either. It would be more sensible, it seems to me, to say that it is arms production which is holding us back from an even greater well-being that is within our grasp. We have in this country unlimited demands of people for more things for their needs, their comfort, their pleasure. The soil of America and its factories can supply these needs, and if people are willing to work that soil and to man those factories there is no reason why fields should lie fallow, why factory wheels should stop turning.

	We know that by 1975 there will be about thirty million more people in this country, and their needs too, must be met. And to us of the Democratic party it is an essential part of this picture of the future that we recognize the needs in other lands as well as ours; the lands of our friends and of our fathers. It was the minds and the hearts of Europe that built America, and it is in the minds and the hearts of Europe today that we have our essential allies against the brutality and the evil of Communism. It is not in sentimental repayment of an old debt but out of the most enlightened and common interests that we help Europe today. There is room for fear or failure, my friends, only behind eyes that really can't see the people at all--in minds which think of America as a system rather than as 156 million men, women, and children with individual needs and hopes and ambitions and aspirations.

	Perhaps it is part of my confidence in America and its people--that I have in these past few weeks seen so much of it, so much of the country and so much of its people. Last week, for example, our campaign tour took us across the western part of the United States. We saw from the air the rivers, the streams, whose water and power we are now harnessing; we saw the copper mines, the forests, the great herds of cattle and endless miles of yellow stubble of the wheat fields of the Northwest.

	This week we have been moving through the area in which there is centered so much of America's industrial might, its railroads, harbors, mills vibrating with the strength of industrial genius combined with the power of men and women working in dignity and in freedom.

	No man can cross America, as I have in these past few days, watching the panorama of its strength unfold and talking with its people, without experiencing an overwhelming humility, awe, gratitude and also confidence. Yes, I believe in America. I believe its problems are monstrous and many but I have few fears for its future. I believe in its ability to produce at 106% of capacity and its power to go on to greatness, greater than anything we have known yet. We shall continue to move ahead on the paths of progress and of strength if we reject fear and remain loyal to our ancient faith. We shall fight to maintain our good times at home and to achieve peace in the world, and we don't propose to entrust these responsibilities to the timid, weary Old Guard of the Republican party--of the GOP. I call them the Grand Old Pessimists.

	Now, if receiving your confidence, I should become the next president of the United States, I would feel humble indeed in the face of this awesome responsibility, but I wouldn't flinch for I would know that I had the strongest people in the world beside me, and that there would be a power above to light and to guide--a power without which no man can succeed, but with whose blessing he can sometimes do better than a hundred percent of his capacity.

	You have been more than good to me--your patience, your attentiveness, your courtesy here this afternoon. I have been told that there is a transportation strike in Youngstown. I don't know how you got here or how you are going home, but if you are going somewhere to lie down for a rest, I'd like to go with you.

	Before I say farewell, I should like to express my gratitude to your congressman, Mike Kirwan, for his courteous introduction here this afternoon. I should like also to take this opportunity to remind you that you have a chance to send to the United States Senate someone who believes in these things that I have touched upon so lightly this afternoon--Mr. Mike DiSalle. And, before I leave, if I could, I should also like to say that as a governor of one of the great states of the United States it has been my privilege in these past four years to become closer acquainted--and the closer the acquaintance, the greater the admiration for the great governor of Ohio, Frank Lausche. And lest you think that this campaign train of mine, this mobile menagerie that is down here on the tracks, is comprised only of hard-bitten politicians, I should like to introduce you to my sister, Mrs. Ives. I also have with me the distinguished vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Mrs. India Edwards.

	Good bye. My heartfelt thanks for all of your courtesies.
COMMUNISMECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANHISTORY--UNITED STATES--GREAT DEPRESSIONMANUFACTURINGUNEMPLOYMENT--GENERAL     M9 9 9 9 9
 ú8 õ8 ð8 æ8 â8 à8 à8 Ö8	 p 	 g 	 J 	 " 	  e: