Speeches\1996\rep\S96R1023.002SPEECH1996RepublicanDOLE (R)10/23STUMPPanama CityFLORIDAFL2,852 WORDS

	Welcome to this retirement party for Bill Clinton, right here. Let me say that I--when I come to Panama City I miss my good friend, Tommy Thomas, who did so much for the party and so much for this area, and a great friend of mine. I used to buy cars from Tommy, so I know Tommy, knew Tommy very well. But he was a--he had a lot of spirit. He loved America. He was a great marine, he was proud of his country, and it's gonna happen again...[missing text].

	And I want to thank the Desert Storm veteran over there, too, who served his country--right over there. Yeah. And the Navy down here, too. We're--if all the veterans vote, this will be a landslide for Bob Dole.

	Now keep in mind there are less, less than two weeks left now, but there's plenty of time. Don't--you know, Jack Kemp says don't watch the scoreboard. Don't pay any attention to those polls. They drive you crazy. And the media, some of the media are already spinning. It's--oh, it's all over. It's all over. They don't know Bob Dole at all. I don't give up easily. We're going to win this election.

	Because this is a fight for America's future. Right back here. Right back here. All the young people in here. This is a fight for them. It's a fight for their future. And I've fought for America before, and I'm going to fight for America again until November 5, and we're going to win.

	Because I'm fighting to build a better America for our children and our grandchildren. Make no mistake about it. It's all about the future. It's all about the future and we need strong leadership, not weak leadership.

	And this administration is so out of touch with the problems of average Americans. They haven't any idea. And I believe the federal government is too big and spends too much of your money. And I'll bet it's true, in this audience today, in this--we're going to get to that, yes. Clinton's going to get it, too, if he leaves his forwarding address. We'll send him a tax cut.

	I know in this audience both parents work, some because they want to, but some because they have to--one just to take care of the family, and one just to pay the taxes in America. The average family in America now pays about 40 percent of all their income for taxes. You pay more in taxes than you pay for food, clothing and shelter combined. That should not happen in America.

	And all these--you know, Clinton is out there saying, "Well, we've never had it so good." Well, he's never had it so good. But what about the rest of the people in America? He said, "I've"--he said, "I've created all these 11 million jobs, 11 million jobs." Yeah, I met a guy the other day that's got three of them. You know, you--you've got to have three of them to pay the bills. You've got to have three of them to pay the bills.

	We want to give the American people a break. It's called a tax cut. It's a plan I designed with the help of Connie Mack. And Connie Mack's word's his bond, and my word's my bond, and Joe's word is his bond. And you're going to get the tax cut if I get elected. And I'm going to get elected so you're going to get the tax cut. Thank you. I might even give you, I might even give you twenty--you're so good.

	For every child under eighteen, a $500 tax credit. That's one child--$500, three $1,500, ten--you're probably too busy to worry about taxes. But that would be $5,000. It's your money. It's your money. It's your money.

	And then to get the economy moving again, we're going to cut the capital gains tax rate in half, 50 percent deduction. We're told there's $7 trillion, $7 trillion in assets locked up in America, $7 trillion. And they're locked up because people can't afford to pay the 28 percent rate. Cut it in half--we'll create more jobs and more opportunities than you can shake a stick at, all across America, all over Panama City.

	And I want--you know, some people say, "Oh, well, the President says the government can't afford it." Did he come out--did he come to Panama City when he raised taxes and asked if you could afford it? No. Now here's how we pay for it. He wants to spend 20 percent more in the next six years--I want to spend fourteen and give the 6 percent back to the people. It's their money. It's your money. It's your money.

	But here's what he wants. He wants your family to pinch pennies instead of the government. I think it's time the government started pinching pennies for a change.

	So, the average family in Florida making $30,000 a year, a family of four, would get a tax cut of $1,261 a year--that's about $105 a month. It's a Main Street family tax cut. It's not a Wall Street tax cut. No one has said this is a tax cut for the rich, but this will be a few mortgage payments, three or four months' day care, a personal commuter, a com-, computer, or maybe just a little time with your family on a vacation. It's your money. It's your money.

	So this is a tax cut for real Americans who are working hard and doing their best to raise their families, to pay the bills, and they don't want to be told how to run their lives. They just want a chance to run their own lives. And this tax cut will do it.

	And then--that's right. That's only Phase one. Fifteen--I've, I've already given you twenty. I can't go any higher--you know.

	That's only Phase one. Now Phase two, we're going to have a fairer, flatter, simpler system and we're going to end the IRS as we know it.

	Now let me say a word about my economic plan and how it will protect vital programs like Social Security and Medicare, because I know Clinton and the labor bosses and others spent $91 million trying to frighten senior citizens and veterans and people on Medicaid, saying---Bob Dole and Joe Scarborough and everybody else--we're going to take away--we're going to push people off Medicare. That's not true. Bill Clinton knows it's not true. He ought to tell the American people the truth. He ought to stop playing politics in states like Florida.

	Because under our plan I would say to seniors--I don't see any seniors here, but if you see a senior, tell him--well, they say your eyes, your eyes are the first to go. But anyway, that's--but under our spending plan, Medicare increases 7 percent a year, double the rate of inflation--Mrs. Clinton went before Congress--they'd like to have zero growth in Medicare. Ours is 7 percent. There will be no cuts in Medicare and no senior is going to be forced off Medicare. We wanted to balance the budget and increase Medicare and Bill Clinton vetoed it. Now we ought to veto Bill Clinton. That's--

	And last week--thank you. Last week the, the executive director of the American Association of Retired Persons, AARP--they sent a letter to the Republican chairman and the Democratic chairman--and they said in the letter what most of us know: If we don't do something, Medicare's on a path to bankruptcy. And that's why our economic plan tackles the problem before it's too late. It's the only responsible thing to do. So let me make it clear to any seniors here, or any children or grandchildren of seniors who are worried about their parents, or their grandparents: In six years, in my administration, we'll have lower taxes, a balanced budget, and a solid, strong Medicare program.

	Now, Bill Clinton wants to scare you by giving you false information. The truth is I want the seniors to listen to him, because he tries to separate ...[missing text]...his footwork's very good and he talks right through the facts. He'll look you right in the eye and tell you something that's not accurate. I, I was in a debate with him--I spent ninety minutes with him once. That's a long time in a debate.

	Keep in mind: this, this President is out there wailing about Republicans. [Missing text]...one without a single Republican vote that raised your taxes on Social Security benefits. He did it. We didn't do it. He did it.

	And he said if you're a senior citizen making $25,000 you're rich, so you ought to pay taxes on 85 percent of your benefits. Now even, even the Congress, the Democrats, couldn't even buy that--you're only rich if you make $34,000 now. And then they tax 85 percent of your benefits. We're going to repeal that tax increase on senior citizens in a Dole administration.

	And I'm very proud of my record when it comes to Social Security and Medicare. I worked for the late Claude Pepper, who was champion of senior citizens all across America. And we saved and strengthened Social Security in 1983 and I want to be known in 1997 as the president who saved and strengthened Medicare. But don't listen to those nasty ads. They're not true anyway. So--we will--we're going to tell them the truth. They're going to think it's hell. That's what we're going to do.

	We're also going to have in our economic play--that's what Harry Truman said and it worked for him...[missing text]...it's going to work. We're also going to have a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. I'm for it. Bill Clinton's against it. He killed it in the Senate. He got six Democrats to switch their vote.

	We're going to end a lot of unnecessary regulation that cost the average family in this area $6,000 to $7,000 a year. We're also going to reform the broken down legal system so it helps all Americans, not just trial lawyers, not just trial lawyers.

	As I've said many times, I don't know how many watch television--but about two months ago I was in Chico, California and the railing gave way, and I dove into the crowd. And on the way down, my cell phone, cell phone rang and a trial lawyer was on the other end.

	He said, "Bob, I think we've got a case here--a weak railing." You know--all right, whatever--We've got to stop some of the frivolous lawsuits that put small-businessmen and small-businesswomen out of business.

	And let me say to all the young people here and all the parents and the grandparents, we're going to have a fight, and we're going to have a war on drugs, a real war on drugs--we're going to cut drug use in half. And we're not going to invite drug dealers to White House dinners.

	Now, when Bill Clinton came into office he put the drug issue on the back burner. So what's happened? Twelve to seventeen year olds' drug use has doubled in the last forty-four months. That's his record. We're going to restart the war. And if I have to, I'll use the National Guard to keep drugs out of America, keep them out of the hands of young people.

	So that's what this election's all about, and there's plenty of time. You've got time tonight to make ten phone calls--I'm about to stop talking--and go out and stir up the troops. Florida is a very critical state in this election--twenty-five electoral votes. All I want is twenty-five of the twenty-five electoral votes, and we're going to get twenty-five.

	And let me say to all the veterans here and everybody else: thank you. All right. We want a strong, secure nation, and if ever we have to send young men or young women halfway around the world to protect liberty and freedom here, I will make that decision, not Boutros, Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations.

	So we've got thirteen days. I also believe there ought to be an amendment to allow voluntary prayer in the schools. He's against it. I'm for it.

	I believe we ought to protect the American flag with an amendment. He's against it. I'm for it.

	And if you send me a bill on partial-birth abortion, I'll sign it. I won't veto it.

	I don't care what your view on that issue is, pro-life, or pro-choice, when people understand this terrible procedure--it's up in the 80 percent support--80 percent. What does he do? He goes: "Well, if you just take care of this or take care of that." I offered the amendment to protect the life of the mother on the Senate floor. It passed ninety-nine to zero. He didn't sign it. He tries to have it both ways. He tries to have it both ways on everything.

	He believes in giving more power to the federal government. I want to give the power back to you and back to the people.

	And I'm going to appoint strict constructionist, conservative judges to the bench. Liberals need not apply.

	And let me, let me underscore the importance of that. A lot of people know about Congress. A lot of people focus on the president but think about the judiciary. We may have three less Supreme Court justices in the next four years to appoint. Do you want liberal Supreme Court justices?

	Or do you want conservatives who will interpret the Constitution, rather than to expand it and distort it and make it a social in---it's not a social instrument. It's the Constitution of the United States. We want to keep it the Constitution of the United States.

	And I have in my pocket a copy of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution. It's only twenty-eight words long. It's been around a long, long time. Our Founding Fathers were pretty smart. They weren't Democrats or Republicans--maybe that's why they're so smart. But--they were concerned about an all powerful central government that could confiscate your property, take away your private property, take all your earnings, or 40 percent of your earnings, so they put in this little amendment in the Constitution, which has been sort of forgotten the last couple hundred years. This is what it says: "Unless the Constitution gives the power to the federal government or denies it to the states it belongs to the states and to the people." And you are the people. You are the people.

	I think Clinton just...[missing text]...bad name...[missing text]. Nothing seems to sick--stick to him. Nobody worries about anything with this guy. It's time we started worrying about the future and worrying about what happens if he gets elected for four more years.

	Do you want that $1.5 trillion health care plan with seventeen new taxes and price controls? Do you want another big tax increase? You already got the biggest tax increase in the world. Do you want someone who'll tell you the truth and look you in the eye, and say, "This is my word. My word is dead." Yes.

	Thank you. So the bottom line is this. I think I can speak for about everybody in this room. You know, nothing that's worthwhile--none of it's ever gotten easily. You've got to work for it.

	You've got to work for it. You've got to work for it. I remember my father--I just found this about two months ago looking through all my files when I left the Senate. They sent my father a letter in December of 1945. I was in the hospital in Battle Creek, Michigan. In fact, it was 1947. And they said--I don't--we don't think your son's going to make it, but keep in touch, and all this stuff. I made it. I made it because I had good doctors, I had a lot of faith in God and people were good to me. And I'm going to make it again. We're going to make it again.

	And I want to invite all the other Republican candidates--everybody--we've got some more folks up here--the president of the college. Come on up here. Let's get everybody up here. We've got some more candidates--candidates, elected officials, come on up. Thank you. Twenty-five percent. That's as high as I can go.

	What I want you to do, I want you to be proud of your vote. Think about that. I want you to be proud of your vote. Just as I was proud when I voted for Dwight Eisenhower, my commander-in-chief, I want you to be proud when you vote for Bob Dole and Jack Kemp. And we are going to win.

	Thank you very much, and God bless America.
ABORTIONBILL OF RIGHTSDRUG ABUSE--MINORSGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEINCOME TAXLITIGATION REFORMSENIOR CITIZENSSOCIAL SECURITYSUPREME COURT APPOINTMENTSMEDICARETAXATION--GENERAL     ]= )= #= = =
 = = = ø< ñ< ï< ä<	 © 	 ¡ 	 “ 	  	 l 	 b 	 Q 	 B 	 3     e: