Speeches\1968\dem\S68D0920.002SPEECH1968DemocratHUMPHREY (D)09/20STUMPLOUISVILLEKENTUCKYKYFREEDOM HALL2,827 WORDS

	Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.

	Katie, I hope those young ladies that are going through the crowd with those buckets are taking up a collection.  But it's surely wonderful to see them.  And it's so good to see so many fine young ladies actively participating in the Democratic party which reminds me that Kentucky had the youngest delegate to the national convention in Gail McHenry, as I recall. 

	My good friends and distinguished Democrats, there are so many honored guests here this evening that time will not permit that we mention too many, except I do want to acknowledge the presence of my old friend, Governor Ned Breathitt, and of my good friend, Lieutenant Governor Wendell Ford, and, of course, the co-chairman of this dinner.  It's a wonderful thing when you can get a father and son combination to put on a dinner like this.  Not every state can claim that, and no Republican party can claim it. 

	INTERRUPTION:  Tell 'em about Tricky Dick, Hubert!

	They always have somebody in the audience reminding me of my lines, wanting me to tell them a little bit about the Republican candidate.  I would prefer that he tell you; he confuses you better than I can.

	Katie, won't it be wonderful in the United States Senate when Ed Muskie can sit up there as the presiding officer of the Senate and say, "The senator from Kentucky, Katie Peden."  It almost makes me want to be vice-president.  But I lost my seniority clause; my contract is expiring; and I have to look for new work. 

	Dear friends, I'm honored by Katie's introduction.  And I want to, at this time, just stress the importance, the importance of her election.  She has all the qualifications that are required for distinguished service in the United States Senate. She has that charm.  She has that ability.  She has that intelligence.  She has that experience.  And Kentucky can have a great national leader by electing Katie Penden to the Senate. 

	Well, we have a big program ahead of us, and I'm not going to try to take up the whole evening of that program.  This is a gala.  This is supposed to be a lot of fun.  And I know my friend Buddy Hackett is over here, and he is going to do a job for us tonight .  We are looking forward to that.  I'm going to get right down to business tonight, because we have some business to do tonight.

	INTERRUPTION:  Pour it on, Hubert!

	Well, I say if you have to be interrupted in a speech, it's nice to have it from a friend or relative, one or the other. 

	You know, somebody said it's time for me to be very candid about things, and I'm going to be candid about my campaign.  According to the polls, the surveys that I've just seen, I judge my campaign has not peaked too soon.  And no one can accuse us of being fat cats.  In fact, they say we are underdogs!  But the fact is that that role is not new to me, and it isn't new to you.  I was the underdog when I ran for mayor of Minneapolis in 1945--just before I won, I might add. And I was the underdog when I ran for the United States in 1948, with Harry Truman--just before we won, I might add. And I was an underdog many times in the Senate when we stood there and led the fight for such programs as the peace corps, Medicare, food for peace, the nuclear test ban treaty--just before we won in each of those efforts. 

	So, my friends, if you have to have a role in life, the one that I'm used to and the one I've been most comfortable in is to be the underdog.  I don't intend to bit anybody; but I do intend to bark; and I intend to bark tonight. And I intend to bark in the spirit of Alben Barkley, who knew how to bark down here in Kentucky. 

	You know, there are some advantages in being an underdog--your ears are closer to the ground, and you hear what people are saying.  Oh yes, you can even sniff out the enemy a little better, and you can run faster.  And sooner or later, your opponent will have to start looking over his shoulder, and when he does, he may trick (sic) himself up a little bit, in case you know what I mean.  And that's the time, when he is looking over his shoulder, stumbling over his feet, that you catch him in on the winning side in November 5th and get the benefit ,and get the prize and go to victory. 

	Oh, every day you read about that cool, that confident, that composed, that charming Mr. Nixon, the man who campaigns without running, the man that takes it easy, never makes a mistake, never has the chance, never is willing to appear on shows on television where there are the questions, never, ever takes a stand.  He either evades or straddles every major issue.  I'm going to send him some talc powder--he must be getting saddle sore from straddling all those issues. 

	Why, the other day one man said, "Mr. Vice-President, you don't realize what you are up against.  You are up against new Nixon."  And another fellow said to me, "Oh no you're not.  No you're not," he said.  "You're up against the old Nixon."  I said, "Never mind about the new one or the old one; the one I'm worried about is the real one!"  And that's the one you ought to worry about, too. 

	I want to ask Mr. Nixon some questions.  I know he is having some difficulty hearing these questions, but if we keep up long enough, he is apt to get the message.  I know my Republican friends are sometimes slow learners or are hard of hearing.  And they also have a little shortsighted vision.  They have a lot of infirmities, but we can help them tonight.  I want to hear where Mr. Nixon stands on one of the great issues of our time.  I want to know where he stands on that treaty that rests in the United States Senate now that will stop the spread of these dangerous nuclear weapons in dozens of countries across this Earth.  Is he for the treaty or is he against it?  I think the American people have a right to know. 

	I want to know where Mr. Nixon stands on civil rights.  When he is in North Carolina, he is soft on it.  When he is up in Iowa he is strong on it.  I want to know where the real Mr. Nixon is.  Where do you stand, Mr. Nixon, on the issue of desegregation and civil rights? 

	I want to know, I want to know where Mr. Nixon stands on the subject of federal aid to education.  When he is talking to teachers, he says he thinks there ought to be more money for education.  When he talks to the gold-dollar people, he says the taxes are too high.  Mr. Nixon, where do you stand?  Are you for the Elementary and Secondary Education Act?  Are you for more money for our schools?  Or is this just talk?  We want to know. 

	And, Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on the subject that was mentioned from this platform tonight?  Why, the Republican platform had the nicest things to say.  I tell you, when I read that platform, I said to myself, "It's taken them a long time, but they have come home--to Thomas Jefferson. They have come back."  That platform indicated that they were for these things:  Why, they said they would support the elderly.  They wanted the elderly to have dignity.  They wanted the elderly to have the respect of the people.  And they wanted the elderly to have care.  And then, I took notice, and I want to ask Mr. Nixon tonight:  where did you stand and where do you stand on Medicare for the elderly?  We would like to know. I know where you stood when you were in Congress, because I was there with you.  I introduced the bill, and you said it was a socialist scheme.  I want to know now, Mr. Nixon, have you changed your mind?  Is it the new Nixon, the old Nixon, or the real Nixon?  That's what I want to know--for the elderly in this country. 

	Where do you stand on law and order?  Why he says he is for it.  He says he wants to double the rate of convictions.  But then, he says he doesn't want to double the work, doesn't want to double the war on poverty.  Now, Mr. Nixon has a special interest in poverty.  He helped bring some of it to this country under the Republican administration.    Where does he stand on the issue of law and order?  On one hand he says he is for it.  On the other hand, he condemns the attorney general, the chief law enforcement officer of this country.  He never tells you how he is going to get it.  He just says, "We are going to convict more people."  Convict them how?  With courts that are already overloaded?  With policemen who are already overworked?  With district attorney offices that are already understaffed?  Mr. Nixon, what's your program?  I think we have a right to know. 

	And I might suggest to Mr. Nixon that the office both he and I are running for is not the office of sheriff.  We are trying to run for the office of president. 

	And the office of president not only requires that you shall observe the law, it not only requires that you shall insure domestic tranquility, but it also provides and requires that you shall promote justice.  And Mr. Nixon, law and order and justice are one and the same package! 

	So, I ask Mr. Nixon tonight:  are you willing to pay the price for police salaries that are too low now?  Are you willing to pay the price for adequate police training?  Are you willing to pay the price for social programs the will get at the breeding grounds for crime?  I think the American people have a right to know.  And we are going to keep asking him until he gives us some answers.  And when he gives us the answers, that will be the end of Mr. Nixon, because his answers will be wrong. 

	Or I might ask him a question like this:  where does he stand on the food stamp program?  I know where he stood on it when he was in Congress, but I wonder if he has changed.  Where does he stand on money for the Peace Corps--that he once called, that he once called a draft dodging apparatus?  Where does he stand on that?  Where does he stand on the alliance for progress, and where does he stand on head start?  Just a few things we would like to know, Mr. Republican.  Before you go to the American people with a generous quantity of generalities and plentitude of platitudes, I think we have a right to know where the Republican nominee stands on these subjects. 

	And by the way, Mr. Nixon, where do you stand on television debates?  I'm ready!  Are you? 

	Why, I've had a response from him.  Mr. Nixon says he has taken a stand on 167 separate issues.  That's what he said.  And I said to an audience today in Springfield that the stands he has taken on those 167 issues makes a bowl of jelly look like cement. 

	Oh, my friends, it isn't really enough to say, "Yes, but ..."  It isn't enough to say, "I'm for it, but not now."  It isn't enough to say, "I like the general idea, but I don't know about the specifics."  The American people in this crucial year of 1968 have a right to ask of the candidates for this honored office in the gift of the American people, "Where do you stand, Mr. Candidate?"  And they have a right to get some answers.  And I'm going to keep after him until we get some answers. 

	You know, I've seen where Mr. Nixon has a shadow cabinet.  Well, I wish he would come out of the dark shadows himself.  A shadow cabinet isn't what this country needs.  This country doesn't need a man in the presidency that can duck and dodge and weave as if he is an open field half back; what this country needs is a man who knows how to be a captain and a quarterback to give this country firm leadership.  And that's why we need a Democrat in the White House. 

	Now, before I go on, I want, I just want to talk a little economics with you, because I read the other day where my opponent said that he is just the man to do something for our economy.  And I said, "You never said straighter, more honest words in your life--not do something for it, but do something to it."  You know, there's a lot of difference between these candidates.  One is trickle-down-Richard, and the other one is percolate-up-Hubert.  And there's a lot of difference in that kind of economics. 

	Listen, my fellow Americans, everything that we want in this country, every program that has been talked about, everything that Katie Penden will work for in the Senate, everything your governor or legislature will work for in this state depends on the health of our economy.  The economy needs a strong base, the strong base of this nation.  And let's take a look at the record.  During these eight Nixon Republican years in the 1950s, we had three job-killing recessions, three job-killing recessions that cost this country, in lost income, 175 billion dollars.

	Somebody said the other day that there wasn't a dime's worth of difference between Mr. Nixon and Mr. Humphrey.  And I said, "Yes there is--175 billion dollars difference.  That's how much." 

	Khrushchev, Khrushchev, Nikita Khrushchev, in those days, said that he would hurt us economically.  Well, fortunately, Khrushchev is out of office, and so is Nixon.  And I think we had better keep them both out of office. 

	Now, we have nine straight months of economic growth in this country--an all time record--and we have had no recessions.  What happened with the American paychecks during those Nixon years and during those Democratic years?   What happened during those years when the Republicans were in and those years when the Democrats were in?  Well, during the Democratic years, personal income has gone up over three times faster than during the Republican years.  This means almost three thousand dollars per year of additional income for every American family of four.  It means a new car every year or a college education for your son or daughter.  Now, I suggest to you that's pretty good premium when you cast your ballot for a Democratic candidate. 

	But, ladies and gentlemen, there is something else more important than economics.  What is happening in our country today is of great concern.  There are three realities in America today, three realities that we face and that we must come to grips with.

	The first reality is the absolute necessity on the part of the next president of the United States to find through every honorable means within his power a way to achieve peace in Vietnam.  That's the first reality. 

	And, my fellow Americans, my fellow Americans, if I'm privileged to serve as your president, I promise you from this platform tonight, as one who has been close to this problem for four years, as one who has had to agonize through it, as one who has suffered through all of the attacks that have been leveled upon us, I pledge to you that I will do everything, God willing, within the authority and the power of the president of the United States to find an honorable way--to find an honorable means--to end this war, so we can get on with the business here at home.  Thank you very much.  And my dear friends, if we but stand together, if we but work together, if we but pool our resources together, we can do what needs to be done.

	Now, the second reality that this nation faces is the absolute necessity of finding peace and justice in our own country, in our own cities, in our own nation, and to find it soon.  Ladies and gentlemen, this is called many things.  Some people call it law and order.  Some people just say that we have to crack down on crime.  Other people say that we've got to subdue the violence.  Let me make it clear-cut:  if I am the president of the United States, I will do everything within my power to mobilize the resources of this country to make sure that violence does not take our streets, to put down the rioting, to stop the looting, to stop the sniping, and to do what is necessary for the safety of the American people in their neighborhoods and in their cities!  It will be done! 

	But may I add one other thing:  just as I am determined that we shall combat our enemies--and I've laid out a program with eighty-four specific recommendations, police training, upgrading police personnel, improving the discipline of police forces, strengthening the enforcement agencies, controlling the drug traffic, strengthening the district attorneys' offices, helping our cities with the necessary funds to improve their police administration, a host of things--just as I know we need to do that, let me say that in America law and order has another thing to it--it's civil order and civil justice.  The other side of that coin is that the inequities and the injustices in America must be rooted out in this country just as we crack down on crime and violence.  

	My Republican opponent says he will double the rate of convictions.  Well and good, Mr. Nixon, but I want you to know that not only do I intend to enforce the law, but I intend to double their rate of housing in this country, of building new neighborhoods in this country, of helping education in this country.  That's what we need.  

	For every penitentiary Mr. Nixon and Strom Thurmond build we will build a new city and new neighborhood and a decent place for people to live.  We know how to enforce the law.  I've been a mayor of a city of over half of million people; I've been in charge of a police department; I've combatted organized crime; I've fought it and won.  I know what it means to take on that responsibility.  But you are not going to get law and order out of a man whose advice is to the Supreme Court.  You are not going to get law and order out of anyone who condemns the highest law enforcement officer in this country, the attorney general.  You are going to get law and order when you breed respect for the law and when you have a program, my friends, that gets at the problem.  

	Now, the third problem, the third reality in our country, is the necessity for unity, for unity in this great republic.  This great federal union, e pluribus unum, this one nation.  Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the decisive point again in our history.  Just as Abraham Lincoln faced a nation divided, so, today, we face a nation that is on the precipice of division.  This nation cannot settle for two nations that are not equal.  We cannot have a nation divided--black against white, rich against poor, urban against rural, North against South.  America cannot survive that way.  This last best hope of earth can only fulfill its mission, the American dream can only be realized if we have people who lead this nation who want to bind up the wounds, people of understanding, people of reason, people of prudent judgment, people of forbearance and tolerance, people whose lives can be characterized by a love of humanity.  And, Ladies and gentlemen, the next president of the United States must be more than a policeman.  He must be more than a lawman.  The next president of the United States must be the healer of this republic, the educator of this republic, and the leader of this republic to bring this nation into one of good citizenship. 

	You, my friends, I base my entire candidacy, I have my entire candidacy upon the belief, which comes from the very depths of my soul, that the American people will respond to this call for one citizenship, open to all.  I am not going to campaign, I am unwilling to pay the price of winning the presidency by setting group against group, section against section, race against race.   I am not going to have any contact with extremism, and I say to the Republican nominee, it was a sad day for this country when he had to join arms with Mr. Number One Dixiecrat in order that he would be assured of that nomination.  I didn't have to do that.  

	Yes, my friends, it is an interesting observation that the man who led certain Democrats out of the Democratic convention of 1948, the man who established the Dixiecrat segregationist party in 1948, the man that walked out on me when I said it was time for the Democratic party to stand up forthrightly in the bright sunshine of civil rights, that man that walked out of our convention brought Mr. Nixon in to the Republican convention for his acceptance speech.  

	Well, I can come to this audience tonight and tell you we had to make no deals--no backroom ones, no front room ones, none in the basement, none in the kitchen, and none in the barn--no deals.  When I made my recommendation for your vice presidential nominee, I gave you a man of impeccable character, I gave you a man two terms governor of his state, I gave you a man two terms United States senator, I gave you a brilliant student of the law, I gave you a man who understands the problems of the cities as well as the country, I gave you a man who could serve as president of the United States.  That's why the Democratic party has another reason to win in November 1968.  

	Yes, I believe that we can win this election, or I wouldn't be here.  But we are not going to win it unless we believe we can win it.  And my fellow Democrats, if there ever was a time to unite our forces it is now.  A party that seeks to lead this country must first be able to lead itself.  And a leader who seeks to lead this country must help unite his own party.  And I come here tonight to ask your help.  We have a great decision.  I think you have to search deep in your heart and soul as to whether or not you want the man who is the Republican nominee or the third-party nominee to be the president of the United States.  You have to ask yourself which of these men can you trust to be your president and lead this nation.  That's the question you have to ask.  

	So, I come with my faith restored, once again, in the processes of our democracy.  I never had any doubt that we would so the right thing.  I worry not about the temporary gyrations of politics.  I think the American people know that we are making a basic decision.  We can make a decision to turn back, to turn back to the days of despair, of conflict, of dissension, of segregation and division.  Or, we can make the decision to stand pat while the world goes by us--to just get along and evade the issues, to try to be right about everything and popular all the time.  Or we can take the other stand, and that's the stand that I take.  And I think it's time for those of us who seek to be president of the United States not to try to please everyone but to try to find the right thing and the principle that you believe in, and I'm going to stand on the principle of human equality and human opportunity, equality and equal opportunity for every man, regardless of race, color, or creed. 

	So, let us go forth, let us go forth from this place, stand with me now, stand with me, and let us go forth from this place, let us go forth from this dinner tonight determined that America will not turn its back upon its own people.  Let us go forth believing in the basic goodness in this country and the basic greatness in this country and let it be known in this year of 1968 that--just as in 1932 and just as in 1948 and just as in 1960--that we were determined to move this country forward, that we were determined to make this country the finest place in the world for the finest people in the world: the American people.  I ask your help.  

	Thank you very much. 

CIVIL DISORDERCRIME--GENERALCRIMINAL JUSTICE--CONVICTIONSEDUCATION--GENERALELECTIONS--OPPONENT'S CAMPAIGNLAW ENFORCEMENT PROFESSIONMEDICARERACE RELATIONSRUNNING MATES (VICE PRESIDENT)SENIOR CITIZENSVIETNAM WAR     n[ :[ 4[ 0[ ([
 [ [ [ [  [ ˛Z ÚZ ÁZ	 — 	 √ 	 µ 	 ò 	 Ü 	 h 	 N 	 F 	 8 	  	  e: