Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1029.006SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/29STUMPPHILADELPHIAPENNSYLVANIAPABROADWOOD HOTEL BEFORE THE VOLUNTEERS FOR STEVENSON2377 WORDS

	After that introduction, I surely expected that Mayor Clark was going to present Benjamin Franklin to the citizens of Philadelphia.

	Mayor Clark and distinguished guests and my very dear friends: I should like for you to know that the Philadelphia story is known not only to Philadelphia but to the whole nation, and I am delighted to have had the opportunity to meet with the authors of that story in addition to my old, dear and esteemed friend, Joe Clark. Now that I know who wrote it, I can see why it is such a good story.

	Evidently, the volunteers are growing. They came out to Springfield a while ago, and the newspaper fellow said--well, the impression was that the same old political leaders would show up--instead of that, one of them came rushing to the executive mansion, after seeing this tumult that was going on inside, and said, "My heavens, it looks like a parents' meeting of a progressive school in there."

	I should like to inform you that I have achieved, at last, my fondest desire--thanks to the city of Philadelphia--I have had a haircut; it has taken three weeks. The warmth of your enthusiasm, the warmth of your greeting here touches me very deeply. I hope it isn't the type of emotion that a woman wrote me about the other day--a letter from somewhere in the country--and it said, commending me on some speech I had made--she said, "You know I am very easily swayed by emotion, Governor, except when I think, which I occasionally do."

	I am very much flattered that you should have had such a large and heartening meeting, and I am gratified, indeed, to have had the opportunity to come here and talk to you, but thanks to the fact that I got a haircut, I don't have a speech for you.

	The volunteer and the labor groups that are turning out in ever increasing numbers all over the country are one of the most heart warming aspects of my campaign. I don't know frankly what's happened. I thought for a while, egotistically and self consciously, that it was me, but I have concluded that it was the general who was turning them out for me; I think he is the best campaigner we've got.

	One of my deepest convictions has been that the active, dedicated participation of citizens in the government--citizens like you here this evening, representatives of enlightened labor, representatives of citizens groups, representatives that have been good enough to grasp hands in this presidential campaign--are absolutely essential to the healthy functioning of any successful democracy. During my campaign for governor of Illinois I found that I became more and more dependent on groups almost identical to this, and since then I have talked almost incessantly to citizens about our country--the problem of communications being the most difficult problem, I think, that a public servant has in our country, in spite of our good press and radio and television--the problem is persuading people to take an interest in things that interest them most--should interest them most. In fact, for the last several months--until some gentlemen met in Chicago and concluded that there was other work for me to do--I used to conduct a monthly radio-television program in which I talked about all of the agencies of state government, of all our departments, and what they were doing in an effort--frantic, not futile--to explain what has been going on for three years and to explain that if they are going to pay taxes, at election time they should take a lively interest in how the service was being rendered. I think it is a very heartening experience. I know it is the very thing that would hearten the mayor of Philadelphia and all of our public servants.

	The quality of the government that you will get will be exactly in ratio to what you will contribute to it--you the citizens. I think you will agree with me and Joe Clark that government is very much like a pump. It pumps up just a cross section of the morals and the ethics of what are the people, and that is about all it can be under our system.

	I have tried most desperately hard to appoint the best qualified people I could to public positions in the state of Illinois. I have done it, indeed, regardless of parties in some cases, which hasn't exactly enamored some of the Democratic politicians of me. On the other hand, it has served to give the state good government in recent years, I think, and that again shows up at election time, and then, of course, the politicians love you all over again. The problem of attracting first-class citizens to public service is, of course, a very difficult one, and I think that is the way you do it. I think little by little you see in service a sort of thing where the bad will drive out the good and likewise the good will attract the good. It isn't easy but it can be done, and it is a great satisfaction to have any part in doing it. On all our Illinois boards and commissions I have appointed citizens of our citizenry who have had special competence for the post, as I feel the nearer the state departments and the state institutions are to the people's watchful eyes, the better they will be run, and the less chance there is for abuses and mismanagement to creep in. We have here tonight Mrs. Edison Dick of Chicago, who is taking such an active part in the promotion of the Volunteers. She has served, since I have been governor of the state of Illinois, as a Commissioner on the Board of Health, and many others with her have been willing to give up their time and to give special devotion to the development of the public interest in my state, and that has been my greatest satisfaction.

	And what is true of local, state and national government is I suppose equally true of a campaign. It is important--not that the citizens be led to the polls to vote as their party leaders tell them--that is desirable, of course, too, if the party leaders are in the Democratic party--but that they become aroused to listen to and debate the issues.

	Of course, that has been impossible in this campaign; it has been impossible to develop any debate about the issues, about the choices and about the alternatives that you have.

	I wish that my distinguished opponent had been a little clearer and a little more consistent about his positions so that we would have had a better basis for reasonable and intelligent debate, and then on election day an informed electorate could go to the polls and exercise the greatest privilege that is bestowed on all of us who are fortunate enough to live in a democracy, that is, the privilege of voting.

	I feel that the reason that you people have participated in this campaign is because you are people who are aroused and concerned about the issues rather than the personalities, and it is extremely gratifying to find more and more thoughtful people flocking to our side, as I say, every day. In fact, I am reliably informed, and from what I have observed traveling in the last few days, that the only thing that is falling off faster than the autumn leaves is the Ike buttons.

	But, my friends, just as a successful campaign depends on the enthusiastic cooperation of all sorts and groups of citizens, and just as good government, in turn, depends on their active participation, so does the well-being of the country depend upon the interrelated well-being of each of these groups.

	It is my profound belief--and I have stated it repeatedly in the past--that ours should be a government of all of the people. Those are words that we use continuously; they are familiar to all of us, but they have a very, very real meaning. That depends on all of the people, and not just any group--any pressure group. It means all of the people, whether they be of business, whether they be of labor, whether they be professional, or whether they be farmers. And just as I think that a true democracy is threatened when this balance is upset, so do I think that our prosperity is threatened when the well-being of one group is sacrificed to that of another; for the whole is simply the sum of the parts, and when all of the parts are healthy, we are healthy nationally; and when some of the parts are sick, we will suffer accordingly.

	And that is why I think the program that my party offers, to the more thoughtful citizens at least, is more appealing than the party of the general's, and a great deal more appealing, by the way, than the party of Messrs. Taft, Jenner, Kem and McCarthy, and so forth and so forth. And my party and I, as its candidate, we think are living in the twentieth century. We think we know the world is round. We recognize that the country is growing, that the world problems change incessantly, which changes the order of life, and that these problems are multiplying every day--that these are problems, and these are challenges that can't be delayed and deferred, and can't be wished out of existence. They have to be met, and they have to be met one by one--and continuously.

	It is all very well to wish for the good old days--and I am sure, by the way, that the good old days are never as good as they appear to be in retrospect. I remember what a fellow said about Punch magazine. You remember, one fellow said, "It isn't as good as it used to be, is it?" sitting in his London club. The other one said, "You know, it never was." Those days are gone. Whether we like it or not, they are gone. This has become a great industrial nation with all of its opportunities for sound progress, economically and socially, or its potential for disaster on a very major scale if we should go into reverse. The way to secure the continued well-being of our country is neither creeping socialism nor a return to Old Guard Republicanism. It is to recognize change when we see it, to meet that change as individuals, and as families, and at local and state levels when possible. It is when the job is too big, or the need too great for local solution that your government in Washington should be alert and ready to propose the traditional democratic measures. But government in Washington should not have to take over problems because citizens have abdicated their responsibilities. And I should like to say that I think much of the thing that we complain about--the concentration of authority in Washington, the concentration of power, the bureaucracy, and all of the other epithets that we use, is largely due not to the Congress, or the administration reaching down to seize authority or power from the local and state governments--it is the fact that local government defaults.

	I think it is a problem, speaking from the state level, of state wrongs, if you please, rather than of state rights. But I am sure you know all of these things quite as well as I do--and that there are no easy, no slick solutions to any of these major problems--that it will take time and prayer, and patience, and most of all participation if we are going to solve them, and solve them to our satisfaction.

	I should like very much to go on here. I should like to talk to you about some of the issues of the campaign, notably Korea, which the general seems to have hit upon a happy device to salvage things at the last moment by proposing to go to Korea when the problem is in Moscow. I suppose all of us have been submitted to the humility of catching the wrong street car.

	In view of the fact that I am obliged to make a formidable speech on national and international radio, TV, etc., etc., etc., in about ten minutes, and as long as the speech isn't prepared, I think I had better get out of here and go to Convention Hall. I hope very much that you will forgive me, and I only want to say from the bottom of my heart that I am as grateful as a human being can be for the warmth of your reception here this evening, for the cordiality and the graciousness of the greeting I have had ever since I have been in Philadelphia.

	I don't know what the future has in store--I have a pretty good guess--I think you will have more to say than I do. I can only say that should it fall to my lot to assume the appalling responsibilities as a result of the nomination that I did not seek, I shall do my level best. I shall expect in return your understanding, your forbearance, your patience, and most of all your help. And, finally, to those who exercise any influence in that direction, your prayers.

	No one can approach the responsibilities of the presidency of the United States, in the year of grace 1952 without an abject feeling of inadequacy and of humility. I have traveled across this country now for something over two months. I have seen it from coast to coast, from north to south, as I have never seen it before. I have talked to hundreds of thousands of people and have seen them in the streets. There is something about the variety, the enormity, the might, the majesty, if you please, of the United States that fills one with a great pride, a great sense of anxiety to serve his generation and serve it well. I think that is all you expect.

	Thank you.
GOVERNMENT--STATE AND LOCAL--APPOINTMENTSILLINOISPOLITICAL PARTICIPATIONVOLUNTEERISM     ï3 »3 µ3 ±3 ©3
 œ3 —3 ’3 †3 z3 x3 E3 ;3	 T 	 + 	 # 	  e: