Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1030.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/30STUMPREADINGPENNSYLVANIAPARAILROAD STATION1693 WORDS

	There have been many things I don't understand about this campaign, and one is why so many people value my signature. I wish I could give you all autographs. If I give one of you an autograph, I have to sign a lot of pieces of paper, and one of them might be on a check, and it might bounce. A politician can't be too careful! 

	I am very happy to be here with you, and we are very grateful to you for coming out at this inconvenient hour to afford us an opportunity to talk to you. I know Berks County is the home of good farmers and of good pretzels, and is also the home of good Democrats. I don't think the United States can ever have too many of any of those things--and especially at this season of the year, of good Democrats! 

	I have selected Reading for a solemn speech, and I hope you will forgive me. I wanted to talk this morning about one group of forward-looking people who seldom get mentioned in political campaigns. I mean businessmen, the people who make up the industrial and the commercial leadership of this country. I think that that neglect is a serious mistake, not from a vote-getting viewpoint, because the business vote is not very massive, but because there are principles of justice and of equity involved to which politicians--and I call myself one--ought to pay more attention. 

	If my destiny takes me to Washington I propose to do the best I can to end this noisy and largely unnecessary war between some segments of government and some segments of business. It doesn't get us forward with the all-important business of making America stronger and more united and secure in this terribly dangerous world. 

	I think we should get two things straight: The name for all government is not bureaucracy--and the name for all business is not reactionary. I ought to know. I have spent time on both sides of the desk--both in business and in government. And, so far as I know, I am the only candidate in this campaign who has. As a lawyer practicing in the Middle West for many years before I entered what we call public life--and, believe me, it is public!--I did work for many businessmen and for many corporations, large and small. I think I learned what some of those problems were. I never had much trouble understanding them, and I never had to wrestle with my conscience in representing their reasonable points of view. 

	If any of you think that this is strange talk coming from a Democratic candidate, let me say that I can see no legitimate reason for hostility between business and the Democratic party. We are for private, and profitable, business. Indeed, we don't see how America could survive with any other kind. We are for the productive and the dynamic system of enterprise which the great partnership of public and private initiative has forged in this country. The Democratic party is against socialism in our life in any form--creeping, crawling or even the imaginary kind which shows up so often in the Republican oratory. 

	I am opposed to socialized medicine, socialized farming, socialized banking, or socialized industry--and I think all of you are too. 

	Now, I am emphasizing these points with all the force at my command because there has been an intensive propaganda campaign to misrepresent the Democratic party as anti-business. Unfortunately, a certain number of businessmen--intelligent men who ought to know better--have been misled by this propaganda. I have been somewhat puzzled to understand why. Certainly it is not because the Democratic party has actually harmed American business. On the contrary, I would say that it has done more for business during the last twenty years than in any other interval in our history. It rescued industry from nearly total collapse in 1932, restored confidence in our banking system and created a purchasing power which was felt in every cash register in the nation. 

	Nor can this misunderstanding be laid to a lack of profits, for today American business has bigger profits than ever before in history--not just before taxes, but after taxes as well. More new businesses are being created today than even in the fabled twenties--and the one thing that a businessman does not do when he is really alarmed is to start a new enterprise. 

	So, I conclude that it is a--you know, I don't mind the Ike signs. I even like Ike myself. You would be amused at an incident that happened to us out in the West the other day when we were driving through the streets of a big city out there, and a little boy ran out in front of the crowd and shouted at the top of his voice, "Hooray for Stevenhower." I am going to give that kid a job in the State Department. 

	So, to resume, I conclude it is no simple matter of dollars and cents which makes some businessmen look on the Democratic party with something less than binding love. And in an honest concern to understand the reason for this attitude, I have come to believe that it rests less on fact than on emotion. 

	You know, I had a letter from a woman not long ago commending me on some speech I made. She went on to say, "You know, Governor, I am very easily swayed by emotion until I think, which I occasionally do." Well, I think some more of those businessmen ought to do some thinking. 

	It seems to me, therefore, that the businessman has been unhappy not for lack of profits, but for lack of understanding, a feeling that there is no knowledge of his problems and less sympathy for them. 

	At the very beginning of this century, we had a business setup quite different from anything that exists today. Much of our industry was organized into old-fashioned trusts, with water in their stock and monopoly in their eye. 

	Today the business picture has changed beyond recognition. Management began to learn that many buyers at low prices provide a sounder market than a few buyers at high prices. Management developed its own unwritten code of ethics, and it gradually came to recognize its responsibility to the community. 

	We still have a few snake-oil peddlers in the business world, but they are a small and dwindling crew. Today the vast majority of businessmen are eager to live within the letter and also the spirit of our laws. They can distinguish between legality and morality. Their aim is no longer ruthless monopoly, but, rather, genuine service to the nation--on the very sound theory that he who serves best will profit most in the long run. As a consequence, our industry has achieved an almost incredible volume of production, which is the very cornerstone of American strength and prosperity. 

	I don't believe that these changes in the nature of business have been adequately recognized by everyone in government. I think we must sweep out of the corridors of government, at all levels, national and state, those lingering suspicions which are a holdover from an earlier and very different time. 

	This is a problem which concerns me very deeply, for I am convinced that both government and business must learn to live together in harmony, before an era of bad temper turns into something infinitely worse. We must avoid at all costs the bitter struggle of class against class, which results inevitably in a drift either to the extreme left or to the extreme right. And you and I know that either kind of drift would end up at the same dreadful destination: a police state with all of the horrors that we have seen in Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Russia. 

	And that is why I am determined to go to Washington only as the servant of all the people, without obligation to any class or interest. I have made no deals or any commitments to any individual, any political clique, or any pressure group. And I haven't had to or even been asked to. 

	I have done my level best to talk sense to the American people, in the very firm belief that you want honest words and an honest president. For this ultimate honesty--an honesty of mind and conscience--my friends, is the only solid foundation on which we can build the unity which is the true strength of a democracy. 

	So long as the people can have a government they can trust, they will not hesitate to trust each other. So long as they can be sure of even-handed justice in Washington, they will not be led by fear and bitterness to deal unjustly with one another. 

	We must do nothing that might array class against class, or citizen against citizen, in quarrels which tear apart our blessed American family. I shall do all I can to sustain a feeling of mutual confidence and understanding among all segments of our society. I see the American people rejoicing in their strength and sure of their destiny--and I see them from coast to coast--and for such a brotherhood among our people, I think everything is possible. 

	I apologize to you for talking too long. I sometimes...

	Well, there is at least one honest guy in this crowd--he says he wants me to go on talking so he won't have to go back to school. 

	There seems to be some unanimity of opinion about that. Well, you have been in school with me this morning, I am sorry to say, and I apologize for this lecture. I am afraid that sometimes when I go from town to town and talk interminably that I am a little like the girl in school who was asked to spell "banana," and she said, "I can spell banana, but I never know when to stop." 
CONDUCT OF LIFE--BUSINESS EXPERIENCESOCIALISMBUSINESS--GENERAL     A% % % % û$
 î$ é$ ä$ Ý$ Ñ$ Ï$ ¿$ µ$	 > 	    e: