Speeches\1952\rep\S52R0924.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)09/24STUMPHUNTINGTONWEST VIRGINIAWV1677 WORDS

	Ladies and gentlemen:  I am deeply grateful for the high honor you pay me in coming out, taking this time from your busy day, to allow me to greet you and to give you a few of the thoughts that are on my mind as we progress through this political campaign.

	There are among this crowd many men who are my old comrades in arms.  Some of those men served in the South Pacific; some of them served here at home in necessary jobs; but others were in Africa and Europe with me.  Some of them will remember that at times as we walked along the roads or as I could see them in their pup tents or ride with them in a jeep, or in their barracks or at mess, we would talk about our country; why we were fighting that war, what did it mean for freedom to be threatened by autocracy, by a Hitler.  We talked about the country we thought we were defending, a way of life, opportunity for men to choose their own calling, opportunity for men to think and worship as they please and above all, the right of helping to determine what their own government would be.

	Now, I want to say to those men that I am engaged in this political campaign in furtherance of a promise I made them then, that so long as I lived I would do my best to see that this country remained what they believe it to be, the country of the pioneers and the country of their dreams.  I am here because I believe that certain of our great values given to us by our founding fathers, carried on through the years and passed on to us, have become endangered.

	Now, ladies and gentlemen, if you will bear with me I am going to read you a paragraph from a book that has just come into my possession.  The title of this book is--think of this--"How To Get Rich in Washington."  It was our old fashioned notion that you went to Washington, if you went, in public office to serve the United States, not to get rich; that you went there to do something that would advance the cause of America.  But listen to how this fellow starts this book, and I am just going to read you the very first paragraph.

	"When nations mature they grow tolerant of evil.  They accept as a simple fact of life the irresponsibility of public officials who condone corruption and who play favorites as they administer the nation's laws.  It was so in the brightest and rottenest days of the Roman Empire, and it has been so ever since.  By this standard of maturity the United States has grown up."

	"Evidence of dishonesty and favoritism which would have shamed Americans a few decades ago when the muckrakers were arousing indignation by their revelations of the ways in which millions were exploited by the few is shrugged off as a common feature of social existence, perhaps regrettable but certainly inevitable."

	Here is the cause of what I believe is happening to America, but I want to make two remarks about that paragraph.  First, the author is too sweeping and he is inaccurate because he blames the whole nation.  I do not believe Americans do tolerate evil.  The government in Washington is possibly charged with very great accuracy with the things this man enumerates, but not the people of the United States.  The Republican Party's program, ladies and gentlemen, is to clean out this mess and return to the American people the kind of government in which they can take pride, the kind of government that is certain, therefore, to command the respect of every other nation abroad.

	Now, the government has stumbled and fumbled in failing to bring us closer to peace.  In the last seven years look what has happened to us.  We stopped the shooting war in 1945 the strongest military nation in the world, to say nothing of our academic strength and our spiritual, intellectual, scientific and moral strength.  We were the greatest military nation on the globe.

	Since then, we have had to rush in an emergency fashion to the aid of Turkey, to the aid of Greece.  We saved Berlin by the gallantry to our air men and we have gotten into a war in Korea and we have lost China, the great nation of East Asia.  What a record in progressing toward peace due to this complacent, arrogant way of government that gives us no leadership in this gravest of all questions--peace or war.

	Then, what has it done to our finances, national finances first?  They gave us a budget of 85 million dollars, something so big I venture the opinion that there is no one in this crowd who knows any more than I do what 85 billion dollars could possibly mean or look like, but one thing we do know; that when they put up that kind of an expenditure program, they say at the same time, "Now, this is 12 billion dollars more than we can collect from you although we are slamming on to you the highest taxes you have ever paid."  All America with its highest taxes, full employment cannot produce the amount of money this spendthrift government says we should lay on the line.  We are going in debt in the time of greatest employment, and they are forcing families to do the same.

	The Labor Department reports that in 1950 the average city family had to spend $400 more than the family could earn just to get the food, the clothing, the shelter, the necessaries of life for that family.  Now, that kind of thing can't go on unless you people are better financial wizards than most people are in America.  We are just going to be broke, not only nationally but individually.  That is the kind of financial diet you are now being fed.

	It takes the housewife $24 when she goes to the corner store to get the same bag of groceries that she got only ten years ago for $10.  We add up all of these problems and then what do they give us on top of it--the kind of crookedness this man describes.  We have had the spectacle of reading in our headlines that the Boston collector of internal revenue, the San Francisco collector of internal revenue and several others have had to be relieved for venality in office.  Some of them are already behind the bars for stealing your money.

	A woman wrote to me and said, "General, I would like to vote for  you but will you promise me this:  Will you promise that the taxes I pay actually get to Washington?"  Haven't we come to a pretty pass when a loyal citizen of the United States has to ask as a favor that she may have just common, woodshed honesty among our high elected or appointed governmental officials?  That is the kind of thing that we are out to stop.  The things I have recited to you, ladies and gentlemen, are what make up the Washington mess.  That is what I am out to clean up, not only in the memory of the soldiers who obeyed my commands, often at great risk to themselves, risk of their lives, certainly always accompanied by deprivation and suffering.  I am out to do what I believe to be necessary for the good of the greatest country on earth, and that means to me 155 million Americans.  Not merely one part of America, not merely one class of America.

	If you send a Republican Senate to Washington and a Republican House of Representatives, including the eminent individuals who just spoke to you a minute ago, if you send that kind of a Congress there, if you establish an administration that has a right to appoint officials in your Executive Department, you will have an administration that will make to you this one promise:  first, you will have an honest, clean government that will have, as its first purpose, the attracting to Washington of the ablest, finest representatives of American productive and professional life that it is possible to get, men from agriculture, men from industry, business, men from mining, every kind of industry that makes up the great economy of this United States.  And then they, having come there, will execute your business for you.  They will work for you and not merely work you.  Their purpose will be to make this country peaceful, respected in the world, secure in the world and to restore to each of you that great opportunity that comes to the free individual who can get his nose above the debt of governmental expenditures, and save for himself and be sure that while he is doing it he has got a government that is his friend; that is going to look out for those disasters that he could not take care of himself, but which is going to avoid interference with his private life [missing text] without war.

	That will be the dedication of that new government, ladies and gentlemen, and I will tell you along with it there will be this:  You will have honesty, not merely the honesty that comes of tracking down and punishing crooks--although if the occasional one ever gets in, that will happen--but you will have the honesty that comes from sending to Washington incorruptible men and women, and on this particular point I plead for the watchfulness of the women who know what it means to have the children's piggy banks robbed, by golly, by having someone come in and break through your door, and that is exactly what is happening today.  They will take care of this thing of honesty in government if we give them big enough brooms.  We propose to do that.

	Now, my friends, before we go, I would like to bring out Mrs. Ike for just a moment.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--MILITARY SERVICECOST OF LIVINGDEBT, NATIONALGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICS     Ì$ π$ ≥$ Ø$ •$
 ó$ í$ ç$ É$ v$ t$ t$ j$	 ä 	 i 	 [ 	 M 	 0 e: