Speeches\1956\dem\S56D1006.001SPEECH1956DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/06STUMPPROVIDENCERHODE ISLANDRI2273 WORDS
	It is a pleasure to be in Rhode Island once more. And it is a particular pleasure for me to see an old and dear friend and your warm-hearted and vigorous governor, Dennis Roberts.

	Having been myself the governor of a state, I have taken particular interest in what Governor Roberts has been doing both here in Rhode Island and as chairman of the New England Governors' Conference. He has been an eloquent and persuasive champion of the welfare of the people of New England.

	I know how--whether the issue is textiles, minimum wages, flood control, and insurance, or employment benefits--Governor Roberts has carried your fight to the administration in Washington--and, given the attitude of the administration these days, that's a full-time job for a whole team of governors.

	I don't have a doubt in my mind that you're going to reelect Dennis Roberts in November.

	I know, too, how your whole congressional delegation has been active in the fight for New England and Washington--and that is because of the wise preference of the citizens of Rhode Island for Democrats.

	Of your senior senator, may I say only that the whole nation shares Rhode Island's affection and admiration for the man of perpetual youth--for whom the eighties are a time for playing tennis, handling hold-up men, and fighting day-in and day-out for the progressive causes in the Senate--Senator Theodore F. Green.

	We are grateful, too, throughout the nation, for the way our interests, as well as yours, are represented by this man, whose acute mind and thoughtful liberalism have so quickly earned him national respect--Senator John Pastore.

	Let me mention, too--and all too briefly--your congressmen whose work on the most important House committees has given them such deserved prominence and influence--John Fogarty and Aime Forand.

	It is October now, and the campaign is beginning to pick up speed. For a time, it looked as if the Republicans thought they could win on an agreeable man plus a little television. It is all changing now. Every day we hear announcements of new tours and new broadcasts--because we have the Republicans on the run--and we mean to keep them that way until November 6th.

	And, as the Republican campaign develops, their whole approach to the problems of America throws into sharp outline the issues between the parties.

	That issue can be defined in many ways. But I think one simple way to state it is that you are choosing this November between a party whose whole history and purpose has been one of caring primarily about people and a party whose whole history and purpose has been one of caring first of all for the property.

	Now I know that Republicans think that our concern for the people is excessive. The other day President Eisenhower, in a speech at Cleveland, criticized us Democrats, evidently because of our concern for what the President oddly called "these fancied ills" of the American people. When Republican orators boast about our prosperity, when the Republican President refers to people's troubles as "fancied ills," it is as if they see America in mathematical averages. If one man's income is $50,000 a year and another man's out of work, well, the average income of the two is $25,000--and that's fine.

	Well, we Democrats say that the right answers are going to come only from the belief that every person, every individual, every American, is worth caring about. I just don't believe we can measure America's progress, or even its prosperity, on an adding machine--or by leaving anybody out.

	I think of the small businessman, of the young fellow just setting up in business for himself--who can't get financed now because of this administration's tight-money, high-interest-rate policy.

	I think of children in a shabby, run-down school, learning their ABCs in overcrowded classrooms from harried teachers.

	I think of the young farmer out my way struggling to make a living against falling prices and rising costs.

	I think of the old couple down the street, trying to make ends meet when the cost of living has reached an all-time high.

	I think of a little girl in a tenement in Harlem whose narrow room never sees the sun.

	I think of such people across the nation, young and old, white and black, farmers and workers and businessmen, all with human cares and human troubles.

	We should be thankful for the prosperity and well-being we enjoy, and we are. But let's not exaggerate, and let's not leave these people out and forget about them.

	And are we just supposed to forget about the workers in New England's textile mills, about mills that are closed, about others operating three to four days a week, about skilled workers who have given fifteen or twenty years of their lives and are now middle-aged and unemployed or half-employed?

	These people can, I know, in good Republican theory, just pull up stakes and learn new trades. Well, it isn't that easy--especially if you're along in years. New jobs don't come easy after you're forty-five to fifty. And many people don't want, naturally enough, to move away from the community in which you have put down your roots.

	You may remember that the Republican presidential candidate visited Lawrence, Massachusetts, four years ago and promised the workers around there that the federal government would take special steps to increase the number of jobs in their cities. Has anything happened? When the election was over, nothing was done--except to reduce further the tariff on textiles. In the words of one of President Eisenhower's advisors, the textile workers could enjoy the right to suffer.

	And something else has happened, too, since those special efforts. Instead of more jobs, textile workers lost thousands of jobs in the next years-- more than 100,000, or about 10 percent, in a single year. And, when Democratic senators proposed a strong area redevelopment bill to help localities with a high degree of unemployment, the Republicans put in a weak bill of their own, fought the Democratic bill in the Senate and finally prevented it even from being brought up for consideration in the House.

	I want to speak frankly about the question of tariffs. My party has always believed in the liberalization of trading, the reduction of trade barriers. I believe myself that the policy of keeping other countries out of American markets leads, in the end, to isolation disaster. I believe in trade and more trade, and trading means buying as well as selling. So I am in general opposed to tariff increases which discourage buying and therefore selling abroad.

	I believe equally strongly that tariff reduction must be applied with human concern, with intelligence, and with a sense of the nation's long-run interests. And I don't share the Eisenhower administration's unfeeling attitude toward the troubles of the textile industry.

	Let me put it concretely. I believe in a policy of gradual tariff reduction. I do not believe that the brunt of this policy should be borne by weak industries or by parts of the country under special economic strain. I do not believe that we can allow any industry, which has lost more than 40 percent of its jobs in eight years to be exposed, through further tariff cuts, to distraction from abroad. The problem of increasing world trade and of relieving the dollar shortage is a national problem. The burden of solving that problem should be allocated among industries and regions of the country as equitably as possible.

	The burden of solving that problem is a national responsibility. It should not be the sole burden of the factories and the people of one industry and one region. People do not want to leave their hearth and home. And because they don't, they should not be forced out of their present jobs before other jobs are made available. If national policy calls for tariff reduction-- national policy call also for certain and reliable jobs for those who are affected.

	Now I know that after years of indifference, that administration has made its election-year gesture toward the textile industry. It has done the same for farmers, for schools, and so forth. Just a few days ago, Sherman Adams suddenly announced that the administration is working on an agreement with Japan to reduce the flow of textile imports. Almost at the same time, an increase in woolen tariffs was announced.

	This political cynicism a month before the election is all the administration, after four years, has to suggest for the most troubled industry in America? What about those promises made in 1952? What about the merger problem, what about really doing something with government contracts for areas with surplus labor? What about really doing something with government contracts for small businesses? What about the bill for federal aid to distressed areas-- the bill Republicans killed this summer in Congress? What about a flood insurance bill that does not saddle the states hardest hit with an unreasonable share of costs?

	The prosperity of textiles involves people, and it can only be handled by an administration which sees economic problems in terms of homes and families and communities.

	I make no sweeping promises about solving the textile problem. But I pledge you the sympathetic and compassionate concern of a Democratic administration dedicated to finding a place for this indispensable industry--textiles--in a regional economy which will continue to grow so long as thrift, craftsmanship, hard work, and intelligence count in the affairs of a nation.

	And what goes for textile goes for small business. We have seen an administration so dominated by the big and strong and rich that it has had little concern for the little man--vanishing man. It has amiably stood by while the merger movement has acquired new momentum. It has watched the failure rate in small business reach the highest point in years. It has assigned men to jobs who have little belief in the future of small business. Its tight-money policy makes it hard for the small man to get the money he needs, and leaves the big man, with his ample reserves, in a still more favored position.

	We Democrats believe in small business--because small business has been the foundation of American initiative and enterprise. We think he can be helped to survive in this age of bigness by helping him get the capital and credit he needs at reasonable terms, by making the tax laws more equitable for him, by a larger share of government contracts, by more attention to our merger and monopoly laws, and by putting the Small Business Administration in the hands of men who really care about small business.

	And the government's concern for basic industry and small business goes for other national problems, too, such as flood insurance and flood control, for which New England's leaders, Democrat and Republican alike, have fought so hard.

	The difference between the two parties can be stated very simply. When the Republican leaders think of economic problems, they see a ledger and a cashbook. When Democrats think of economic problems, they see men, women, and children.

	I have spoken often in this campaign of a New America. By this, I mean a land where the human being is more important that the dollar sign.

	There is so much to do, and I am convinced that the great majority of Americans want to get at it, to move ahead--to get on with the job.

	We want to build more schools and train more teachers for our children.

	We want to build more hospitals and train more doctors for our sick and ailing.

	We want to give our farmers a chance to live a decent life.

	We want to strengthen our system of Social Security.

	We want to restore the Bill of Rights in all its splendor as the center of the American faith.

	We want to make our land once again the beacon of hope for people everywhere--so that our country can regain the leadership of the Free World and rally the free peoples in the cold, remorseless, unending war against Communism that has been spreading to wider areas during these last years.

	Our highest purpose must be to leave our children a better, safer world than the one we inherited ourselves.

	I ask your support today because I know that you join with the Democratic party in desiring a better tomorrow.

	We have heard strange things in the land of late: the President exhorting Vice President Nixon and the Republican campaigners to tell the truth--he could have chosen no better audience for that--and then the President, himself, talking as if the Republican party had invented the social reforms we call the New Deal, which they fought every step of the way. The Republicans, oblivious to Stalin's death, even tell us that Eisenhower stopped the Korean War, omitting to add on no better terms than the Communists turned down under Truman eighteen months before while Stalin was alive.

	Now the United States has been in a number of wars, and I have always thought most of the credit for ending them belongs to the soldiers who gave their lives to stop the enemy. If, however, the Republicans think this honor should go to political leaders, then I might point out that the two greatest wars of all time were stopped by Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry Truman.


BUSINESS, SMALLFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMJOB GROWTH/CREATIONTEXTILE INDUSTRY     °4 |4 v4 r4 j4
 ]4 X4 S4 I4 =4 ;4 ;4 14	 _ 	 P 	 # 	  e: