Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1027.005SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/27STUMPPITTSBURGHPENNSYLVANIAPAEXCERPTS2162 WORDS

	The guarding of our people's security--in the fullest sense of the word--is the first and greatest obligation of free government. 

	That obligation imposes two gigantic tasks.  The first is the defense of the nation's freedom against political and military disaster abroad.  The second is the protection of the people against economic disaster at home--either through the slow death of inflation or the sudden death of depression.

	The two tasks are intimately related.  Even an economically healthy nation in today's world can enjoy no tranquillity under the shadow of war.  And even a militarily mighty nation would be defenseless against Communist aggression if it suffered economic collapse.  In this sense, security must be total--or it is false.

	Throughout this campaign I have talked at length about our nation's security against Communist aggression.  I can summarize my conviction about one very important aspect of this quite simply.  It is this: so long as a single American soldier faces enemy fire in Korea, the honorable ending of the Korean War and the securing of honorable peace in the world must be the first--the urgent and unshakable--purpose of a new administration.

	I repeat to you the pledge I made to all the American people last week: this will be the first great labor of our new administration.  To advance it--to appraise on the spot methods for solving that particular problem with speed and with honor--I shall go to Korea.

	The American people--since I first made that pledge--have learned that the administration forces do not like the idea of my making such at trip and undertaking such an effort.  The people have learned this with some astonishment and much bewilderment.

	This has been my rudest lesson in partisan politics.

	I had thought that all Americans shared one simple feeling of mine.

	That feeling is this: if a journey to Korea--and a close study of our military and political problems there--can save the life of a single American soldier and bring peace of mind to a single American family--I must make that journey.

	My good friends, I shall make that journey.

	For not all the partisan howling on this election-eve can change my conviction that such a journey serves the interests, the wishes and the hopes of the American people.

	There are many ways a president of the United States can waste time away from his job in Washington--but this is not one of them!

	There has been another significant sound of dissent to all this in the last few days.

	It has been suggested that anyone wanting to settle the Korean war should go to Moscow and not to Korea.  This is said with a solemn air of great political sophistication, as if the speaker had just discovered that Moscow was--after all--the headquarters of the Communist enemy.

	This suggestion shows signs of progress in the political education of men who not long ago talked happily about Chinese Communists as harmless "agrarian reformers."  But the enlightenment of these men comes a little late to be of much use to our fighting men facing hordes of these "agrarian reformers" on the Korean mountainsides.

	There is, however, something more serious in this line of talk.  It betrays again the mentality that is completely untutored in the tough business of world relations.  It is the cry of men whose whole formula for delaying with Soviet aggression has been openly stated in terms of "give" and "concede."  It is the cry of a candidate who--before this campaign changed his tune--only last May called for what he himself described as "prolonged public discussion of what it will be necessary to concede" to Soviet Russia.

	My objection to this language is not its failure to sound heroic.  My objection is that this is the language that invites war itself.  Consequently, my most solemn hope is that men who talk this language are never allowed in the name of the American people to go to Moscow--or some future Yalta or Potsdam.

	My pledge--on this whole matter of security for our nation against Communist aggression--is this: I shall strive with whatever resources I have of will and intelligence and experience to work with all our friends in the United Nations and among the associated free nations of Asia.  We shall seek to develop a workable plan for winning and guarding that most precious of goals--peace for our free people.

	In this--as in our whole national life--we cannot be ruled by the deadening doctrine of-"IT CAN'T BE DONE".  We are not helpless actors in this Korean tragedy.  We are not prisoners of history.  We are a free people.

	We come, now, to the second front on which we must fight for our security--our economic security at home.

	This kind of security is of equal importance to our people and it is reflected in the glow of your steel mills in the Pittsburgh sky.  There have been nights when the sky of Pittsburgh was dark and this great city in the industrial heartland of America suffered.  That was when America suffered, too.  And so did the world.  The glow in the Pittsburgh sky is something of an index to American prosperity, to the state of health in this important arsenal of democracy.

	Many of you here tonight are old enough to remember those dismal days and dark nights when the great furnaces in your mills were cold.  Those were the fearful times of the Great Depression.  That depression lasted from 1929 to the point when the rise of Hitler required America to rearm.

	Those days must not return.  They will not return.  To prevent their return, I pledge to enlist all the resources of private industry and mobilize all the resources of our government to prevent the specter of mass unemployment for once again visiting our land.

	We are not going to turn back the clock--ever.

	America's best years are ahead.  There stretches before us the prospect of peaceful, secure, happy, prosperous times.  If we are united and steadfast in our purpose to make that project real, we can overcome the problems which beset us and become master of our own destiny.

	It is a sign of our past weakness and insecurity that the only time in the last twenty years the steel industry has operated at capacity production was under the impetus of war or the threat of war.  The administration has never found the way to create the conditions necessary for high employment in America without the prop of international conflict or international tension.  One of the reasons why I became a candidate for political office was my deep faith and unalterable conviction that we can have prosperity in America without war.

	And even during periods of war-stimulated business, the steel industry has at times been prostrate because bungling, interfering government played politics with union-management relations.  Only recently we suffered through a 54-day shutdown of the steel industry.

	Just this week I have talked with some steelworkers who are still paying off the debts they had to accumulate to keep their families going for fifty-four pay-less days.  Every single one I have talked with has told me that he has no doubt whatsoever that the strike would not possibly have lasted fifty-four days had there not been Washington interference.  I find it particularly significant that representatives of steel management with whom I have talked say exactly the same thing. 

	I know they both are right.

	This is one of the compelling reasons why we need a change of administration in Washington.  We need and we must get a policy of encouraging labor and management to use their own initiative to find and broaden the common ground upon which they can agree.  Any law we have on the statute books which does not contribute toward this objective must be changed.

	Republicans in the Congress developed and put through numerous amendments designed to improve existing labor law.  This effort was blocked by the administration's leadership in the House in order to provide a political football.

	I say the time has come to stop this political double-delaying.

	I want to see all our labor relations legislation made into a more effective instrument for serving the individual working man and working woman, for encouraging collective bargaining, and for promoting industrial peace.

	In the final analysis, however, our need is for real leadership, not total reliance on laws.  That leadership must come from the ranks of working people and their unions, from the ranks of industry and its management, from Washington.  I have no doubt that the capacity for such leadership is now present in the unions and in management.

	To insure leadership of equal quality in Washington, a principal purpose of our crusade is to bring there men and women of proved ability and dedication to our country.

	To those among us whose memories may be too short to recall the steel strike of three months ago, we have just witnessed a strike which was the direct result of government interference in the collective bargaining process.  Isn't it a little ironic that in the steel strike the administration's men on the Wage Stabilization Board voted with the labor members on that Board and a fifty-four-day strike ensued; while in the coal case, the administration's men on that Board voted with the industry members and another strike followed?  In both cases, regardless of the findings, government interference led to a strike.

	Because my two opponents in this election have made a practice of taking things I say out of context, I will not be surprised to hear them charge that I am now attacking stabilization policy.

	But let them explain first: what stabilization policy?

	The administration has deliberately fostered inflation, through every known device, in anticipation of a postwar deflation.  How wrong they were!  They theorized that a little inflation would be a good thing as they pursued policies which inevitably resulted in forcing up prices of things you buy.

	For American wage-earners this has meant a treadmill prosperity, in which their wage gains have been canceled out by higher prices and higher taxes.  For farmers it has meant a tripling of their costs--and now, with farm prices declining, it means a terrible squeeze.  This administration-fostered inflation has savagely whittled away the value of your money in the bank, your insurance policies, and your stake in pension plans.  For the millions of our elder citizens, this inflation is ruinous.  These are the people who have been the most helpless and pitiful victims of the administration's economic policies.

	We will call a halt to these ruinous policies.

	We will go on to make this nation's social security program more humane and more realistic.  To do this, benefits must be revised in the light of conditions at the time they are paid.  Only such a living, growing policy, facing the facts of economic life, can provide our people with a real defense against economic disaster.

	The road to real security cannot be paved with glittering promises and glib excuses.

	I cannot blame labor for not wanting to be nominated as the whipping boy of inflation.  No more can I blame management.  And certainly, our older citizens, who have no organization to speak for them, should not be its victims.

	Beyond providing those defenses against personal disaster, we must carry fight for security for our people across new frontiers of hope.

	We must have better housing for those Americans who are now forced to live in slums and substandard dwellings and blighted neighborhoods.

	We must, without regimentation, provide a broader and better base for medical care.

	We must, in the same spirit, have better schools and better education for our children.

	To get these things done requires no vast extension of the federal bureaucracy in Washington, no government paternalism stifling individual initiative.

	It demands the heart and the will of a free people firm in the resolve to make an end to needless suffering and privation.

	This we can do without making America any less the land of freedom.

	That is in my vision of the future of America.

	If I become president, I will aim so to conduct that office, that at the end of my service it can be said by farmers and by city dwellers, by professional people and by housewives, by employers and by union members--by our citizens of every color, creed and national origin:

	He has been fair.

	He has been just.

	He has been our friend.

	He has not coerced us with laws, nor made division among us.  Instead, he has built a greater respect, understanding and good will among us.  He has brought us closer together.

	Four years from now, I want America to say:

	We have gone forward along the broad middle way--toward prosperity without war, toward peace with security--for ourselves and our children.
ECONOMY--MILITARY TO CIVILIANFOREIGN TRAVEL (PRESIDENTIAL)--KOREAINFLATIONKOREAN WARORGANIZED LABOR--DISPUTES--FEDERAL MEDIATIONORGANIZED LABOR--GENERALSOVIET UNION (COLD WAR ERA)STEEL INDUSTRYWORKERS' RIGHTS/CONDITIONS/BENEFITS     w3 C3 =3 93 /3
 !3 3 3 3 3 ˇ2 ˜2 Ì2	 ‰ 	 « 	 £ 	 ö 	 ê 	 d 	 L 	 1 	 # e: