Speeches\1988\dem\S88D1004.001SPEECH1988DemocratDUKAKIS (D)10/04STUMPEVANSTONILLINOISILNORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY / NATIONAL BUSINESS COUNCIL1,490 WORDS

	Five weeks from today, we will elect a new president.

	And we will choose the path our nation will take through the 1990s to the threshold of the 21st century.

	Mr. Bush offers complacency; I offer change.

	He offers slogans; I offer solutions to the problems that American families and communities face every day and every week and every month.

	He wants us to charge our future on a trillion dollar credit card our children must pay; I want us to take charge of our future; to build the best America; to make America number one in the world.

	Over the past nineteen months, I've traveled to every corner of this land.  And I've never been more convinced that we have the ability, with the right leadership, to build an America that is stronger--and better--than ever before.

	But I'm not satisfied.  And neither is the American business community.  And that is why I'm so pleased that thousands of American businessmen and women have joined our National Business Council.  They represent large and small business.  They come from communities all across America.  They are corporate board chairman and individual entrepreneurs.  And if memory serves me right, this is the first time in a long time that the Democratic nominee for the presidency has the support of thousands of business people and the AFL-CIO.  Why?

	Because we're not satisfied when America is losing business and markets to our foreign competitors at a record rate.  Once, we made nearly all the world's consumer electronic products--now we make hardly any.  Once, we made most of the world's color television sets--now we make less than one in ten.  Once, we made nearly all the world's telephones--now we make less than a quarter of them.  Once, only eight years ago, we were the world's largest lending nation.  Now, we are its largest borrower.

	Cite these facts and George Bush will say you're downgrading America.  My friends if we disregard these facts, we endanger America.

	Because we cannot build a strong and vibrant economic future for America on a mountain of debt--and the American business community knows that.

	We cannot run up trade deficits in the billions and secure our economic future and the business community knows that.

	We cannot produce a well-trained and well-educated work force when 25% of our children are dropping out of high school--and the business community knows that.

	Lloyd Bentsen and I offer a different kind of leadership.

	We believe, as John Kennedy once said, that there should never come a time when it could be said about America that "when we should have been decisive, we ... were in doubt.  When we should have sailed hard into the wind, we ... drifted.  When we should have planned anew ... and marched ahead, we ... stood still, sought the easy way, and looked to the past."

	My friends, I'm running for president because I want to make America the best that it can be in the classroom, in the workplace, in the world economy.

	I'm running for president to bring down the barriers to opportunity so that every citizen has the chance to work with us to make America the most powerful and productive and dynamic economic force on the face of this globe.

	George Bush thinks we need a president who blames American workers and corporations for the trade deficit; I think we need a president who will eliminate the trade deficit by working with business and labor to make the label "Made in America" a symbol of quality and value and durability all over the world.

	When he was asked to find a way to bring down barriers to trade with Japan, what happened?  Mr. Bush said our trade relations with Japan were "superb," called his assignment a "political loser" and quit while our trade deficit tripled and thousands of American workers lost their jobs.

	The other day in Oregon, he told a shipyard worker to expect lower wages, because America is undergoing "a competitive change."  And last fall he told us that we would have higher quality goods if we imported auto mechanics from the Soviet Union.

	My friends, I'm not going to be asking American workers to accept lower wages, and I don't think any American needs to take lessons from a faltering and stagnating Soviet economy.

	We need a president who will invest with business and labor in civilian research and development.  Because what education means to the future of a child, R&D means to the future of a country.  And yet today, America has the lowest rate of civilian R&D of any industrial nation.

	We need a president who will ask our young business and law school graduates to use their skills to put companies together, not take them apart; who understands the importance of our anti-trust laws in encouraging competition; and who believes as do most responsible members of the business community that it is time for some reasonable limits on the merger and acquisition binge that continues to sweep the country.

	I've been a chief executive for ten years.  I've made tough choices.  When officials had to be replaced, I replaced them.  When special interests had to be disappointed, I disappointed them.  When budgets had to be balanced, I balanced them.  And, working together, we've turned an economic basket-case into a showplace; and we cut taxes five times.

	I'm running for president on my record.  Mr. Bush is running away from his--a record of failure and of walking away from every major challenge he has faced.

	When Mr. Bush was asked to tackle our trade problem with Japan, what happened?  Mission failed.

	When he was asked to head a Task Force on International Terrorism--mission failed.

	When he was asked to lead the war against drugs--mission failed.

	When he was asked to straighten out the mess in our banking system--mission failed.

	Mr. Bush was given five important missions by this administration, and he failed every one.  And that was before they asked him to pick a running mate in this election.

	My friends, if Mr. Bush couldn't stand up to the Ayatollah; if he couldn't stand up to Noriega; if he couldn't stand up to Japan; if he couldn't stand up to the special interests; why should anyone believe he'll stand up for the economic future of this country; and why should we let him stand up and take the oath of office as president of the United States?

	We need a president who will challenge all Americans to be participants, not just spectators; to be producers, not just consumers; to work together as partners to make America number one again.

	That's why the proposals I've made in this campaign don't depend on government working alone; they depend on people working together.

	And unlike Mr. Bush's tired old ideas, they won't leave America running in place; they'll move America towards our rightful place as the most powerful and productive nation on the face of the globe.

	We'll be fair with foreign competition--but we'll be tough, too.  And we're going to use the new trade bill, to bring down unfair barriers to American products.

	We'll build an America where management and labor work together--to become more productive and more creative--and to make American products and workmanship the best in the world.  We'll take on our foreign competitors and beat them--not ourselves.

	We'll work with companies to modernize and rebuild the factories and industry that are so vital to our national security, and, thanks to the new trade bill we have the resources to provide our workers with the training they need to master the technologies of tomorrow.

	We'll make America number one in the classroom by putting the responsibility where it belongs--by setting high standards for our students and by making teaching a valued and honored profession once again.

	These are the challenges George Bush can't even see.  And these are the challenges we're going to meet and the new frontiers we're going to conquer--together.

	My friends, if you're completely satisfied with America's place in the world; if you think that America can't do any better; if you think a bronze medal is the best we can do; then vote for Bush and Quayle.

	But if you think America and Americans should settle for nothing less than the gold in the classroom, in the workplace and in the world economy, then vote for Mike Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen on November 5.

	My friends, there are no shortcuts to making America number one.

	The best America doesn't hide; we compete.

	The best America doesn't waste; we invest.

	The best America doesn't leave anybody behind; we bring everybody along.

	The best America isn't behind us.  The best America is yet to come.

CONDUCT OF LIFE--BUSINESS EXPERIENCEEDUCATION--GENERALFOREIGN COMPETITION--FREE TRADE/PROTECTIONISMMANUFACTURING--PLANT MODERNIZATIONRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTFOREIGN TRADE--GENERAL     ˘" ≈" ø" ª" ≥"
 ®" £" û" ñ" é" å" Y" N"	 ≥ 	 è 	 } 	 P 	 .   e: